                                               ABSTRACT
          An improved method of culturing cells for cell therapy applications that includes growing
  desired cells in the presence of antigen-presenting cells and/or feeder cells and with medium
  volume to surface area ratio of up to 1 ml/cm 2 if the growth surface is not comprised of gas
5 permeable material and up to 2 ml/cm 2 if the growth surface is comprised of gas permeable
  material. The desired cells are at a surface density of less than 0.5x10 6 cells/cm 2 at the onset of a
  production cycle, and the surface density of the desired cells plus the surface density of the antigen
                                                                   5
  presenting cells and/or feeder cells are at least about 1.25 x10   cells/cm 2.
0         Figure 22B

                           29/40
              Fig. 22A
        1010
                     1004
                        1012
1000                    12
            1014                         Fig. 22B
                                      1010
                                                1004
 1006                                         u
                             1002
   1018    1008
                                                      1 1
                                                     1014
                                1000
                                                        1022
                                        1020
                                10 16      _1              002
                                 1018
                                                      006
                                        1008

       IMPROVED METHODS OF CELL CULTURE FOR ADOPTIVE CELL THERAPY
                                         RELATED APPLICATION
            The present application is a divisional application of Australian patent application
 5 2013262485,       which    was    itself  a    national  phase   application   of  PCT    application
   PCT/US2013/041861 filed on 20 May 2013, the contents of which are incorporated by reference
   in their entirety.
                                        FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 0          The present invention relates generally to methods of culturing cells, and more specifically
   to culturing cells for cell therapy.
                                               BACKGROUND
            Cell culture is major contributor to the cost and complexity of cell therapy. With current
 5 methods, the process of culturing the cells is time consuming and expensive. Typically, to produce
   a large number of cells, an in vitro culture process is undertaken that proceeds in stages. At the
   earliest stage, the desired cells are a relatively small population within a composition of cells that
   are placed into cell culture devices. In this stage, the composition of cells typically includes the
   source of the desired cells (such as peripheral blood mononuclear cells), feeder cells that stimulate
20 growth of the desired cells, and/or antigen presenting. Culture devices and methods that allow the
   medium that cells reside in to be in a generally undisturbed state are favored since the cells remain
   relatively undisturbed. Such devices include standard tissue culture plates, flasks, and bags. The
   culture progresses in stages generally consisting of allowing the cell composition to deplete the

   medium of growth substrates such as glucose, removing the spent medium, replacing the spent
   medium with fresh medium, and repeating the process until the desired quantity of desired cells is
   obtained. Often, the cell composition is moved to other devices to initiate a new stage of production
   as the desired cell population increases and additional growth surface is needed. However, with
 5 conventional methods, the rate of population growth of the desired cells slows as the population
   of cells upon the growth surface increases. The end result is that it is very time consuming and
   complicated to produce a sizable population of desired cells.
             State of the art production methods for generating T lymphocytes with antigen specificity
   to Epstein Barr virus (EBV-CTLs) provide an example of production complexity. The
 0 conventional method for optimal expansion of EBV-CTLs uses standard 24-well tissue culture
   plates, each well having 2 cm 2 of surface area for cells to reside upon and the medium volume
   restricted to 1 ml/cm 2 due to gas transfer requirements. The culture process begins by placing a
   cell composition comprised of PBMC (peripheral blood mononuclear cells) in the presence of an
   irradiated antigen presenting cell line, which may be a lymphoblastoid cell line (LCL), at a surface
 5 density (i.e. cells/cm 2 of growth surface) ratio of about 40:1 with about 1x106 PBMC/cm 2 and
   2.5x10 4 irradiated antigen presenting cells/cm 2. That instigates the population of EBV-CTLs
   within the cell composition to expand in quantity. After 9 days, EBV-CTLs are selectively
   expanded again in the presence of irradiated antigen presenting LCL at a new surface density ratio
   of 4:1, with a minimum surface density of about 2.5x1 05 EBV-CTL/cm 2 . Medium volume is
20 limited to a maximum ratio of 1 ml/cm 2 of growth surface area to allow oxygen to reach the cells,
   which limits growth solutes such as glucose. As a result, the maximum surface density that can be
   achieved is about 2x10 6 EBV-CTL/cm 2. Thus, the maximum weekly cell expansion is about 8
   fold (i.e. 2x10 6 EBV-CTL/cm 2 divided by 2.5x10 5 EBV-CTL/cm 2) or less. Continued expansion
                                                      2

   of EBV-CTLs requires weekly transfer of the EBV-CTLs to additional 24-well plates with
   antigenic re-stimulation, and twice weekly exchanges of medium and growth factors within each
   well of the 24-well plate. Because conventional methods cause the rate of EBV-CTL population
   expansion to slow as EBV-CTL surface density approaches the maximum amount possible per
 5 well, these manipulations must be repeated over a long production period, often as long as 4-8
   weeks, to obtain a sufficient quantity of EBV-CTLs for cell infusions and quality control measures
   such as sterility, identity, and potency assays.
           The culture of EBV- CTLs is but one example of the complex cell production processes
   inherent to cell therapy. A more practical way of culturing cells for cell therapy that can reduce
 0 production time and simultaneously reduce production cost and complexity is needed.
           We have created novel methods that increase the population growth rate throughout
   production, and by so doing, reduce the complexity and time needed to produce cells.
           Primary non-adherent cells such as antigen specific T cells, natural killer cells (NK),
   regulatory T cells (Treg), tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL), marrow infiltrating lymphocytes
 5 (TIL), and islets are often the focus of production. Many production processes aim to increase the
   population of desired cells, often referred to as effector cells, often in co-culture conditions that
   rely on other cell types to stimulate growth and/or antigen specificity of the desired cells. The cells
   used in co-culture are often referred to as feeder cells and/or antigen presenting cells. In some
   cases, co-cultures transition to expansion of the desired cell population in the absence of feeder
20 and/or antigen presenting cells such as TIL production. Production of antigen presenting cells
   and/or feeder cells in the absence of effector cells is also prevalent. Also, sometimes culture is
   intended to maintain health of a cell population as opposed to increasing the population per se,
                                                     3

   such as islet culture for treatment of diabetes. Thus, culture devices and production processes for
   cell culture in Adoptive Cell Therapy must deal with many possible production applications.
            For Adoptive Cell Therapy to be useful on a wide scale, the cell production process needs
   to be greatly simplified and made less expensive. However, state of the art devices and methods
 5 for production are not capable of making that happen. A brief explanation of why that is the case
   follows.
            Devices currently relied upon extensively in the field of Adoptive Cell Therapy are static
   cell culture devices, namely cell culture plates, flasks, and gas permeable bags. These static devices
   are intended to allow cells to reside in proximity of one another during culture in order to facilitate
 0 communication between co-cultures and/or allow non co-cultures to remain physically quiescent.
   The physically undisturbed state is beneficial for a variety of biological reasons as skilled artisans
   are well aware. Furthermore, static cell culture devices are uncomplicated and do not require
   constant use of ancillary equipment during their operation to perfuse medium or gas through the
   device, agitate the medium such as by sparging, stirring or shaking the apparatus, and/or keep cells
 5 from settling to the bottom of the device.       Thus, static devices are compatible with standard
   laboratory and cell culture equipment such as incubators, and have minimal or no reliance on
   ancillary equipment. Although static devices have the described advantages, they also have
   inherent problems that prevent efficient and practical production of cells for Adoptive Cell
   Therapy.
20          Among the inherent problems are the limited height at which medium can reside above the
   growth surface, ranging from an upper limit of about 0.3 cm in plates and flasks, according to
   manufacturer's recommendations, to 2.0 cm in gas permeable bags. Thus, plates and flasks have a
   limited medium volume to growth surface area ratio of no more than 0.3 ml/cm2 and gas permeable
                                                       4

   bags are constrained to no more than 2.0 ml/cm 2 . Compounding the design limits of plates, flasks,
   and bags are the state of the art protocols for their use in the field of Adoptive Cell Therapy, which
   narrowly constrain cell density to the range of 0.5 to 2.0 x 106 cells/ml and which inherently rely
   on a surface density of at least 0.5 x 106 cells/cm 2 to initiate culture. These limits lead to a variety
 5 of problems that render cell production for Adoptive Cell Therapy impractical, including an
   excessive amount of devices in the process, an inordinate amount of labor to maintain cultures, a
   high risk of contamination, and/or long duration of time to produce cells. Bags have unique
   problems in that routine handling of the bag causes cells to be disturbed from their resting location
   and distributed into the media.
 0         Alternative devices to the plate, flask, and bag have been introduced in co-pending U.S.
   Publication Nos. 2005/0106717 Al to Wilson et al. (hereinafter referred to as Wilson '717) and
   2008/0227176 Al to Wilson (hereinafter referred to as Wilson '176), and alternative methods for
   culture have been introduced in the parent case which discloses a particularly powerful
   improvement of cell production process for the field of Adoptive Cell Therapy. Wilson '717
 5 describes various innovative gas permeable devices that allow culture methods to be performed by
   scale up in the vertical direction, moving beyond the limited medium height and limited medium
   volume to growth surface area ratios of plates, flasks, and bags to allow more efficient use of
   physical space. Wilson '176 builds upon Wilson '717 by allowing even more growth area to reside
   in a given amount of physical space. The parent case discloses discoveries that allow more efficient
20 co-culture of cells commonly used in the field of Adoptive Cell Therapy, including teaching away
   from state of the art limits relating to cell surface density in order to provide a wide range of
   unexpected benefits.
                                                       5

           The present invention builds upon the parent case with new discoveries that further
   improve the efficiency and practicality of cell production, particularly for the field of Adoptive
   Cell Therapy, and builds upon Wilson '717 and Wilson '176 to enable various novel methods
   disclosed herein.
 5                                              SUMMARY
           A first aspect of the present invention provides a static culture method of expanding a
   population of cells with a gas permeable cell culture device, the gas permeable cell culture device
   comprising a growth surface comprised of liquid impermeable gas permeable material, at least a
   portion of said gas permeable material in contact with ambient gas, the static culture method
 0 comprising: adding cells and medium into the gas permeable cell culture device, the ratio of the
   volume of said medium to the surface area of said growth surface being 3 ml/cm2 to 20 ml/cm 2,
   orienting the gas permeable cell culture device in a position wherein ambient gas suitable for cell
   culture makes contact with said gas permeable material and cells reside upon at least a portion of
   said gas permeable material, and allowing static cell culture for a period of time and not placing
 5 additional medium into the gas permeable cell culture device during said period of time, and said
   period of time is at least 3 days, and said medium containing at least one type of cytokine.
           Another aspect of the present invention provides a static culture method of expanding a
   population of cells with a gas permeable cell culture device, the gas permeable cell culture device
   comprising a growth surface comprised of liquid impermeable gas permeable material, at least a
20 portion of said gas permeable material in contact with ambient gas, the static culture method
   comprising: adding cells and medium into the gas permeable cell culture device, the ratio of the
   volume of said medium to the surface area of said growth surface being 3 ml/cm 2 to 20 ml/cm 2,
   and orienting the gas permeable cell culture device in a position wherein ambient gas suitable for
                                                    6

   cell culture makes contact with said gas permeable material and cells reside upon at least a portion
   of said gas permeable material, and allowing static cell culture over a period of time without
   placing additional medium into the gas permeable cell culture device, and during said period of
   time the ratio of the quantity of cells to the surface area of said growth surface becomes at least 4
 5 x 106 cells/cm2 .
           It has been discovered that the production of cells for cell therapy can occur in a shorter
   time period and in a more economical manner than is currently possible by using a staged
   production process that allows unconventional conditions to periodically be re-established
   throughout the production process.         The unconventional conditions include reduced surface
 0 density (i.e. cells/cm2 ) of desired cells, novel ratios of desired cells to antigen presenting and/or
   feeder cells, and/or use of growth surfaces comprised of gas permeable material with increased
   medium volume to surface area ratios.
           Embodiments of this invention relate to improved methods of culturing cells for cell
   therapy applications. They include methods that reduce the time, cost, and complexity needed to
 5 generate a desired number of desired cells by use of various novel methods that allow the desired
   cell population to maintain a higher growth rate throughout the production process relative to
   conventional methods.
            One aspect of the present disclosure relies on conducting the culture process in stages and
   establishing conditions at the onset of one or more stages that allow the growth rate of the desired
20 cell population to exceed what is currently possible. At least one stage of culture, and preferably
   nearly all, establish initial conditions that include the desired cells resting either on non-gas
   permeable or gas permeable growth surfaces at unconventionally low surface density and at an
   unconventional ratio of antigen presenting cells (and/or feeder cells) per desired cell. By using the
                                                       7

   novel embodiments of this aspect of the invention, the desired cell population can experience more
   doublings in a shorter period of time than allowed by conventional methods, thereby reducing the
   duration of production.
           Another aspect of the present disclosure relies on conducting the culture process in stages
 5 and establishing conditions at the onset of one or more stages such that the growth rate of the
   desired cell population exceeds what is currently possible. At least one stage of culture, and
   preferably nearly all, establish conditions that include the desired cells resting on a growth surface
   comprised of gas permeable material at unconventionally high medium volume to growth surface
   area ratios. By using the novel embodiments of this aspect of the invention, the desired cell
 0 population can experience more doublings in a shorter period of time than is allowed by
   conventional methods, thereby reducing the duration of production.
           Another aspect of the present disclosure relies on conducting the culture process in stages
   and establishing conditions of each stage such that the growth rate of the desired cell population
   exceeds what is currently possible. At least one stage of culture, and preferably nearly all, establish
 5 initial conditions that include the desired cells resting on growth surfaces comprised of gas
   permeable material at unconventionally low surface density (i.e. cells/cm 2 ) with an unconventional
   ratio of antigen presenting cells (and/or feeder cells) per desired cell and in the presence of
   unconventionally high medium volume to growth surface area ratios. By using the novel
   embodiments of this aspect of the invention, the desired cell population can experience more
20 doublings in a shorter period of time than conventional methods allow, thereby reducing the
   duration of production.
           We have discovered additional methods of cell culture that teach away from state of the art
   methods in the field of Adoptive Cell Therapy and build upon the disclosures of the parent case to
                                                      8

   make the process of culturing and/or preparing cells more practical and cost effective than current
   methodologies.
            In one embodiment of the present invention using gas permeable cell culture devices to
   culture cells, cells are capable of initiating outgrowth when residing in a gas permeable device
 5 from a state wherein surface density (cells/cm2 ) and cell density (cells/ml) are reduced below
   conventional methods.
            In another embodiment of the present invention using gas permeable cell culture devices
   to culture cells, the need to count cells to determine how many cells are in culture at any given
   time can be replaced by taking a sample of solutes in the medium and using it to predict the
 0 population within the culture at any given time.
            In another embodiment of the present invention using gas permeable cell culture devices
   to culture cells, medium volume to growth surface area is increased in order to reduce the
   frequency of feeding relative to state of the art methods or even eliminate the need to feed the
   culture altogether after culture onset.
 5          In another embodiment of the present invention using gas permeable cell culture devices
   to culture cells, medium volume to growth surface area is further increased in order to allow a
   longer period of time at which a cell population can reside at high viability after reaching its
   maximum population.
            In another embodiment of the present invention, gas permeable cell culture and cell
20 recovery devices are disclosed that are capable of reducing the medium volume in a culture without
   cell loss, concentrating cells absent the need for centrifugation, and increasing cell density prior to
   removing cells from the devices.
                                                      9

            In another embodiment of the present invention, methods of use for novel gas permeable
   cell culture and cell recovery devices are disclosed that are capable of reducing the medium volume
   in a culture without cell loss in order to minimize need to increase the number of devices in culture
   should an operator choose to feed the culture.
 5          In another embodiment of the present invention using gas permeable cell culture devices
   to culture cells, methods of rapidly producing CAR T cells and improving killing capacity by use
   of APCs in culture are disclosed.
            In another embodiment of the present invention using gas permeable cell culture devices
   to culture cells, methods of the present invention are linearly scalable in direct proportion to
 0 increase in the surface area of the growth surface.
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            The invention may be more completely understood in consideration of the following
   detailed description of various embodiments of the invention in connection with the accompanying
 5 drawings, in which:
            Figure 1A shows the population of antigen-specific T-cells in Example 1 undergoes at
   least 7 cell doublings after the initial stimulation over the first 7 days.
            Figure 1B shows data demonstrating the magnitude of expansion of a T-cell population
   within a cell composition over time as determined by tetramer analysis for Example 1.
20          Figure 1C the rate of population growth of antigen-specific T-cells diminishes over a 23
   day period in Example 1.
            Figure 2 shows a table that illustrates the discrepancy between the potential expansion and
   observed fold expansion of antigen-specific T-cells in Example 1.
                                                       10

           Figure 3A shows the presence of antigen-specific T-cells following stimulations in
   Example 2.
           Figure 3B shows the expansion of a population of antigen-specific T-cells as surface
   densities diminish from 1x10 6/cm   2
                                          to 3.1x10 4 /cm 2
                                                            while maintaining an antigen-specific T-cell to
 5 antigen presenting cell ratio of 4:1 in Example 2.
           Figure 3C shows the expansion of a population of antigen-specific T-cells as surface
   densities diminish from 1x10 6 /cm    2
                                            to 3.1x10 4 /cm 2
                                                              while in the presence of a fixed number of
   antigen presenting cells in Example 2.
           Figure 4 shows an example of results obtained when continuing the work described in
 0 Figure 3, which further demonstrated that when desired cells need the support of other cells,
   unconventionally low desired cell surface density can initiate population expansion so long as
   desired cells are in the presence of an adequate supply of feeder and/or antigen presenting cells.
           Figure 5 shows a histogram demonstrating the ability to repeat the magnitude of the
   population expansion of desired cells by initiating culture at three differing cell surface densities
 5 (CTL/cm 2).
           Figure 6 shows a cross-sectional view of a gas permeable test fixture used to generate data.
           Figure 7A shows the growth curves of antigen-specific T cells produced in accordance
   with the present invention in comparison to conventional methods as undertaken in Example 5.
           Figure 7B shows that for Example 5, cell viability was significantly higher in antigen
20 specific T cells produced in accordance with the present invention in comparison to conventional
   methods as determined by flow cytometric forward vs. side scatter analysis.
                                                         11

           Figure 7C shows that for Example 5, cell viability was significantly higher in antigen
   specific t cells produced in accordance with the present invention in comparison to conventional
   methods as determined by Annexin-PI 7AAD.
           Figure 7D showed that for Example 5, the superior growth of cells produced in the novel
 5 methods of the present invention exhibited the same cell specific growth rate as cell cultured using
   conventional methods as determined by daily flow cytometric analysis of CFSE labeled cells,
   confirming that the increased rate of cell expansion resulted from decreased cell death.
           Figure 8A shows how EVB-CTLs were able to expand beyond what was possible in
   conventional methods without need to exchange medium.
 0         Figure 8B shows how the culture condition of Example 6 did not modify the final cell
   product as evaluated by Q-PCR for EBER.
           Figure 8C shows how the culture condition of Example 6 did not modify the final cell
   product as evaluated by Q-PCR for B cell marker CD20.
           Figure 9 shows an illustrative example in which we experimentally demonstrated that a
 5 very low cumulative surface density of desired cells and antigen presenting cells (in this case AL
   CTLs and LCLs cells combining to create a cell composition with a surface density of 30,000
   cells/cm 2) was unable to initiate outgrowth of the AL-CTL population.
           Figure 10A presents data of Example 8 that show how two novel methods of culturing
   cells produce more cells over a 23 day period than a conventional method.
20         Figure 10B shows a photograph of cells cultured in a test fixture in Example 8.
           Figure 10C shows that in Example 8, the two novel methods of culture and the
   conventional method all produce cells with the same phenotype.
                                                     12

           Figure 1OD shows that for Example 8, a representative culture in which T-cells stimulated
   with EBV peptide epitopes from LMP1, LMP2, BZLF1 and EBNA1 of EBV and stained with
   HLA-A2-LMP2 peptide pentamers staining showed similar frequencies of peptide-specific T
   cells.
 5         Figure 10E shows that for the novel methods and the conventional method of Example 8,
   cells maintained their cytolytic activity and specificity and killed autologous EBV-LCL, with low
                                                                 51
   killing of the HLA mismatched EBV-LCL as evaluated by            Cr release assays.
           Figure 11 shows a graphical representation of expansion of a desired cell population on a
   growth surface under the conventional scenario as compared to population expansion of the
 0 desired cell type using one aspect of the present invention.
           Figure 12 shows an example of the advantages that can be obtained by utilizing a growth
   surface comprised of gas permeable material and an unconventionally high medium volume to
   growth surface area ratio beyond 1 or 2 ml/cm 2.
           Figure 13 shows a graphical representation of a novel method of expansion of a desired
 5 cell population on a growth surface under the conventional scenario as compared to population
   expansion of the desired cell type under one embodiment of the present invention in which the cell
   surface density at the completion of is much greater than conventional surface density.
           Figure 14 shows another novel method of cell production that provides yet further
   advantages over conventional methods.
20         Figure 15 shows a comparison of each production method depicted in Figure 14 to
   demonstrate the power of the novel method and why it is useful to adjust the production protocol
   at various stages to fully capture the efficiency.
                                                      13

           Figure 16 shows an example of how one could adjust the production protocol in the novel
   method to gain efficiency as production progresses.
           FIG. 17A shows a representative spreadsheet of the experimental conditions at 1.OE+06
   cells/cm 2 and results.
 5         FIG. 17B shows a representative spreadsheet of the experimental conditions at 0.5E+06
   cells/cm 2 and results.
           FIG. 17C shows a representative spreadsheet of the experimental conditions at 0.25E+06
   cells/cm 2 and results.
           FIG. 17D shows a representative spreadsheet of the experimental conditions at 0.125E+06
 0 cells/cm 2 and results.
           FIG. 17E shows a representative spreadsheet of the experimental conditions at
   0.0625E+06 cells/cm 2 and results.
           FIG. 18 compares the fold expansion of the population increase relative to the surface
   density of each of the experimental conditions detailed in FIG. 17A - FIG. 17E.
 5         FIG. 19A shows a representative spreadsheet of the experimental conditions and typical
   results for the culture of K562 cells under equivalent starting conditions except for the glucose
   concentration.
           FIG. 19B shows cell population expansion under two starting glucose condition over a
   time period of 11 days.
20         FIG. 19C shows the glucose depletion rate in each culture condition.
           FIG. 19D shows the glucose consumption rate in each culture condition.
                                                   14

            FIG. 19E shows an overlay of the predicted number of cells in a population using the
   formulaic calculation, versus the number of cells as determined by manual counts for the culture
   initiated at a glucose concentration of 240 mg/dl.
            FIG. 19F shows an overlay of the predicted number of cells in a population using the
 5 formulaic calculation, versus the number of cells as determined by manual counts for the culture
   initiated at a glucose concentration of 240 mg/dl.
            FIG. 20 shows a graphical representation of population growth, normalized for growth
   surface area, under various medium feeding conditions.
            FIG. 21 shows a spreadsheet that summarizes conditions on day 0, day 9, and day16 for
 0 an experiment that demonstrated the capability of using glucose depletion as a surrogate measure
   of cell population.
            FIG. 22A shows a cross-sectional view of one example of an embodiment of a present
   invention of a cell culture and cell recovery device 1000 configured to perform the disclosed novel
   cell culture and/or novel cell recovery methods.
 5          FIG. 22B shows cell culture and cell recovery device 1000 in an initial state of static
   culture at the onset of any given cell production stage of culture.
            FIG. 22C shows cell culture and cell recovery device 1000 prepared to recover cells in a
   reduced volume of medium.
            FIG. 22D shows the process of reorienting cell culture and cell recovery device 1000 into
20 a position at an angle 1026 that deviates from the original horizontal cell culture position in order
   to relocate cell recovery medium 1024.
            FIG. 23A shows the conditions of Evaluation A at the onset of culture and as the culture
   progressed.
                                                     15

           FIG. 23B shows the conditions of Evaluation B at the onset of culture and as the culture
   progressed.
           FIG. 23C shows the conditions of Evaluation C at the onset of culture and as the culture
   progressed.
 5         FIG. 23D shows the total live cells in culture at various time points in the culture.
           FIG. 23E shows the percentage of CAR T cell expression at the onset of culture and at the
   completion of culture.
           FIG. 23F shows the total fold expansion of CAR T cells during culture.
           FIG. 23G demonstrates the prediction of the live cell population in Evaluation A was
 0 representative of cell population as determined by manual counts.
           FIG. 23H shows the capacity of cells obtained from Condition A and Condition B to kill
   tumor cells expressing PSCA.
           FIG. 231 summarizes side by side comparisons of the population expansion of CAR T cells
   specific to PSCA and Muel.
 5         FIG. 24A shows the population growth curves of three gas permeable culture devices with
   differing growth areas.
           FIG. 24B shows the population growth of FIG. 24A curves after being normalized to
   surface density.
20                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   Definitions
   Adherent cells: Cell that attach to growth surface
   Antigen presenting cells (APC): Cells that act to trigger the desired cells to respond to a
   particular antigen.
                                                    16

   CTL: Cytotoxic T cell
   Cell density: The ratio of cells number per unit volume of medium (cells/ml)
   Desired cells: The specific type of cell that that the production process aims to expand and/or
   recover in quantity. Generally the desired cells are non-adherent and examples includie
 5 regulatory T cells (Treg), natural killer cells (NK), tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL), primary T
   lymphocytes and a wide variety of antigen specific cells, and many others (all of which can also
   be genetically modified to improve their function, in-vivo persistence or safety). Cells required
   for clinical use can be expanded with feeder cells and/or antigen presenting cells that can include
   PBMC, PHA blast, OKT3 T, B blast, LCLs and K562, (natural or genetically modified to express and
 0 antigen and/or epitope as well as co-stimulatory molecules such as 41BBL, OX40, CD80, CD86,
   HLA, and many others) which may or may not be pulsed with peptide or other relevant antigens.
   EBV: Epstein Barr Virus
   EBV-CTL: A T-cell that specifically recognized EBV-infected cells or cells expressing or
   presenting EBV-derived peptides through its T cell surface receptor.
 5 EBV-LCL: Epstein Barr virus transformed B lymphoblastoid cell line.
   Feeder cells: Cells that act to cause the desired cells to expand in quantity. Antigen presenting
   cells can also act as feeder cells in some circumstances.
   Growth surface: The area within a culture device upon which cells rest.
   Initiating culture: Generally refers to the conditions at the onset of a culture process and/or at the
20 onset of production cycles
   Medium exchange: Synonymous with feeding the cells and is generally the process by which old
   medium is replenished with fresh medium
                                                      17

   PBMCs: Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells derived from peripheral blood, which are a source
   of some of the desired cells and which can act as feeder cells.
   Responder (R): A cell that will react to a stimulator cell.
   Static cell culture: A method of culturing cells in medium that is not stirred or mixed except for
 5 occasions when the culture device is moved from location to location for routine handling and/or
   when cells are periodically fed with fresh medium and the like. In general, medium in static culture
   is typically in a quiescent state. It is not subjected to forced movement such as occurs in perfusion
   systems (in which medium is constantly moved through the vessel), shaker systems in which the
   culture device is physically shaken to move the medium, stirred systems (in which a stir bar moves
 0 within the device to agitate medium and cells), or any other mechanisms or equipment used to
   force medium to be moved and mixed throughout the duration of culture. Cells gravitate to growth
   surfaces in the devices where they reside in an undisturbed state except for periods of occasional
   feeding, at which point the culture is provide with fresh medium by first removing medium and
   then adding medium, by adding medium without removing medium, or by removing medium and
 5 cells and distributing the medium and cells to new devices and adding fresh medium to those
   devices. Pumps to aid the feeding process are not uncommon. For example gas permeable cell
   culture bags often rely on gravity or pumps to move fluid to and from them in a closed system
   manner. The vast majority of the culture duration is one in which cells and medium reside in a
   quiescent and un-agitated state. This invention is directed to static cell culture methods.
20 Stimulated: The effect that antigen presenting and/or feeder cells have on the desired cells.
   Stimulator (S): A cell that will influence a responder cell.
   Surface density: The quantity of cells per unit area of the growth surface within the device upon
   which the cells rest.
                                                        18

   Suspension cells: Cell that do not need to attach to growth surface, synonymous with non-adherent
   cells
           In attempting to find novel methods to simplify the production of a desired population of
   cells for adoptive T cell therapy, a series of experiments were conducted that have that opened the
 5 door to more efficient culture of cells for cell therapy applications. Numerous illustrative examples
   and various aspects of the present invention are described to indicate how the ability to reduce
   production time and complexity relative to conventional methods can be achieved.
           EXAMPLE 1: Demonstration of limitations of conventional methods.
           The data of this example demonstrate the limits of conventional culture methods for the
 0 production of EBV-CTL in standard 24 well tissue culture plates (i.e. 2 cm 2 surface area per well)
   using a medium volume of 2 ml per well (i.e. medium height at 1.0 cm and a medium volume to
   surface area ratio of mlI/cm 2 ).
           Stage 1 of culture, day 0: The expansion of an EBV-CTL population was initiated by
   culturing a cell composition of PBMCs from normal donors (about 1x106 cells/ml) with antigen
 5 presenting gamma-irradiated (40 Gy) autologous EBV-LCLs at a 40:1 ratio (PBMC:LCLs) and a
   medium volume to growth surface ratio of 1 ml/cm 2 thereby establishing a cell composition surface
   density of about 1x10 6 cells/cm 2 in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 45% Click medium (Irvine
   Scientific, Santa Ana, CA), with 2 mM GlutaMAX-I, and 10% FBS.
           Stage 2 of culture, day 9-16: On day 9, EBV-CTLs were harvested from the cell
20 composition created in Stage 1, resuspended in fresh medium at a surface density of 0.5x 106 EBV
   CTL/cm 2 and re-stimulated with irradiated autologous EBV-LCLs at a ratio 4:1 CTL:LCL (surface
   density 0.5x10   6 CTL/cm 2 :1.25x10 5 LCL/cm 2 ). On day 13, 1 ml of the 2 ml medium volume in
                                                       19

   each well of the 24-well plates was removed and replaced with 1 ml of fresh medium containing
   recombinant human IL-2 (IL-2) (50 U/mL) (Proleukin; Chiron, Emeryville, CA)
           Stage 3 of culture, day 17-23: The conditions of Stage 2 were repeated with twice weekly
   addition of IL-2 and the culture was terminated on day 23. Although the culture was terminated, it
 5 could have been continued with additional culture stages that mimicked that of stages 2 and 3.
           Cell lines and tumor cells for use as target cells in Cytotoxicity assays: BJAB (a B cell
   lymphoma) and K562 (a chronic erythroid leukemia) were obtained from the American Type
   Culture Collection (ATCC, Rockville, MD, USA). All cells were maintained in culture with RPMI
    1640 medium (GIBCO-BRL, Gaithersburg, MD) containing 10% heat-inactivated fetal calf serum
 0 (FCS), 2 mM L-glutamine, 25 IU/mL penicillin, and 25 mg/mL streptomycin (all from
   BioWhittaker, Walkersville, MD). Cells were maintained in a humidified atmosphere containing
   5% CO 2 at 37'C.
   Immunophenotyping:
           Cell surface: Cells were stained with Phycoerythrin (PE), fluorescein isothiocyanate
 5 (FITC), periodin chlorophyll protein (PerCP) and allophycocyanin (APC)-conjugated monoclonal
   antibodies (MAbs) to CD3, CD4, CD8, CD56, CD16, CD62L, CD45RO, CD45RA, CD27, CD28,
   CD25, CD44 from Becton-Dickinson (Mountain View, CA, USA). PE-conjugated tetramers
   (Baylor College of Medicine) and APC-conjugated pentamers (Proimmune Ltd, Oxford, UK),
   were used to quantify EBV-CTL precursor frequencies. For cell surface and pentamer staining
20  10,000 and 100,000 live events, respectively, were acquired on a FACSCalibur flow cytometer
   and the data analyzed using Cell Quest software (Becton Dickinson).
           CFSE labeling to measure cell division: To assess the doubling rate of 2 x 107 PBMC or
   EBV-specific CTLs (EBV-CTLs) were washed twice and resuspended in 850pl 1x phosphate
                                                   20

   buffered saline (PBS) containing 0.1% Fetal Bovine Serum (FBS) (Sigma-Aldrich). Prior to
   staining, an aliquot of carboxy-fluorescein diacetate, succinimidyl ester (CFSE) (10mM in
   dimethyl sulfoxide) (Celltrace" CFSE cell proliferation kit (C34554) Invitrogen) was thawed,
   diluted 1:1000 with Ix PBS and 15Opl of the dilution was added to the cell suspension (labeling
 5 concentration was 1ptM). Cells were incubated with CFSE for 10 minutes at room temperature.
   Subsequently Iml FBS was added to the cell suspension followed by a 10 minute incubation at
   370 C. Afterwards cells were washed twice with Ix PBS, counted, and stimulated with antigen as
   described.
           AnnexinV-7-AAD staining: To determine the percentage of apoptotic and necrotic cells
 0 in our cultures we performed Annexin-7-AAD staining as per manufacturers' instructions (BD
   Pharmingen t #559763, San Diego, CA). Briefly, EBV-CTL from the 24-well plates or the G-Rex
   were washed with cold PBS, resuspended in IX Binding Buffer at a concentration of 1x10 6
   cells/ml, stained with Annexin V-PE and 7-AAD for 15 minutes at RT (25'C) in the dark.
   Following the incubation the cells were analyzed immediately by flow cytometry.
 5         Chromium release assay: We evaluated the cytotoxic activity of EBV-CTLs in standard
   4-hour  51Cr release assay, as previously described. As desired cells we used autologous and HLA
   class I and II mismatched EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid cell line (EBV-LCL) to measure
   MHC restricted and unrestricted killing, as well as the K562 cell line to measure natural killer
   activity. Chromium-labeled desired cells incubated in medium alone or in 1% Triton X- 100 were
20 used to determine spontaneous and maximum        51Cr release, respectively. The mean percentage of
   specific lysis of triplicate wells was calculated as follows:           [(test counts -spontaneous
   counts)/(maximum counts - spontaneous counts)] x 100.
           Enzyme-Linked Immunospot (ELIspot) assay: ELIspot analysis was used to quantify
                                                     21

   the frequency and function of T cells that secreted IFNy in response antigen stimulation. CTL lines
   expanded in 24 well plates or in the G-Rex were stimulated with irradiated LCL (40Gy) or LMP 1,
   LMP2, BZLF1 and EBNAl pepmixes (diluted to lig/ml) (JPT Technologies GmbH, Berlin,
   Germany), or EBV peptides HLA-A2 GLCTLVAML=GLC, HLA-A2 CLGGLLTMV=CLG,
 5 HLA-A2-FLYALALLL          =  FLY, and HLA-A29 ILLARLFLY=ILL (Genemed Synthesis, Inc. San
   Antonio, Texas), diluted to a final concentration of 2[tM, and CTLs alone served as a negative
   controls. CTLs were resuspended at lx10 6/ml in ELIspot medium [(RPMI 1640 (Hyclone, Logan,
   UT) supplemented with 5% Human Serum (Valley Biomedical, Inc., Winchester, Virginia) and 2
   mM L-glutamine (GlutaMAX-I, Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA)].
 0         Ninety-six-well filtration plates (MultiScreen, #MAHAS4510, Millipore, Bedford, MA)
   were coated with 10[tg/mL anti-IFN-y antibody (Catcher-mAB91 -DIK, Mabtech, Cincinnati, OH)
   overnight at 4'C, then washed and blocked with ELIspot medium for 1 hour at 370 C. Responder
   and stimulator cells were incubated on the plates for 20 hours, then the plates were washed and
   incubated with the secondary biotin conjugated anti-IFN-y monoclonal antibody (Detector-mAB
 5 (7-B6-1-Biotin), Mabtech)       followed by incubation with Avidin:biotinylated         horseradish
   peroxidase complex (Vectastain Elite ABC Kit (Standard), #PK6100, Vector Laboratories,
   Burlingame, CA) and then developed with AEC substrate (Sigma, St. Louis, MO). Each culture
   condition was run in triplicate. Plates were sent for evaluation to Zellnet Consulting, New York,
   NY. Spot-forming units (SFC) and input cell numbers were plotted.
20         Statistical analysis: In vitro data are presented as mean ± 1 SD. Student's t test was used
   to determine the statistical significance of differences between samples, and P < .05 was accepted
   as indicating a significant difference.
                                                      22

           Under these culture conditions, the population of antigen-specific T-cells undergoes at least
   7 cell doublings after the initial stimulation over the first 7 days, as shown in Figure 1A. Thus we
   expect a weekly T-cell expansion of 128-fold (as measured by the frequency of antigen-specific
   T-cells times the total number of cells in the cell composition). The frequency of tetramer positive
 5 cells after the first, second, and third stimulations is shown in Figure 1B. On day 0 the frequency
   of T-cells reactive against two EBV tetramers, RAK and QAK was 0.02% and 0.01%, respectively.
   After a single stimulation on day 0, by day 9 the frequency of tetramer-positive T-cells in the cell
   composition had increased from 0.02% and 0.01% to 2.7% and 1.25%, respectively. Thus, a 135
   fold and 125-fold increase in the percentage of antigen-specific tetramer positive T-cells residing
 0 within the cell composition was attained as measured by RAK and QAK. Also, after a single
   stimulation on stage 1 of culture, day 0, a 1.1 fold increase in the surface density of cells in the cell
   composition (data not shown) was observed by day 9 (approximately 1.1x106 cells/cm 2 were
   present). Since the majority of cells within the PBMC composition are not specific for the
   stimulating antigens, little overall increase in total cell number is observed, but the fold expansion
 5 of the antigen-specific cell population within the composition was around 280 during the first stage
   of culture, as shown in Figure IC. Unfortunately, although the number of cell doublings was the
   same during the second and third stages of culture as measured by CSFE, this rate of antigen
   specific T cell expansion was not sustained during the       2 nd or the 3 rd stages of culture, being only
   5.7 in stage two and 4.3 in stage three. Figure 2 shows a table that illustrates the discrepancy
20 between the potential expansion and observed fold expansion of antigen-specific T-cells (n = 3).
           Example 1 demonstrates that the amount of time it takes to produce the desired cells is
   typically delayed after roughly the first week of production since the rate of population expansion
   of the desired cells decreases in subsequent stages of culture.
                                                      23

           EXAMPLE 2: Reducing the amount of time needed to increase the desired cell population
   can be achieved by reducing the cell surface density of the desired cell population as the onset of
   any given stage or stages of culture.
           We hypothesized that the decreased rate of expansion of the desired cell population
 5 following the second T-cell stimulation compared to the first stimulation was due to limiting cell
   culture conditions that resulted in activation induced cell death (AICD). For example, referring to
   Figure 3A, at the first stimulation, the EBV antigen-specific T-cell component of PBMCs
   represents, at most, 2% of the population and so the antigen-specific responder T-cell seeding
   density is less than 2x10 4 per cm 2, with the remaining PBMC acting as non-proliferating feeder
 0 cells (seen as the CFSE positive cells in Figure 3A) that sustain optimal cell-to-cell contact
   allowing proliferation of the antigen-specific CTLs. By contrast, at the second stimulation on day
   9, the majority of T-cells are antigen-specific, and although the total cell density of the composition
   is about the same, the proliferating cell density is 50 to 100 fold higher. As a consequence, on re
   stimulation the majority of cells proliferate and may therefore rapidly consume and exhaust their
 5 nutrients and 02 supply.
           To determine whether limiting culture conditions were responsible for sub-optimal T cell
   growth rates, we measured the expansion of activated T-cells plated at lower cell densities.
   Methods were as previously described in Example 1.
           We seeded activated EBV-specific T-cells in wells of standard 24-well plates, each well
20 having 2 cm 2 of growth surface area, at doubling dilutions to create diminishing surface densities
   ranging from lx1 06/cm 2 to 3.1 x1 04/cm 2 while maintaining a responder cell to stimulatory cell ratio
   (R:S) of 4:1 as shown in Figure 3B. The maximum CTL expansion (4.7±1.1 fold) was achieved
   with a starting CTL surface density of 1.25x1 05 per cm 2 , but further dilution decreased the rate of
                                                      24

   expansion as shown in Figure 3B. We speculated that this limiting dilution effect was possibly
   due to lack of cell-to-cell contact, and therefore we cultured doubling dilutions of EBV-CTL from
   surface densities of lx106 to 3.1 x 104 with a fixed number of feeder cells (EBV-LCL plated at a
   surface density of 1.25x10 5/cm 2) and assessed cell expansion over a 7 day period. We observed a
 5 dramatic increase in CTL expansion from merely 2.9±0.8 fold with EBV-CTL at a surface density
   of 1x10 6 /cm 2 all the way to a 34.7±11 fold expansion with EBV-CTL at a surface density of
   3.1x10 4 /cm 2, as presented in Figure 3C. Importantly, this modification of the culture conditions
   did not change the function or antigen specificity of the cells (data not shown). A population of
   activated antigen-specific T cells is therefore capable of greater expansion than conventional
 0 culture methods allow. Of note, the maximum surface density achieved after stimulation (1.7 to
   2.5x10 6 /cm 2) was the same regardless of the starting surface density.
            Thus, conventional culture conditions were limiting, indicating the medium volume to
   growth surface area ratio needs to increase beyond the conventional 1 ml/cm 2 to allow the desired
   cell population to move beyond the surface density limits of conventional methods. Additionally,
 5 improved expansion of antigen-specific CTL to about 34-fold can be obtained by reducing the
   surface density of the desired cell population below conventional methods at the onset of any stage
   of culture. This has substantial ramifications in cell therapy, where the quantity of cells at the onset
   of production is often quite limited. For example, by distributing the in limited amount of desired
   cells onto increased surface area at lowered surface density, a greater population of desired cells
20 can be attained in a shorter period of time as the rate of population growth increases dramatically
   relative to conventional surface density.
                                                      25

            EXAMPLE 3: A minimum surface density of a cell population that includes the desired
   cells and/or antigen presenting cells can allow outgrowth of a desired cell population that is seeded
   at very low surface density.
            Figure 4 shows an example of results we obtained when continuing the work described in
 5 Figure 3, which further demonstrated that when desired cells need the support of other cells,
   unconventionally low desired cell surface density can initiate population expansion so long as
   desired cells are in the presence of an adequate supply of feeder and/or antigen presenting cells. In
   these experiments, we continue to demonstrate how a total cell composition with a surface density
   and R:S ratio of between about 1.0x10 6 desired cells/cm 2 at an R:S ratio of 8 to 1 and merely about
 0 3900 desired cells/cm 2 at an R:S ratio of 1 to 32 could allow desired cells to be greatly expanded
   to over 50 fold times the starting surface density, at which point we discontinued testing.
            EXAMPLE 4: The ability to allow a production process to repeat in stages by initiating a
   stage with an unconventionally low desired cell surface density, allowing population expansion,
   terminating the stage and repeating conditions was demonstrated to deliver repeatable outcomes.
 5          We continued the assessments described in Example 3 at three of the desired cell surface
   densities (CTL/cm 2) as shown in Figure 5. Each specific seeding density was able to consistently
   attain the same fold expansion. The implications will be described in more detail further on as they
   relate to the ability to dramatically reduce the production time for a desired cell population.
            EXAMPLE 5: Culturing desired cells on a growth surface that is comprised of gas
20 permeable material while simultaneously increasing the medium volume to growth surface area
   ratio increases the number of times a desired cell population can double in a given stage of culture
   relative to conventional methods and increases the surface density that is attainable.
                                                     26

            Cell lines and tumor cells, immunophenotyping, CFSE labeling, AnnexinV-7-AAD
   staining, chromium release assay, Enzyme-Linked Immunospot (ELIspot) assay, retrovirus
   production and transduction of T-lymphocytes, and statistical analysis were as described in
   Example 1.
 5          Test fixtures (hereinafter generically referred to as "G-Rex") were constructed as shown in
   Figure 6. Bottom 20 of each G-Rex 10 was comprised of gas permeable silicone membrane,
   approximately 0.005 to 0.007 inches thick. Pending U.S. Publication No. 2005/0106717 Al to
   Wilson is among many other sources of information relating to the use of alternative gas permeable
   materials and can be used to educate skilled artisans about gas permeable culture device shapes,
 0 features, and other useful characteristics that are beneficial to many of the embodiments of this
   invention. In this Example 3, G-Rex (referred to as "G-Rex40") had a growth surface area of 10
   cm 2 , upon which a cell composition (shown as item 30) rested, the characteristics of the cell
   composition varied throughout the experiment as described within. Medium volume (shown as
   item 40) unless otherwise indicated was 30 mL, creating a medium volume to growth surface area
 5 ratio of 3 ml/cm 2.
            Activated EBV-specific CTL and irradiated autologous EBV-LCLs at the conventional 4:1
   ratio of CTL:LCL were cultured in G-Rex40 devices. EBV-CTLs were seeded at a surface density
   of 5x1 05 cells/cm 2 in the G-Rex40 and the rate of EBV-CTL population expansion was compared
   with EBV-CTL seeded at the same surface density in a standard 24-well plate with a medium
20 volume to growth surface area of 1 ml/cm 2 . After 3 days, as shown in Figure 7A (p = 0.005), the
   EBV-CTLs in the G-Rex40 had increased from 5x1 0 5/cm          2
                                                                    to a median of 7.9x1 0 6/cm 2 (range 5.7
   to 8.1x10 6/cm 2) without any medium exchange. In contrast, EBV-CTLs cultured for 3 days in
   conventional 24-well plates only increased from a surface density of 5x10 5/cm 2 to a median of
                                                      27

   1.8x10 6 /cm 2 (range 1.7 to 2.5x10 6 /cm 2) by day 3. In the G-Rex40, surface density could be further
   increased by replenishing medium whereas cell surface density could not be increased by
   replenishing medium or IL2 in the 24-well plate. For example, EBV-CTL surface density further
   increased in the G-Rex40 to 9.5x10 6 cells/cm 2 (range 8.5     x106 to 11.0 x10 6/cm 2 ) after replenishing
 5 the medium and IL-2 on day 7 (data not shown).
           To understand the mechanism behind the superior cell expansion in the G-Rex device, we
   assessed the viability of OKT3-stimulated peripheral blood T cells using flow cytometric forward
   vs. side scatter analysis on day 5 of culture. EBV-CTLs could not be assessed in this assay due to
   the presence of residual irradiated EBV-LCL in the cultures, which would interfere with the
 0 analysis. As shown in Figure 7B, cell viability was significantly higher in the G-Rex40 cultures
   was significantly higher (89.2% viability in the G-Rex40 vs. 49.9% viability in the 24-well plate).
   We then analyzed the cultures each day for 7 days using Annexin-PI 7AAD to distinguish between
   live and apoptotic/necrotic cells, and observed consistently lower viability in T-cells expanded in
   24 well plates compared to those in the G-Rex, as shown in Figure 7C. These data indicate the
 5 cumulative improved survival of proliferating cells contributed to the increased cell numbers in
   the G-Rex devices compared to the 24-well plates.
           To determine if there was also a contribution from an increased number of cell divisions in
   the G-Rex versus the 24-well plates, T-cells were labeled with CFSE on day 0 and divided between
   a G-Rex40 device with a 40 ml medium volume and a 24 well plate with each well at a 2 ml
20 medium volume. Daily flow cytometric analysis demonstrated no differences in the number of cell
   divisions from day 1 to day 3. From day 3 onwards, however, the population of desired cells
   cultured in the G-Rex40 continued to increase at a rate that exceeded the diminishing rate of the 2
   ml wells, indicating that the culture conditions had become limiting as shown in Figure 7D. Thus,
                                                       28

   the large population of desired cells in the G-Rex40 test fixtures resulted from a combination of
   decreased cell death and sustained proliferation relative to conventional methods.
           EXAMPLE 6: By use of unconventionally high ratios of medium volume to growth
   surface area and use of growth surfaces comprised of gas permeable material, the need to feed
 5 culture during production can be reduced while simultaneously obtaining unconventionally high
   desired cell surface density.
           This was demonstrated through use of G-Rex test fixtures for the initiation and expansion
   of EBV:LCLs. For purposes of this example, G-Rex2000 refers to device as described in Figure
   8, the exception being the bottom is comprised of a 100 cm 2 growth surface area and a 2000 ml
 0 medium volume capacity is available. EBV-LCLs were cultured in and expand in the G-Rex2000
   without changing the cell phenotype. EBV-LCL were plated into a G-Rex2000 at a surface density
   of lx105 cells/cm 2 along with 1000 ml of complete RPMI medium to create a medium volume to
   surface area ratio of 10 ml/cm 2 . For comparison, EBV-LCL were plated into a T175 flask at a
   surface density of 5x1 05 cells/cm 2 along with 30 ml of complete RPMI medium to create a medium
 5 volume to surface area ratio of about 0.18 ml/cm 2. As presented in Figure 8A, the EBV-LCL
   cultured in G-Rex2000 expanded more than those in the T175 flask without requiring any
   manipulation or media change. This culture condition did not modify the final cell product as
   evaluated by Q-PCR for EBER and B cell marker CD20 as presented in Figure 8B and Figure
   8C.
20         EXAMPLE 7: When sufficient feeder and/or antigen cells are not present at the onset of
   culture, desired cells may not expand. However, the cell composition can be altered to include an
   additional cell type acting as feeder cells and/or antigen presenting cell to allow expansion.
                                                     29

           Figure 9 shows an illustrative example in which we experimentally demonstrated that a
   very low cumulative surface density of desired cells and antigen presenting cells (in this case AL
   CTLs and LCLs cells combining to create a cell composition with a surface density of 30,000
   cells/cm 2 ) was unable to initiate outgrowth of the AL-CTL population. However, this same cell
 5 composition could be made to grow by altering the composition to include another cell type acting
   as a feeder cell. In this case we evaluated a feeder layer of three various forms of irradiated K562
                                                          2
   cells at a surface density of about 0.5x106 cells/cm     and in all cases the population of AL-CTL
   expanded from the initial cell composition depicted in the first column of the histogram to move
   from a surface density of just 15,000 cells/cm 2 to a surface density of 4.0x10 6 cells/cm 2 over 14
 0 days. We also demonstrated, as opposed to the addition of a third cell type, increasing the
   population of LCLs achieved similar favorable results. The high surface density used for the LCL
   or K562 was arbitrarily chosen to demonstrate that a very low population of desired cells can be
   used to initiate growth when the cell composition includes an adequate number of feeder and/or
   antigen specific cells. When feeder cells are in short supply, expensive, or cumbersome to prepare,
 5 reducing their surface density to below 0.5x 106 cells/cm 2 is recommended. In general, and as we
   have demonstrated, when antigen presenting cells and/or feeder cells are in the cell composition,
   the additive surface density of the antigen presenting cells and/or feeder cells and the desired cells
   should preferably be at least about 0.125x 106 cells/cm 2 to create enough surface density in the cell
   composition to initiate the expansion of the desired cell population. Also, to attain the continued
20 expansion beyond standard surface density limits, the use of growth surfaces comprised of gas
   permeable material was used in this example along with a medium volume to surface area ratio of
   4 ml/cm 2.
                                                     30

            EXAMPLE 8: Reduced desired cell surface densities, altered responder cell to stimulatory
   cell ratios, increased medium to growth surface area ratios, and periodic distribution of cells at a
   low surface density culture onto growth surfaces comprised of gas permeable material allow more
   desired cells to be produced in a shorter period of time and simplifies the production process when
 5 compared to other methods.
            To further evaluate our ability to simplify and shorten the production of desired cells, we
   used G-Rex test fixtures for the initiation and expansion of EBV-CTLs. For purposes of this
   example, G-Rex500 refers to device as described in Figure 6, the exception being the bottom is
   comprised of a 100 cm 2 growth surface area and a 500 ml medium volume capacity is available.
 0          For the initial stage of EBV-CTL production, we seeded PBMCs in the G-Rex40 at a
   surface density of 1x10 6/cm 2 (total = 107 PBMCs distributed over 10 cm 2 growth surface area of
   the G-Rex40) and stimulated them with EBV-LCL using a 40:1 ratio of PBMC:EBV-LCL. For
   CTL production, this 40:1 ratio is preferable in the first stimulation to maintain the antigen
   specificity of the responder T-cells. After the initial stage of culture, a second stage was initiated
 5 on day 9, wherein 1x107 responder T-cells were transferred from the G-Rex40 to a G-Rex500 test
   fixture. To initiate stage two of culture, 200 ml of CTL medium was placed in the G-Rex500,
   creating a medium volume to surface area ratio at the onset of stage two of 2 ml/cm 2 medium
   height at 2.0 cm above the growth surface area. The surface density of desired cells at the onset of
                        5
   stage two was 1x10     CTL/cm 2 with antigen presenting cells at a surface density of5x10 5 LCL/cm 2,
20 thereby creating a non-conventional 1:5 ratio of desired cells to antigen presenting cells. This stage
   two cell surface density and R:S ratio produced consistent EBV-CTL expansion in all donors
   screened. Four days later (day 13), IL-2 (50U/ml - final concentration) was added directly to the
   culture, as was 200 ml of fresh medium, bringing medium volume to surface area ratio to 4 ml/cm2 .
                                                     31

   On day 16, the cells were harvested and counted. The median surface density of CTLs obtained
   was 6.5x10 6 per cm 2 (range 2.4x10 6 to 3.5x10 7 ).
            Compared to conventional protocols, the use of growth surfaces comprised of gas
   permeable material allows increased medium volume to surface area ratios (i.e. greater than 1
 5 ml/cm 2), lower cell surface densities (i.e. less than 0.5x10 6 /cm 2), and altered ratios of responder to
   stimulator cells (less than 4:1) to create a decrease in production time. Figure 10A shows the
   comparison of this G-Rex approach of Example 8 to the use of conventional methods of Example
    1 and the G-Rex approach described in Example 5. As shown, the conventional method needed 23
   days to deliver as many desired cells as could be delivered in either G-Rex method in about 10
 0 days. After 23 days, the G-Rex approach of Example 8 was able to produce 23.7 more desired cells
   than the G-Rex method of Example 5 and 68.4 times more desired cells than the conventional
   method of Example 1. Furthermore, the desired cells continued to divide until day 27-30 without
   requiring additional antigen presenting cell stimulation provided the cultures were split when cell
   surface density was greater than 7x10 6 /cm 2.
 5          Although the CTLs could not be viewed clearly in the G-Rex using light microscopy,
   clusters of CTLs could be visualized by eye or by inverted microscope and the appearance of the
   cells on days 9, 16, and 23 of culture is shown in Figure 10B. Culture in the G-Rex did not change
   the phenotype of the expanded cells as shown in Figure 10C, with greater than 90% of the cell
   composition being CD3+ cells (96.7±1.7 vs. 92.8±5.6; G-Rex vs. 24-well), which were
20 predominantly CD8+ (62.2% ± 38.3 vs. 75% ± 21.7). Evaluation of the activation markers CD25
   and CD27, and the memory markers CD45RO, CD45RA, and CD62L, demonstrated no
   substantive differences between EBV-CTLs expanded under each culture condition. The antigen
   specificity was also unaffected by the culture conditions, as measured by ELIspot and pentamer
                                                       32

   analysis. Figure 1OD shows a representative culture in which T-cells stimulated with EBV peptide
   epitopes from LMP1, LMP2, BZLF1 and EBNA1 and stained with HLA-A2-LMP2 peptide
   pentamers staining showed similar frequencies of peptide-specific T-cells. Further, the expanded
   cells maintained their cytolytic activity and specificity and killed autologous EBV-LCL (62% ±
 5  12 vs. 57% ± 8 at a 20:1 E:T ratio; G-Rex vs. 24-well plate), with low killing of the HLA
                                                                                51
   mismatched EBV-LCL (15% ± 5 vs. 12% ± 7 20:1 ratio) as evaluated by            Cr release assays as
   shown in Figure 1OE.
             Discussion of various novel methods for improved cell production for cell therapy:
   Examples 1 - 8 have been presented to demonstrate to skilled artisans how the use of various
 0 conditions including reduced surface density of the desired cell population at the onset of a
   production cycle, reduced surface density ratios between responder cells and stimulating cells,
   growth surfaces comprised of gas permeable materials, and/or increased medium volume to
   growth surface area ratios can be used to expedite and simplify the production of cells for
   research and clinical application of cell therapy. Although Examples 1 - 8 were related to the
 5 production of antigen specific T cells, these novel culture conditions can be applied to many
   important suspension cell types with clinical relevance (or required for pre-clinical proof of
   concept murine models) including regulatory T cells (Treg), natural killer cells (NK), tumor
   infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL), primary T lymphocytes, a wide variety of antigen specific cells, and
   many others (all of which can also be genetically modified to improve their function, in-vivo
20 persistence or safety). Cells can be expanded with feeder cells and/or antigen presenting cells
   that can include PBMC, PHA blast, OKT3 T, B blast, LCLs and K562, (natural or genetically modified
   to express and antigen and/or epitope as well as co-stimulatory molecules such as 41BBL, OX40L,
                                                   33

   CD80, CD86, HLA, and many others) which may or may not be pulsed with peptide and/or a
   relevant antigen.
            Unconventionally Low Initial Surface Density: One aspect of the present invention is the
   discovery that production time can be reduced relative to conventional methods by the use of
 5 lower desired cell surface density. In this manner, desired cells are able to have a greater
   numerical difference between their minimum and maximum cell surface densities than
   conventional methods allow. Preferably, when the rate of desired cell population growth has
   begun to diminish, but the quantity of desired cells is not yet sufficient to terminate production,
   the desired cells are re-distributed upon additional growth surfaces comprised of gas permeable
 0 material at low starting surface density once again.
            To explain how our novel cell production methods that rely upon lower surface density at
   the onset of any given culture stage can be applied, an example is now described. Figure 11 shows
   a graphical representation of expansion of a desired cell population on a growth surface under the
   conventional scenario as compared to population expansion of the desired cell type using one
 5 aspect of the present invention. In this novel method, the surface density of desired cells at the
   onset of a production stage is less than conventional surface density. In order to make the
   advantages of this novel method the focus, this explanation does not describe the process of
   initially obtaining the desired cell population. The 'Day" of culture starts at "0" to allow skilled
   artisans to more easily determine the relative time advantages of this novel method. In this
20 example, each production cycle of the conventional method begins at a conventional surface
   density of 0.5x10 6 desired cells/cm 2 while each production cycle of this example begins at a much
   lower and unconventional surface density of 0.125x10 6 desired cells/cm 2 . Thus, 4 times more
   surface area (i.e. 500,000/125,000) is required in this example to initiate the culture of than the
                                                     34

   conventional methods require. In this example, the desired cells of the conventional method
   reaches a maximum surface density of 2x10 6 cells/cm          2
                                                                   in 14 days. Thus, 1 cm 2 of growth area
   delivers 2x10 6 cells/cm 2 which are then re-distributed onto 4 cm 2 of growth area so that production
   can be continued using the conventional starting density of 0.5x10 6 cells/cm 2 (i.e. 4 cm 2 times
 5 0.5x10 6 cells = 2x10 6 cells). The cycle repeats for another 14 days at which point maximum cell
   surface density is again reached, with each of the 4 cm 2 of growth surface area delivering 2.Ox 106
   cells for a total of 8.0x10 6 cells that are then distributed onto 16 cm 2 of growth area and the growth
   cycle repeats to deliver a total of 32x10 6 cells over 42 days.
            The novel method depicted in Figure 11, instead of using the conventional method of
 0 depositing 500,000 desired cells onto 1 cm 2 at the onset of production, distributes the 500,000 cells
   equally onto 4 cm 2 of growth area to create at unconventionally low starting surface density of
    125,000 desired cells/cm 2 on Day 0. In example the novel method, as with the conventional
   method, has its growth rate about to diminish on Day 7. Cells in the novel method are at a surface
   density of 1x10 6 cells/cm 2. Thus, at the time point where growth rate is about to diminish, this
 5 stage of culture has produced 4x10 6 cells that are then re-distributed onto 32 cm 2 of growth area
   so that production in Stage 2 can be continued using the starting surface density of 0.125x106
   cells/cm 2 (i.e. 32 cm2 times 0.125x10 6 cells = 4x10 6 cells). The cycle, or stage, of production
   repeats for another 7 days to Day 14, at which point maximum cell surface density is again reached,
   with each of the 32 cm 2 of growth surface area containing 1.Ox106 desired cells to yield a total of
20 32x10 6 cells injust 14 days. Note how at the end of each production cycle, as with the conventional
   method, the novel method delivers a multiple of the finishing surface density divided by the
   starting surface density. However, by lowering starting cell surface density and completing each
   stage of production before cells have entered a growth production time is dramatically lowered.
                                                         35

   This example that describes how, by lowering the desired cell surface density (in this case to
   0.125x106 cells/cm 2) relative to conventional cell surface density, the same quantity of desired
   cells are delivered in just 33% of the time as the conventional method (14 days vs. 42 days).
           Although we quantified the advantages using a starting surface density of 0.125x10 6
 5 cells/cm 2 , skilled artisans should be aware that this example of the present invention demonstrates
   that any reduction below conventional cell surface density will reduce production duration.
   Furthermore, skilled artisans will recognize that in this and other novel methods presented herein,
   the rate of cell growth and point at which diminished cell growth occurs described is for illustrative
   purposes only and the actual rates will vary in each application based on a wide variety of
 0 conditions such as medium composition, cell type, and the like. Additionally, for a given
   application, skilled artisans will recognize that the advantage of this aspect of the present invention
   is the production time reduction resulting from the reduction of cell surface density below that of
   conventional cell surface density in any particular application, wherein the particular conventional
   surface density used in this illustrative example may vary from application to application.
 5          Thus, one aspect of the methods of the present invention when there is a desire to minimize
   the duration of production for a given quantity of desired cells that reside within a cell composition
   by use of reduced cell surface density is now described. Desired cells should be deposited upon a
   growth surface at an unconventionally low cell surface density such that:
        a. the desired cells are in the presence of antigen presenting cells and/or feeder cells and with
20         medium volume to surface area ratio of up to 1 ml/cm 2 if the growth surface is not
            comprised of gas permeable and up to 2 ml/cm 2 if the growth surface is comprised of gas
           permeable, and
                                                       36

        b. the preferred surface density conditions at the onset of a production cycle being such that
                                                                                      2
            the target cell surface density is preferably less than 0.5x 106 cells/cm   and more preferably
            diminishing as described in Figure 4, and
        c. the surface density of the desired cells plus the surface density of the antigen presenting
 5          cells and/or feeder cells is preferably at least about 1.25 x10 5 cells/cm 2.
            Based on the examples above, it is advisable for one to verify that the expansion of the
   desired cell population does not become limited if there is an attempt to further reduce the surface
   density of the antigen presenting cells and/or feeder cells below 1.25 x10 5 cells/cm 2. We selected
    1.25 x105 cells/cm 2 based on the goal of demonstrating that outgrowth of a population of desired
 0 cells at unconventionally low density can be achieved when augmented by an adequate supply of
   antigen presenting cells and/or feeder cells.
            Use of growth surfaces comprised of gas permeable material and higher medium
   volume to growth surface area ratios can simplify and shorten production. Another aspect of
   the present invention is the discovery that the use of growth surfaces comprised of gas permeable
 5 material and medium volume to growth surface area ratios that exceed conventional ratios, and
   repeated cycles of production that increase the amount of growth surface area used over time will
   reduce production duration.
            An illustrative example is now presented to show how these conditions can reduce the
   duration of production. Figure 12 augments the discussion to show an example of the advantages
20 that can be obtained by utilizing a growth surface comprised of gas permeable material and an
   unconventionally high medium volume to growth surface area ratio beyond 1 or 2 ml/cm 2. The
   discussion that follows is intended to demonstrate to skilled artisans how, by use of such a method,
   several options become available including reducing production time, reducing the amount of
                                                       37

   growth surface area used, and/or reducing labor and contamination risk. Skilled artisans will
   recognize that Figure 12 and associated discussion is merely an example, and does not limit the
   scope of this invention.
            The cell composition containing the desired cell population in this illustrative example is
 5 assumed to consume about 1 ml per "X" period of time. Figure 12 shows two production
   processes, labeled "conventional method" and "novel method." At the onset of growth, each
   process begins with desired cells at a surface density of 0.5x10 6/cm 2. However, the growth surface
   of in the novel method is comprised of gas permeable material and medium volume to surface area
   ratio is 2 ml/cm 2 as opposed to the conventional method of 1 ml/cm 2. In time period "X", the
 0 desired cell population of the conventional method has a reached a surface density plateau of
   2x 106/cm  2 and is depleted of nutrients while the additional medium volume of the novel method
   has allowed growth to continue and desired cell surface density is 3x10 6 /cm 2 . If the novel method
   continues, it reaches a surface density of 4x1 06/cm 2 . Thus, many beneficial options accrue. The
   novel method can be terminated prior to time "X" with more cells produced than the conventional
 5 method, can be terminated at time "X" with about 1.5 times more cells produced than the
   conventional method, or can continue until the medium is depleted of nutrients with 2 times many
   desired cells produced as the conventional method in twice the time but without any need to handle
   the device for feeding. In order for the conventional method to gather as many cells, the cells must
   be harvested and the process reinitiated, adding labor and possible contamination risk. Since cell
20 therapy applications typically only are able to start with a fixed number of cells, the conventional
   method does not allow the option of simply increasing surface area at the onset of production.
            Figure 13 continues the example of Figure 12 to show how more than one production
   cycle can be of further benefit. Figure 13 shows a graphical representation of expansion of a
                                                     38

   desired cell population on a growth surface under the conventional method as compared to
   population expansion of the desired cell type under one novel method of the present invention in
   which the surface density of the novel method exceeds surface density of the conventional method.
   In order to make this embodiment the focus, this explanation does not describe the process of
 5 obtaining the desired cell population. The 'Day" of culture starts at "0" to allow skilled artisans to
   more easily determine the relative time advantages of this aspect of the invention. In this example,
   both cultures are initiated using conventional desired cell surface density of 0.5x10 5 cells/cm2 at
   "Day 0". In this illustrative example, the growth surface of the conventional method is also
   comprised of gas permeable material. However, the medium volume to growth surface ratio in the
 0 conventional method is 1 ml/cm 2 as opposed to 4 ml/cm 2 in the novel method. As shown in Figure
   13, the desired cell population in the conventional method begins to diminish in growth rate when
   it is at a surface density of about 1.5x10 6 cells/cm 2 in about 4 days and reaches a maximum surface
   density of 2x 106 cells/cm 2 in 14 days. At that point the desired cell population is distributed to 4
   cm 2 of growth area at a surface density of 0.5x10 6 /cm      2
                                                                   in fresh medium at 1.0 ml/cm 2 and the
 5 production cycle begins again, reaching a surface density of 2x10 6 cells/cm 2 in another 14 days
   and delivering 8x10 6 desired cells in 28 days. By comparison, the desired cell population in the
   novel method begins to diminish in growth rate when it is at a surface density of about 3x10 6
                                                                                                           6
   cells/cm 2 in roughly about 10 to 11 days and could reach a maximum surface density of 4x10
   cells/cm 2 in 28 days. However, to accelerate production, the cycle ends when the desired cell
20 population is still in a high rate of growth. Thus, at about 10 to 11 days the 3x10      6 cells are re
   distributed to 6 cm 2 of growth surface area at a surface density of 0.5x10 6/cm 2 in fresh medium at
   4.0 ml/cm 2 and the production cycle begins again, with the desired cell population reaching a
   surface density of 3x10 6 cells/cm 2 in roughly another 10 to 11 days and delivering 18x10 6 desired
                                                       39

   cells around 21 days. Thus, in about 75% of the time, the novel method has produced over 2 times
   the number of desired cells as compared to the conventional method.
           We have been able to obtain cell surface density in excess of 1Ox 106 cells/cm 2 upon growth
   surfaces comprised of gas permeable material, demonstrating that the use of the high surface
 5 density aspect of our invention is not limited to the density described in this example.
            Thus, another example of the methods of the present invention when there is a desire to
   minimize the duration of production for a given quantity of desired cells that reside within a cell
   composition by use of reduced cell surface density is now described:
        a.  seeding the desired cells upon a growth surface area comprised of gas permeable material
 0          and in the presence of antigen presenting cells and/or feeder cells and with medium volume
           to surface area ratio of at least 2 ml/cm2 , and
        b. establishing the preferred surface density conditions at the onset of a production cycle such
           that the target cell surface density is within the conventional density of about 0.5x10 6
           cells/cm 2 , and
 5      c.  allowing the desired cell population to expand beyond the conventional surface density of
            about 2x10 6 cells/cm 2 , and
        d. if more of the desired cells are wanted, redistributing the desired cells to additional growth
            surface comprised of gas permeable material and repeating steps a-d until enough desired
            cells are obtained.
20         When using these novel methods, further benefits can be attained by combining the
   attributes of initiating culture using unconventionally low surface area, using novel surface density
   ratios of desired cells and/or feeder cells, utilizing a growth surface area comprised of gas
   permeable material, utilizing unconventionally high ratios of medium volume to growth surface
                                                      40

   area, and conducting production in cycles. The conditions can be varied at any cycle of production
   to achieve the desired outcomes, such as striking a balance between reduced production time,
   surface area utilization, feeding frequency, and the like.
           Figure 14 shows another novel method in which still further advantages relative to
 5 conventional methods are obtained. As with other illustrative embodiments described herein,
   skilled artisans will recognize that the description herein does not limit the scope of this invention,
   but instead acts to describe how to attain advantages of improved production efficiency.
           In this example, desired cells are doubling weekly in conventional conditions. The 'Day"
   of culture starts at "0" to allow skilled artisans to more easily determine the relative time
 0 advantages of this embodiment. Also, issues previously described related to feeder and/or antigen
   presenting cell surface density ratios are not repeated to simplify this example. For illustrative
   purposes, assume a starting population of 500,000 desired cells with a doubling time of 7 days in
   conventional conditions is present on "day 0" production. The conventional method begins with a
   surface density of 0.5x 106 cells/cm 2 and a medium volume to surface area ratio of 1 ml/cm2 . As
 5 shown, when the population of the desired cells reaches a surface density of 2x 106 cells/cm 2 the
   cells are distributed onto additional surface area at a surface density of 0.5x106 cells/cm 2 and the
   production cycle begins anew. The novel method of this example begins with a surface density of
   0.06x106 cells/cm 2 , a growth surface area comprised of gas permeable material, and a medium
   volume to surface area ratio of 6 ml/cm 2 . As shown, when the population is nearing the start of a
20 growth plateau, cells are redistributed to more growth surface area. In this case, the population is
   determined to be reaching plateau from noting that plateau is initiated in the conventional method
   when cell surface density approaches 1.5 times the medium volume to surface area ratio (i.e. about
                                                      41

   1.5x10 6 cells/ml). Thus, at a surface density of about 4.5x10 6 cells/cm2 at about 9 days, cells are
   distributed onto 36 cm 2 of growth surface area and the production cycle begins anew.
           Figure 15 tabulates a comparison of each production method depicted in Figure 14, and
   extends to stages to demonstrate the power of the novel method, and why it is wise to adjust the
 5 production protocol at various stages to fully capture the efficiency. Note that the novel method
   overpowers the conventional method after completing just the second stage of the production
   cycle, delivering nearly 1.37 times more cells in only about half the time with just 61% of the
   surface area requirement. However, note how the third stage of the production cycle creates a
   massive increase in cells and a corresponding increase in surface area. Thus, one should model the
 0 production cycles to anticipate how to adjust the initial cell surface density and/or final cell surface
   density throughout each cycle of the process to attain an optimal level of efficiency for any given
   process.
           As an example, Figure 16 shows an example of how one could alter variables in the novel
   method to gain efficiency as production progresses. For example, an increase in the starting surface
 5 density of cycle 3 from 0.06 to 0.70 cell/cm 2 and a change to the final surface density from 4.5 to
   7.5 cells/cm 2 can be undertaken. Increasing the final surface density is a matter of increasing the
   medium volume to surface area ratio beyond the initial 6 ml/cm 2 to a greater number. The greater
   the medium volume to surface area, the longer the cycle remains in rapid growth phase (i.e. the
   population expansion prior to plateau). In this case we have allowed 5 extra days to complete the
20 rapid growth phase and raised the medium volume to surface area ratio to about 8 ml/cm 2 . So
   doing, in this example, allows over 3 trillion cells to be produced in 34 days with a reasonable
   surface area. For example, we have fabricated and tested devices with about 625 cm 2 of growth
                                                    42

   surface comprised of gas permeable material. This is clearly a superior approach to producing cells
   than the conventional method.
           Thus, another preferred embodiment of the methods of the present invention when there is
   a desire to minimize the duration of production for a given quantity of desired cells that reside
 5 within a cell composition by use of reduced cell surface density is now described:
       a.  seeding the desired cells upon a growth surface area comprised of gas permeable material
           and in the presence of antigen presenting cells and/or feeder cells and with medium volume
           to surface area ratio of at least 2 ml/cm2 , and
       b. establishing the preferred surface density conditions at the onset of a production cycle such
 0         that the target cell surface density is less than the conventional density, preferably at
           between about 0.5x 106 desired cells/cm 2 and about 3900 desired cells/cm 2 and total number
           of desired cells and antigen presenting cells and/or feeder cells being at least about
            1.25x10 5 cells/cm 2, and
       c.  allowing the desired cell population to expand beyond the conventional surface density of
 5         about 2x10 6 cells/cm 2 , and
       d. if more of the desired cells are wanted, redistributing the desired cells to additional growth
           surface comprised of gas permeable material and repeating steps a-d until enough desired
           cells are obtained.
           The present invention provides devices and methods of cell culture that allow far superior
20 cell production, particularly for the field of Adoptive Cell Therapy. It allows a wide variety of
   benefits relative to state of the art devices and methods including reducing the time needed to
   provide a given number of cells, greater fold expansion of a desired cell population from an initial
   quantity of cells, the ability to reduce and even eliminate the frequency of medium exchange,
                                                      43

   simplified methods of cytokine addition, the ability to reduce and even eliminate the need to count
   cells to determine their quantity, the ability to greatly reduce the amount of medium that cells need
   to be separated from post culture, the ability to create a more effective population of cells that are
   antigen specific, and the capacity to scale linearly.
 5          EXAMPLE 9: More efficient methods of producing cells within a static gas permeable
   culture device by establishing novel culture conditions at the start of the culture process.
            Static cell culture experiments were conducted in which K562 cells were cultured in test
   devices configured with a growth surface comprised of gas permeable silicone material and with
   wall height that allowed 10 cm of medium to reside above the growth surface. The growth surface
 0 was held in a substantially horizontal position with a growth surface support as described more
   thoroughly in Wilson '717. Medium was placed in the test devices at a medium height of 10 cm
   beyond the growth surface, establishing a medium volume to growth area ratio of 10 ml/cm 2. K562
   cells were also introduced into the test devices and the devices were placed into a cell culture
   incubator at 37C, 5% C02, and 95% R.H, whereby cells were allowed to gravitate to the growth
 5 surface. The medium was not perfused or subjected to forced agitation and gas was not forced to
   flow past the growth surface, instead making contact with the growth surface by random motion
   of the ambient atmosphere.
            FIG. 17A, FIG. 17B, FIG. 17C, FIG. 17D, and FIG. 17E show, for illustrative purposes,
   a representative spreadsheet of the experimental conditions and typical results. Initial static culture
20 conditions established surface densities ranging between 1.0E+06 to 6.25E+04 cells/cm 2 , cell
   densities ranging from 1.0E+05 to 6.25E+03 cells/ml, with medium residing above the growth
   surface in all conditions at a constant height of 10 cm and all medium being the same formulation
                                                       44

   with glucose concentration at 240 mg/dl. The initial state of static culture was day 0 and cell counts
   and glucose concentration were assessed on day 4, day 8, day 11.
            FIG. 18 compares the fold expansion of the population increase relative to the surface
   density of each of the experimental conditions detailed in FIG. 17A through FIG. 17E. Fold
 5 expansion of each condition was determined by dividing the cell surface density on day 11 by the
   cell surface density on day 0. In a series of evaluations where surface density is at a low limit of
   5.0E+05 cells/cm 2 and medium height is at the upper limit of 2.0 cm, we concluded that the best
   fold expansion of K562 in gas permeable bags was about 4.8 fold. Thus, dotted line 6 shows typical
   fold expansion in state of the art K562 production methods using gas permeable bags. Each surface
 0 density condition established in our experiments created a population expansion that exceeded
   state of the art population expansion. Of note, the ability to increase the fold expansion of the
   population of cells greatly increased as conditions of initial static culture surface density decreased
   to 0.125E+06, and then further reductions were less advantageous although still far superior to
   state of the art methods.
 5          Other observations were made that we explored further, particularly related to glucose
   being a potential surrogate measure of the number of cells present at any given time and the ability
   to perform extended culture without feeding.
            EXAMPLE 10: Novel methods to determine the quantity cells in a population residing
   within a static gas permeable culture device without need of counting cells.
20          We observed that glucose depletion rates were consistently indicative of the number of
   cells in culture despite the culture medium residing in a static state and (other than just routine
   handling of the device) not subjected to mechanically forced mixing such as by perfusion, shaking,
   or stirring prior to sampling. This finding opens the door to further simplification in the field of
                                                     45

   Adoptive Cell Therapy. For example, the act of counting cells to determine how well a culture is
   progressing is one of many factors that make cell production for Adoptive Cell Therapy
   impractical. The use of a surrogate measure in lieu of cell counts, combined with the inventive
   disclosures herein, brings even more simplification to cell production.
 5         We have discovered that it is possible to use glucose concentration of the culture as a as a
   surrogate indicator of the population of the culture. For cultures in which cells reside upon a growth
   surface comprised of a given type of gas permeable material, knowing the minimum total medium
   volume needed for the culture to reach maximum surface and the total reduction in glucose
   concentration needed for the culture to reach maximum surface density sets the stage for a
 0 surrogate prediction of the number of cells in the population of the culture. Equipped with that
   knowledge, one initiating culture (or a stage of culture) would determine the baseline glucose
   concentration of medium, the baseline volume of medium, and would keep track of the volume of
   medium added to the culture prior to taking a measure of glucose concentration at the time of
   population estimation. The estimated number of cells in the population is a function of the prorated
 5 total reduction in glucose concentration needed to reach maximum cell density multiplied by the
   prorated minimum medium volume multiplied needed to reach maximum surface density and
   multiplied by the maximum surface density possible on the growth surface.
           We applied this method to cultures described throughout various disclosures of the present
   invention, in which the growth surface of experimental devices was comprised of dimethyl
20 silicone, between about 0.006 to 0.0012 inches thick. A series of experiments were undertaken that
   determined minimum volume of medium needed to allow the cells to reach maximum surface
   density and the corresponding total reduction in glucose concentration. The total reduction in
   glucose concentration was about 250 mg/dl for a variety of cultures with various cell types
                                                     46

   including K562, LCL, and T cells. We were able to create formulaic relationships that were
   predictive of cell number in culture as show below, where:
       A = baseline glucose concentration of medium
       B = measure of glucose concentration at the time of population estimation
 5     C = total reduction in glucose concentration needed to reach maximum surface density
       D = baseline volume of medium
       E = volume of medium added after baseline
       F = minimum total medium volume needed to reach maximum surface density
       G = maximum surface density
 0     E = surface area of the growth surface
   [(A-B)/C] x [(D + E)/F] x G x E = estimated number of cells in the culture population in the
   device. Note that the prorated minimum medium volume cannot exceed 100%, since additional
   medium will not increase surface density beyond the maximum capacity. For example, if a
   culture requires 10 ml to reach maximum surface density and the baseline volume of medium
 5 plus the volume of medium added exceeds 10 ml, one should use 100% as the prorated minimum
   medium volume.
           Note that the predictive formulas require knowledge of the cell culture applications
   maximum cell density (and/or maximum surface density) under conditions in which cells reside
   on a growth surface comprised of the particular gas permeable material the artisan has selected.
20 Experiments can be undertaken to make that determination. For example, to determine the
   maximum cell surface density of K562 cells upon a growth surface comprised of the gas permeable
   material in our experimental fixtures (dimethyl silicone as described previously), we increased
   medium height until surface density could increase no more. The minimum volume of medium
                                                   47

   needed to support a maximum attainable surface density of K562 at about 12.OE+06 cells/cm 2 was
   determined to be 10 ml with a corresponding total reduction in glucose concentration of 250
   mg/ml.
           Illustrative examples of how this information could be used to assess the number of cells
 5 in K562 culture follow. For the first example, assume medium is not added after the onset of
   culture and these conditions exist:
           baseline medium volume = 10 ml
           baseline glucose concentration = 475 mg/dl
           medium is added = 0 ml
 0         glucose sample = 300 mg/dl
           surface area of the growth surface = 100 cm 2
   Then the calculation would proceed as follows:
   [(475 mg/dl - 300 mg/dl)/250 mg/dl) x (10 ml + 0 ml)/10 ml] x 12E+06 cells/cm 2 x 100 cm2 = 840
   x 106 cells.
 5         As another example, assume medium is not added after the onset of culture and these
   conditions exist:
           baseline medium volume = 6 ml
           baseline glucose concentration = 475 mg/dl
           medium is added = 2 ml
20         glucose sample = 300 mg/dl
           surface area of the growth surface = 100 cm 2
   Then the calculation would proceed as follows:
                                                   48

   [(475 mg/dl - 300 mg/dl)/250 mg/dl) x (6 ml + 2 ml)/10 ml] x 12E+06 cells/cm 2        x  100 cm 2 = 672
   x 106 cells.
           As yet another example, assume medium is not added after the onset of culture and these
   conditions exist:
 5         baseline medium volume = 6 ml
           baseline glucose concentration = 475 mg/dl
           medium is added = 7 ml
           glucose sample = 300 mg/dl
           surface area of the growth surface = 100 cm 2
 0 Then, since total medium volume added to the culture exceeds the minimum total medium volume
   needed to reach maximum surface density, prorated minimum medium volume goes to 100%
   therefore the prorated value equals 1, and the calculation would proceed as follows:
   [(475 mg/dl - 300 mg/dl)/250 mg/dl) x (1)] x 12E+06 cells/cm 2 x 100 cm 2       = 840 x 106 cells.
           Skilled artisans should be aware that by predetermining the maximum cell density in
 5 medium (cells/cm2) that the specific cell type(s) can attain when residing on the growth surface
   comprised of a particular type of gas permeable material, an alternative formulaic relationship can
   be used to estimate the number of cells in the culture. In that case, the formulaic relationship would
   be a function of; (the prorated total reduction in glucose concentration needed to reach maximum
   cell density) x (the volume in medium at the onset of culture plus the volume of medium added to
20 the culture) x (maximum cell density). Be advised that in the event that the cumulative volume of
   medium exceeds that of the minimum volume of medium needed to reach maximum surface
   density, the minimum volume of medium should be used in place of the cumulative volume (as no
   extra medium volume will increase the surface density beyond its maximum).
                                                     49

           To help understand the predictive capacity of the formulas, we included the predictions of
   the number of cells in culture on row 10 of each spreadsheet (normalized by growth surface area)
   of conditions shown in FIG. 17A through FIG. 1E. Comparison of row 10 with the counted cells
   of row 12 shows how the number of cells in culture at any given time can be determined with a
 5 reasonable degree of certainty by use of glucose as opposed to cell counts. In fact, cell counts may
   not be as accurate due to the inability to ensure the cells are mixed uniformly into the medium
   prior to counting. Thus, it may be more beneficial to rely on glucose measures. In a preferred
   embodiment, cell counts would not be taken at least for 4 days, more preferably for 5 days, more
   preferably for 6 days, more preferably for 7 days, more preferably for 8 days, and even more
 0 preferably not until the culture was terminated.
           More experiments were undertaken to determine if the formula dictating the relationship
   between glucose depletion and the number of live cells in the device was accurate when glucose
   concentration at the onset of cultures varied. Test fixtures were identical to those previously
   described. For illustrative purposes, FIG. 19A shows a representative spreadsheet of the
 5 experimental conditions and typical results for the culture of K562 cells under equivalent starting
   conditions except for the glucose concentration, which was 240 mg/dl vs. 475 mg/dl at the onset
   of culture. Results are graphically depicted in FIG. 19B , FIG. 19C, FIG. 19D, FIG. 19E, and
   FIG. 19F. Population growth by cell count and as predicted by glucose depletion was normalized
   for surface density.
20         FIG. 19B shows the population expansion under each condition over a time period of 11
   days. The population growth rate different slightly, but arrived at about the same number in 11
   days. FIG. 19C shows the glucose depletion rate in each culture condition. FIG. 19D shows the
   glucose consumption rate in each culture condition. FIG. 19E shows an overlay of the predicted
                                                    50

   value, using the formulaic calculation of cell number, versus the cell number as determined by
   manual counts for the culture initiated at a glucose concentration of 240 mg/dl. FIG. 19F shows
   an overlay of the predicted value, using the formulaic calculation of cell number, versus the cell
   number as determined by manual counts for the culture initiated at a glucose concentration of 475
 5 mg/dl. Note the predictive capacity of the formulaic approach relative to the method of manual
   cell counts. This further demonstrates that various embodiments of the present invention can be
   utilized conjunction with a method of reducing, or even eliminating, the frequency of cell counts
   in lieu of surrogate measure of the concentration of solutes in the medium.
           This is a particularly powerful advantage relative to cell counts when one wishes to use the
 0 gas permeable devices described in Wilson '717 or Wilson '176. Skilled artisans will recognize
   the challenge of getting accurate distribution of cells in such devices and the potential for
   miscounts due to poor cell distribution into the medium. Thus, a surrogate measure that only relies
   on a medium sample in lieu of actual cell counts is of great benefit in the field of Adoptive Cell
   Therapy.
 5         Equipped with this knowledge, manufacturers of gas permeable devices, including those
   described in Wilson '717 or Wilson '176, could provide a simplified cell production process that
   can easily determine the number of live cells in culture within a gas permeable device, absent the
   need to count cells by providing a gas permeable cell culture device including a growth surface
   comprised of gas permeable material and providing instructions and/or disseminating information
20 relating to the disclosures of the present invention.
           EXAMPLE 11: Less complicated methods of producing cells within a static gas
   permeable culture device by establishing novel conditions at the start of the culture process in
   order to limit feeding frequency in static cultures.
                                                     51

           We undertook a series of experiments to determine the ability to reduce feeding frequency
   by use of the novel methods disclosed within relative to state of the art culture methods, which
   require feeding every two to three days.
           Experiments were conducted in devices that included growth surfaces with surface areas
 5 comprised of gas permeable material and varying capacity for medium height. The following
   description of an experiment that compared medium volume and feeding frequency are illustrative
   of our findings. K562 cells and medium were introduced into the devices and they were placed
   into a cell culture incubator at 37C, 5% C02, and 95% R.H, whereby cells were allowed to
   gravitate to the growth surface at a surface density of 0.125E+06 cells/cm 2 , determined to be
 0 advantageous for superior population fold expansion as previously described.
           Medium resided at a height of 2.5 cm, 5.0 cm, 10.0 cm, or 15.0 cm above the growth
   surface, which was comprised of silicone and had a surface area of 100 cm 2 . The growth surface
   was held in a substantially horizontal position with a growth surface support as described more
   thoroughly in Wilson '717. Thus, experimental conditions included ratios of medium volume to
 5 the surface area of growth surfaces at 2.5 ml/cm 2, 5.0 ml/cm 2, 10.0 ml/cm 2 , and 15.0 ml/cm 2 . Thus,
   initial cell density was 0.05E+06 cells/ml, 0.025E+06 cells/ml, 0.0125E+06 cells/ml, and
   0.008E+06 cells/ml respectively.
           No further medium was added to the 10.0 ml/cm 2 or 15.0 ml/cm 2 conditions. The original
   medium volume of the 2.5 ml/cm 2 condition was doubled by adding 2.5 ml/cm 2 of fresh medium
20 on day 11, tripled on day 14 by adding another 2.5 ml/cm 2 of fresh medium, and quadrupled on
   day 17 by adding another 2.5 ml/cm 2 of fresh medium. The original medium volume of the 5.0
   ml/cm 2 condition was doubled by adding 5.0 ml/cm 2 of fresh medium on day 11. Eventually, the
   2.5 ml/cm 2 and 5.0 ml/cm 2 conditions held 10.0 ml/cm 2 of fresh medium.
                                                    52

           FIG. 20 shows a graphical representation of population growth, normalized for growth
   surface area, under various medium feeding conditions.
           Note that all conditions eventually arrived at about the same number of live cells. However,
   conditions that did not rely on the addition of medium during the culture arrived at the maximum
 5 number of live cells faster than the other conditions. For example, it took 20 days for the 2.5 ml/cm 2
   condition to arrive at maximum density while it only took 11 days for the conditions that did not
   receive fresh medium after the onset of culture to arrive at the same maximum number of live
   cells. Also, the population growth rate was far superior in the unfed conditions. Also of importance,
   the condition that initiated culture with medium at a height of 15.0 cm showed the capacity to
 0 maintain cells in a prolonged duration of high viability relative to the 10.0 cm condition. For
   example, viability was relatively high in the 15.0 cm for a period of about 4 days after the
   maximum cell population was attained while it diminished rapidly after about 1 to 2 days in the
    10.0 cm condition. The practical benefit created here is a production process that has a longer
   period of time in which to recover cells. Those of ordinary skill in the art in the field of Adoptive
 5 Cell Therapy will recognize the value of this, as there are many reasons why one would derive
   value from a bigger window of time for cell recovery ranging from a delay in obtaining the results
   of quality control measures to changing conditions of the patient.
            Skilled artisans will recognize that all of the experimental culture conditions exhibited
   superior rates of cell population expansion compared to state of the art methods for Adoptive Cell
20 Therapy, but should be aware that it is not only beneficial to reduce surface density relative to state
   of the art methods at the onset of culture, it is further possible to reduce the duration needed for
   production of desired number of cells by increasing medium height and/or medium to growth area
   ratios. Skilled artisans should recognize that improvements will be obtained in terms of the rate of
                                                      53

   population expansion as less surface density and more medium height and/or a further increase in
   medium volume to growth surface area ratio is undertaken, and are encouraged to balance the use
   of medium with the needs of the application. More medium at the onset of culture can be provided
   if a larger window of time to harvest cells while they reside at high viability is sought. Of note,
 5 even if one were to start with a surface density at or above that of state of the art, such as at 2.0E+06
   or greater, the process can be superior since embodiments of the present invention can diminish
   feeding frequency and reduce concerns about cell populations quickly losing viability. In general,
   a wide range of options have been demonstrated. For production of a population of cells with
   minimal feeding frequency and shortened production duration, a most preferred initial culture
 0 condition for production is a cell density of less than 0.5E+06 cells/cm 2 and most preferably about
   0.125E+06 cells/cm 2, and a medium height of about 5.0 cm or more and more preferably 10.0 cm
   to 15.0 cm, and/or a medium volume to growth surface area of about 5.0 ml/cm 2 or more and more
   preferably 10.0 ml/cm 2 to 15.0 ml/cm 2 , and/or an initial cell density about 0.025E+06 cells/ml or
   less and more preferably about 0.0125E+06 cells/ml to about 0.008E+06 cells/ml.
 5          EXAMPLE 12: Novel ways to limit feeding frequency of co-cultures residing within a
   static gas permeable culture device and determine the size of the cell population without need of
   counting cells, even though a portion of the cells are dying.
            Adoptive Cell Therapy often relies on co-culture with cells that are dying because they
   were irradiated (such as APC's) or cells that are dying as a result of being removed from the body
20 (such as PBMC's). A good example of a co-culture application is in the culture of CMV-CTLs
   (cytomegalovirus specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes) out of a population of PBMCs. Initially, the
   CMV-CTL population is a very small percentage relative to the total population of PBMCs. As
   the culture progresses, the PBMC begin to die off and CMV-CTLs begin to grow. By the end of
                                                      54

   culture, the frequency of CMV-CTL in the cell composition has increased greatly. The previously
   disclosed characteristics of the present invention, including those that contradict state of the art
   methods, such as reduced cell density, can be used to diminish feeding frequency for applications
   such as these.
 5         We conducted static cell culture experiments to assess the ability of glucose measurements
   to predict cell populations in the presence of dying cells in co-cultures. Experimental devices
   included a growth surface comprised of gas permeable silicone with a surface area of 100 cm 2.
   The growth surface was comprised of silicone and held in a substantially horizontal position with
   a growth surface support as described more thoroughly in Wilson '717. FIG. 21 shows a
 0 spreadsheet that summarizes conditions on day 0, day 9, and dayl6. PBMCs medium were
   introduced into the experimental devices and the devices were placed into a cell culture incubator
   at 37C, 5% C02, and 95% R.H, whereby cells were allowed to gravitate to the growth surface at
   a surface density of 5.0E+05 cells/cm 2 . Medium resided at a height of 10.0 cm and cell density
   was at 5.0E+04. Glucose measures were taken on day 0, day 9, and dayl6. Other than routine
 5 handling, the culture medium and cells were not mixed by forced mixing with the aid of
   mechanical equipment such as is the case with perfusion, shaking, or stirring. Row 3 shows the
   increase in the percentage of antigen specific T cells (CMV-CTL) increases to about 27.9 % of the
   population of the cell composition, and Row 4 shows how the CMV-CTL fold expansion as a
   percentage of the total population diminished after day 9. This is because the PBMC are dying.
20 Row 19 demonstrates the ability of the surrogate measures of solutes in the medium to predict the
   number of cells in culture. Note that the predicted value is nearly identical to the assessment of
   cell population by counting. Thus, the ability to use a surrogate measure to quantify cell population
   is useful even in cell compositions in which components of the cell composition are dying.
                                                     55

           EXAMPLE 13: Novel static gas permeable cell culture and cell recovery devices that
   enable simplified methods of medium exchange and novel methods for greatly diminishing the
   effort required to separate cells from medium after a cell production process is complete.
           FIG. 22A shows a cross-sectional view of one example of an embodiment of a present
 5 invention of cell culture and cell recovery device 1000 configured to perform the disclosed novel
   cell culture and/or novel cell recovery methods. Cell removal opening 1002 of cell removal conduit
    1004 resides in proximity of growth surface 1006. Medium removal opening 1008 of medium
   removal conduit 1010 resides near growth surface 1006. Growth surface 1006 is comprised of gas
   permeable material. There are many sources of information for skilled artisans to learn about
 0 appropriate gas permeable material including Wilson '717. Preferably, growth surface 1006 is
   liquid impermeable and non-porous. The distance from growth surface 1006 to upper confine 1012
   of internal volume 1014 defines the volume of space where medium can reside. Although medium
   can reside in medium removal conduit 1010 and cell removal conduit 1004, which can extend to a
   height beyond upper confine 1012, maximum medium height should be considered by skilled
 5 artisans to be the farthest distance from the bottom of internal volume 1014 to upper confine 1012
   for purposes of describing this embodiment. The cell culture and cell recovery device does not
   require a stirring mechanism or any other mechanisms to mix the cells and/or medium.
           FIG. 22B shows cell culture and cell recovery device 1000 in an initial state of static
   culture at the onset of any given cell production stage of culture. Cell culture and cell recovery
20 device 1000 resides in a position in which growth surface 1006 is in oriented in a horizontal
   position and cells 1016 have gravitated to growth surface 1006. In this illustrative embodiment,
   growth surface support 1018 is used to hold growth surface 1006 in a horizontal position while
   allowing ambient gas to make contact with growth surface 1006 without need of pumps or other
                                                     56

   mechanisms to force gas past growth surface 1006. Skilled artisans can refer to Wilson '717 for
   information about how to configure growth surface support 1018. Although medium 1020 can
   reside at any level within the confines of internal volume 1014, preferably the entire uppermost
   medium location 1022 is parallel to growth surface 1006 as shown. Cell culture and cell recovery
 5 device 1000 resides in an atmosphere suitable for suitable for cell culture and at a temperature
   suitable for cell culture. Ambient gas makes contact with gas permeable material of growth surface
    1006 by random motion and without need of pumps or other mechanisms to force gas to or from
   growth surface 1006.
           Medium height is determined by the distance from the lowermost medium location to the
 0 uppermost medium location, in this case the distance from growth surface 1006 to uppermost
   medium location 1022 at the onset of culture being the initial static culture medium height. The
   ratio of the number of cells 1016 having gravitated to growth surface 1006 to the volume of
   medium 1020 is an initial static culture cell density. The ratio of the number of cells 1016 upon
   growth surface 1006 to the surface area of growth surface 1006 is the initial static culture surface
 5 density. The ratio of medium 1020 volume to the surface area of growth surface 1006 is an initial
   static culture medium volume to growth surface area ratio. Cells reside in a state of static culture
   and the culture continues for a period of time. As described throughout this disclosure, the period
   of time may or may not include a medium replenishment step depending upon variables that
   include the initial static culture medium height, the initial static culture cell density, the initial
20 static culture surface density, and/or the initial static culture medium volume to growth surface
   area ratio.
           FIG. 22C shows further steps to recover cells in a reduced volume of medium from cell
   culture and cell recovery device 1000. Medium is removed by way of medium removal opening
                                                     57

   1008 in medium removal conduit 1010 while not withdrawing cells 1016. After this step,
   remaining medium is shown as cell recovery medium 1024. The less cell recovery medium that
   remains, the less complicated the process of separating cells from medium will become, which is
   inherent to state of the art methods for Adoptive Cell Therapy and currently relies on a great deal
 5 of centrifugation. However, it is critical that one take care not to lose a significant amount of cells
   while reducing the medium volume. Preferably, fewer than 10% of cells are lost and more
   preferably virtually no cells are lost. For further guidance, we describe an example of our use of
   this aspect of the present invention. In a gas permeable device similar to that shown in FIG. 22A
   with a growth surface comprised of gas permeable silicone with a growth surface area of 100 cm 2 ,
 0 a culture medium volume of 2000 ml and residing at a height at the point of medium volume
   reduction of 20 cm, thereby constituting a medium volume to growth surface area of 200 (ml/cm 2),
   and a cultured cell population of about 1 billion cells residing on the growth surface at the point
   of medium reduction, we have demonstrated the ability to avoid visible loss of cells while
   simultaneously obtaining a 100 fold reduction in medium volume and establishing a set of
 5 conditions at the point of cell recovery that were characterized by cell recovery medium height at
   a mere 0.2 cm (as determined when the growth surface was in a horizontal position) and a cell
   recovery medium volume to growth surface area ratio at a mere 0.2 ml/cm 2 . We then mixed the
   medium, in this case by swirling the medium in the device, which readily lifted the cells from the
   growth surface and which distributed them into the cell recovery medium. We then removed the
20 cells by way of a cell removal opening in a cell removal conduit. The cell removal opening was
   located along the edge of the device and we tilted the device to allow medium to collect at the
   location of the cell removal opening. Upon collection of cells and cell recovery medium, we
   examined the cell concentration in the cell recovery medium and it was striking, at about 50 million
                                                      58

   cells per ml. Thus, we were able to concentrate the cells from an initial cell density of about 0.5
   million cells per ml by a factor of 100 without any of the centrifugation equipment used in state of
   the art methods of static cell culture in Adoptive Cell Therapy, leaving a mere fraction of the
   culture to be subjected to further processing for cell recovery. In essence, we were able to reduce
 5 the volume of medium that needed to be subjected to centrifugation from 2000 ml to just 20 ml
   and the entire process took less than about 1 minute.
            The location of the medium removal opening of the medium removal conduit is preferably
   located at a distance of 0.2 cm or more from the growth surface when the growth surface resides
   in a horizontal position. For example, between 0.2 cm and 2.0 cm from the growth surface when
 0 the growth surface resides in a horizontal position allows significant volume reduction for many
   of the cell culture methods of the present invention. The upper limit of the distance between the
   medium removal opening and the growth surface when the growth surface resides in a horizontal
   position is preferably a distance that takes into account the typical height of medium at the point
   where medium is to be decreased for cell recovery. For example, if one seeks to reduce the volume
 5 of medium that needs to be centrifuged by 50% relative to state of the art methods of static cell
   culture, the medium removal opening of the medium removal conduit would be located at 50% of
   the medium height (assuming the device was designed such that the medium resided entirely over
   the growth surface). Since use of laboratory space is at a premium, device height should be about
   the height of medium expected to reside within it. Therefore, to provide the option of getting at
20 least a two-fold reduction in medium volume processing relative to state of the art methods, a good
   rule of thumb is to design the device with a height that is at or just beyond typical medium height
   during use and locate medium removal opening of the medium removal conduit at any location
   from about 0.2 cm from the growth surface (when the growth surface resides in a horizontal
                                                     59

   position) to about the halfway point from the top of the device to the growth surface as measured
   from the inside of the device. For example, if the distance from the upper confine of growth
   medium in the device to the growth surface represents the potential height of medium in the device,
   the medium removal opening would preferably be located 0.2 cm or more above the growth surface
 5 when the growth surface resides in a horizontal position and 50% or less of the potential medium
   height. In the event it is uncertain where the medium height will reside, more than one medium
   removal conduit could be present in the device.
            The cell removal opening of the cell removal conduit is preferably located along the lower
   edge of the device and can collect cell recovery medium without reorienting the device. However,
 0 the device can be reoriented if desired. FIG. 22D shows the process of reorienting cell culture and
   cell recovery device 1000 into a position at an angle 1026 that deviates from the original horizontal
   cell culture position in order to relocate cell recovery medium 1024, having cells 1016 distributed
   within it, relative to cell removal opening 1002 of cell removal conduit 1004, whereby cell
   recovery medium 1024 can subsequently be withdrawn.
 5         However, the cell removal opening of the cell removal conduit need not be located along
   the lower edge of the device. Once the step of mixing the cells in the cell recovery medium is
   complete, the cell recovery medium can be removed from any location in the device by simply
   rotating the device until the cell recovery medium is located at the cell removal opening, and then
   withdrawing the cell recovery medium by way of the cell removal conduit. Skilled artisans should
20 recognize that the conduits need not be as shown, but can be any configuration. The key design
   feature is the ability to place the medium removal opening in the preferred locations relative the
   growth surface as previously described. Thus, the conduits can be as simple as locating a septum
   in the side of the device or as complex as telescoping tubes. Also skilled artisans should be aware
                                                      60

   that the method of cell culture and cell recovery need not rely on closed system configurations, but
   can be practiced by simple means in open system configuration also. For example, we have
   conducted the method and repeated the steps described above with an open system device of the
   type described in Wilson '717 with use of a pipette as the medium removal conduit and as cell
 5 removal conduit while achieving the concentrations described above.
             To capture the advantages of increased cell culture medium volume to growth surface area
   ratios described in various embodiments of the present invention, the internal height of the cell
   culture and cell recovery device should preferably be at least more than 2.0 cm in any particular
   application. Also, to facilitate cell culture and cell recovery, the cell culture and cell recovery
 0 device is preferably constructed with biocompatible materials, clear to allow visual assessment,
   and rigid to allow easy handling.
             The discovery of a method for removing medium from the cell culture and cell recovery
   device of the present invention without removing cells creates additional advantages relative to
   state of the art static cell culture methods for Adoptive Cell Therapy and are related to the medium
 5 exchange process. Although the present disclosure describes novel methods that avoid removal
   and replacement of medium in order to replenish medium, there may be circumstances where an
   artisan may wish to perform that process. State of the art methods lead to cell removal when
   medium is removed and replaced and thus, the common practice is to remove medium, distribute
   it to one or more new devices, and add medium to all the devices. Thus, more and more devices
20 are present whenever feeding occurs. This need not occur with our novel methods, as the cell
   recovery methods of our present invention leaves cells in the device when medium is removed by
   use of a conduit that can be as simple as a pipette. There is no need for the use of any screens,
   filters, or centrifugation of the device to reduce the medium volume without cell loss. Medium can
                                                       61

   simply be removed and added to the same device until the cell population is at a maximum surface
   density.
          In the case of medium removal and replacement, having already described how one can
   remove medium to a height of merely 0.2 cm without cell loss, it is easy to see now to perform
 5 medium exchange by simply removing medium to the desired height and/or volume by way of the
   medium removal opening of the medium removal conduit without cell removal, and then adding
   medium to any volume or height desired.
           Thus, equipped with this disclosure, a skilled artisan should seek to create a preferred
   embodiment of a static gas permeable cell culture and cell recovery device comprising:
 0    a.   a growth surface comprised of gas permeable material, and
      b. the growth surface residing in a horizontal position when the device is in operation, and
      c.   a medium removal conduit including a medium removal opening, and
      d. a cell removal conduit including a cell removal opening, and
      e.   an internal volume, and
 5    f.   an upper confine bounding the uppermost location of the internal volume
      g. the distance from the upper confine to the growth surface being the potential medium
          height and the distance from the upper confine to the growth surface being beyond 2.0
           cm, and
      h. the distance the medium removal conduit resides above the growth surface at least 0.2 cm
20         above the growth surface when the growth surface resides in a horizontal position, and no
          more than beyond 50% of the potential medium height.
           The device should preferably include relevant aspects of devices described in Wilson '717.
   Also, equipped with this knowledge, manufacturers of gas permeable devices, including those
                                                   62

   described in Wilson '717, could facilitate more efficient methods of cell culture by providing users
   with a cell culture and cell recovery device including a growth surface comprised of gas permeable
   material, a medium removal conduit, a medium removal opening, a cell removal conduit, a cell
   removal opening, and providing instructions and/or disseminating information for:
 5     a.  adding cells and medium into the device, and
       b. the cells being of a mammalian and of a non-adherent cell type, and
       c. placing the cell culture and cell recovery device in an atmosphere suitable for cell culture
           and at a temperature suitable for cell culture and with the growth surface being oriented in
           a horizontal position and the cells residing upon the growth surface, and
 0     d. allowing the cells to gravitate to said growth surface, and
       e. the ratio of the number of the cells having gravitated to the growth surface to the volume
           of the medium being an initial static culture cell density, and
       f. the ratio of the number of the cells having gravitated to the growth surface to the surface
           area of the growth surface being an initial static culture surface density, and
 5     g. the ratio of the medium volume to the surface area of the growth surface being an initial
           static culture medium volume to growth surface area ratio, and
       h. the distance from the lowermost medium location to the uppermost medium location being
           an initial static culture medium height, and
       i.  allowing a period of time for cells to reside in a state of static culture and further including
20         steps for recovering cells from the cell culture and cell recovery device comprising:
      j.   a pre cell recovery step comprising removing a portion of medium by way of the medium
           removal opening in a cell removal conduit and not withdrawing cells, the remaining
           volume of medium in the device being a cell recovery medium volume, and
                                                     63

       k. the distance from the uppermost location of the cell recovery medium to the lowermost
           location of the cell recovery medium when the growth surface resides in the horizontal
          position being a cell recovery medium height, and
       1. the ratio of the volume of the cell recovery medium to the surface area of the growth surface
 5        being a cell recovery medium volume to growth surface area ratio, and
       m. the ratio of the cell recovery medium volume to the medium volume being the medium
          reduction percentage, and a cell recovery step comprising:
       n. mixing the cells into the cell recovery medium, and
       o. the ratio of the number of cells in the recovery medium to the volume of the cell recovery
 0        medium being a recovered cell density, and
       p. removing the cells and the cell recovery medium from the cell culture and cell recovery
           device by way of said cell removal opening in a cell removal conduit.
          Preferably, the cell recovery medium volume to growth surface area ratio is at least 0.2
   ml/cm 2 and the medium reduction percentage being at least 50%. Skilled artisans are advised that
 5 this method is capable of utilizing any of the embodiments of the present invention including the
   desired initial static culture cell density, initial static culture surface density, initial static culture
   medium volume to growth surface area ratio, and/or initial static culture medium height that
   provide advantages described herein. Also, skilled artisans are encouraged to recognize that the
   method includes use for islets.
20        EXAMPLE 14: Novel methods of using a static gas permeable culture device for superior
   production of CAR T cells.
          Experiments were conducted in experimental devices that included growth surfaces with
   surface areas comprised of gas permeable material and varying capacity for medium height. The
                                                        64

   growth surface was comprised of silicone with a 100 cm 2 surface area and held in a substantially
   horizontal position with a growth surface support as described more thoroughly in Wilson '717.
           Three conditions for expansion of transduced antigen specific T cells (CAR T cells) were
   evaluated. Evaluation A included CAR T cells in the presence of K652 APC cells and included
 5 medium height at 10 cm. Evaluation B included CAR T cells without the presence of K652 APC
   cells and included medium height at 10 cm. Evaluation C cultured CAR T cells in accordance with
   state of the art methods.
           FIG. 23A shows the conditions of Evaluation A at the onset of culture and as the culture
   progressed. Of note, the ratio of APC to CAR T cells at the onset of culture was 2:1 and medium
 0 resided at a height of 10 cm. FIG. 23B shows the conditions of Evaluation B at the onset of culture
   and as the culture progressed. Of note, APC were not present at the onset of culture and medium
   resided at a height of 10 cm. FIG. 23C shows the conditions of Evaluation C at the onset of culture
   and as the culture progressed. Of note, the ratio of APC to CAR T cells at the onset of culture was
   2:1 and medium resided at a height of 2 cm.
 5         Unlike state of the art cultures in the field of Adoptive Cell Therapy, cytokine stimulation
   is undertaken during medium exchange by adding cytokine (such as IL2) to the fresh medium.
   Thus, cytokine stimulation is simultaneous with medium exchange. However, as disclosed in
   various embodiments of the present invention, feeding frequency is greatly reduced and even
   eliminated. Thus, we also used Condition A and Condition B to evaluate the capacity to add
20 cytokine in the absence of medium exchange. In lieu of medium exchange we simply added a
   bolus of IL2 at the same frequency and at a quantity that brought the medium the same quantity
   per ml of state of the art methods and did not subject the medium to forced mixing of any sort to
   distribute the IL2 within the medium.
                                                      65

            FIG. 23D shows the total live cells in culture at various time points in the culture. As can
   be seen, the number of total live cells of Condition A were far superior to either of the alternative
   conditions. FIG. 23E shows the percentage of CAR T cell expression at the onset of culture and
   at the completion of culture. Histogram A represents Condition A, histogram B represents
 5 Condition B, and histogram C represents Conditions C. Condition B demonstrates the
   disadvantage of not providing APC in the culture at culture onset. When APC's were provided at
   the onset of culture, CAR expression improved from an initial state of about 40% to a state of
   about 80% by the end of culture. FIG. 23F shows the total fold expansion of CAR T cells during
   culture. It is clear that Condition A was able to generate a tremendously greater fold expansion
 0 than state of the art methods shown in Condition C.
            Also of note, as shown in FIG. 23G, prediction of the live cell population in Evaluation A
   was representative of cell population as determined by manual counts. Furthermore, the devices
   used for Evaluation A and Evaluation B were able to have medium withdrawn at the end of culture,
   using the methods previously disclosed, from a state of 1000 ml to a state of 20 ml without cell
 5 loss.
            Another important finding was related to the presence of APC in culture. Clearly, the T
   cells recovered from Condition A have a greater capacity to kill tumor cells that express the
   relevant antigen (PSCA) due to a more enhanced T cell product, which at the end of the culture
   has a greater percentage of CAR expressing T cells (CAR-PSCA) in the population relative to its
20 state at the onset of culture. By comparison, Condition B, due to its lack of APCs at the onset of
   culture, is unable to increase the percentage of CAR expressing T cells (CAR-PSCA) in the cell
   population at all over the culture period.
                                                    66

           FIG. 23H shows the capacity of cell obtained from Condition A and Condition B to kill
   tumor cells expressing PSCA, and to avoid killing cells that do not express the PSCA antigen. The
   ratio of effector cells to PSCA antigen expressing cells (Dul45 and Capanl) or non-PSCA antigen
   expressing cells (293T) was 40:1. Effector cells (i.e. CAR T cells) were obtained from the cultures
 5 of Condition A and of Condition B at day 11 of culture.
           FIG. 231 summarizes side by side comparisons of the population expansion of CAR T cells
   specific to PSCA and Mudl using the initial culture conditions described for Condition A (the
   exception being the antigen expression of the APC was PSCA and Mudl respectively). It can be
   seen that the novel initial conditions of the present invention were able to produce a far greater
 0 number of CAR T cells in a shorter period of time than state of the art conditions in conventional
   culture ware. Skilled artisans will recognize the advantages are not limited to CAR T cells
   recognizing PSCA or Muel antigens, but are applicable to CAR T cells recognizing any antigen.
           The capacity to produce more cells in a shorter time period, add cytokine without need of
   medium exchange or forced mixing of the medium, eliminate the need to feed the culture with
 5 fresh medium, avoid the need to count cells manually, and reduce the amount of medium the cells
   reside in at the time of cell recovery to just 2% of the volume present at the end of culture
   demonstrated the power of the present invention to overcome many of the problems inherent to
   state of the art methods for the production cells for Adoptive Cell Therapy.
           EXAMPLE 15: The methods of present invention are scalable in direct proportion to the
20 surface area of the growth surface.
           We undertook experiments to assess scalability of the culture processes described herein
   and in the parent case. The ability to move from a small growth area to a large growth area without
   need of re-establishing protocols to optimize the culture process is a powerful advantage. To
                                                    67

   determine if that were the case, we compared outcomes of K562 cultures initiated on growth
   surfaces comprised of gas permeable silicone, with surface areas of 10 cm 2 , 100 cm 2, and 640 cm 2.
   Initial conditions included a surface density of 0. 125E+06 cells/cm 2 and a medium height of 10
   cm. No medium replenishment was undertaken after the onset of culture.
 5          FIG. 24A shows the population growth curves of three gas permeable culture devices with
   differing growth areas. Series 1 represents the live cell expansion of culture in the 640 cm 2 device,
   series 2 the 100 cm 2 device, and series 3 the 10 cm 2 device. FIG. 24B shows the population growth
   curves of FIG. 24A curves normalized to surface density and clearly demonstrates linear
   scalability.
 0          Skilled artisans are encouraged to review Wilson '176 in the event that they seek to increase
   the growth surface area by scaling the culture in the vertical direction and will recognize that many
   of the embodiments of the present invention can be undertaken using devices described in Wilson
   '176.
            General description of preferred embodiments: For the purposes of this disclosure,
 5 growth surface is the area in a device upon which cells reside and is comprised of gas permeable
   material. Gas permeable material can be any materials know to skilled artisans in the field of cell
   culture and are preferably liquid impermeable and non-porous. The devices and culture methods
   of the present invention can function in the absence of gas being forced past the growth surface
   that is comprised of gas permeable material. These methods pertain to static cell culture.
20          Preferred cell types: In embodiments of the present invention, if the culture comprises a
   single cell type, the cells are preferably antigen presenting cells, and more preferably LCL or K562.
   If the culture comprises a co-culture, preferably it includes effector cells (i.e. desired or target
   cells) in combination with APC or feeder cells and may or may not include beads. Beads may also
                                                       68

   be a substitute for APC or feeder cells. If APC's are present, preferably they are professional
   antigen presenting cells, and more preferably of the type K562 or LCL, and even more preferably
   are irradiated. If present, unless they are islets, effector cells are preferably derived from peripheral
   blood or marrow, and more preferably are T cells, NK, Treg, TIL, or MIL. If effector cells are T
 5 cells, preferably they are naturally occurring antigen specific T cells or transduced antigen specific
   T cells.
            Preferred surface density: In embodiments of the present invention, cells reside upon a
   growth surface comprised of gas permeable material and at a preferred surface density less than
   0.5E+06. Skilled artisans will recognize that the disclosure allows an analogue reduction in surface
 0 density from less than 0.5E+06 in order to increase rate population expansion relative to state of
   the art methods in the field of Adoptive Cell Therapy, with more and more reduction being
   preferred. Thus, for example, we have demonstrated the rate of population expansion with surface
   density of 0.25E+06, 0.125E+06, and 0.0625E+06 exceeds that of state of the art methods. Thus,
   skilled artisans are encouraged to recognize that surface density need not be limited to just the
 5 stated values of our examples, the possibilities are not discrete values, but instead are analogue.
   For example, those of ordinary skill in the art are advised that initiating culture at a surface density
   of 0.49E+06 would allow improved "fold expansion" of the population relative to initiating culture
   at surface density of 0.5E+06 even though we have not provided an example with that particular
   surface density. Skilled artisans are thus advised to take the analogue interpretation of surface
20 densities presented in the examples of the present invention and in the parent case, and are not
   limited to the discrete values presented herein.
            Preferred cell density: In embodiments of the present invention, cells reside upon a
   growth surface comprised of gas permeable material and at a preferred cell to medium density of
                                                        69

   less than 0.5E+06. Skilled artisans will recognize that the disclosure allows an analogue reduction
   in cell to medium density from less than 0.5E+06 in order to decrease the frequency of medium
   replenishment relative to state of the art methods in the field of Adoptive Cell Therapy, with more
   and more reduction being preferred. Thus, for example, we have demonstrated how to reduce the
 5 frequency of medium replenishment be decreasing the cell to medium density from the 0.5E+06
   cell/ml lower limit of state of the art methods, while simultaneously being able to maintain a cell
   population that can expand at a rate that exceeds that of state of the art methods. Skilled artisans
   are encouraged to recognize that surface density need not be limited to just the stated values of our
   examples, the possibilities are not discrete values, but instead are analogue. Preferably, skilled
 0 artisans should seek to reduce cell to medium density below 0.5E+06 to any particular value they
   see fit given the attributes they wish to obtain. Therefore, although we describe advantages of
   reducing cell to medium density with discrete cell to medium density identification in various
   examples here and in the present case, the present invention is not limited to the discrete numbers
   presented herein.
 5          Increased medium volume to growth surface area ratio: In embodiments of the present
   invention, cells reside upon a growth surface comprised of gas permeable material and advantages
   accrue by increasing the ratio of medium volume to the surface area of the growth surface. Skilled
   artisans will recognize that the disclosure allows an analogue increase in the ratio of medium
   volume to the surface area of the growth surface order to provide numerous advantages when
20 combined with other elements of the present invention such as reduced surface density. Therefore,
   although we describe these related advantages by use of examples that have discrete values here
   and in the parent case, the present invention is not limited to the discrete numbers presented herein,
   and those of ordinary skill in the art are encouraged to recognize the values, and combinations of
                                                     70

   values, presented are guiding them to obtain the described advantages by analogue interpretation
   of the values. Thus, the present invention is not limited to the discrete numbers presented herein.
           Increased medium height: In embodiments of the present invention, cells reside upon a
   growth surface comprised of gas permeable material and advantages accrue by increasing height
 5 of medium relative to state of the art methods. Skilled artisans will recognize that the disclosure
   allows an analogue increase in the height of medium in order to provide numerous advantages
   when combined with other elements of the present invention such as reduced surface density.
   Therefore, although we describe these related advantages by use of examples that have discrete
   values here and in the parent case, the present invention is not limited to the discrete numbers
 0 presented herein, and those of ordinary skill in the art are encouraged to recognize the values, and
   combinations of values, presented are guiding them to obtain the described advantages by analogue
   interpretation of the values. Thus, the present invention is not limited to the discrete numbers
   presented herein.
           Surrogate measures of the rate of solute change in medium in lieu of counting cells:
 5 In embodiments of the present invention, cells reside upon a growth surface comprised of gas
   permeable material and advantages accrue by the ability to determine how many cells are in culture
   without having to count cells. Skilled artisans will recognize that the disclosure shows examples
   of how the decay in glucose concentration provides a measure of cell number in culture. Skilled
   artisans will also recognize that glucose is but one measurable substrate within medium that is
20 utilized by cells, and that one of ordinary skill in the art, given the disclosure of this invention,
   could rely on the concentration depletion and/or increase of other substrates in the medium to
   indicate cell number, such as lactate. Thus, the inventive aspect of this embodiment of the
   invention is the finding that measure of substrates in static cultures that are initiated with any of
                                                     71

   the novel surface densities, cell densities, medium heights, and/or medium volume to growth area
   conditions is a good way to determine the progress of expansion of a population of cells. Thus, the
   present invention is not limited to a glucose substrate. Thus, the present invention is not limited to
   the discrete numbers presented herein.
 5         Removal of medium without cell loss: In embodiments of the present invention, cells
   reside upon a growth surface comprised of gas permeable material in various advantageous surface
   densities and can reside under an increased height of medium (and/or an increased medium volume
   to growth surface area ratio) relative to state of the art methods. Advantages accrue by
   subsequently decreasing medium height (and/or a decreased medium volume to growth surface
 0 area ratio) absent cell loss relative to state of the art methods. Skilled artisans will recognize that
   the disclosure allows an improved method of medium exchange (in which more devices need not
   be added to the process) and/or an improved method of cell recovery (in which a smaller volume
   of medium must be processed to recover cells). Although we describe these related advantages by
   use of examples that have discrete values, the present invention is not limited to the discrete
 5 numbers presented herein, and those of ordinary skill in the art are encouraged to recognize the
   values, and combinations of values, presented are guiding them to obtain the described advantages
   by analogue interpretation of the values. For example, medium can reside at any height, preferably
   beyond 2.0 cm (such as 2.1 cm, 2.5 cm, 6.08 cm, 10.0 cm and on). The medium removal opening
   of the medium removal conduit, preferably at 0.2 cm or more above the growth surface, can
20 therefore preferably reside at any height of 0. 2 cm and beyond so long as it resides below the
   medium height at the time of medium removal without cell loss, thereby diminishing cell
   separation from medium and/or not forcing users to move cells to additional devices during
                                                       72

   medium exchange. Thus, the present invention is not limited to the discrete numbers presented
   herein.
           Gas permeable culture devices: In embodiments of the present invention, we describe
   discoveries including the capacity for cultures to be initiated at surface densities below the limits
 5 of conventional wisdom, minimal manipulation to provide cytokines, medium provision strategies
   that increase the growth rate of a population of cells relative to state of the art methods and reduce
   production duration novel cell culture devices, including improvement to methods of Wilson '717
   and Wilson '176. Furthermore, device manufacturers and suppliers should recognize that the
   provision of gas permeable devices, including those described in Wilson '717 and Wilson '176,
 0 should include dissemination of novel methods of the present invention and/or of the parent case
   to the users of such devices by way of instructions, protocols, and the like no matter the form
   (paper, electronic, website, etc.). Thus, the scope of the present invention includes the provision
   of instructions and/or dissemination of the methods of the present invention by manufacturers
   and/or suppliers of gas permeable devices.
 5         The invention being thus described, it would be obvious that the same may be varied in
   many ways by one of ordinary skill in the art having had the benefit of the present disclosure. Such
   variations are not regarded as a departure from the spirit and scope of the invention, and such
   modifications as would be obvious to one skilled in the art are intended to be included within the
   scope of the following claims and their equivalents.
20         Each of the applications, patents, and papers cited in this application and as well as in each
   document or reference cited in each of the applications, patents, and papers (including during the
   prosecution of each issued patent; "application cited documents"), pending U.S. Publication Nos.
   2005/0106717 Al and 2008/0227176 Al, and each of the PCT and foreign applications or patents
                                                    73

   corresponding to and/or claiming priority from any of these applications and patents, and each of
   the documents cited or referenced in each of the application cited documents, are hereby expressly
   incorporated herein.
            Any incorporation by reference of documents above is limited such that no subject matter
 5 is incorporated that is contrary to the explicit disclosure herein. Any incorporation by reference
   of documents above is further limited such that no claims included in the documents are
   incorporated by reference herein.      Any incorporation by reference of documents above is yet
   further limited such that any definitions provided in the documents are not incorporated by
   reference herein unless expressly included herein.
 0          For purposes of interpreting the claims for the present invention, it is expressly intended
   that the provisions of Section 112, sixth paragraph of 35 U.S.C. are not to be invoked unless the
   specific terms "means for" or "step for" are recited in a claim.
            Those skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications can be made to this
   disclosure without departing from the spirit of the inventions described herein. Therefore, it is not
 5 intended to limit the breadth of the invention to embodiments and examples described. Rather, the
   scope of the invention is to be interpreted by the appended claims and their equivalents.
            Non-limiting features of the present disclosure include the following:
   Feature 1.      A static animal cell culture and cell recovery device comprising:
20 an internal volume; and
   a growth surface comprised of gas permeable material;
   an upper confine bounding the uppermost location of said internal volume;
   a cell removal conduit including a cell removal opening;
   a medium removal conduit including a medium removal opening; wherein
                                                     74

   the distance between said medium removal opening and said growth surface being greater than
   the distance between said cell removal opening and said growth surface; and
   said device absent pumps or other mechanisms to force gas past said gas permeable material of
   said growth surface.
 5 Feature 2.      The device of feature 1 wherein said gas permeable material is liquid
   impermeable.
   Feature 3.      The device of feature 1 wherein said gas permeable material is non porous.
   Feature 4.      The device of feature 1 not including a stirring mechanism or any other
   mechanism to mix cells and/or medium.
 0 Feature 5.      The device of feature 1 wherein the distance between said upper confine and said
   growth surface is 2.0 cm or more.
   Feature 6.      The device of feature 1 wherein a growth support surface is in contact with said
   growth surface, and said growth surface is in a horizontal position and gas makes contact with
   said growth surface when said device is culturing cells.
 5 Feature 7.      The device of feature 1 wherein the distance between said medium removal
   conduit and said growth surface is 50% or less than the distance between said upper confine and
   said growth surface.
   Feature 8.      The device is feature 1 wherein the distance between said medium removal
   conduit and said growth surface is 0.2 cm or more.
20 Feature 9.      The device of feature 8 wherein the distance between said medium removal
   conduit and said growth surface is 2.0 cm or less.
   Feature 10.     The device of feature 1 wherein the distance between said cell removal conduit
   and said growth surface is 0.2 cm or less.
                                                    75

  Feature 11.    The device of feature 1 including at least one wall connecting said upper confine
  and said growth surface, wherein at least one wall is perpendicular to said growth surface.
  Feature 12.    The device of feature 10 wherein said cell removal opening is located in
  proximity of a location in which at least one wall makes contact with said growth surface.
5 Feature 13.    The device of feature 1 including more than one medium removal conduit, the
  distance between each medium removal conduit and said growth surface being different.
  Feature 14.    The device of feature 11 wherein the distance between at least one of said
  medium removal conduits and said growth surface is at or less than 50% of the distance between
  said growth surface and said upper confine.
0 Feature 15.    The device of feature 1 including a vent filter.
                                                  76

   CLAIMS:
   1.      A static culture method of expanding a population of cells with a gas permeable cell
   culture device,
 5         the gas permeable cell culture device comprising a growth surface comprised of liquid
   impermeable gas permeable material, at least a portion of said gas permeable material in contact
   with ambient gas,
   the static culture method comprising:
            adding cells and medium into the gas permeable cell culture device, the ratio of the
 0 volume of said medium to the surface area of said growth surface being 3 ml/cm 2 to 20 ml/cm 2,
   orienting the gas permeable cell culture device in a position wherein ambient gas suitable for cell
   culture makes contact with said gas permeable material and cells reside upon at least a portion of
   said gas permeable material, and
            allowing static cell culture for a period of time and not placing additional medium into
 5 the gas permeable cell culture device during said period of time, and
            said period of time is at least 3 days, and
            said medium containing at least one type of cytokine.
   2.       The method of claim 1, wherein said period of time is at least 4 days.
 0
   3.       The method of claim 1, wherein said period of time is at least 5 days.
   4.       The method of claim 1, wherein said period of time is at least 6 days.
25 5.       The method of claim 1, wherein said period of time is at least 7 days.
   6.       The method of claim 1, wherein said period of time is at least 8 days.
   7.       The method of claim 1, wherein said period of time is at least 9 days.
30
                                                       77

   8.      The method of claim 1, wherein said period of time is at least 10 days.
   9.      The method of claim 1, wherein said period of time is at least 11 days.
 5  10.    The method of claim 1, wherein said period of time is at least 12 days.
    11.    The method of claim 1, wherein said period of time is at least 13 days.
    12.    The method of claim 1, wherein said period of time is at least 14 days.
 0
    13.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the ratio of the quantity of cells
   to the surface area of said growth surface at the onset of static cell culture is at least 2.0 x 106
   cells/cm 2.
 5  14.    A static culture method of expanding a population of cells with a gas permeable cell
   culture device,
           the gas permeable cell culture device comprising a growth surface comprised of liquid
   impermeable gas permeable material, at least a portion of said gas permeable material in contact
   with ambient gas,
 0 the static culture method comprising:
            adding cells and medium into the gas permeable cell culture device, the ratio of the
   volume of said medium to the surface area of said growth surface being 3 ml/cm 2 to 20 ml/cm 2 ,
   and
           orienting the gas permeable cell culture device in a position wherein ambient gas suitable
25 for cell culture makes contact with said gas permeable material and cells reside upon at least a
   portion of said gas permeable material, and
            allowing static cell culture over a period of time without placing additional medium into
   the gas permeable cell culture device, and
           during said period of time the ratio of the quantity of cells to the surface area of said
30 growth surface becomes at least 4 x 106 cells/cm 2.
                                                      78

   15.     The method of claim 14, wherein said ratio of the quantity of cells to the surface area of
   said growth surface becomes at least 4.5 x 106 cells/cm 2 .
   16.     The method of claim 14, wherein said ratio of the quantity of cells to the surface area of
 5 said growth surface becomes at least 5.0 x 106 cells/cm 2 .
   17.     The method of claim 14, wherein said ratio of the quantity of cells to the surface area of
   said growth surface becomes at least 5.7 x10 6 cells/cm 2 .
 0 18.     The method of claim 14, wherein said ratio of the quantity of cells to the surface area of
   said growth surface becomes at least 7 x 106 cells/cm2 .
   19.     The method of claim 14, wherein said ratio of the quantity of cells to the surface area of
   said growth surface becomes at least 7.5 x 106 cells/cm 2 .
 5
   20.     The method of claim 14, wherein said ratio of the quantity of cells to the surface area of
   said growth surface becomes at least 8.1 x 106 cells/cm 2.
   21.     The method of claim 14, wherein said ratio of the quantity of cells to the surface area of
 0 said growth surface becomes at least 8.5 x 106 cells/cm 2.
   22.     The method of claim 14, wherein said ratio of the quantity of cells to the surface area of
   said growth surface becomes at least 10 x 106 cells/cm 2.
25 23.     The method of claim 14, wherein said ratio of the quantity of cells to the surface area of
   said growth surface becomes at least 11.0 x 106 cells/cm 2.
30
                                                   79

                   A                                       B                  DAY 0         DAY 9         DAY 16         DAY 23
                                                                               0.02%          2.7%          4.4%           6.4%
                                          0
                                                          RAK PE
                                                                                              CD8 FITC
                                          2
                                                                                     135            1.6            1.4
                                                                                        INCREASE TETRAMER
                                          5
                                                                              DAY 0         DAY 9         DAY 16         DAY 23
                                                                               0.01%         1.2%           3.2%           3.8%
                                          7
                                                            OAK PE
                                                                                                                                  1/40
         DAYS AFTER ANTIGEN STIMULATION
                                              CFSE                                            CD8 FITC
Fig. 1                                                                               125            2.1            1.1
                                                                                           INCREASE TETRAMER
                                                     C
                                                                             10000      RAK
                                                                                        OAK
                                                       FOLD EXPANSION         1000
                                                                              100
                                                                               10
                                                                                 1
                                                     ANTIGEN SPECIFIC CTLs            DAY 0    DAY 9 DAY 16 DAY 23
                                                                                              TIME IN CULTURE

                                 Fig. 2
                EXPECTED AND OBSERVED CTL EXPANSION
CELL DOUBLING                1    2   3   4    5      6          7
EXPECTED FOLD EXPANSION      2    4   8   16   32     64       128         2/40
OBSERVED FOLD EXPANSION                                    258 RANGE
  (DAY 0 TO 9)                                             (48 TO 409)
OBSERVED FOLD EXPANSION                                     5.7 RANGE
  (DAY 9 TO 16)                                            (2.2 TO 10.6)
OBSERVED FOLD EXPANSION                                     4.3 RANGE
  (DAY 16 TO 23)                                           (4.1 TO 14.9)

                             Day 0                        Day 6                            Day 9                                                     DAY 0
         A
                             0.1%                       2.7%                              30.4%
                  CD8                                                                                                             DAY 9
                                                                                                                COUNTS
                            0.28%                       2.5%                              3.8%
                             Day 12                      Day 14                            Day 16                                DAY 16              DAY 10
                            75.2%                       88%                               88%
                  CD8
                                                                                                                COUNTS
                            4.7%                        5.9%                              8.8%
                                                                                                                                                                                      3/40
                                                                                     CFSE
Fig. 3                                                                                                                                    P=0.01
         B              7                                                                                50
                                                                                            C            45
                        6                                                                                40
                        5                                                                                35
         EBV-CTL FOLD
                        4                                                                                30
                                                                                                 EBV-CTL FOLD
                                                                                                         25
                        3                                                                                20
                        2                                                                                15
                                                                                                         10
          EXPANSION     1                                                                         EXPANSION
                                                                                                          5
                        0                                                                                 0
               EBV-CTL                                                                                EBV-CTL
                             1x106   5x105                                                            X cm 2             1x106    5x105
               X cm 2                        2.5x10 5    1.2x10 5   6.2x10 4   3.1x10 4                                                   2.5x10 5   1.2x10 5   6.2x10 4   3.1x10 4
                                                                                                                            1.25x105 LCLs x cm 2

                                           Fig. 4
    CTL/cm 2    LCL/cm2 TOTAL CTL + LCL R:S RATIO
1   1,000,000    125,000       1,125,000   8:1      90
2     500,000    125,000        625,000    4:1      80
                                                    70
3     250,000    125,000        375,000    2:1                 FOLD
                                                    60       EXPANSION
4     125,000    125,000        250,000    1:1      50                                           4/40
5      62,500    125,000        187,500    1:2      40
6      31,250    125,000        156,250    1:4      30
7      15,625    125,000        140,625    1:8      20
                                                    10
8       7,812    125,000        132,812    1:16
                                                     0
9       3,906    125,000        128,906    1:32          1     2   3     4   5   6   7   8   9

                               SEEDING DENSITY
                                 EBV-CTLsx cm 2
                                       5x105
                                      1.2x105
                                     3.1x10 4
                          40
                          35
Fig. 5                    30                                        5/40
                          25
                          20
                          15
                          10
         FOLD EXPANSION
                           5
                           0
                                     WEEK 2       WEEK 3   WEEK 4

Fig. 6
              10
                         6/40
                    40
                   30
         20

                                                                        G-Rex40
                                                                        24-WELL                B           24-WELL PLATE           G-REX40
         A                         10
                                                                        PLATE
                                    8                                                                                              7.04%
                                                                                                                  41.6%
                                    6                   p= 0.005                                                     49.9%               89.2%
                                    4                                                          FORWARD
             1x10^6 T CELLS/cm 2    2
                                    0
                                        0               3     7    11     15    19     23
                                                                                                                          SIDE SCATTER
                                                        DAYS IN CULTURE
                                                              DAY 1             DAY 3             DAY 5             DAY 7
             C                                                 12%              20.2%              27.4%             31.1%
                                   24-WELL
                                     PLATE                                                                                                       7/40
Fig. 7                                                            14.5%           5.5%                   6.9%         11.6%
                                   G-REX
                                            ANEXIN PE
                                                            7AA-D PRCP
             D                                          DAY 1      DAY 2       DAY 3        DAY 4         DAY 5     DAY 6
                               24-WELL
                                 PLATE
                                   G-REX
                                                                                CFSE

            A
                                 14
                                             T 175 FLASK
                                 12          G-REX 2000
                                 10
         LCL SURFACE DENSITY      8
                                  6
                                  4
            (10 6 CELLS/cm 2 )
                                  2
                                                                                    8/40
                                  0
                                        0       3             7     10       14
Fig. 8                                              DAYS IN CULTURE
           B
                        800000                            C
                        700000
                        600000                             T 175 FLASK G-REX 2000
                        500000
                        400000
         N OF COPIES    300000
                        200000
                        100000
                             0
                                      G-REX T 175                 CD 20 Pe
                                       2000 FLASK

                                                                       Fig. 9
                                                                         14 DAYS AFTER EXPERIMENT SETUP
                                      4.50E+ 06                          AL-CTL MAXIMUM SURFACE DENSITY
                                      4.00E+ 06
                                      3.50E+ 06
                                      3.00E+ 06
                                      2.50E+ 06
                                                                                                                                 9/40
                                      2.00E+ 06
                                      1.50E+ 06
                                      1.00E+ 06
                                      5.00E+ 05
AL-CTL SURFACE DENSITY (CELLS/cm 2)
                                      0.00E+ 00
                                                     CTLs/LCLs        CTLs/LCLs     K562/418B K562/418B/CD80 K562/418B/CD80/86
                                                  1.5e+04/1.5e+04   1.5e+04/5e+05   5e+05     5e+05          5e+05
                                                                                               CTLs/LCLs
                                                                                            1.5e+04/1.5e+04

                                                                   Fig. 10
A                                                               P=<0.0001
                                                                                                                          D
                    1E+11               G-REX OPTIMIZED PROTOCOL p=0.003                                                              700                G-REX OPTIMIZED PROTOCOL
                                                                                                                                      600                CONVENTIONS METHOD
                    1E+10               G-REX CONVENTIONAL PROTOCOL                                                                   500
TOTAL NUMBER                            24 WELL PLATE                                                                                 400
                                        CONVENTIONAL                                                                                  300
                    1E+09                                                                                                 SFC/1x105   200
                                        PROTOCOL                                                                                      100
                    1E+08                                                                                                               0
   OF CTLs
                                                                                                                                                                                                               FLY    ILL       LCL   CELLS
                                                                                                                                                       LMP1   LMP2                      GLC        CLG
                                                                                                                                                                        BZLF1
                    1E+07                                                                                                                                                       EBNA1                                                 ALONE
                               0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 91011121314151617181920212223
                                                                                                                                                                                                       G-REX OPTIMIZED
                                                      DAYS IN CULTURE                                                                          24 WELL PLATE                                           PROTOCOL
                                                                                                                                                                        4.5%                                                  4.1%
                                              B                                                                                                10.5%                                                   10.4%
                                                                                                                                      CLG PE                   FLY PE                         CLG PE                 FLY PE                   10/40
                                                                                                                                                       CD8 FITC                                                CD8 FITC
                                                       9         16                     23
                                                    DAYS IN CULTURE
C                                                                                                  E
                    100                                                                                                  80
                                                                                                                         70
                     80
                                                                                                                         60
                     60                                                                                                  50
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AUTO PLATE
                                                                                                                         40
                     40                                                                                                                                                                                              AUTO G-REX
                                                                                                                         30                                                                                          ALLO PLATE
                     20                                                                                                  20                                                                                          ALLO G-REX
  % OF EXPRESSION
                                                                                                                         10
                      0
                                                                                                                          0
                                                                                                   % OF SPECIFIC LYSIS
                                                                                CD4   CD8    CD3                                  40-1                        20-1              10-1                   5-1
                                            CD62L   CD27   CD56   CD16   CD25
                          CD45Ra   CD45Ro                                                                                              EFFECTOR/TARGET RATIO

                                                                                         Fig. 11
                                                       = STAGE 1                         = STAGE 2             = STAGE 3
                                                       = 1 cm2                           = 4 cm2               = 16 cm2
                                                = STAGE 1         = STAGE 2
                                                = 4 cm2           = 32 cm2
                                                                                                                                     11/40
                                                                                                                             (32e6
                                                                               (2e6 TOTAL)            (8e6 TOTAL)           TOTAL)
                                      2.0
                                                                                (32e6
                                                                (4e6 TOTAL)    TOTAL)
                                      1.0
                                       .5
SURFACE DENSITY (10 6 CELLS/cm 2 )
                                     .125
                                            0               7                 14              21     28             35     42
                                                                                        DAY
                                                 = CONVENTIONAL METHOD
                                                 = NOVEL METHOD

                                               Fig. 12
                                                = CONVENTIONAL METHOD
                                                = NOVEL METHOD
                                     4.0
                                     3.0
                                                                        12/40
                                     2.0
                                     1.0
                                     0.5
SURFACE DENSITY (10 6 CELLS/cm 2 )
                                           X
                                                          2X
                                                   TIME

                                                                   Fig. 13
                                               = CONVENTIONAL METHOD
                                               = NOVEL METHOD
                                     4.0
                                                                            = 18 x 105 DESIRED CELLS
                                     3.0
                                                                                                                13/40
                                     2.0                                              = 8 x 105 DESIRED CELLS
                                     1.5
                                     1.0
SURFACE DENSITY (10 6 CELLS/cm 2 )
                                     0.5
                                           0       7        14         21        28
                                                                 DAY

                                                  Fig. 14
                                     6.0       = CONVENTIONAL METHOD
                                               = NOVEL METHOD
                                     5.0
                                     4.0
                                                                            14/40
                                     3.0
                                     2.0
                                     1.0
SURFACE DENSITY (10 6 CELLS/cm 2 )
                                     0.5
                                     .06
                                           0      7         14         21
                                                      DAY

                                        Fig. 15
                                                         CONVENTIONAL
CYCLE                                       1       2           3         4     5
DAYS PER CYCLE                              7       7           7         7     7
CUMULATIVE DAYS                             7      14          21        28    35
SURFACE AREA (CM2)                          4      16          64       256   1024
STARTING SURFACE DENSITY (CELLS/CM 2)       1       1           1         1     1
FINAL SURFACE DENSITY (CELLS/CM2)           2       2           2         2     2    15/40
CELLS PRODUCED (x106 )                      8      32        128        512   2048
                                                   NOVEL
CYCLE                                       1       2           3
DAYS PER CYCLE (APPROX.)                   9.5     9.5       15.0
CUMULATIVE DAYS                            9.5    19.0       34.0
SURFACE AREA (CM2)                          8     625       46875
STARTING SURFACE DENSITY (CELLS/CM 2)     0.06    0.06       0.06
FINAL SURFACE DENSITY (CELLS/CM2)         4.50    4.50       4.50
CELLS PRODUCED (x106)                      38     2813     210938

                                    Fig. 16
                                                      CONVENTIONAL
CYCLE                                     1      2          3          4     5
DAYS PER CYCLE                            7      7          7          7     7
CUMULATIVE DAYS                           7     14         21         28    35
SURFACE AREA (CM2)                        4     16         64        256   1024
STARTING SURFACE DENSITY (CELLS/CM 2)     1      1          1          1     1
FINAL SURFACE DENSITY (CELLS/CM2)         2      2          2          2     2    16/40
CELLS PRODUCED (x106 )                    8     32        128        512   2048
                                                NOVEL
CYCLE                                     1      2          3
DAYS PER CYCLE (APPROX.)                 9.5    9.5      15.0
CUMULATIVE DAYS                          9.5   19.0      34.0
SURFACE AREA (CM2)                        8    625       4018
STARTING SURFACE DENSITY (CELLS/CM 2)   0.06   0.06      0.70
FINAL SURFACE DENSITY (CELLS/CM2)       4.50   4.50      7.50
CELLS PRODUCED (x106)                    38    2813     30134

                                               Fig. 17A
ROW                                                             DAY 0        DAY 4     DAY 8     DAY 11
 1    SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm 2 )      1.00E + 06
 2    SURFACE AREA OF GROWTH SURFACE (cm 2 )                         100        100        100        100
 3    MEDIUM VOLUME (ml)                                            1000        1000      1000       1000
      RATIO OF MEDIUM VOLUME TO GROWTH
 4                                                                      10       10         10         10
      SURFACE AREA (ml/cm 2 )
 5    MEDIA HEIGHT (cm)                                                 10       10         10         10
 6    SURFACE DENSITY (cells/cm 2 )                            1.00E + 06 4.71E + 06 9.79E + 06 9.73E + 06    17/40
 7    CELL DENSITY (cells/ml)                                  1.00E + 05 4.71E + 05 9.79E + 05 9.73E + 05
 8    GLUCOSE CONCENTRATION (mg/dl)                 240              240         112        56            0
 9    GLUCOSE CONSUMPTION IN (mg/ml)                                     0      128        184        240
10    PREDICTED CELL NUMBER BY USE OF GLUCOSE                  0.00E + 00 6.40E + 08 9.20E + 08 1.20E + 09
11    VIABILITY                                                    100%        100%       99%        90%
      TOTAL LIVE CELLS AS DETERMINED BY
12                                                             1.00E + 08 4.71E + 08 9.79E + 08 9.73E + 08
      HEMOCYTOMETER COUNT

                                               Fig. 17B
ROW                                                             DAY 0        DAY 4     DAY 8     DAY 11
 1    SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm 2 )      5.00E + 05
 2    SURFACE AREA OF GROWTH SURFACE (cm 2 )                         100        100        100        100
 3    MEDIUM VOLUME (ml)                                            1000        1000      1000       1000
      RATIO OF MEDIUM VOLUME TO GROWTH
 4                                                                      10       10         10         10
      SURFACE AREA (ml/cm 2 )
 5    MEDIA HEIGHT (cm)                                                 10       10         10         10
 6    SURFACE DENSITY (cells/cm 2 )                            5.00E + 05 3.23E + 06 8.60E + 06 9.53E + 06    18/40
 7    CELL DENSITY (cells/ml)                                  5.00E + 04 3.23E + 05 8.60E + 05 9.53E + 05
 8    GLUCOSE CONCENTRATION (mg/dl)                 240              240         132        76            0
 9    GLUCOSE CONSUMPTION IN (mg/ml)                                     0      108        164        240
10    PREDICTED CELL NUMBER BY USE OF GLUCOSE                  0.00E + 00 5.40E + 08 8.20E + 08 1.20E + 09
11    VIABILITY                                                    100%        100%      100%         91%
      TOTAL LIVE CELLS AS DETERMINED BY
12                                                             5.00E + 07 3.23E + 08 8.60E + 08 9.53E + 08
      HEMOCYTOMETER COUNT

                                               Fig. 17C
ROW                                                             DAY 0        DAY 4     DAY 8     DAY 11
 1    SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm 2 )      2.50E + 05
 2    SURFACE AREA OF GROWTH SURFACE (cm 2 )                         100        100        100        100
 3    MEDIUM VOLUME (ml)                                            1000        1000      1000       1000
      RATIO OF MEDIUM VOLUME TO GROWTH
 4                                                                      10       10         10         10
      SURFACE AREA (ml/cm 2 )
 5    MEDIA HEIGHT (cm)                                                 10       10         10         10
 6    SURFACE DENSITY (cells/cm 2 )                            2.50E + 05 3.02E + 06 7.53E + 06 1.02E + 07    19/40
 7    CELL DENSITY (cells/ml)                                  2.50E + 04 3.02E + 05 7.53E + 05 1.02E + 06
 8    GLUCOSE CONCENTRATION (mg/dl)                 240              240         134        98            0
 9    GLUCOSE CONSUMPTION IN (mg/ml)                                     0      106        142        240
10    PREDICTED CELL NUMBER BY USE OF GLUCOSE                  0.00E + 00 5.30E + 08 7.10E + 08 1.20E + 09
11    VIABILITY                                                    100%        100%      100%        94%
      TOTAL LIVE CELLS AS DETERMINED BY
12                                                             2.50E + 07 3.02E + 08 7.53E + 08 1.02E + 09
      HEMOCYTOMETER COUNT

                                               Fig. 17D
ROW                                                             DAY 0        DAY 4     DAY 8     DAY 11
 1    SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm 2 )      1.25E + 05
 2    SURFACE AREA OF GROWTH SURFACE (cm 2 )                         100        100        100        100
 3    MEDIUM VOLUME (ml)                                            1000        1000      1000       1000
      RATIO OF MEDIUM VOLUME TO GROWTH
 4                                                                      10       10         10         10
      SURFACE AREA (ml/cm 2 )
 5    MEDIA HEIGHT (cm)                                                 10       10         10         10
 6    SURFACE DENSITY (cells/cm 2 )                            1.25E + 05 2.65E + 06 6.55E + 06 9.88E + 06   20/40
 7    CELL DENSITY (cells/ml)                                  1.25E + 04 2.65E + 05 6.55E + 05 9.88E + 05
 8    GLUCOSE CONCENTRATION (mg/dl)                 240              240        176        111         18
 9    GLUCOSE CONSUMPTION IN (mg/ml)                                     0       64        129        222
10    PREDICTED CELL NUMBER BY USE OF GLUCOSE                  0.00E + 00 3.20E + 08 6.45E + 08 1.11E + 09
11    VIABILITY                                                    100%        100%      100%         98%
      TOTAL LIVE CELLS AS DETERMINED BY
12                                                             1.25E + 07 2.65E + 08 6.55E + 08 9.88E + 08
      HEMOCYTOMETER COUNT

                                               Fig. 17E
ROW                                                             DAY 0        DAY 4       DAY 8     DAY 11
 1    SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm 2 )      6.25E + 04
 2    SURFACE AREA OF GROWTH SURFACE (cm 2 )                         100        100         100        100
 3    MEDIUM VOLUME (ml)                                            1000        1000       1000       1000
      RATIO OF MEDIUM VOLUME TO GROWTH
 4                                                                      10       10          10         10
      SURFACE AREA (ml/cm 2 )
 5    MEDIA HEIGHT (cm)                                                 10       10          10         10
 6    SURFACE DENSITY (cells/cm 2 )                            6.25E + 04 4.00E + 05 1.24E + 06 1.63E + 06   21/40
 7    CELL DENSITY (cells/ml)                                  6.25E + 03 4.00E + 04 1.24E + 05 1.63E + 05
 8    GLUCOSE CONCENTRATION (mg/dl)                 240              240        232          202       184
 9    GLUCOSE CONSUMPTION IN (mg/ml)                                     0           8       38         56
10    PREDICTED CELL NUMBER BY USE OF GLUCOSE                  0.00E + 00 4.00E + 07 1.90E + 08 2.80E + 08
11    VIABILITY                                                    100%        100%        100%       100%
      TOTAL LIVE CELLS AS DETERMINED BY
12                                                             6.25E + 06 4.00E + 07 1.24E + 08 1.63E + 08
      HEMOCYTOMETER COUNT

                                        22/40
                                        Fig. 18
                 75
                 70
                 65
                 60
                 55
                 50
FOLD EXPANSION
                 45
                 40
                 35
                 30
                 25
                 20
                 15
                 10
                  5
                  0
                        1         0.5           0.25   0.125    0.0625
                 INITIAL STATIC CULTURE SURFACE DENSITY (1E+06 cells/cm 2)

                                        Fig. 19A
ROW                                                         DAY 0         DAY 4        DAY 8         DAY 11
  1 SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm 2 )    1.25E + 05
  2 SURFACE AREA OF GROWTH SURFACE (cm 2 )                       100           100          100           100
  3 MEDIUM VOLUME IN ml                                         1000          1000         1000          1000
    RATIO OF MEDIUM VOLUME TO GROWTH
  4                                                                 10          10             10          10
    SURFACE AREA (mls/cm 2 )
  5 MEDIA HEIGHT (cm)                                              10            10           10            10
  6 SURFACE DENSITY (cells/cm 2 )                          1.25E + 05    2.65E + 06   6.55E + 06    9.88E + 06
  7 CELL DENSITY (cells/ml)                                1.25E + 04    2.65E + 05   6.55E + 05    9.88E + 05
  8 GLUCOSE CONCENTRATION (mg/dl)                240             240           176           111            18
  9 GLUCOSE CONSUMPTION (mg/ml)                                     0            64         129            222
 10 PREDICTED CELL NUMBER BY USE OF GLUCOSE                0.00E + 00    3.00E + 08   6.19E + 08    1.07E + 09
 11 VIABILITY                                                   100%          100%         100%           98%
 12 TOTAL LIVE CELLS                                       1.25E + 07    2.65E + 08   6.55E + 08    9.88E + 08   23/40
ROW                                                            DAY 0       DAY 4        DAY 8        DAY 11
  1 SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm 2 )    1.25E + 05
  2 SURFACE AREA OF GROWTH SURFACE (cm 2 )                       100           100          100           100
  3 MEDIUM VOLUME IN ml                                         1000          1000         1000          1000
    RATIO OF MEDIUM VOLUME TO GROWTH
  4                                                                 10          10             10          10
    SURFACE AREA (mls/cm 2 )
  5 MEDIA HEIGHT (cm)                                              10            10           10            10
  6 SURFACE DENSITY (cells/cm 2 )                          1.25E + 05    5.13E + 06   9.26E + 06    1.05E + 07
  7 CELL DENSITY (cells/ml)                                1.25E + 04    5.13E + 05   9.26E + 05    1.05E + 06
  8 GLUCOSE CONCENTRATION (mg/dl)                475             475           374          287            256
  9 GLUCOSE CONSUMPTION (mg/ml)                                     0          107          193            219
 10 PREDICTED CELL NUMBER BY USE OF GLUCOSE                0.00E + 00    5.13E + 08   9.20E + 08    1.00E + 09
 11 VIABILITY                                                   100%          100%         100%           98%
 12 TOTAL LIVE CELLS                                       1.25E + 07    5.13E + 08   9.26E + 08    1.05E + 09

                                      24/40
                                      Fig. 19B
                     12E+06      240 mg/dL
                     10E+06      475 mg/dL
                     8E+06
(1E+06 cells/cm 2)
                     6E+06
                     4E+06
                     2E+06
                          0
                              DAY 0      DAY 4      DAY 8   DAY 11
                                        TIME IN CULTURE

                                         25/40
                                      Fig. 19C
                        500
GLUCOSE CONCENTRATION
                                                                  240 mg/dL
                        400                                       475 mg/dL
                        300
                        200
        (mg/dl)
                        100
                          0
                              DAY 0       DAY 4      DAY 8        DAY 11
                                        TIME IN CULTURE
                                       Fig. 19D
                        250            240 mg/dL
GLUCOSE CONSUMPTION
                        200            475 mg/dL
                        150
       (mg/dl)
                        100
                         50
                          0
                               DAY 0         DAY 4        DAY 8      DAY 11
                                           TIME IN CULTURE

                                                        26/40
                                                        Fig. 19E
                               12E+06
                                                      COUNTED CELL NUMBER
                                                      PREDICTED CELL NUMBER
                               10E+06
         SURFACE DENSITY
                                8E+06
                                            240 mg/dL CULTURE
          (1E+06 cells/cm2)
                                6E+06
                                4E+06
                                2E+06
                                       0
                                              DAY 0        DAY 4      DAY 8    DAY 11
                                                            TIME IN CULTURE
                                                      Fig. 19F
                              12E+06
                                                    COUNTED CELL NUMBER
                                                    PREDICTED CELL NUMBER
                              10E+06
SURFACE DENSITY               8E+06
                                           475 mg/dL CULTURE
 (1E+06 cells/cm2)
                              6E+06
                              4E+06
                              2E+06
                                   0
                                            DAY 0        DAY 4      DAY 8     DAY 11
                                                          TIME IN CULTURE

                                                         Fig. 20
                                    12E+06
                                    10E+06
                                                                                 2.5 ml/cm 2
                                    8E+06
                                                                                 5.0 ml/cm 2              27/40
                                    6E+06
                                                                                 15.0 ml/cm 2
                                    4E+06                                        10.0 ml/cm 2
                                    2E+06
                                                                                     STATE OF THE ART
                                                                                     CONTROL 2.0 ml/cm2
SURFACE DENSITY (1E+06 cells/cm2)
                                             0   4   8       11       14   17   20
                                                         DAYS IN CULTURE

                                               Fig. 21
                                     CMV-CTL POPULATION EXPANSION
ROW                                                                       DAY 0       DAY 9      DAY 16
  1                                                      2
      SURFACE DENSITY OF PBMCs AT CULTURE ONSET (cells/cm )              5.00E+05
  2   SURFACE DENSITY OF CELL COMPOSTION (cells/cm2)                     5.00E+05    1.32E+06    2.21E+08
  3   PERCENTAGE OF ANTIGEN SPECIFIC T CELLS IN THE CELL COMPOSITION (%)       0.8        27.9        48.7
  4   ENRICHMENT OF ANTIGEN SPECIFIC T CELLS (CMV SPECIFIC T CELLS)              0       34.88        1.75
  5   PERCENTAGE OF NON SPECIFIC T CELLS IN THE CELL COMPOSITION              99.2        72.1        51.3
  6   TOTAL NUMBER OF CELLS IN CULTURE                                   5.00E+07    1.32E+08    2.21E+10
  7   FOLD INCREASE IN CELL COMPOSITION POPULATION EXPANSION                     0   2.64E+00          442
  8   FOLD INCREASE IN CELL IN CMV SPECIFIC POPULATION                           0        69.7        69.8   28/40
  9   AREA OF GROWTH SURFACE (cm2 )                                           100          100         100
 10   MEDIUM VOLUME (ml)                                                     1000         1000       1000
 11   MEDIA HEIGHT (cm2)                                                       10           10          10
 12   CELL DENSITY (cells/ml)                                            5.00E+04    1.32E+05    2.21E+07
 13   RATIO OF MEDIUM VOLUME TO GROWTH SURFACE AREA (ml/cm ) 2                 10           10          10
 14   GLUCOSE CONCENTRATION                                                   240          110          19
 15   GLUCOSE CONSUMPTION                                                        0         130         221
 16   PREDICTED CELL NUMBER BY USE OF GLUCOSE                                    0   1.30E+08    2.21E+08
 18   TOTAL LIVE CELLS AS DETERMINED BY HEMOCYTOMETER COUNT              5.00E+07    1.32E+08    2.21E+08
 19   PERCENTAGE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN PREDICTED POP. AND HEMOCYTOMETER COUNTS             1.54%       0.00%

                         29/40
             Fig. 22A
        1010
                    1004
                       1012
1000
           1014                       Fig. 22B
                                    1010
                                             1004
 1006
                            1002
   1018   1008
                                                 1014
                              1000
                                                   1022
                                      1020
                              1016
                                                     1002
                               1018
                                                 1006
                                      1008

         30/40
       Fig. 22C
       1010
1000
  1008          1024
 1016

           31/40
          Fig. 22D
                         1004
     1000
1026
                    1024
               1016
               1002

                                        Fig. 23A
ROW EVALUATION A                                               DAY 0     DAY 4      DAY 8     DAY 11
  1 SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm2) OF CAR T CELLS      2.50E+05
    SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm2) OF APC
  2                                                          5.00E+05 1.00E+04 0.00E+00       0.00E+00
    (K562-PSCA/CD80/41BB)
  3 TOTAL SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm2)               7.50E+05
  4 SURFACE AREA OF GROWTH SURFACE (cm2)                          100        100        100        100
  5 MEDIUM VOLUME (ml)                                           1000       1000       1000       1000
  6 RATIO OF MEDIUM VOLUME TO GROWTH SURFACE AREA (ml/cm2)         10         10         10         10
  7 MEDIA HEIGHT (cm)                                              10         10         10         10
  8 SURFACE DENSITY OF CAR T CELLS (cells/cm2)               2.50E+05   1.10E+06   1.80E+07   2.46E+07
  9 CELL DENSITY OF CAR T CELLS (cells/cm2)                  2.50E+04   1.10E+05   1.80E+06   2.46E+06
 10 GLUCOSE CONCENTRATION (mg/dl)                                 286        176        106         46
 11 GLUCOSE CONSUMPTION IN (mg/dl)                                  0       -176       -106        -46   32/40
 12 PREDICTED CELL NUMBER BY USE OF GLUCOSE                         0   1.10E+08   1.80E+09   2.40E+09
 13 VIABILITY                                                     100         94        100        100
 14 TOTAL LIVE CELLS AS DETERMINED BY HEMOCYTOMETER COUNT    2.50E+07   1.10E+08   1.80E+09   2.46E+09
 15 TOTAL LIVE CELLS FOLD EXPANSION                                 0   4.40E+00   7.20E+01   9.84E+01
 16 CAR EXPRESSION                                               40%        42%        68%        80%
 17 FOLD EXPANSION OF CAR T CELLS                                                             1.97E+02

                                        Fig. 23B
ROW EVALUATION B                                               DAY 0    DAY 4   DAY 8     DAY 11
  1 SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm2) OF CAR T CELLS      2.50E+05
    SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm2) OF APC
  2                                                            NONE
    (K562-PSCA/CD80/41BB)
  3 TOTAL SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm2)               2.50E+05
  4 SURFACE AREA OF GROWTH SURFACE (cm2 )                         100      100      100        100
  5 MEDIUM VOLUME (ml)                                           1000     1000     1000       1000
  6 RATIO OF MEDIUM VOLUME TO GROWTH SURFACE AREA (ml/cm2)         10       10       10         10
  7 MEDIA HEIGHT (cm)                                              10       10       10         10
  8 SURFACE DENSITY OF CAR T CELLS (cells/cm2)               2.50E+05 5.00E+05 2.80E+06   5.40E+06
  9 CELL DENSITY OF CAR T CELLS (cells/cm2)                  2.50E+04 5.00E+04 2.80E+05   5.40E+05
 10 GLUCOSE CONCENTRATION (mg/dl)                                 286
 11 GLUCOSE CONSUMPTION IN (mg/dl)                                                                   33/40
 12 PREDICTED CELL NUMBER BY USE OF GLUCOSE
 13 VIABILITY                                                     100      100      100        100
 14 TOTAL LIVE CELLS AS DETERMINED BY HEMOCYTOMETER COUNT    2.50E+07 5.00E+07 2.80E+08   5.40E+08
 15 TOTAL LIVE CELLS FOLD EXPANSION                                 0 2.00E+00 1.12E+01   2.16E+01
 16 CAR EXPRESSION                                               40%      40%      40%        40%
 17 FOLD EXPANSION OF CAR T CELLS                                                         2.16E+01

                                         Fig. 23C
ROW EVALUATION C                                              DAY 0      DAY 4      DAY 8     DAY 11
  1 SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm2) OF CAR T CELLS      2.50E+05
    SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm2) OF APC
  2                                                          5.00E+05 1.00E+04 0.00E+00 0.00E+00
    (K562-PSCA/CD80/41BB)
  3 TOTAL SURFACE DENSITY ON DAY 0 (cells/cm2)               7.50E+05
  4 SURFACE AREA OF GROWTH SURFACE (cm2 )                         100        100        100        100
  5 MEDIUM VOLUME (ml)                                            200        200        200        200
  6 RATIO OF MEDIUM VOLUME TO GROWTH SURFACE AREA (ml/cm2)          2          2          2          2
  7 MEDIA HEIGHT (cm)                                               2          2          2          2
  8 SURFACE DENSITY OF CAR T CELLS (cells/cm2)               2.50E+05   4.30E+05   3.80E+05   1.80E+05
  9 CELL DENSITY OF CAR T CELLS (cells/cm2)                  2.50E+04   4.30E+04   3.80E+04   1.80E+04
 10 GLUCOSE CONCENTRATION (mg/dl)                                 286         46          0          0
 11 GLUCOSE CONSUMPTION IN (mg/dl)                                  0        240        286        286   34/40
 12 PREDICTED CELL NUMBER BY USE OF GLUCOSE                         0   4.80E+07   4.80E+08   4.80E+08
 13 VIABILITY                                                     100         94         75         36
 14 TOTAL LIVE CELLS AS DETERMINED BY HEMOCYTOMETER COUNT    2.50E+07   4.30E+07   3.80E+07   1.80E+07
 15 TOTAL LIVE CELLS FOLD EXPANSION                                 0   1.72E+00   1.52E+00   7.20E-01
 16 CAR EXPRESSION                                               40%        42%        68%        80%
 17 FOLD EXPANSION OF CAR T CELLS                                                             1.44E+00

                                                                 35/40
                                                               Fig. 23D
                                              3.00E+09
TOTAL LIVE CELLS ASSESSED
                                              2.50E+09           A
                                                                 B
                                              2.00E+09           C
                                              1.50E+09
  BY MANUAL CELL COUNT
                                              1.00E+09
                                              5.00E+08
                                              0.00E+00
                                                         DAY 0        DAY 4      DAY 8     DAY11
                                                                     DAYS IN CULTURE
                                                          Fig. 23E-1
                                                  90%
                            % OF CAR EXPRESSION
                                                  80%
                                                  70%
                                                  60%
                                                  50%
                                                                                            DAY 0
                                                  40%
                                                  30%                                       DAY 11
                                                  20%
                                                  10%
                                                  0%
                                                           A              B            C

      36/40
    Fig. 23E-2
        DAY 0
            40%
    Fig. 23E-3
        DAY 9
80%             80%
            40%
  A      B        C

                                                            37/40
                                                        Fig. 23F
                                        120
             TOTAL LIVE CELLS FOLD
                                        100             A
                                                        B
                                         80             C
                  EXPANSION
                                         60
                                         40
                                         20
                                           0
                                                DAY 0         DAY 4          DAY 8     DAY 11
                                                                    DAYS IN CULTURE
                                                        Fig. 23G
                                     3.00E+09           TOTAL LIVE CELLS AS DETERMINED BY
                                                        HEMOCYTOMETER COUNT
                                                        PREDICTED CELL NUMBER BY
                                     2.50E+09           USE OF GLUCOSE
TOTAL LIVE CELLS
                                     2.00E+09
                                     1.50E+09
                                     1.00E+09
                                     5.00E+08
                                     0.00E+00
                                                  DAY 0             DAY 4      DAY 8     DAY11
                                                                DAYS IN CULTURE

                                                              38/40
                                                        Fig. 23H
                                 100%
% OF TUMOR KILLING
                                 80%                                                    A
                                 60%
                                                                                        B
                                 40%
                                 20%
                                  0%
                                                Du145                 CAPAN1          293T
                                                   PSCA (+) TUMORS                   PSCA (-)
                                                        Fig. 24A
                                        DAY 0                            DAY 10
                                    25 MILLION          CONVENTIONAL           G-REX
                      CAR-PSCA
                                     T-CELLS            CULTUREWARE       (+50MILLIONAPCs)
                                  DONOR1                250               2460
                                  DONOR2                246               2200
                                  DONOR3                240               2300
                                                        Fig. 24B
                                        DAY 0                           DAY 10
                                    25 MILLION          CONVENTIONAL           G-REX
                     CAR-Muc1
                                     T-CELLS            CULTUREWARE       (+50MILLIONAPCs)
                                  DONOR1                236               2120
                                  DONOR2                240               2260
                                  DONOR3                225               1980

                                                                   39/40
                                              3000
                                                             Fig. 24C
                                                                                 CONDITION A
                                              2500
                    # OF CELLS X 10 6
                                                                                 CONVENTIONAL
                                              2000                               CULTURE WARE
                                              1500
                                              1000
                                              500
                                                0
                                                         0        10        14          19          23
                                                                   DAYS IN CULTURE
                                  2500
                                                              Fig. 24D
                                                                            CONDITION A
                                  2000
# OF CELLS X 10 6
                                                                            CONVENTIONAL
                                                                            CULTURE WARE
                                  1500
                                  1000
                                        500
                                          0
                                                     0       10        14          19          23
                                                              DAYS IN CULTURE

                                                   40/40
                                                Fig. 24E
                            1.00E+10
TOTAL LIVE CELLS ASSESSED
                            1.00E+09                                        SERIES 1
                                                                            SERIES 2
                            1.00E+08                                        SERIES 3
  BY MANUAL CELL COUNT
                            1.00E+07
                            1.00E+06
                                        DAY 0     DAY 4    DAY 8   DAY 11
                                                 DAYS IN CULTURE
                                                Fig. 24F
                             1.20E+07
                             1.00E+07
          SURFACE DENSITY
                                                                            SERIES 1
                             8.00E+06
                                                                            SERIES 2
              cells/cm2
                             6.00E+06                                       SERIES 3
                             4.00E+06
                             2.00E+06
                             1.00E+00
                                        DAY 0     DAY 4    DAY 8   DAY 11
                                                 DAYS IN CULTURE

