ABSTRACT
Embodiments of an awning assembly (20) are taught which utilize an awning rail assembly
including a connector having integrated luminaires. The integrated luminaire does not interfere
with the extension or retraction of the awning.
FIG. 1

1/10
                                                 -1
                        CONNECTOR WITH INTEGRATED LIGHTING
CLAIM TO PRIORITY
[0001]     This application claims the benefit of co-pending U.S. Utility Patent Application Serial
Number 13/656,389 filed October 19, 2012 and entitled "Awning Assembly with Integral
Lighting".
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     Present embodiments relate to an awning for a recreational vehicle (RV), for a
building or for marine use. More specifically, present embodiments are related to an awning
with integrated lighting.
BACKGROUND
[0003]     There are various types of retractable awning assemblies that are mounted to
recreational vehicles and buildings. These awnings provide a sheltered area which is shaded
and provides an outdoor living space which is especially desirable for people who utilize
recreational vehicles regularly and those who have outdoor patios which are highly used.
[0004]     The awning assemblies typically have structures which are mounted to the wall of
the RV or building structure. Awning assemblies typically have a roller assembly which is
retracted when the awning is not in use and which is extended when the awning is utilized to
provide a shaded, sheltered area.
[0005]     In low light conditions such as at dusk or in the evenings, it may become undesirable
to continue use of the sheltered area defined under and around the awning assembly because
of lack of lighting. Users must typically rely on porch lights from a building or alternate lighting
which may be found on an RV, such as by installing the primary lights to the awning or from
within the RV by opening a door. This may be undesirable at times wherein bugs would enter
the RV due to the open door.
[0006]     One additional problem with providing lighting is that the awning is movable from an
extended to a retracted position as previously discussed and lighting must not inhibit the
extension or retraction of the awning assembly. Moreover, any electrical connections which

                                                   -2
would be needed to operate the lighting must not bind or tangle during the extension and
retraction process.
[0007]      Accordingly, there is need in the art for an awning with integrated lighting.
[0008]      It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
SUMMARY
[0009]      According to some embodiments, a connector element for an awning rail assembly
with integrated illumination, comprises a connector having a head which is one of hollow or
solid, the connector further comprising a neck extending from the head, the head engaging an
awning, the connector further comprising a luminaire mount, at least one luminaire disposed in
the luminaire mount, the at least one luminaire electrically connected to a power supply. The
connector may be located near an inner edge of an awning. The connector may be located
spaced away from an inner edge of the awning.
[0010]      According to some alternate embodiments, a retractable awning assembly with
integrated illumination, comprises a retractable awning having a first inner edge, a second
outer edge, a first side edge and a second side edge, an awning support structure having at
least a first arm and a second arm corresponding to the first side edge and the second side
edge, a roller assembly about which the retractable awning rolls, an awning rail fixedly
mounted opposite the roller assembly, the rail having a retaining channel, a connector received
by the retaining channel, the connector having a head disposed in the retaining channel and a
neck extending from the head, a luminaire mount connected to the connector, at least one
luminaire mounted to the luminaire mount, the awning engaging at least one of the connector
and the awning rail. The retractable awning assembly wherein the neck may be linear. The
retractable awning assembly wherein the neck is curvilinear. The retractable awning assembly
wherein said luminaire mount is channel shaped. The retractable awning assembly wherein
the luminaire mount further comprises at least one retaining bead. The retractable awning
assembly further comprising a polyrope structure formed in the first inner edge. The retractable
awning assembly wherein the first inner edge is received by the retaining channel. The
retractable awning assembly wherein the luminaire is oriented at an angle to a vertical. The
retractable awning assembly wherein the luminaire is oriented one of toward or away from an
inner edge of the awning. The retractable awning assembly wherein the retaining channel has
a semi-circular cross-section. The retractable awning assembly wherein the retaining channel

                                                  -3
has an alternative u-shaped cross-section. The retractable awning assembly wherein the
connector further comprises a second retaining channel. The retractable awning assembly
wherein the luminaire mount depends from the connector. The retractable awning assembly
wherein the luminaire mount depends from between the head and the second retaining
channel.
[0011]      A retractable awning assembly with integrated illumination including a retractable
awning, an awning support structure supporting sides of said awning, a roller assembly which
rolls said awning into a first retracted position and a second extended position, said assembly
comprises an awning rail having a first wall mount and a first retaining channel, a connector
having a second retaining channel and a luminaire mount, the connector indirectly connected
to the first retaining channel by the awning and spaced from the awning rail a preselected
distance, a luminaire disposed in the luminaire mount. The retractable awning assembly
wherein the luminaire mount comprises at least one rib for retaining the luminaire in position
within the luminaire mount. The retractable awning assembly further comprising at least one
wire conductor extending from the luminaire and the luminaire mount toward a switch circuit.
The retractable awning assembly wherein the switch circuit is a hard switch. The retractable
awning assembly wherein the switch circuit includes a remote control. The retractable awning
assembly wherein the switch circuit includes both a hard switch and a remote control. The
retractable awning assembly further comprising a solar collector for charging a power supply
electrically connected to the luminaire.
[0012]      An awning rail assembly with integrated illumination comprises an awning rail for
connection to a wall, the rail having a retaining channel, a connector disposed in the retaining
channel, the connector having a head which is one of hollow, solid or partially hollow, the
connector further comprising a neck extending from the head, the head one of capturing an
awning in the retaining channel or receivably retaining said awning, the connector further
comprising a luminaire mount, at least one luminaire disposed in the luminaire mount, the at
least one luminaire electrically connected to a power supply. The awning rail assembly wherein
the connector is spaced from the awning rail. The awning rail assembly wherein the luminaire
is disposed in at least one orientation. The awning rail assembly further comprising a power
switch electrically connected to the luminaire. The awning rail assembly wherein the luminaire
is an LED strip. The awning rail assembly wherein the LED strip is a plurality of connected
strips. The awning rail assembly further comprises a power supply. The awning rail assembly
further comprises at least one conductor wire extending from an end of the luminaire mount.
The awning rail assembly further comprising a wire cover at an end of the luminaire mount.

                                                 -4
The awning rail assembly wherein the connector is adjustable about a horizontal axis to adjust
the luminaire mount position. The awning rail assembly wherein the luminaire mount includes a
plurality of parallel luminaires. The awning rail assembly wherein the plurality of parallel
luminaires are oriented in same direction. The awning rail assembly wherein the plurality of
parallel luminaires are oriented in different directions. The awning rail assembly further
comprising at least one cap disposed on the luminaire mount. The awning rail assembly
wherein the at least one cap is one of translucent, semi-translucent or opaque.
[0013]     An awning assembly with integrated lighting, comprises an awning assembly having
an awning material with an inner edge, an outer edge and first and second side edges, a roller
housing which receives the awning material and about which the awning material wraps, the
roller housing being generally cylindrical in shape and having end caps at axial ends of the
housing, a slot extending longitudinally through the roller housing, a luminaire engaging the
slot and providing illumination under the awning assembly when the awning assembly is in an
extended position. The awning assembly wherein the luminaire is positioned in the slot. The
awning assembly further comprising a connector disposed in the slot. The awning assembly
wherein said luminaire is positioned in a luminaire mount of the connector. The awning
assembly further comprising a cap near ends of the luminaire mount. The awning assembly
further comprising a lens disposed over the luminaire within the luminaire. The awning
assembly further comprising wiring disposed in the slot for powering the luminaire. The awning
assembly wherein the wiring one of routes into said roller housing or extends exterior to said
roller housing to an end of said slot. The awning assembly wherein the light is directed
downward and toward a sidewall. The awning assembly wherein the light is directed downward
and away from a sidewall.
[0014]     An awning assembly with integrated lighting comprises a roller assembly connected
to an awning and reliable from a first retracted position to a second extended position, the
roller assembly including a housing and at least one end cap, an accessory slot extending
along the housing and end cap in a longitudinal direction, the accessory slot receiving one of
the luminaire or a connector having the luminaire.
[0015]     An awning assembly comprising an awning having a first side edge an opposed
second side edge, a first inner edge and a second outer edge, a pocket formed of a
transparent material between the first inner edge and the second outer edge, a luminaire
disposed in the pocket, at least one wire extending to a hem formed in the awning and toward
the inner edge of the awning. The awning assembly wherein the pocket extends parallel to the

                                                  -5
outer edge. The awning assembly wherein the pocket extends perpendicular to the outer edge.
The awning assembly wherein the pocket extends at an angle between the side edges.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0016]      In order that the embodiments may be better understood, embodiments of the
awning with integral lighting will now be described by way of examples. These embodiments
are not to limit the scope of the claims as other embodiments of the awning with integral
lighting will become apparent to one having ordinary skill in the art upon reading the instant
description. Non-limiting examples of the present embodiments are shown in figures wherein:
[0017]      FIG. 1 is a perspective view of one possible exemplary embodiment of an awning
assembly.
[0018]      FIG. 2 is an exploded perspective view of one embodiment of an awning rail
assembly with integrated lighting.
[0019]      FIG. 3 is an exploded perspective view of a second embodiment of an awning rail
assembly with integrated lighting.
[0020]      FIG. 4 is a perspective assembly view of a third embodiment of an awning rail
assembly with integrated lighting.
[0021]      FIG. 5 is an exploded perspective view of a fourth embodiment of an awning rail
assembly with integrated lighting.
[0022]      FIG. 6 is an exploded perspective view of an alternate awning embodiment with a
pocket for receiving a luminaire.
[0023]      FIG. 7 is a perspective end view of a roller assembly having accessory slots to
integrate various lighting embodiments.
[0024]      FIG. 8 is a side view of an alternate connector with adjustment for the luminaire
position.
[0025]      FIG. 9 is a side view of a further alternative connector and awning rail to adjust the
luminaire position.

                                                 -6
[0026]     FIG. 10 is a side view of an alternative luminaire mount.
[0027]     FIG. 11 is a side view of a further alternative luminaire mount.
[0028]     FIG. 12 is a schematic view of a circuit for use with the awning lights.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0029]     It is to be understood that the awning assembly with integral lighting is not limited in
its application to the details of construction and the arrangement of components set forth in the
following description or illustrated in the drawings. The invention is capable of other
embodiments and of being practiced or of being carried out in various ways. Also, it is to be
understood that the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description
and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of "including," "comprising," or "having" and
variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents
thereof as well as additional items. Unless limited otherwise, the terms "connected," "coupled,"
and "mounted," and variations thereof herein are used broadly and encompass direct and
indirect connections, couplings, and mountings. In addition, the terms "connected" and
"coupled" and variations thereof are not restricted to physical or mechanical connections or
couplings.
[0030]     Referring now in detail to the drawings, wherein like numeral indicate like elements
throughout several views, there are shown in Figures 1 through 12 various embodiments of
awning assemblies which include an integrated lighting on the awning assembly. The
assembly is retractable or extendable despite the luminaire.
[0031]     Referring now to FIG. 1, a perspective view of a recreational vehicle 10 is depicted.
The RV includes a drive and transmission, not shown, as well as a sidewall 12 and a roof 14.
An awning assembly 20 is connected to one of the sidewall 12 or the roof 14 of the vehicle 10.
In further embodiments, the awning assembly 20 may be retractable within the sidewall so as
to reduce the airflow interference of the assembly while the vehicle 10 is being operated.
[0032]     The awning assembly 20 includes an awning or canopy 22, at least one first arm 24
and at least one second arm 26. The awning or canopy 22 includes a first side edge 32, a
second side edge 34, a first inner edge 36 and a second outer edge 38. The awning 22 is
exemplary and other variations may be utilized. The assembly 20 further includes a roller
assembly 30 which moves inwardly and outwardly with corresponding retraction or extension

                                                  -7
of the awning 22 to provide the sheltered or shaded area beneath the awning assembly 20.
The roller assembly 30 may be a manual assembly requiring manual rotation to extend or
retract the canopy 22. Alternatively the roller assembly 30 may be an automated system such
as by electrical, air, hydraulic or other fluid power systems to cause extension or retraction of
the canopy 22. The awning assembly 20 further comprises an awning rail assembly 40 which
is utilized according to the instant embodiment to connect the awning assembly 20 to the
sidewall 12 of the vehicle.
[0033]      It should be understood that although an RV is referred to in the exemplary
embodiments, one skilled in the art should understand that the use of the awning with lighting
is not limited to these vehicles. The awnings may be used with homes other stationary
structures as well as boats or other marine application for example which use canopy
structures which may or may not be retractable, commercial vehicles, agricultural vehicles,
horse trailers, and temporary structures such as those used at sports events, (tailgating) and
flea markets.
[0034]      Referring now to FIG. 2, an exploded perspective view of a portion of an exemplary
awning rail assembly 40 is depicted. An awning rail 42 is positioned against a structural or RV
sidewall 12 (FIG. 1). The awning rail 42 includes an upstanding wall or wall mount 44 and a
retaining channel 46 connected thereto. Alternatively, the mount 44 may be directed
downwardly or alternatively the channel 46 may be located at various positions thereon. As a
further alternative, the mount wall 44 may be curved or other shapes other than linear. A
variety of awning rail shapes are known in the art and well within the scope of the present
disclosure. The wall mount 44 may be fastened to the sidewall 12 of the RV or building by
fasteners, suction devices, or adhesive or any combination thereof. The retaining channel 46 is
generally circular in shape with a relief opening 47 which allows the awning 22 to extend
therefrom upon assembly. The retaining channel 46 while circular in the exemplary
embodiment may be various alternate shapes such as a U-shaped channel, square with the
relief opening 47 or other polygonal shape.
[0035]      According to some embodiments, a connector 50 may be positioned within the
retaining channel 46 or according to other embodiments the awning 22 may be captured within
the retaining channel by the connector 50. The instant embodiment utilizes a connector 50
which is positioned within the retaining channel 46. The connector 50 includes a head 52 and a
neck 56 extending from the head 52. The connector 50 may be formed in an extrusion
process, for example, for ease of manufacture. The extrusion or connector 50 may be rigid or

                                                 -8
soft. For example, if a rigid extrusion is desired, the material may be, for example, PVC
Polypropylene or other polymeric with ultraviolet and embrittlement resistant characteristics.
Alternatively, for example, a flexible extrusion 50 may be desired made of santoprene or other
soft extruding materials. These are non-limiting examples as other materials may be used by
one skilled in the art. The head 52 is generally circular in shape corresponding in size to the
retaining channel 46 so that the head 52 may be positioned therein. The head 52 may be solid
or hollow. According to the exemplary embodiment, the head 52 is hollow defining an opening
54. The head 52 has a first terminating end and extends circularly to adjacent the first end. The
neck 56 is curvilinear continues extending from the head 52 such that the curvilinear shape of
the neck 56 passes by the first terminating end of the head 52, forming a gap or relief opening
57 therebetween.
[0036]      The neck 56 extends to a luminaire mount 60 which has a first sidewall 62 and a
second opposed sidewall 64. A joining wall 66 connects ends of the walls 62, 64 defining the
luminaire mount 60. The wall 64 is connected to the neck 56 to form the connector 50. The first
and second walls 62, 64 have at least one retaining bead 68. In the exemplary embodiment,
two opposite beads 68 are utilized to retain a luminaire strip 70. The luminaire strip may be
formed of a plurality of light emitting diodes (LEDs) and is electrically connected to a circuit 90
(FIG. 11) by at least one wire 72. The LED strip 70 may vary in length depending on the
desired length of illumination. The LED strip 70 may be a water proof, water resistant or a
standard LED which may be used with or without a lens to inhibit weather contaminants from
negatively affecting operation of the LED strip 70. The strip 70 is retained within the mount 60
toward the wall 66 by retaining beads 68. Although this design is depicted, alternate methods
of retaining the luminaire 70 may be utilized and the exemplary embodiment should not be
considered limiting. Alternatively, the luminaire strip 70 may be adhered to the luminaire mount
60 with adhesives or fixatives rather than requiring use of the beads 68. Additionally, for
example, one or more pairs of retaining beads 68 may be utilized to retain caps or lens
structures 78 on the luminaire mounts 60. One pair may be used to retain a luminaire strip 70
in place while a second pair of beads 68 may be utilized to retain a cap 78. Alternatively, a
single pair of opposed beads 68 may retain both the LED strip 70 and the cap or lens 78 in
position. As alluded to above, the caps 78 may be a variety of lengths and may be translucent,
semi-translucent or opaque. The caps 78 include at least one leg which engages beads 68 to
retain the cap on the extrusion or connector 50. These caps 78 may or may not be used with
all of the embodiments shown and described herein.

                                                 -9
[0037]      The luminaire mount 60 is oriented at an angle to the vertical. When installed, the
mount is at an angle to the vertical and may be adjusted by rotation of the connector 50 within
the retaining channel 46 as described further herein. Such rotation may be limited by the
awning and by the neck 56 engagement with the lower portion of the retaining channel 46.
Alternatively, the luminaire mount 60 may be fixed relative to the awning rail and as a further
addition may be directed horizontally or vertically downward to provide lighting under the
awning assembly 20 (FIG. 1).
[0038]      The awning 22 is captured within the opening 54 of the head 52. The awning 22 is
sewn or otherwise formed to have a pocket at a first inner end, in the instant embodiment. The
pocket 28 may be formed by folding an end of the awning over and forming a loop or pocket
28. The loop or pocket structure 28 is retained by sewing or otherwise connecting the awning
to itself. Within the pocket 28 is a polyrope structure 80 which fills the pocket 28 and has a
diameter size to fit within the opening 54 of the connector 50. The pocket 28, including the
polyrope 80 is slidably positioned through the connector 50 so that awning 22 extends from the
relief opening 57. The diameter of the polyrope 80 is formed to be greater than the size of the
relief opening 57, inhibiting removal of the polyrope 80 and awning pocket 28 except by axial
sliding motion. For example, the poly rope 80 is about (1/4") one-quarter inch in diameter but
may be within an exemplary and non-limiting range of 1/8 to about 5/16 inch and more
preferably, for non- limiting example, 3/16 to about   14 inch. The polyrope may be formed of
butyl-rubber, rope or other flexible materials.
[0039]      Referring now to FIG. 3, an alternate embodiment of the awning rail assembly 140 is
depicted wherein an awning rail 42 is provided. Similar to the prior embodiment, the awning rail
42 includes retaining channel 46 and a wall mount 44. The relief opening 47 is defined
between ends of the retaining channel 46 which is generally circular in cross-section except for
the relief 47. Adjacent to the awning rail 42 is the awning 22. The awning has a pocket 28 as
defined by looping the inner end of the awning 22 back to attach upon itself. The pocket 28, as
depicted in the FIG. 3 may or may not be sewn or affixed together so as to receive a connector
150.
[0040]      According to this second embodiment, the connector 150 includes a head 152 and a
neck 156 which extends linearly from the head 152. The head 152 is formed with a solid
material so that the entire connector may be extruded during manufacture. Other
manufacturing methods may be utilized however. The head 152 is received within the pocket
28 of the awning 22. These may or may not be sewn or affixed together through the neck 156.

                                               - 10
These pieces are slidably received within the retaining channel 46 and extend from the awning
rail 42 through the relief opening 47. The head 152 is circular in shape and of a size to fit within
the retaining channel 46 while further having the awning pocket 28 formed around the head
152.
[0041]     A luminaire mount 60 extends from the neck 156 and has a three wall design as with
the previous embodiment. The luminaire mount 60 may take a variety of forms however and
therefore the exemplary embodiment is not limiting. The luminaire 70 is exploded from the
mount 60 but as with previous embodiments may be mounted between the walls 62, 64.
According to the current embodiment, the luminaire 70 is directed downwardly so as to provide
direct lighting.
[0042]     According to an alternate embodiment of FIG. 3, the connector 150 may be spaced
from the rail 42. For example, the connector 150 may be sewn into the awning 22 some
distance from the rail 42 rather than received by the rail channel 46. Such manner is discussed
below and shown in FIG. 4. Any of the embodiments of the connectors described within this
disclosure may be sewn directly into the awning 22 or may be connected to the awning by way
of a polyrope or other rope like materials which is sewn into the awning 22.
[0043]      Referring now to FIG. 4 an assembled perspective view of a further alternative
embodiment is depicted. According to this embodiment, the connector 250 is spaced from the
awning rail 42 and merely connected by way of awning material stretched between the awning
rail 42 and connector 250. As described in previous embodiments, the awning rail 42 includes
a wall mount 44 and retaining channel 46. Again, the retaining channel 46 of the exemplary
embodiment is generally circular in cross-section however alternate shapes may be utilized, for
example pentagonal, hexagonal or octagonal.
[0044]     A polyrope structure 80 captures a portion of the awning 22 within the retaining
channel 46. According to one embodiment, the awning 22 may be wrapped around the
polyrope 80 and the combined rope 80 and awning material 22 slidably positioned through the
relief opening 47 of the retaining channel 46. Since the rope 80 and awning 22 combination
have a larger diameter than the relief opening 47, the awning 22 and rope 80 are captured
within the retaining channel 46. Further portions of the awning 22 extend from the first retaining
channel 26 to the connector 250. The connector 250 includes a retaining channel 252 which
receives the awning 22 and a polyrope 80. As with the first retaining channel 60, the
combination of polyrope 80 and awning 22 have a diameter greater than the distance of a relief

                                                  - 11
opening 247 in the connector 250. Thus the rope 80 and awning 22 are retained in the second
channel 252. Depending from the second retaining channel 252 is a luminaire mount 260.
Alternatively, this hollow second retaining channel may be considered a head with a neck
joining the luminaire mount 260. This embodiment is similar to those of the previous figures
and receives luminaire 70. According to the instant embodiment, the mount may direct
 luminaire strip 70 toward the RV as shown, or away from the RV as in previous embodiments.
Optionally, a positioning leg 76 may be formed on the connector 250 by extrusion in order to
direct the light in various directions. Such positioning leg 76 may be formed in a variety of
 manners and may or may not be used with any of the connectors depicted in the disclosure in
order to provide an additional means of directing light. As with previous embodiments, this may
 be a luminaire strip formed of LEDs for example. At least one stitch or hem 25 is located
 between the awning rail 42 and the connector 250. This stitch 25 inhibits the connector from
 hanging loosely below the upper portion of the awning 22. Alternatively, the awning may be
affixed with adhesive or welding rather than the at least one stitch depicted.
 [0045]     Referring now to FIG. 5, a still further embodiment of the awning rail assembly 340.
An awning rail 42 is configured at one end of the depicted assembly. The awning rail 42 is
similar to those recently described. A connector 350 includes a head 352, a neck 354 and a
second retaining channel 356. The connector 350 may be an extruded structure and further
 includes a luminaire mount 360. The head 352 is a solid material and is circular in cross
section to be received within the correspondingly shaped retaining channel 46. The extrusion
or connector 350 may be formed of a single piece of material as previously described or may
 be formed of two or more materials in a co-extrusion process. For example, the head 352 and
 neck 354 may be formed of polyrope or butyl material. Additionally, the second retaining
channel 356 may be formed of a more rigid material such as PVC, polypropylene or other
 polymeric with ultraviolet and embrittlement characteristics. However, these are non-limiting
examples. As with previous embodiments the diameter of the head 352 is greater than the
dimension of the relief opening 47 so that the connector 350 is retained within the channel.
The neck 354 extends linearly from the head 352 to the second retaining channel 356 which is
also circular in shape. The polyrope material 80 is again utilized within a pocket 28 of the
awning 22 such that the combination of the polyrope and awning pocket 28 may be slidably
 received within the retaining channel 356.
 [0046]     Referring now to FIG. 6, a further alternative embodiment of the awning rail
assembly 440 is depicted. The awning rail assembly 440 includes an awning rail 42 similar to
the previously described embodiments. Adjacent to the awning rail 42 is an awning 22 which

                                                - 12
may receive a polyrope 80 so that the polyrope is fitted within the awning 22 in order to capture
or retain the awning within the retaining channel 46 of the awning rail 42. As with the previous
embodiments, a relief opening 47 is utilized in the retaining channel 46 to allow the awning 22
to extend from the awning rail 42. Although the instant embodiment depicts the use of the
polyrope 80 to capture the awning 22 within the awning rail 42, alternative embodiments may
be utilized such as the connector structures described previously which may also capture or
retain the awning 22 within the retaining channel 46.
[0047]      The awning 22 of the instant embodiment further comprises a pocket 422. The
pocket 422 extends between a first-side edge and a second-side edge of the awning 22 and
may or may not extend the full width of the awning 22 depending on the length of light strip 70
utilized. The pocket 422 may be formed of a transparent material which is sewn or otherwise
affixed to the awning 22 and does not hinder roll-up of the awning 22 from the extended to the
retracted position. The pocket 422 allows for insertion of the light strip 70 there thru. The wiring
for the light strip may extend from the pocket end and through a side wall to which the awning
rail 42 is connected.
[0048]      In one embodiment, the pocket 422 is located closely to the rail awning 42 so that
the wiring need only run a short distance to a side wall of an RV or building to which the
awning is connected. Thus the problems associated with running wiring thru a hem of an
awning is alleviated and also problems associated with roll-up of the wiring are also alleviated.
However, such embodiment is not limiting as the pocket 422 and light strip 70 may be moved
to various locations between the inner and outer ends of the awning 22.
[0049]      It should also be understood that alternate embodiments may orient the pocket 422
in manners other than that which is shown. For example, the pocket 422 may be oriented in a
plurality of manners. As shown, the pocket 422 extends between first and second sides of the
awning. However, alternate lengths may be utilized. Further, alternate orientations may be
used such that the pocket 422 may extend between inner and outer ends and further at angles
therebetween as shown in broken lines.
[0050]      Additionally, according to this embodiment, a method of moving wire for powering
the light strip 70 is shown. For example, the wire may be located within a hem along side
edges of the awning 22.

                                                - 13
[0051]      Referring now to FIG. 7, an alternative embodiment is depicted in perspective view.
A roller assembly 30 is utilized with the awning assembly 20 to extend or retract the awning
material 22. As previously indicated, this may be done manually or automatically through use
of a motor. The roller assembly 30 includes a roller housing 120 and an end cap 122. A slot
124 extends in an axial direction of the roller housing 120 and through the end cap 122. The
accessory slot allows positioning of a luminaire strip 70 and wiring to power and control the
luminaire strip 70 without interfering with the awning or canopy material 22 when the structure
is rolled during retraction or extension. The wiring may extend fully through the slot and
through the end cap externally or may be routed along the slot to a suitable position for further
routing into the roller and elsewhere through the awning assembly components.
[0052]      As a further embodiment, depicted in the figure, a connector (for example FIG. 5)
may be positioned within the slot 124. The connector and such embodiment would likely be
extruded of a soft material to allow positioning through the slot 124. The luminaire 70 would
then be positioned in the luminaire mount 60. In such construction, caps or lenses 78 could be
utilized with the luminaire mount 60. It should be understood by one skilled in the art that any
of the connectors depicted in the embodiment described herein might be utilized with the roller
housing 120.
[0053]      Referring now to FIG. 8, an alternative embodiment of a connector 550 is depicted.
The connector 550 includes a head 552 and a neck 556 which extend to a luminaire mount
560. The head 552 includes a plurality of ribs or teeth 553. The ribs or teeth 553 may be
utilized to engage corresponding ribs or teeth 148 located in a retaining channel of an
alternative awning rail 142 (FIG. 9). This would allow for rotation of the connector 550 into
different positions relative to opposing teeth 148 (FIG. 9) so that the luminaire mount 560 may
be aimed to various positions. Alternatively, rather than teeth or ribs, an interference fit may be
made between the connector and the retaining channel and may be adjustably rotated until a
desirable light path is found wherein friction retains the luminaire mount at the desired position.
[0054]      With reference now to FIG. 9, a further alternative connector 650 is shown having a
head 652 including a plurality of teeth 653. As with the previous embodiment, these teeth or
ribs may engage teeth 148 at various positions so as to retain the connector at a desired
location to aim the luminaire mount 660. Thus, the various connectors previously discussed
may be utilized with teeth or ribs for adjustment to various angular positions.

                                                  - 14
[0055]      Referring now to FIG. 10, an alternate embodiment is depicted having a luminaire
mount 760 including structures to allow parallel mounting of light strips 70. The parallel mounts
760 may form two or more rows of luminaire strips 70. The strips 70 may be aligned in the
vertical direction or they may be offset from one another in the vertical direction along the width
direction of the awning 22.
[0056]     Additionally, and with reference now to FIG. 11, an alternative luminaire mount 860
is depicted where the two or more rows are offset angularly so as to provide lighting in different
directions as opposed to that shown in FIG. 10. The lighting 70 may be directed downwardly or
upwardly or both so as to provide direct lighting in a downward direction and upward to provide
indirect reflective lighting from the awning under-surface. As a further alternative, any of the
previously described luminaire mounts may also be directed upwardly to illuminate the under
surface of the awning or in a reverse direction from that which is depicted so as to illuminate
the side wall of the RV or building and provide indirect lighting for the area in such a manner.
[0057]      Referring now to FIG. 12, a schematic view of an exemplary circuit 90 for powering
the device is shown. A power supply 92 is shown which may be a battery which is connected
for charging to an RV engine. Alternatively, the power supply 92 may be typical 120V supply
which is used in many homes and buildings or may be a low voltage, such as 12V, DC source
typical in homes and RVs. The power supply 92 is electrically connected to a switch 94 which
is manually operated to power on and power off the luminaire 70. Additionally or as an
alternative to the switch 94, the circuit 90 may include a remote operation for powering the light
70. According to such embodiment, a remote 96 is shown for wireless communication with a
receiver 98. The remote may communicate by RF, infrared, Bluetooth or other known wireless
communication standards. Disposed between the switch 94 and the receiver 98 is a driver 95
which may provide various functionality of the LED luminaire 70. The driver 95 may vary
providing fixed illumination, dimming functionality of the LED 70 or vary the color of the light
bar 70 or some combination of these functions.
[0058]      Referring still to FIG. 12, a solar collector 93 may additionally be utilized with the
circuit 90. The solar collector 93 is shown in connection with the power supply 92, for example
to charge one or more batteries in the RV, building, or marine vehicle. The solar collector 93 is
an optional embodiment and therefore is not required for use as previously described but could
be used to provide a self-sufficient system for powering the luminaire 70.

                                                  -15
[0059]      While several inventive embodiments have been described and illustrated herein,
those of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other means and/or structures
for performing the function and/or obtaining the results and/or one or more of the advantages
described herein, and each of such variations and/or modifications is deemed to be within the
scope of the invent of embodiments described herein. More generally, those skilled in the art
will readily appreciate that all parameters, dimensions, materials, and configurations described
herein are meant to be exemplary and that the actual parameters, dimensions, materials,
and/or configurations will depend upon the specific application or applications for which the
inventive teachings is/are used. Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain
using no more than routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific inventive
embodiments described herein. It is, therefore, to be understood that the foregoing
embodiments are presented by way of example only and that, within the scope of the
appended claims and equivalents thereto, inventive embodiments may be practiced otherwise
than as specifically described and claimed. Inventive embodiments of the present disclosure
are directed to each individual feature, system, article, material, kit, and/or method described
herein. In addition, any combination of two or more such features, systems, articles, materials,
kits, and/or methods, if such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods are not
mutually inconsistent, is included within the inventive scope of the present disclosure.
[0060]      All definitions, as defined and used herein, should be understood to control over
dictionary definitions, definitions in documents incorporated by reference, and/or ordinary
meanings of the defined terms. The indefinite articles "a" and "an," as used herein in the
specification and in the claims, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood
to mean "at least one." The phrase "and/or," as used herein in the specification and in the
claims, should be understood to mean "either or both" of the elements so conjoined, i.e.,
elements that are conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other
cases.
[0061]      Multiple elements listed with "and/or" should be construed in the same fashion, i.e.,
"one or more" of the elements so conjoined. Other elements may optionally be present other
than the elements specifically identified by the "and/or" clause, whether related or unrelated to
those elements specifically identified. Thus, as a non-limiting example, a reference to "A and/or
B", when used in conjunction with open-ended language such as "comprising" can refer, in one
embodiment, to A only (optionally including elements other than B); in another embodiment, to
B only (optionally including elements other than A); in yet another embodiment, to both A and
B (optionally including other elements); etc.

                                                 -  16
[0062]       As used herein in the specification and in the claims, "or" should be understood to
have the same meaning as "and/or" as defined above. For example, when separating items in
a list, "or" or "and/or" shall be interpreted as being inclusive, i.e., the inclusion of at least one,
but also including more than one, of a number or list of elements, and, optionally, additional
unlisted items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary, such as "only one of or "exactly one
of," or, when used in the claims, "consisting of," will refer to the inclusion of exactly one
element of a number or list of elements. In general, the term "or" as used herein shall only be
interpreted as indicating exclusive alternatives (i.e. "one or the other but not both") when
preceded by terms of exclusivity, such as "either," "one of," "only one of," or "exactly one of."
"Consisting essentially of," when used in the claims, shall have its ordinary meaning as used in
the field of patent law.
[0063]       As used herein in the specification and in the claims, the phrase "at least one," in
reference to a list of one or more elements, should be understood to mean at least one
element selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements, but not
necessarily including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the list of
elements and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements. This
definition also allows that elements may optionally be present other than the elements
specifically identified within the list of elements to which the phrase "at least one" refers,
whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically identified. Thus, as a non-limiting
example, "at least one of A and B" (or, equivalently, "at least one of A or B," or, equivalently "at
least one of A and/or B") can refer, in one embodiment, to at least one, optionally including
more than one, A, with no B present (and optionally including elements other than B); in
another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one, B, with no A present
(and optionally including elements other than A); in yet another embodiment, to at least one,
optionally including more than one, A, and at least one, optionally including more than one, B
(and optionally including other elements); etc.
[0064]       It should also be understood that, unless clearly indicated to the contrary, in any
methods claimed herein that include more than one step or act, the order of the steps or acts
of the method is not necessarily limited to the order in which the steps or acts of the method
are recited.
[0065]       In the claims, as well as in the specification above, all transitional phrases such as
"comprising," "including," "carrying," "having," "containing," "involving," "holding," "composed
of," and the like are to be understood to be open-ended, i.e., to mean including but not limited

                                               - 17
to. Only the transitional phrases "consisting of and "consisting essentially of shall be closed or
semi-closed transitional phrases, respectively, as set forth in the United States Patent Office
Manual of Patent Examining Procedures, Section 2111.03.
[0066]     The foregoing description of several methods and an embodiment of the invention
has been presented for purposes of illustration. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit
the invention to the precise steps and/or forms disclosed, and obviously many modifications
and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the
invention and all equivalents be defined by the claims appended hereto.

                                                -18
CLAIMS
1.         A connector element for an awning rail assembly with integrated illumination,
comprising:
            a connector having a head which is one of hollow or solid, said connector further
comprising a neck extending from said head;
            said head engaging an awning;
            said connector further comprising a luminaire mount;
            at least one luminaire disposed in said luminaire mount, said at least one luminaire
electrically connected to a power supply.
2.         The connector of Claim 1 wherein said connector is located near an inner edge of an
awning.
3.         The connector of Claim 1 wherein said connector is located spaced away from an
inner edge of said awning.
4.         A retractable awning assembly with integrated illumination, comprising:
            a retractable awning having a first inner edge, a second outer edge, a first side edge
and a second side edge;
            an awning support structure having at least a first arm and a second arm
corresponding to said first side edge and said second side edge;
            a roller assembly about which said retractable awning rolls;
            an awning rail fixedly mounted opposite said roller assembly, said rail having a
retaining channel;
            a connector received by said retaining channel, said connector having a head
disposed in said retaining channel and a neck extending from said head;
            a luminaire mount connected to said connector;
            at least one luminaire mounted to said luminaire mount;
            said awning engaging at least one of said connector and said awning rail.
5.         The retractable awning assembly of Claim 4, said neck being linear.
6.         The retractable awning assembly of Claim 4, said neck being curvilinear.
7.         The retractable awning assembly of Claim 4, said luminaire mount being a channel
shape.

                                                 -19
8.         The retractable awning assembly of Claim 4, said luminaire mount further comprising
at least one retaining bead.
9.         The retractable awning assembly of Claim 4 further comprising a polyrope structure
formed in said first inner edge.
10.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 4, said first inner edge received by said
retaining channel.
11.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 4, said luminaire oriented at an angle to a
vertical.
12.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 4, said luminaire oriented one of toward or
away from an inner edge of said awning.
13.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 4 said retaining channel having a semi
circular cross-section.
14.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 4, said retaining channel having a u
shaped cross-section.
15.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 4, said connector further comprising a
second retaining channel.
16.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 15, said luminaire mount depending from
said connector.
17.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 15, said luminaire mount depending
between said head and said second retaining.
18.        A retractable awning assembly with integrated illumination including a retractable
awning, an awning support structure supporting sides of said awning, a roller assembly which
rolls said awning into a first retracted position and a second extended position, said assembly
comprising:
            an awning rail having a first wall mount and a first retaining channel;

                                                 - 20
            a connector having a second retaining channel and a luminaire mount, said
connector indirectly connected to said first retaining channel by said awning and spaced from
said awning rail a preselected distance;
            a luminaire disposed in said luminaire mount.
19.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 18, said luminaire mount comprising at
least one rib for retaining said luminaire in position within said luminaire mount.
20.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 18 further comprising at least one wire
conductor extending from said luminaire and said luminaire mount toward a switch circuit.
21.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 20 wherein said switch circuit is hard
switch.
22.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 20 wherein said switch circuit includes a
remote control.
23.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 20 wherein said switch circuit includes
both a hard switch and a remote control.
24.        The retractable awning assembly of Claim 18, further comprising a solar collector for
charging a power supply electrically connected to said luminaire.
25.        An awning rail assembly with integrated illumination, comprising:
            an awning rail for connection to a wall, said rail having a retaining channel;
            a connector disposed in said retaining channel, said connector having a head which
is one of hollow, solid or partially hollow, said connector further comprising a neck extending
from said head;
            said head one of capturing an awning in said retaining channel or receivably
retaining said awning;
            said connector further comprising a luminaire mount;
            at least one luminaire disposed in said luminaire mount, said at least one luminaire
electrically connected to a power supply.
26.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 25, said connector being spaced from said
awning rail.

                                              - 21
27.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 25, said luminaire disposed in at least one
orientation.
28.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 25 further comprising a power switch electrically
connected to said luminaire.
29.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 25, said luminaire being an LED strip.
30.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 29, said LED strip being a plurality of connected
strips.
31.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 25 further comprising a power supply.
32.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 31 further comprising at least one conductor wire
extending from an end of said luminaire mount.
33.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 25 further comprising a wire cover at an end of
said luminaire mount.
34.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 25 wherein said connector is adjustable about a
horizontal axis to adjust the luminaire mount position.
35.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 25, said luminaire mount including a plurality of
parallel luminaires.
36.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 35, said plurality of parallel luminaires being
oriented in same direction.
37.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 35, said plurality of parallel luminaires being
oriented in different directions.
38.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 25 further comprising at least one cap disposed
on said luminaire mount.
39.        The awning rail assembly of Claim 38, said at least one cap being one of translucent,
semi-translucent or opaque.

                                                - 22
40.        An awning assembly with integrated lighting, comprising:
           an awning assembly having an awning material with an inner edge, an outer edge
and first and second side edges;
           a roller housing which receives said awning material and about which said awning
material wraps;
           said roller housing being generally cylindrical in shape and having end caps at axial
ends of said housing;
           a slot extending longitudinally through said roller housing;
           a luminaire engaging said slot and providing illumination under said awning
assembly when said awning assembly is in an extended position.
41.        The awning assembly of Claim 40, said luminaire positioned in said slot.
42.        The awning assembly of Claim 40 further comprising a connector disposed in said
slot.
43.        The awning assembly of Claim 40 wherein said luminaire is positioned in a luminaire
mount of said connector.
44.        The awning assembly of Claim 40 further comprising a cap near ends of said
luminaire mount.
45.        The awning assembly of Claim 44 further comprising a lens disposed over said
luminaire within said luminaire
46.        The awning assembly of Claim 40 further comprising wiring disposed in said slot for
powering said luminaire.
47.        The awning assembly of Claim 46, said wiring one of routes into said roller housing
or extends exterior to said roller housing to an end of said slot.
48.        The awning assembly of Claim 40 wherein said light is directed downward and
toward a sidewall.
49.        The awning assembly of Claim 40 wherein said light is directed downward and away
from a sidewall.

                                              - 23
50.        An awning assembly with integrated lighting comprising:
           a roller assembly connected to an awning and rollable from a first retracted position
to a second extended position;
           said roller assembly including a housing and at least one end cap;
           an accessory slot extending along said housing and end cap in a longitudinal
direction;
           said accessory slot receiving one of said luminaire or a connector having said
luminaire.
51.        An awning assembly, comprising:
           an awning having a first side edge an opposed second side edge, a first inner edge
and a second outer edge;
           a pocket formed of a transparent material between said first inner edge and said
second outer edge;
           a luminaire disposed in said pocket, at least one wire extending to a hem formed in
said awning and toward said inner edge of said awning.
52.        The awning assembly of Claim 50, said pocket extending parallel to said outer edge.
53.        The awning assembly of Claim 50, said pocket extending perpendicular to said outer
edge.
54.        The awning assembly of Claim 50, said pocket extending at an angle between said
side edges.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
