                                   INVENTION TITLE
               "A HIGH BREAKING CAPACITY MINIATURE CIRCUIT BREAKER"
                                       ABSTRACT
This invention discloses an operating mechanism of a circuit breaker. The operating
 mechanism is placed in the circuit breaker housing and comprises a concave wheel, a
 rotating arm, a lock wheel and a support shaft. The back side of the concave wheel of
the operating mechanism, namely the outer edge of the support shaft, is provided
with a movable instantaneous-actuating rod capable of being displaced at two ends.
The instantaneous-actuating rod has a limiting slot at one end. The lower end of the
handle of the circuit breaker is provided with a protruding end portion limited inside
the limiting slot of the instantaneous-actuating rod. The part of the instantaneous
actuating rod, located at the shaft pile (or fixing pile) of the support shaft (of the
operating mechanism), extends to provide an elastic holding arm configured to hold
the shaft pile. This design of an instantaneous-actuating rod with an elastic holding
arm according to the present invention, enables the circuit breaker to utilise an elastic
potential energy while disconnecting the circuit, resulting in the circuit being cut off
instantaneously, thereby protecting the target electric appliances or circuit lines.
Meanwhile, the fault outage indicator is designed as a special state of display so that
the fault outage can be clearly observed to ensure that it will not generate a secondary
short-circuit, thereby further protecting the target electric appliances and circuit lines.

    1  / 4
Figure 1
   :34
       &     b2
             P,
           .   ..
              ..--

                                             2
                                  INVENTION TITLE
              A HIGH BREAKING CAPACITY MINIATURE CIRCUIT BREAKER
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] This invention relates to the technical field of circuit breakers, in particular to a
high breaking capacity miniature circuit breaker (MCB).
BACKGROUND TECHNOLOGY
[0002] The MCB is mainly used in electrical circuits and devices of 50\60HZ, 230V\415V
and below rated voltage to protect overload, short circuit and electric leakage in
modern buildings, and is also used in infrequent operation and isolation of the lines. A
pre-requisite to achieve these functions is to cut off the electrical current or close the
circuit.
[0003] The process of cutting off the current or closing the circuit is realized through
the coordination of each unit of the circuit breaker. When there are electrical failures
generated in the circuit which are within the protection of the circuit breaker, the
circuit breaker can trip automatically, and the moving and fixed contacts are separated,
and the lines are cut off, thus protecting the electrical circuits and terminal electrical
appliances and preventing fire and related facilities being damaged.
[0004] The circuit breakers on the market are all produced based on the purpose of
above functions, but the difference isthat the performances of various circuit breakers
are not the same. Due to the shortcomings of the product design, especially in
industrial applications, the miniature circuit breakers on the market are often
powerless when cutting off large short-circuit current in the workspaces near the
transformers, which means the products lack stabilities, lack sufficiently fast circuit
breaking speed, lack strong arc extinction capacity, but with serious arc flash short
circuit problem, thus damaging the circuit breaker.
[0005] With the continuous development of society and people's living standards
getting higher and higher, the requirements for various living conditions including
electrical environment are also increasing, therefore electricity consumption has to
increase and stability have to improve more than ever before. This requires electrical
companies continue to have product innovation and technology revolution to meet
these requirements. In the past, household low-voltage electrical lines only required
40A, 50A rated current and 3K, 4.5K, 6K instantaneous short circuit fault current,

                                             3
therefore conventional circuit-breaker products were sufficient. However, these
products will be powerless if being applied to the lines of 63A rated current and 10K
instantaneous short circuit fault current. Comparing to the above 3K, 4.5K, 6K
instantaneous short circuit fault current, the energy generated for a 10K instantaneous
short circuit is simply not in the same order of magnitude. If the arc-ignition functional
block is without an anti-arc penetration design, there is no boosting tripping device in
the operating mechanism of the circuit breaker and the arc extinguishing area is not
large enough, then the operation mechanism of the circuit breaker would not be able
to open and close the circuit sufficiently rapidly. Even if it can break the circuit rapidly,
because the arc cannot be quickly extinguished, the arc can re-ignite and the energy
of the arc light (or arc flash) can increase suddenly to burn out the circuit breaker
instantaneously.
[0006] Another scenario is, after the circuit breaker cutting off the faulty circuit, as the
users were not aware or thought it was broken off manually, the users may then
reclose the faulty circuit by mistake. By then, if the circuit breaker could not handle the
impact of a large secondary current, the operating personnel, due to improper
operation, incompetency or instability of the circuit breaker, would lose his life. This
could be accompanied by serious fire incidents, resulting in loss of human life and
serious property damage. Such serious incidents occur every year.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION & PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0007] This invention aims to address the deficiencies in prior art technology by
providing a safe and effective high breaking capacity MCB.
[0008] This invention is achieved by the following technical solutions.
[0009] According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a high
breaking capacity MCB comprising a housing, a cover, an operating mechanism, an
instantaneous-actuating mechanism, an arc-ignition device and an arc extinguishing
device. The instantaneous-actuating mechanism comprises a handle, a handle
torsional spring and an instantaneous-actuating rod, which is able to move at both
ends. One end of the instantaneous-actuating rod proximal to a lower end of the
handle is provided with a limiting slot, the lower end of the handle having a protruding
end portion positioned into the limiting slot. Another end of the instantaneous
actuating rod furthest from the limiting slot incorporates an elastic arm with a hook
shaped end capable of engaging with the operating mechanism of the MCB.
[0010] In one embodiment, a high breaking capacity MCB comprises a housing, a cover,
an operating mechanism, an instantaneous mechanism, an arc-ignition device and an
arc extinguishing device. The operating mechanism, the instantaneous mechanism,

                                              4
the arc-ignition device and the arc extinguishing device are disposed in the housing.
The instantaneous mechanism comprises a handle, a handle torsional spring and an
instantaneous rod, and one end of the handle torsional spring is embedded into a side
seam beside a center aperture of the handle, and the other end is locked to a locating
endpoint of the handle. Along with the movement of the handle, the handle torsional
spring sleeves or envelopes a locating shaft of the handle, the locating shaft connected
to the housing of the MCB. After the handle is installed into the housing, the end of
the handle torsional spring located at the handle locating endpoint is embedded (along
with the locating endpoint of the handle) into a socket of the housing. Therefore, when
pushing up the handle, the handle torsional spring provides the handle with rebound
resilience. The instantaneous-actuating rod may be placed on the bottom of the
housing and can move at both ends, and the conditions for moving depend on pushing
the handle up or down. The up and down positions are located between the shaft end
of the operating mechanism and the housing profile. At one end of the instantaneous
actuating rod near the handle, there is provided a limiting slot, and the lower end of
the handle has a protruding end portion for positioning into the limiting slot. The open
and closed positions of the handle are disposed at two side walls of the limiting slot,
respectively. Due to this arrangement, when pushing the handle up drives the
movement of one side wall and when pushing the handle down drives the movement
of other side wall. The end of the instantaneous-actuating rod furthest from the limit
slot may be bent, and out of the bent end (or the re-folded part) protrudes an elastic
arm, in particular an elastic curved arm. The end of the elastic curved arm is shaped
as a hook and hung towards an end of a shaft pile disposed on or extending from the
housing. One side of the instantaneous-actuating rod is disposed near an inner wall of
the housing.
[0011] Pushing up and pushing down the handle drives the movement of the
instantaneous-actuating mechanism, including the simultaneous movement of the
two side walls of the limiting slot. Pushing up is closing the circuit breaker, and, through
a connecting rod, movement of the handle also drives the operating mechanism to
operate. Simultaneously, the handle also pushes the instantaneous-actuating rod to
operate in synchronization or cooperation with the motion of the operating
mechanism. As the end of the elastic curved arm of the instantaneous-actuating
mechanism is shaped as a hook and hung towards an end of a shaft pile of the
operating mechanism, with increasing force, the increased force is transferred onto
the handle. When the handle thrust reaches a level which disengages the hook, the
handle thrust instantly unloads and transfers onto the operating mechanism. This
instantaneous force closes the operating mechanism instantly which results in a rapid
closure and very light ablation damage of the arc flash to those metal contacts
responsible for the closure of the circuit, thus improving the product life. Pushing the
handle down opens the circuit breaker such that both moving and fixed metal contacts
are separated from each other, and meanwhile the end of the elastic curved arm

                                            5
shaped as a hook engages with (i.e. hooks) the shaft pile of the operating mechanism,
which means the circuit breaker is in a disconnected position.
[0012] The operating mechanism comprises a concave wheel, a rotating arm, a lock
wheel and a support shaft. In one embodiment, the support shaft is installed into the
shaft pile extending from the housing, and the instantaneous-actuating rod is disposed
at a backside of the concave wheel of the operating mechanism and towards an outer
edge of the shaft pile. A torsional spring is placed in a groove of the concave wheel.
One end of the torsional spring is disposed in an aperture in an inner wall of the groove
and the other end is secured to the rotating arm. A raised shoulder of the rotating arm
is positioned into the concave wheel and is locked together with the concave wheel by
the torsional spring and combines into a support arm, the components of which can
rotate independently or cooperatively. The support shaft of the operating mechanism
extends through the middle of the support arm, which moves in a cambered or curved
manner along the support shaft. The concave wheel and the rotating arm of the
operating mechanism are arranged such that they form an expandable/contractible
track on an upper end of the support arm, the track being able to contain one end of
a U-rod. The other end of the U-rod is secured to the handle.
[0013] In one embodiment, the arc-ignition device is in the form of an iron sheet,
which is placed in the housing and embedded into it, and is completely covered by the
cover, thereby forming an integrated arc-ignition device.
[0014] In one embodiment, the arc extinguishing device is in the form of an arc chute
which has an arc extinguishing chamber inside. The arc extinguishing device is
preferably composed of iron sheets equidistantly arranged in two opposing rows, with
seventeen iron sheets in each row. The iron sheets are embedded into an outer casing
equidistantly. Through holes are provided on one side of the outer casing and are
distributed equidistantly in two opposing rows. An upper edge of the outer casing of
the arc chute is disposed near a magnetic steel outer wall and a lower edge is disposed
near the arc-ignition device. At an external side of the extinguishing chamber that is
near the housing and positioned behind the arc chute, there is provided a plurality of
gas channels in various shapes. The arc extinguishing chamber and the tripper
chamber are connected.
[0015] In one embodiment, a moving contact is placed in the middle of the arc-ignition
device. The arc-ignition device has an arc-ignition angle, which is spread along a
riveting shaft disposed in the middle of the housing. A copper part of the arc-ignition
angle is spread along the riveting shaft. There is also an arc-ignition bent iron disposed
in the arc-ignition angle.
[0016] In one embodiment, a grip-shape arm rod extends from a lower end of the lock
wheel. An upper end of the grip-shape arm rod incorporates a half arc-trench-shape
gap, which contains an arc-shape wall protruded by the support arm, and the lock

                                              6
wheel moves along the arc-shape wall.
[0017] In one embodiment, a tripping rod is placed at one end of the grip-shape arm
rod. One end of the tripping rod is restrictively located at a raised boundary of a base
and moves back and forth along the raised boundary, and the other end of the tripping
rod is restrictively located within a groove disposed in a boundary of the base. There
is a thermal tripping device disposed between two ends of the tripping rod.
[0018] In one preferred embodiment, both inner sides of the housing of the high
breaking capacity MCB are provided with arc-ignition devices, which are installed on
the housing but are spaced from the housing (by partitions), which is convenient for
gas to flow away instantaneously. In fact, when circuit breakers are used to regulate
large electrical current, the gas may be a high heat, fast expanding plasma gas
accompanied by arc and instantaneously attaches to the arc-ignition device. If the arc
ignition device is exposed at the moment, the arc will burn out the arc-ignition device
unavoidably, and the arc flash will re-ignite and burn out the circuit breaker under
serious situations. If the area (or span) of the arc-ignition device is very narrow, yet the
arc-ignition device is disposed below an arc-ignition channel, then with small short
circuit current such as 6K\4.5K\3K, the hot gas and arc generally will not impact (or
spread to) the opposite side of the arc-ignition device, accordingly it will not cause arc
flash short circuit or re-ignition. However, the 10K short-circuit current is at a rather
different level, the arc flash, arc heat, energy and gas are all generated more
instantaneously and at a larger scale, therefore the measures for protecting the arc
ignition device and guiding the gas flow are especially important.
[0019] The high breaking capacity MCB is provided with an arc extinguishing device in
the form of an arc chute, and the arc chute may be composed by seventeen iron sheets
in one row, which are embedded in an outer casing equidistantly. The through holes
are distributed on one side of the outer casing and arranged in two opposing rows.
The upper edge of the outer casing of the arc chute is disposed near the magnetic steel
outer wall and the lower edge is close to the arc extinguishing device. These
arrangements aim to increase the arc spacing of the arc extinguishing area, which
provides 18 arc spaces or intervals. When the arc flash becomes more divided into
equal parts, the voltage of both ends of the arc chute will be increased, thus the arc
flash will not rekindle or re-ignite. This enables the arc flash to subside or die out along
the arc path formed of the spaced iron sheets. Also, using a greater number of iron
sheets can increase the metal area that enables metal arc cooling, which in turn lowers
the temperature rapidly, and the arc flash will disappear naturally because of the
rapidly reduced temperature.
[0020] Gas channels of various shapes are disposed at the back of the arc chute, also
being the external side of the arc extinguishing chamber near the housing. The arc
extinguishing chamber and the tripper chamber are connected. When the circuit

                                             7
breaker opens and closes the circuit in instances of large faulty current, the energy
generated instantaneously will heat up the gas, which scatters inside the housing
together with the arc flash. However, the optimized channels can assist with the even
thermal expansion of the housing so that the circuit breaker will not burst or explode.
[0021] The moving contact of the operating mechanism of the high breaking capacity
MCB is attached on the operating mechanism by one or more screws. This connection
is different from a glue connection, in that it is convenient for disassembly and
assembly, i.e. it is easy and quick to assemble without the effect of the instability of
the glue, so that the housing components can be firmly and efficiently assembled. The
moving contact is preferably located in the middle of the arc-ignition device. There is
a riveting shaft disposed in the middle of the housing, and a copper part of the arc
ignition angle is spread along the riveting shaft. There is an arc-ignition bent iron in the
arc-ignition angle.
[0022] The instantaneous-actuating mechanism of this invention enables the moving
and fixed contacts to instantaneously contact one another, which will reduce a large
number of arc comparing to the traditional slow contact of a conventional MCB, thus
making the product according to the present invention more safe and reliable.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
[0023] Figure 1 is an internal structure schematic of this invention;
[0024] Figure 2 is a rear view of the internal structure of Figure 1;
[0025] Figure 3 is a structure schematic of the arc chute of Figure 1;
[0026] Figure 4 is a structure schematic of the concave wheel of Figure 1;
[0027] Figure 5 is a structure schematic of the rotating arm of Figure 1;
[0028] Figure 6 is a structure schematic of the lock wheel of Figure 1;
[0029] Figure 7 is a structure schematic of the instantaneous rod of Figure 1.
DETAILED DDESCRITPION OF FIGURES
[0030] This invention will be further described with reference to the implementation
examples as follows.
[0031] Implementation examples.
[0032] A high breaking capacity MCB as illustrated in Figures 1-7, which comprises a

                                              8
housing (1),    a cover (2), an operating mechanism, an instantaneous-actuating
mechanism, an arc-ignition device and an arc extinguishing device. The operating
mechanism, the instantaneous mechanism, the arc-ignition device and the arc
extinguishing device are disposed in the housing (1). The instantaneous-actuating
mechanism comprises a handle (3), a handle torsional spring (4) and an instantaneous
actuating rod (5). One end of the handle torsional spring (4) is embedded into the side
seam (32) beside the center aperture (31) of the handle, and the other end is locked
to the locating endpoint (33) of the handle. Along with the movement of the handle
(3), the torsional spring sleeves or envelopes the locating shaft (34) of the handle, the
locating shaft connected to the housing. After the handle is installed into the housing,
the end of the handle torsional spring (4) located at the handle locating endpoint (33)
is embedded into a socket of the housing. Therefore, when pushing up the handle, the
handle torsional spring provides the handle with rebound resilience, hence the handle
may rebound immediately. The instantaneous-actuating rod (5) is placed on the
bottom of the housing (1) and can move at both ends, and the conditions for moving
depend on pushing the handle (3) up or down. The up and down positions are located
between the shaft end of the operating mechanism and the housing profile. There is a
limiting slot (51) at one end of the instantaneous-actuating rod (5) located near the
handle (3). The lower end of the handle has a protruding end portion (34) for
positioning into the limiting slot (51). The open and closed positions of the handle are
disposed at two side walls of the limiting slot, respectively. Due to this arrangement,
when pushing the handle up drives the movement of one side wall and pushing the
handle down drives the movement of other side wall. The end of the instantaneous
actuating rod (5) furthest from the limiting slot is bent, and out of the bent end (or the
re-folded part) protrudes an elastic curved arm (52). The end of the elastic curved arm
is shaped as a hook (53) and hung towards an end of the shaft pile (6) which is disposed
on or extends from the housing. The other end of the instantaneous-actuating rod is
located near an inner wall of the housing.
[0033] Pushing up and pushing down the handle (3) drive the movement of the
instantaneous-actuating mechanism, including the simultaneous movement of the
two side walls of the limiting slot. Pushing up is closing the circuit breaker, and, through
a connecting rod, movement of the handle also drives the operating mechanism to
operate. Simultaneously, the handle also pushes the instantaneous-actuating rod to
operate in synchronization or cooperation with the motion of the operating
mechanism. As the end of the elastic curved arm of the instantaneous-actuating
mechanism is shaped as a hook and hung towards an end of the shaft pile of the
operating mechanism, with increasing force, the increased force is transferred onto
the handle. When the handle thrust reaches a level which disengages the hook, the
handle thrust instantly unloads and transfers onto the operating mechanism. This
instantaneous force closes the operating mechanism instantly which results in a rapid
closure and very light ablation damage of the arc flash to those metal contacts

                                             9
responsible for the closure of the circuit, thus improving the product life. Pushing the
handle down opens the circuit breaker such that both the moving and fixed contacts
are separated from each other, and meanwhile the end of the elastic curved arm
shaped as a hook engages with (or hooks) the shaft pile of the operating mechanism,
which means the circuit breaker is in a disconnected position.
[0034] The operating mechanism comprises a concave wheel (7), a rotating arm (8), a
lock wheel (9) and a support shaft (10). The support shaft is installed into the shaft pile
(6) of the housing, and the instantaneous-actuating rod (5) is located at the back of
the concave wheel (7) of the operating mechanism towards an outer edge of the shaft
pile (6). A torsional spring (not shown in the figures) is placed in a groove of the
concave wheel. One end of the torsional spring is disposed in an aperture in an inner
wall of the groove and the other end is secured to the rotating arm. A raised shoulder
of the rotating arm is position into the concave wheel and is locked together with the
concave wheel by the torsional spring and combines into a support arm, the
components of which can rotate independently or cooperatively. The support shaft (10)
extends through the middle of the support arm, which moves in a cambered or curved
manner along the support shaft. The concave wheel and the rotating arm of the
operating mechanism are arranged such that the form an expandable/contractible
track on an upper end of the support arm, the track being able to contain one end of
a U-rod (11). The other end of the U-rod (11) is secured to the handle (3).
[0035] The arc-ignition device is in the forme of an iron sheet (12), which is placed in
the housing and embedded into it and completely covered by the cover to thereby
forming an integrated arc-ignition device.
[0036] The moving contact (15) is placed in the middle of the arc-ignition device. There
is a riveting shaft in the middle of the housing, and a copper part of the arc-ignition
angle (16) is spread along the riveting shaft. There is also an arc-ignition bent iron (17)
disposed in the arc-ignition angle.
[0037] The grip-shape arm rod (91) extends from a lower end of the lock wheel (9),
the upper end of the grip-shape arm rod is hollowed out and incorporates a half arc
trench-shape gap (92), which contains an arc-shape wall (81) protruded by the support
arm, and the lock wheel (9) moves along the arc-shape wall.
[0038] A tripping rod (18) is placed at one end of the grip-shape arm rod (91), and one
end of the tripping rod is restrictively located at the raised boundary (19) of the base
and moves back and forth along the raised boundary, and the other end of the tripping
rod is restrictively located within the groove (20) disposed at a boundary of the base.
There is a thermal tripping device (21) between two ends of the tripping rod.
[0039] Both inner sides of the housing of the high breaking capacity MCB are provided
with arc-ignition devices, which are installed on the housing but are spaced from the

                                             10
housing (by partitions), which is convenient for gas to flow away instantaneously. In
fact, when the circuit breakers are used to regulate large electrical currents, the gas
may be a high heat, fast expanding plasma gas accompanied by arc and
instantaneously attaches to the arc-ignition device. If the arc-ignition device is exposed
at the moment, the arc will burn out the arc-ignition device unavoidably, and the arc
flash will rekindle and burn out the circuit breaker under serious situations. If the area
(or span) of the arc-ignition device is very narrow, yet the arc-ignition device is
disposed below the arc-ignition channel, then with small short-circuit current such as
6K\4.5K\3K, the hot gas and arc generally will not expand into the opposite side of the
arc-ignition device therefore it will not cause arc flash short circuit and rekindling.
However, the 10K short-circuit current is at a rather different level, the arc light, arc
heat, energy and gas are all generated more instantaneously and at a larger scale, so
the measures for protecting the arc-ignition device and guiding the gas flow are
especially important.
[0040] The arc extinguishing device is in the form of an arc chute (13) which has an arc
extinguishing chamber inside. Through holes are distributed on one side of the outer
casing of the arc chute (13) and are arranged in two opposing rows. The upper edge of
the outer casing of the arc chute is close to the magnetic steel outer wall (14) and the
lower edge is close the arc-ignition device. At an external side of the arc extinguishing
chamber near the housing, and positioned behind the arc chute, is provided a plurality
of gas channels of various shapes. The arc extinguishing chamber and the tripper
chamber are connected. The arc chute is composed by two rows of seventeen iron
sheets, each row is embedded into the outer casing equidistantly. This arrangement
aims to increase the arc spacing of the arc extinguishing area and increase the arc
spaces to 18 intervals. When the arc flash is more divided into equal parts, the voltage
at both ends of the arc chute will be increased, thus the arc flash will not rekindle or
re-ignite. This enables the arc flash to subside or die out along the arc path formed of
the spaced iron sheets. Also, using a greater number of iron sheets to form the arc
chute increases the metal area and accordingly the area of metal arc cooling, which
can lower the temperature rapidly, and the arc light will disappear naturally because
of the rapidly reduced temperature. When the circuit breaker opens and closes the
circuit in instances of large faulty current, the energy generated instantaneously will
heat the gas, which scatters in the housing accompanied by arc flash. However, the
optimized channels can assist with the even thermal expansion of the housing so that
the circuit breaker will not burst or explode.
[0041] The moving contact of the operating mechanism of the high breaking capacity
MCB is attached to the operating mechanism (not shown in the figures) by one or more
screws. This connection is different from the glue connection, which is convenient for
disassembly and assembly, i.e. it is easy and quick to assemble without the effect of
the instability of the glue so that the housing components can be firmly and efficiently

                                            11
assembled. The moving contact is located in the middle of the arc-ignition device. A
riveting shaft is dispose in the middle of the housing, and the copper part of the arc
ignition angle spreads along the riveting shaft. There is also an arc-ignition bent iron
in the arc-ignition angle.
[0041] The basic principles, main features and advantages of this invention have been
shown and described above. The technicians of this field should realize that this
invention is not restricted by above implementation examples, which are only to
explain or illustrate the principles or workings of the present invention. Under the
premise of being without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention, simple
changes and replacements by ordinary technicians of this field are both within the
scope of protection of this invention.

                                           12
                                       CLAIMS
1. A high breaking capacity MCB comprises a housing, a cover, an operating
   mechanism, an instantaneous-actuating mechanism, an arc-ignition device and an
   arc extinguishing device, wherein the instantaneous-actuating mechanism
   comprises a handle, a handle torsional spring and an instantaneous-actuating rod;
   the instantaneous-actuating rod is able to move at both ends; one end of the
   instantaneous-actuating rod proximal to a lower end of the handle is provided with
   a limiting slot, the lower end of the handle having a protruding end portion
   positioned into the limiting slot; another end of the instantaneous-actuating rod
   furthest from the limiting slot incorporates an elastic arm with a hook shaped end
   capable of engaging with the operating mechanism of the MCB.
2. A high breaking capacity MCB according to claim 1, wherein the operating
   mechanism comprises a concave wheel, a rotating arm, a lock wheel a support
   shaft, and a torsional spring connecting the concave wheel and the rotating arm.
3. A high breaking capacity MCB according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the arc-ignition
   device is in the form of an iron sheet, the iron sheet is embedded in the housing
   and disposed beneath the cover, thereby forming an integrated arc-ignition device,
   which has a moving contact and an arc-ignition angle comprising a copper part
   spread along a riveting shaft, an arc-ignition bent iron being disposed in the arc
   ignition angle.
4. A high breaking capacity MCB according to claim 3, wherein the arc extinguishing
   device is an arc chute formed from iron sheets equidistantly arranged in two rows
   with seventeen iron sheets in each row, the arc chute having an extinguishing
   chamber therein, a plurality of gas channels being disposed adjacent the
   extinguishing chamber and positioned behind the arc chute, the arc extinguishing
   chamber being connected to a tripper chamber.
5. A high breaking capacity MCB according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein a grip
   shape arm rod extends from a lower end of the lock wheel, an upper end of the
   grip-shape arm rod incorporates a half arc-trench-shape gap, which contains an
   arc-shape wall protruded by a support arm, and the lock wheel moves along the
   arc-shape wall; and wherein a tripping rod is placed at one end of the grip-shape
   arm rod, the tripping rod capable of moving along a base, and a thermal tripping
   device is disposed between two ends of the tripping rod.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
