             LEATHER PRODUCTION USING WASTE LIQUIDS
                                       Abstract
       A process for leather production from a raw animal hide includes the steps
of pre-soaking, soaking, unhairing and liming, re-liming, deliming and bating,
pickling and tanning, degreasing, re-tanning, neutralizing, dyeing and fatliquoring,
and washing the processed hide. Waste liquid is collected from at least one of the
foregoing steps is recycled to at least one of the foregoing steps. The collected
waste liquid can be recycled to the same step, to a different step, or to two of more
steps in the process.

            LEATHER PRODUCTION USING WASTE LIQUIDS
Cross-Reference to Related Application
[0001]     This application is related to and claims priority benefits from Chinese
patent application No. 201510826825.3 filed on November 25, 2015, which is
hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. This application is also a
divisional of Australian patent application No. <removed-apn>, the entire contents
of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
Field of the Invention
[0002]     The present invention relates to the technical field of leather
production with waste liquids in the tanning industry.
Background of the Invention
[0003]     During tanning production processes, large quantities of waste liquids
and waste solids are produced, which contain plentiful lime, salts, oil and
grease, ammonia and other nitrogen compounds, proteins, sulfides, chromates,
dyes, hairs, leather residues, silts, and other waste products. The wastes have
very high chemical oxygen demand (COD) and biochemical oxygen demand
(BOD), high variation coefficients and a stench. These industrial wastes are
difficult to treat and generate serious contamination to the environment.
[0004]     As society is setting higher standards for environmental protection,
how to treat tanning waste liquids has become a difficult issue that must be
addressed by the industry. To solve this difficult problem, through many years
of research and development, and commercial applications, it has been found
that the waste liquids are actually valuable and can be reused since they contain
a lot of beneficial ingredients. Making leather with waste liquids can produce
leather with quality

superior to those made from conventional processes that use fresh water. Enzymes
and decomposition products in the waste liquids are all beneficial for leather
production. For example, amino acids and saponified substances are beneficial for
filling collagen fibers and enable the waste liquids to maintain a stable state. The
present process takes advantage of the beneficial properties of waste liquids to
produce leather using waste liquids. The present process effectively solves
environmental protection issues for the tanning industry, and improves product
quality. This new process provides the tanning industry with both economic and
environmental benefits.
[0005]     In the tanning industry, the terms "hide" and "skin" are oftentimes used
interchangeably, each referring to the integument or natural covering of an animal.
Since the term "hide" is most often associated with larger animals such as cows or
bison, the term "hide" will be used hereinafter. It should be understood, however,
that the process for the production of leather described and claimed herein can be
applied equivalently to animal skin as well as animal hide.
Summary of the Invention
[0006]     A process for producing leather uses waste liquids that are repeatedly
employed to produce improved leather products. A waste liquid is employed in one
or more of the steps of the process. Combinations of waste liquids can be
employed in one or more of the steps of the process.
[0007]     The present process for producing leather using waste liquids comprises
at least one of the following steps:
[0008]     (1)    A pre-soaking step in which liquid waste and chemicals ordinarily
                  added are used. Liquid waste is collected at the end of this step.
                                            2

           The pre-soaking step employs at least one of a soaking agent, a
           bactericide, a degreasing agent, salt or an alkali.
[0009] (2) A soaking step in which liquid waste and chemicals ordinarily
           added are used to restore dry skins to freshness and remove soluble
           proteins and grease from raw skins. The soaking step employs at
           least one of a soaking agent, an enzyme, a bactericide, a degreasing
           agent, salt or an alkali. Liquid waste is collected at the end of this
           step.
[0010] (3) An unhairing and liming step in which liquid waste and chemicals
           ordinarily added are used to remove hairs from skins and filter out
           the hairs. The unhairing and liming step employs at least one of a
           liming agent, an enzyme, lime, a lime dispersant, sodium
           hydrosulfide, sodium sulfide, a degreasing agent, salt or an alkali
           to remove hair from the hide. Liquid waste is collected at the end
           of this step.
[0011] (4) A re-liming step in which liquid waste and chemicals ordinarily
           added are used. The re-liming step employs at least one of a liming
           agent, an enzyme, lime, a lime dispersant, sodium hydrosulfide,
           sodium sulfide, a degreasing agent or an alkali. Liquid waste
           collected at the end of this step.
[0012] (5) A deliming and bating step in which liquid waste and chemicals
           ordinarily added are used. The deliming and bating step employs at
           least one of a deliming agent, an enzyme, a lime dispersant, a
                                       3

            degreasing agent, ammonium sulfate or an acid. Liquid waste is
            collected at the end of this step.
[0013] (6)  A pickling and tanning step in which liquid waste and chemicals
            ordinarily added are used. The pickling and tanning step employs
            at least one of a degreasing agent, salt, a fungicide, an acid, a
            fatliquoring agent, a cross-linking agent, chrome powder, a
            basifying agent or sodium formate. Liquid waste is collected at the
            end of this step.
[0014] (7)  A degreasing step in which liquid waste and chemicals ordinarily
            added are used. The degreasing step employs at least one of a
            degreasing agent, formic acid or oxalic acid. Liquid waste is
            collected at the end of this step.
[0015] (8)  A re-tanning process in which liquid waste and chemicals
            ordinarily added are used. The re-tanning step employs at least one
            of chrome powder, a tanning agent, a protein filling agent, an
            aliphatic aldehyde or an acrylic resin tanning agent. Liquid waste
            is collected at the end of this step.
[0016] (9)  A neutralizing step in which liquid waste and chemicals ordinarily
            added are used. The neutralizing step employs at least one of a
            neutralizing agent, sodium formate, calcium formate, sodium
            bicarbonate or ammonium sulfate. Liquid waste is collected at the
            end of this step.
[0017] (10) A dyeing and fatliquoring step in which liquid waste and chemicals
            ordinarily added are used. The dyeing and fatliquoring step
                                       4

                 employs at least one of melamine, dicyanodiamide, a syntan, a
                 vegetable tanning agent, a synthetic fatliquoring agent, a sulfited
                 fatliquor, a sulfated fatliquor, a cationic fatliquor, neatsfoot oil or
                 lecithin. Liquid waste is collected at the end of this step.
[0018]    (11)   A water washing step in which liquid waste remaining in the drum
                 is used.
[0019]    The liquid waste referred to in the foregoing steps is generated by each
individual step, namely, pre-soaking, soaking, unhairing, liming, re-liming,
deliming, bating, pickling, tanning, degreasing, re-tanning, neutralizing, dyeing,
fatliquoring and water washing steps, or a combination of two or more steps.
[0020]    In operation, liquid waste is recycled at least once in the foregoing
process.
[0021]    In the process of leather production with waste liquids, the combination
of some steps does not substantially affect the efficacy of the process.
[0022]    In the process of leather production with waste liquids, the filtration of a
waste liquid does not substantially affect the efficacy of the process.
[0023]    In the process of leather production with waste liquids, the precipitation
of a waste liquid does not substantially affect the efficacy of the process.
[0024]    In the process of leather production with waste liquids, the pressurization
of a waste liquid does not substantially affect the efficacy of the process.
[0025]    In the process of leather production with waste liquids, the aeration of a
waste liquid does not substantially affect the efficacy of the process.
                                             5

[0026]     In the process of leather production with waste liquids, the stirring of a
waste liquid does not substantially affect the efficacy of the process.
[0027]     In the process of leather production with waste liquids, the chemical
treatment of a waste liquid does not substantially affect the efficacy of the process.
[0028]     In the process of leather production with waste liquids, the biological
treatment of a waste liquid does not substantially affect the efficacy of the process.
[0029]     In the process of leather production with waste liquids, the combined use
of a waste liquid and fresh water does not substantially affect the efficacy of the
process.
[0030]     The waste liquids contain plentiful ingredients that are favorable for
leather production, such as lime, deliming agents, soaking agents, liming agents,
sulfides, acids, enzymes, tanning agents, saponified substances, and amino acids.
For example, amino acids and saponified substances can be used to fill collagen
fibers, which can improve the quality of finished products.
[0031]     In the process of leather production with waste liquids, if the waste
liquids are treated with procedures such as filtration, precipitation, compression,
stirring, aeration, chemical treatment and biological methods, these procedures will
likely change the composition of the waste liquids. Therefore, a step would need to
be adjusted accordingly when a treated waste liquid is used.
[0032]     The original waste liquids used in the present process are generated from
pre-soaking, soaking, unhairing, liming, re-liming, deliming, bating, pickling,
tanning, degreasing, re-tanning, neutralizing, dyeing, fatliquoring and water
washing procedures, or some of these steps. Typically, waste liquids from pre
                                           6

soaking and soaking contain soaking agents, NaCl, Na 2 CO 3 , degreasing agents,
saponified substances, hair, keratin, and mucins. With respect to the residual
contents in these waste liquids, the degreasing agents are typically 15% to 30% of
the original amount, 10% to 40% for soaking agents, and 20% to 50% for Na 2 CO 3 .
Waste liquids from unhairing, liming and re-liming procedures contain saponified
substances, salts, lime, liming agents, S 2 -, OH-, Na+, Ca2+, amino acids, enzymes
and amines. With respect to the residual contents in these waste liquids, the
residual content of lime is typically 30% to 65% of the original amount, and the
residual content of sulfides is typically 0.1 to 8.0 g/L. Waste liquids from deliming
and bating contain amino acids, deliming agents, degreasing agents, saponified
substances, enzymes, ammonium salts and amines. The residual content of
enzymes is typically 20% to 50% of the original amount, and the residual content
of ammonium salts is typically 20% to 40% of the original amount. Tanning waste
liquids contain tanning agents, salts, amino acids, and saponified substances. The
residual content of Cr3+ is typically 2.0 to 3.5 g/L, and Cl- is typically 5.0 to 15 g/L.
Waste liquids from degreasing and re-tanning contain Na+, Cr3+ and tanning
agents. Neutralizing waste liquids contain neutral salts and the like. Waste liquids
from fatliquoring and dyeing contain chemical materials such as fatliquoring
agents, dyes and auxiliary dyeing agents. If these waste liquids are discharged
freely, these waste liquids will not only cause significant contamination to the
environment, but will also result in a great waste of resources.
[0033]     The present process substantially overcomes the contamination problems
in the tanning industry, simplifies the tanning process, significantly reduces the
discharge of tanning waste liquids and solid wastes, saves water, conserves land
use for environmental protection, lowers required investments in environmental
protection facilities, reduces the use of chemical preparations for environmental
                                             7

protection, and lowers human costs for environmental protection, saves on the use
of chemical materials in the tanning process, and improves product quality.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0034]    FIG. 1 is a flow diagram of the process for producing leather with waste
liquids.
Detailed Description of Illustrative Embodiment(s)
[0035]    The present process will be further described below with reference to
FIG. 1 and the following examples.
                                     Example 1
                                   (Soaking! Step)
[0036]    As shown in FIG. 1, in a soaking step, relative to the weight of raw hide,
the following components are added to a drum containing the raw hide: 160%
waste liquid collected from a previously performed soaking step, 0.24% ELIPO-S
(tradename for a composition comprising sodium dimethyldithiocarbonate, sodium
hexametaphosphate and polyphosphoric acid sodium salt; available from Biosk
(SQ) Chemicals Co., Limited, No. 6 Changjiang East Road, Shangqiu
Development Zone, Henan, China), 0.35% bactericide, 0.5% soaking agent, 0.25%
degreasing agent, 0.4% soda ash, and 0.2% soaking enzyme. The drum is then
rotated for 120 min. at a temperature of 22'C. The drum is then rotated for 15 min.
every hour, for 12 hours, with the rotation then stopped for 45 min. before
repeating this rotate/stop sequence each overnight hour. On the second day, the
drum is rotated continuously for 20 min., and the soaking step then ends.
                                           8

                                      Example 2
                            (Unhairing!and Liming! Step)
[0037]     As shown in FIG. 1, in an unhairing and liming step, relative to the
weight of soaked hide, the following components are added to the drum containing
the raw hide: 120% waste liquid collected from a previously performed unhairing
and liming step, 0.20% ELIPO-L (tradename for another composition comprising
sodium dimethyldithiocarbonate, sodium hexametaphosphate and polyphosphoric
acid sodium salt; available from Biosk (SQ) Chemicals Co., Limited), and 2.5%
liming agent DO-PRO (tradename for a composition comprising sodium silicate
and dimethyl sulfoxide; available from Biosk (SQ) Chemicals Co., Limited). The
drum is then rotated for 30 min. at a temperature of 15'C. 2 . 5 % lime is then added
to the drum, and the drum is then rotated for 20 min. and then stopped for 20 min.
 1.2% sodium sulfide is then added to the drum and the drum is rotated for 50 min.
The hair is then filtered for 150 min. The following components are then added to
the drum: 0.3% sodium sulfide, 0.1% NaHS, and 0.2% lime. The drum is then
rotated for 20 min., stopped for 20 min., and the rotate/stop sequence is repeated
one more time. The following components are then added to the drum: 20% waste
liquid collected from a previously performed unhairing and liming step, 0.03%
ELIPO-L, 0.2% sodium sulfide, 0.3% lime, 0.4% liming agent DO-PRO. The drum
is then rotated for 10 min., stopped for 20 min., and this rotate/stop sequence is
repeated five more times. The following components are then added to the drum:
65% waste liquid collected from a previously performed unhairing and liming step,
0.10% ELIPO-L, and 0.050%liming enzyme. The drum is then rotated for 5 min.
The drum is then rotated for 15 min. every hour for 12 hours, with the rotation then
stopped for 45 min. before repeating this rotate/stop sequence each overnight hour.
                                           9

On the second day, the drum is rotated continuously for 30 min., and the unhairing
and liming step then ends.
                                     Example 3
                                  (Re-liming Step)
[0038]    As shown in FIG. 1, in a re-liming step, relative to the weight of unhaired
and limed hide, the following components are added to the drum: 180% waste
liquid collected from a previously performed re-liming step, 0.27% ELIPO-L. The
drum is then rotated for 5 min. The following components are then added to the
drum: 1.0% lime and 1.5 % liming agent DO-PRO. The drum is then rotated for 10
min., and then rotated for 2 min. and stopped for 58 min., and this rotate/stop
sequence is repeated four more times. The re-liming step then ends.
                                     Example 4
                            (Deliming! and Bating! Step)
[0039]    As shown in FIG. 1, in a deliming and bating step, relative to the weight
of limed hide, the following components are added to the drum: 80% waste liquid
collected from a previously performed deliming and bating step, 0. 12% ELIPO-L,
0.2% degreasing agent and 1.5% deliming agent. The drum is then rotated for 30
min. 0.1 %bating enzyme is then added to the drum, and the drum is then rotated
for 30 min. The deliming and bating step then ends.
                                     Example 5
                                 (Deg!reasing! Step)
[0040]    The hide is shaved between the pickling and tanning step and the present
degreasing step. As shown in FIG. 1, in the degreasing step, relative to the weight
of shaved hide, 200% waste liquid collected from a previously performed
                                         10

degreasing step and 0.3% ELIPO-L are added to the drum. The drum is then
rotated for 10 min. at a temperature of 40'C. 0.3% degreasing agent and 0.3%
oxalic acid are then added to the drum, and the drum is then rotated for 60 min.
The degreasing step then ends.
                                     Example 6
                                 (Re-tanning Step)
[0041]    As shown in FIG. 1, in a re-tanning step, relative to the weight of shaved
hide, the following components are added to a drum: 150% waste liquid collected
from a previously performed re-tanning step, 0.22% ELIPO-L and 0.3% formic
acid are added to the drum. The drum is then rotated for 10 min. at a temperature
of 25'C. 1.0% aliphatic aldehyde is then added to the drum, and the drum is then
rotated for 30 min. The following components are then added to the drum: 2.0%
chromium powder, 1.5% re-tanning agent, and the drum is then rotated for 60 min.
 1.0% sodium formate is then added to the drum, and the drum is then rotated for 20
min. 0.2% baking soda and 0.3% liming agent DO-PRO are then added to the
drum, and the drum is then rotated for 60 min. The drum is stopped for 8 hours. On
the second day, the drum is rotated for 20 min. The re-tanning step then ends.
                                     Example 7
                                (Neutralizing Step)
[0042]    As shown in FIG. 1, in a neutralizing step, relative to the weight of
shaved hide, the following components are added to the drum: 180% waste liquid
collected from a previously performed neutralizing step, 0.27% ELIPO-L, 2.0%
neutralizing agent, and 1.5% sodium formate. The drum is then rotated for 30 min.
0.3% liming agent DO-PRO and 0.5% softening agent are then added to the drum,
and the drum is then rotated for 60 min. The neutralizing step then ends.
                                         11

                                     Example 8
                           (Dyeing and Fatliquoring Step)
[0043]    As shown in FIG. 1, in a dyeing and fatliquoring step, relative to the
weight of shaved hide, the following components are added to the drum: 50%
waste liquid collected from a previously performed dyeing and fatliquoring step,
0.08% ELIPO-L, 2.0% acrylic acid re-tanning agent, and 2.0% filler (bulking
agent). The drum is then rotated for 30 min. at a temperature of 35'C. The
following components are then added to the drum: 3.5% cyanoguanidine re
tanning agent, 1.5% superlight synthetic filler, 4.0% mimosa extract, 2.0%
displacement tannin, and 2.0% dye. The drum is then rotated for 80 min. 150%
waste liquid and 0.23% ELIPO-L are then added to the drum, and the drum is then
rotated for 10 min. at a temperature of 50'C. The following components are then
added to the drum: 2.5% compound fatliquoring agent, 2.5% lecithin, 1.5%
synthetic fatliquoring agent, 0.5% neatsfoot oil. The drum is then rotated for 60
min. 1.5% acetic acid and 1.0% formic acid are then added to the drum in three
batches, with each batch added 20 min. apart. The dyeing and fatliquoring step
then ends.
                                     Example 9
                                 (Pre-soaking Step)
[0044]    As shown in FIG. 1, in a pre-soaking step, relative to the weight of raw
hide, 150% waste liquid collected from a previously performed deliming and
bating step is added to the drum, as well as 0.l15% ELIPO-S, 0.3% bactericide,
0.2% soaking agent, 0.2% degreasing agent, 0.3% soda ash (sodium carbonate).
The drum is then rotated for 180 min. at a temperature of 22'C. The pre-soaking
step then ends.
                                          12

                                     Example 10
                            (Unhairing and Liming! Step)
[0045]     As shown in FIG. 1, in an unhairing and liming step, relative to the
weight of raw hide, 60% waste liquid collected from a previously performed
soaking step and 1.5% liming agent DO-PRO are added to the drum, and the drum
is then rotated for 30 min. The following components are then added to the drum:
 1.8% lime, 20% waste liquid collected from a previously performed liming step,
and 0. 1% ELIPO-L. The drum is then rotated for 10 min. 1.2% Na 2 S is then added
to the drum, and the drum is then rotated for 20 min. 30% waste liquid collected
from a previously performed liming step and 0.05% ELIPO-L, and the hair is then
filtered for 120 min. The following components are then added to the drum: 0.75%
sodium sulfide, 0.3% NaHS, and 1.0% lime are then added to the drum. The drum
is then, rotated for 20 min., stopped for 20 min., and this rotate/stop sequence is
then repeated one more time. The following components are then added to the
drum: 20% waste liquid collected from a previously performed liming step, 0.03%
ELIPO-L, 0.2% sodium sulfide, 0.8% lime, and 0.8% liming agent DO-PRO. The
drum is then rotated for 10 min., stopped for 20 min., and this rotate/stop sequence
is then repeated five more times. The following components are then added to the
drum: 65% waste liquid collected from a previously performed liming step, 0.15%
ELIPO-L, and 0.1% liming enzyme. The drum is then rotated for 5 min. The drum
is then rotated for 15 min. every hour for 13 hours, with the rotation then stopped
for 45 min. before repeating this rotate/stop sequence each overnight hour. The
unhairing and liming step then ends.
                                           13

                                          14
                                     Example 11
                                   (Re-liming Step)
[0046]     As shown in FIG. 1, in a re-liming step, relative to the weight of limed
hide, 120% waste liquid collected from a previously performed liming and re
liming step and 0.15% ELIPO-L are added to the drum. The drum is then rotated
for 5 min. 0.4% liming agent DO-PRO is then added to the drum, and the drum is
then rotated for 10 min. The drum is then rotated for 2 min., stopped for 58 min.,
and this rotate/stop sequence is then repeated three more times. The re-liming step
then ends.
                                     Example 12
                            (Pickling and Tanning Step)
[0047]     As shown in FIG. 1, in a pickling and tanning step, relative to the weight
of limed hide, the following components are added to the drum: 50% waste liquid
collected from a previously performed deliming and bating step, 0.1% ELIPO-L,
0.3% fungicide, and 0.5% salts. The drum is then rotated for 10 min. 0.5% formic
acid is then added to the drum, and the drum is then rotated for 10 min. 1.8%
sulfuric acid is then added to the drum, and the drum is then rotated for 90 min.
1.0% sodium formate is then added to the drum, and the drum is rotated for 30
min. 2.5% chromium powder is then added to the drum, and the drum is then
rotated for 30 min. 2.0% chromium powder is then added to the drum, and the
drum is then rotated for 60 min. 0.2% ELIPO-L is then added to the drum, and the
drum is then rotated for 30 min. 0.3% basifying agent is then added to the drum,
and the drum is then rotated for 4 hr. 80% waste liquid collected from a previously
performed pickling and tanning step and 0.12% ELIPO-L are then added to the

drum, and the drum is then rotated for 5 hr. at a temperature of 40 C. The pickling
and tanning step then ends.
                                    Example 13
                                 (Degreasing Step)
[0048]    As shown in FIG. 1, in a degreasing step, relative to the weight of
shaved, the following components are added to the drum: 80% fresh water, 120%
waste liquid collected from a previously performed degreasing step and 0.1%
ELIPO-L. The drum is then rotated for 10 min. at a temperature of 40'C. The
following components are then added to the drum: 0.1% degreasing agent, 0.2%
liming agent DO-PRO, and 0.15 % formic acid. The drum is then rotated for 60
min. The degreasing step then ends.
                                    Example 14
                                 (Re-tanning! Step)
[0049]    As shown in FIG. 1, in a re-tanning step, relative to the weight of shaved,
the following components are added to the drum: 100% fresh water, 100% waste
liquid collected from a previously performed re-tanning step, 0.15% ELIPO-L, and
0.5% formic acid. The drum is then rotated for 10 min. at a temperature of 35'C.
3.5% chromium powder and 1.0% re-tanning agent are then added to the drum, and
the drum is rotated for 60 min. 1.0% aliphatic aldehyde and 1.0% sodium formate
are then added to the drum, and the drum is then rotated for 20 min. 0.3% baking
soda and 0.2% liming agent DO-PRO are then added to the drum. The drum is then
rotated for 60 min. The drum is then stopped for 10 hours. On the second day, the
drum is rotated for 20 min. The re-tanning step then ends.
                                         15

                                     Example 15
                                (Neutralizing! Step)
[0050]     As shown in FIG. 1, in a neutralizing step, relative to the weight of
shaved, the following components are added to the drum: 100% fresh water, 100%
waste liquid collected from a previously performed neutralizing step, 0.3% ELIPO
L, 2.0% neutralizing tannin, 1.0% sodium formate, and 0.2% liming agent DO
PRO. The drum is then rotated for 40 min at a temperature of 32'C. 0.3% baking
soda is then added to the drum, and the drum is then rotated for 60 min. The
neutralizing step then ends.
                                     Example 16
                          (Dyeing and Fatliquoring Step)
[0051]     As shown in FIG. 1, in a dyeing and fatliquoring step, relative to the
weight of shaved hide, the following components are added to the drum: 20% fresh
water, 30% waste liquid collected from a previously performed dyeing and
fatliquoring step, 0.05% ELIPO-L, 2.0% acrylic acid re-tanning agent, and 2.0%
filler (bulking agent). The drum is then rotated for 30 min. at a temperature of
30'C. The following components are then added to the drum: 4.5%
cyanoguanidine re-tanning agent, 1.5% superlight synthetic filler, 4.0% mimosa
extract, 2.0% displacement tannin, and 2.0% black dye. The drum is then rotated
for 80 min. The following components are then added to the drum: 100% waste
liquid collected from a previously performed dyeing and fatliquoring step, 50%
fresh water, and 0.45% ELIPO. The drum is then rotated for 10 min. at a
temperature of 50'C. The following components are then added to the drum: 2.8%
compound fatliquoring agent, 2.8% lecithin, 1.5% synthetic fatliquoring agent, and
0.5% neatsfoot oil. The drum is then rotated for 60 min. 1.2% acetic acid and 1.0%
                                          16

formic acid are then added to the drum in three batches, with each batch added 20
min. apart The dyeing and fatliquoring step then ends.
[0052]    Most of the chemical materials used in the above examples are available
from Biosk (SQ) Chemicals Co., Limited, including ELIPO-L, ELIPO-S and DO
PRO.
[0053]    FIG. 1 is an overview of a leather production process 100 employing
recycling. As shown in process 100 of FIG. 1, there can be a pre-soaking step 110,
wherein liquid waste 114 is collected in a reservoir, vessel, container, or drum at
step 112 (in any of the forgoing steps, a "drum" can be any type of vessel for
capturing the referenced material). At step 111, this liquid waste is employed in
future pre-soaking steps or other steps. Process 100 can comprise a soaking step
 115, in which liquid waste 119 is collected in a vessel during step 117, and
employed in future soaking or other steps in step 116. Process 100 can comprise an
unhairing and liming step 120, in which liquid waste 124 is collected in a vessel
during step 122, and employed in future unhairing and liming or other steps in step
 121. Process 100 can comprise a re-liming step 125, in which liquid waste 129 is
collected in a vessel during step 127, and employed in future unhairing and liming
or other steps in step 126.
[0054]    Process 100 can comprise a deliming and bating step 130, in which liquid
waste 134 is collected in a vessel during step 132, and employed in future deliming
and bating or other steps in step 131. Process 100 can comprise a pickling and
tanning step 135, in which liquid waste 139 is collected in a vessel during step 137,
and employed in future pickling and tanning or other steps in step 136. Process 100
can comprise a degreasing step 140, in which liquid waste 144 is collected in a
vessel during step 142, and employed in future degreasing or other steps in step
                                           17

141. Process 100 can comprise a re-tanning step 145, in which liquid waste 149
is collected in a vessel during step 147, and employed in future re-tanning or
other steps in step 146.
[0055]    Process 100 can comprise a neutralizing step 150, in which liquid
waste 154 is collected in a vessel during step 152, and employed in future
neutralizing or other steps in step 151. Process 100 can comprise a dyeing and
fatliquoring step 155, in which liquid waste 159 is collected in a vessel during
step 157, and employed in future dyeing and fatliquoring or other steps in step
156.
[0056]    In some embodiments, a washing step 160 of process 100 in FIG. 1 is
present, wherein the hide is washed with water. In some embodiments, the
waste liquid from washing is collected, and in some embodiments the liquid
waste of other steps in process 100 is used in washing step 160. Liquid waste
164 is collected in a vessel at step 162, and is employed in future washing steps
at 161. In some embodiments, the liquid waste is employed in other steps.
Depending on the chosen embodiment, a washing step 160 can be performed at
different points of processes 100. In some embodiments, a washing step can be
performed multiple times during process 100.
[0057]    While particular elements, embodiments and applications of the present
invention have been shown and described, it will be understood, that the
invention is not limited thereto since modifications can be made by those skilled
in the art without departing from the scope of the present disclosure, particularly
in light of the foregoing teachings.
Forms of the invention
[0058] Forms of the present invention include:
                                          18

 1.       A process for the production of leather comprising at least one of the
following steps:
(a)       pre-soaking a raw hide and collecting the pre-soaking waste liquid;
(b)       soaking the hide and collecting the soaking waste liquid;
(c)       unhairing and liming the hide and collecting the unhairing and liming
waste liquid;
(d)       re-liming the hide and collecting the re-liming waste liquid;
(e)       deliming and bating the hide and collecting the deliming and bating
waste liquid;
(f)       pickling and tanning the hide and collecting the pickling and tanning
waste liquid;
(g)       degreasing the hide and collecting the degreasing waste liquid;
(h)       re-tanning the hide and collecting the re-tanning waste liquid;
(i)       neutralizing the hide and collecting the neutralizing waste liquid;
(j)       dyeing and fatliquoring the hide and collecting the dyeing and
fatliquoring waste liquid; and
(k)       washing the hide with water and collecting the washing waste liquid,
wherein the collected waste liquid from the at least one step is recycled to at
least one step.
2.        The leather production process of form 1, wherein the waste liquid
collected from the at least one step is recycled to the same at least one step.
3.        The leather production process of form 1, wherein the process
comprises at least two of steps (a) - (k) and the waste liquid collected from at
least one of steps (a) - (k) is recycled to at least one of another of steps (a) - (k).
4.        The leather production process of form 1 or form 2, wherein the pre
soaking step employs at least one of a soaking agent, a bactericide, a degreasing
agent, salt or an alkali.
                                           19

5.        The leather production process of form 1 or form 2, wherein the
soaking step employs at least one of a soaking agent, an enzyme, a bactericide,
a degreasing agent, salt or an alkali.
6.        The leather production process of form 1 or form 2, wherein the
unhairing and liming step employs at least one of a liming agent, an enzyme,
lime, a lime dispersant, sodium hydrosulfide, sodium sulfide, a degreasing
agent, salt or an alkali.
7.        The leather production process of form 1 or form 2, wherein the re
liming step employs at least one of a liming agent, an enzyme, lime, a lime
dispersant, sodium hydrosulfide, sodium sulfide, a degreasing agent or an alkali.
8.        The leather production process of form 1 or form 2, wherein the
deliming and bating step employs at least one of a deliming agent, an enzyme, a
lime dispersant, a degreasing agent, ammonium sulfate or an acid.
9.        The leather production process of form 1 or form 2, wherein the
pickling and tanning step employs at least one of a degreasing agent, salt, a
fungicide, an acid, a fatliquoring agent, a cross-linking agent, chrome powder, a
basifying agent or sodium formate.
 10.      The leather production process of form 1 or form 2, wherein the
degreasing step employs at least one of a degreasing agent, formic acid or oxalic
acid.
 11.      The leather production process of form 1 or form 2, wherein the re
tanning step employs at least one of chrome powder, a tanning agent, a protein
filling agent, an aliphatic aldehyde or an acrylic resin tanning agent.
                                         20

 12.      The leather production process of form 1 or form 2, wherein the
neutralizing step employs at least one of a neutralizing agent, sodium formate,
calcium formate, sodium bicarbonate or ammonium sulfate.
 13.      The leather production process of form 1 or form 2, wherein the dyeing
and fatliquoring step employs at least one of melamine, dicyanodiamide, a
syntan, a vegetable tanning agent, a synthetic fatliquoring agent, a sulfited
fatliquor, a sulfated fatliquor, a cationic fatliquor, neatsfoot oil or lecithin.
 14.      The leather production process of any one of forms 1 to 13, wherein
the efficacy of the process is unaffected by combined use of a waste liquid and
fresh water.
 15.      Product obtained by a process according to any one of forms I to 14.
                                           21

                                            22
CLAIMS
       1.    A process for the production of leather comprising at least one of the
following steps:
       (a)   pre-soaking a raw hide and collecting the pre-soaking waste liquid;
       (b)   soaking the hide and collecting the soaking waste liquid;
       (c)   unhairing and liming the hide and collecting the unhairing and liming
             waste liquid;
       (d)   re-liming the hide and collecting the re-liming waste liquid;
       (e)   deliming and bating the hide and collecting the deliming and bating
             waste liquid;
       (f)   pickling and tanning the hide and collecting the pickling and tanning
             waste liquid;
       (g)   degreasing the hide and collecting the degreasing waste liquid;
       (h)   re-tanning the hide and collecting the re-tanning waste liquid;
       (i)   neutralizing the hide and collecting the neutralizing waste liquid;
       (j)   dyeing and fatliquoring the hide and collecting the dyeing and
             fatliquoring waste liquid; and
       (k)   washing the hide with water and collecting the washing waste liquid,
wherein the collected waste liquid from the at least one step is recycled to at least
one step and wherein the efficacy of the process is improved by combined use of a
waste liquid and fresh water.
       2.    The leather production process of claim 1, wherein the waste liquid
collected from the at least one step is recycled to the same at least one step.
       3.    The leather production process of claim 1, wherein the process
comprises at least two of steps (a) - (k) and the waste liquid collected from at least
one of steps (a) - (k) is recycled to at least one of another of steps (a) - (k).

                                           23
       4.     The leather production process of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the pre
soaking step employs at least one of a soaking agent, a bactericide, a degreasing
agent, salt or an alkali.
        5.    The leather production process of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
soaking step employs at least one of a soaking agent, an enzyme, a bactericide, a
degreasing agent, salt or an alkali.
        6.    The leather production process of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
unhairing and liming step employs at least one of a liming agent, an enzyme, lime,
a lime dispersant, sodium hydrosulfide, sodium sulfide, a degreasing agent, salt or
an alkali.
        7.    The leather production process of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the re
liming step employs at least one of a liming agent, an enzyme, lime, a lime
dispersant, sodium hydrosulfide, sodium sulfide, a degreasing agent or an alkali.
        8.    The leather production process of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
deliming and bating step employs at least one of a deliming agent, an enzyme, a
lime dispersant, a degreasing agent, ammonium sulfate or an acid.
        9.    The leather production process of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
pickling and tanning step employs at least one of a degreasing agent, salt, a
fungicide, an acid, a fatliquoring agent, a cross-linking agent, chrome powder, a
basifying agent or sodium formate.
        10.   The leather production process of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
degreasing step employs at least one of a degreasing agent, formic acid or oxalic
acid.
        11.   The leather production process of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the re
tanning step employs at least one of chrome powder, a tanning agent, a protein
filling agent, an aliphatic aldehyde or an acrylic resin tanning agent.

                                            24
       12.    The leather production process of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
neutralizing step employs at least one of a neutralizing agent, sodium formate,
calcium formate, sodium bicarbonate or ammonium sulfate.
       13.    The leather production process of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
dyeing and fatliquoring step employs at least one of melamine, dicyanodiamide, a
syntan, a vegetable tanning agent, a synthetic fatliquoring agent, a sulfited
fatliquor, a sulfated fatliquor, a cationic fatliquor, neatsfoot oil or lecithin.
       14     Product obtained by a process according to any one of claims 1 to 13.
       15.    A process for the production of leather comprising at least one of the
following steps:
              (a) pre-soaking a raw hide and collecting the pre-soaking liquid;
              (b) soaking the hide and collecting the soaking waste liquid;
              (c) unhairing and liming the hide and collecting the unhairing and
liming waste liquid;
              (d) re-liming the hide and collecting the re-liming waste liquid;
              (e) deliming and bating the hide and collecting the deliming and
bating waste liquid;
              (f) pickling and tanning the hide and collecting the pickling and
tanning waste liquid;
              (g) degreasing the hide and collecting the degreasing waste liquid;
              (h) re-tanning the hide and collecting the re-tanning waste liquid;
              (i) neutralising the hide and collecting the neutralising waste liquid;
              CI) dyeing and fatliquoring the hide and collecting the dyeing and
fatliquoring waste liquid; and
              (k) washing the hide with water and collecting the washing waste
liquid, wherein the collected waste liquid from the at least one step is recycled to at
least one step,

                                            25
             wherein the process comprises at least two steps of (a) - (k) and the
waste liquid collected from at least one of steps (a) - (k) is recycled to at least one
of another of steps (a) - (k).
                                   Zhuangdou Zhang
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                SPRUSON & FERGUSON

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+274B> <U+25CF><U+2701> <U+2736>                              1/1

