                                          ABSTRACT
The present invention provides a method for extracting lipids from microorganisms without
using a nonpolar organic solvent as an extraction solvent. In particular, the present invention
provides a method for extracting lipids from microorganisms by lysing cells and removing
water soluble compound and/or materials by washing the lysed cell mixtures with aqueous
washing solutions until a substantially non-emulsified lipid is obtained.ed and deodorized.

                                                    1
                             SOLVENTLESS EXTRACTION PROCESS
           The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent application
   number <removed-apn> which in turn is a divisional application from Australian patent
 5 application number 2014203384, which in turn is a divisional application from Australian
   patent application number 2012200890, which in turn is a divisional application from
   Australian patent application number 2008229885, which in turn is a divisional application
   from Australian patent application number 2005202980, which in turn is a divisional
   application from Australian patent application number 29636/01, the entire disclosures of
10 which are incorporated herein by reference.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           The present      invention is   directed to   a process     for extracting    lipids  from
   microorganisms without the use of any significant amount of a nonpolar organic solvent.
15
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   A typical microorganism lipid manufacturing process, such as production of omega-3 highly
   unsaturated fatty acid, in particular, a lipid mixture rich in docosahexaenoic acid (DHA),
   involves growing microorganisms which are capable of producing the desired lipid in a
20 fermentor, pond or bioreactor, isolating the microbial biomass, drying it, and extracting
   intracellular lipids with a nonpolar organic solvent, e.g., hexane. Generally, intracellular lipids
   of microorganisms are extracted after rupturing (i.e., lysing) dried cells of the microorganisms.
   The extracted lipids are can be further refined to produce high purity and/or quality lipids. The
   microorganisms are generally isolated by first diluting the fermentation broth with water, and
25 centrifuging the mixture to isolate microorganisms. The cells are then dried and if the lipids
   are not extracted immediately or soon thereafter, the cells are packaged, for example, in
   vacuum-sealed bags, to prevent degradation of lipids.
           Unfortunately, the drying process exposes the microorganisms to heat, which can
   damage, i.e., degrade the quality of, lipids if done incorrectly. The vacuum-sealed bags may
30 develop leaks, which can further degrade the quality of the lipids due to exposure of the
   microorganisms to air. In addition, if the dried microorganisms are not treated with an
   antioxidant, lipids can be further degraded due to exposure to air and or light. For example,
   carotenoids, xanthophylls and long chain fatty acids like DHA may degrade due to oxidation
   by air and/or light. Furthermore, in some cases operators who are exposed to the dried

                                                      2
   microorganisms can develop an allergic reaction creating a safety and/or health hazard to
   operators.
           Moreover, in an industrial scale production, the large amount of volatile and
   flammable nonpolar organic solvent used in lipid extraction can create hazardous operating
 5 conditions. The use of nonpolar organic solvent in the extraction process may necessitate
   using an explosion-proof oil recovery system, thereby adding to the cost of lipid recovery.
   Moreover, use of an nonpolar organic solvent in extracting lipids from microorganisms
   generates an nonpolar organic solvent waste stream requiring a proper disposal method, which
   further increases the overall production cost of lipid extraction.
10         Therefore, there is a need for a process for extracting lipids from microorganisms
   which does not require the use of a nonpolar organic solvent. There is also a need for a lipid
   extraction process from microorganisms which does not require the expensive step of drying
   the microorganisms prior to extraction.
           The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles and the like is included
15 in this specification solely for the purpose of providing a context for the present invention. It
   is not suggested or represented that any or all of these matters formed part of the prior art base
   or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present invention as it existed
   before the priority date of each claim of this application.
           Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in
20 this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of
   the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not precluding the presence of one or
   more other features, integers, steps or components, or group thereof.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
25         One embodiment of the present invention provides a process for obtaining lipid from
   microorganisms comprising:
           (a)      lysing cells of the microorganisms to produce a lysed cell mixture;
           (b)      treating the lysed cell mixture to produce a phase separated mixture comprising
                    a heavy layer and a lipid-rich light layer, wherein said heavy phase comprises
30                  an aqueous solution;
           (c)      separating the heavy layer from the lipid-rich light layer; and
           (d)      obtaining the lipid and/or lipid fractions from the light layer.
           Another embodiment of the present invention provides a process for obtaining lipids
   for microorganisms comprising:

                                                      3
           (a)     growing microorganisms in a culture medium;
           (b)    treating said culture medium and the microorganism cells to release
                  intercellular lipids;
           (c)    subjecting the culture medium containing the released intercellular lipids to
 5                gravity separation to form a light lipid-containing phase and a heavy phase;
           (d)    separating said light phase from said heavy phase;
           (e)    treating said light phase to break an emulsion formed between said lipid and
                  water; and
           (f)    recovering a crude lipid.
10         In accordance with another embodiment of the present invention, a process is provided
   for recovering lipids from microorganisms comprising the steps:
           (a)     growing said microorganisms in a culture medium;
           (b)    treating microorganism cells from said culture medium without drying said
                  cells to release intercellular lipids;
15         (c)    subjecting the culture medium containing the released intracellular lipids to
                  gravity separation to form a light lipid-containing phase and a heavy phase,
                  wherein said heavy phase comprises an aqueous solution;
           (d)    separating said light phase from said heavy phase;
           (e)    treating said light phase to break an emulsion formed between said lipid and
20                water; and
           (f)    recovering a crude lipid.
           Preferably, the microorganisms are cultured in a fermentation medium in a fermentor.
   Alternatively, the microorganisms can be cultured photosynthetically in a photobioreactor or
   pond. Preferably, the microorganisms are lipid-rich microorganisms, more preferably, the
25 microorganisms are selected from the group consisting of algae, bacteria, fungi and protists,
   more preferably, the microorganisms are selected from the group consisting of golden algae,
   green algae, dinoflagelates, yeast, fungi of the genus Mortierella, and Stramenopiles.
   Preferably, the microorganisms comprise microorganisms of the genus Mortierella, genus
   Crypthecodinium, and order Thraustochytriales, and more preferably, microorganisms are
30 selected from the genus Thraustochytrium, Schizochytrium or mixtures thereof, more
   preferably, the microorganisms are selected from the group consisting of microorganisms
   having the identifying characteristics of ATCC number 20888, ATCC number 20889, ATCC
   number 20890, ATCC number 20891 and ATCC number 20892, strains of Mortierella

                                                 3a
   schmuckerii, strains of Crypthecodinium cohnii, mutant strains derived from any of the
   foregoing, and mixtures thereof.
           The treatment of the cells includes a treatment to release the lipids such as lysing,
   rupturing or permeabilizing. As used herein, the terms lyse, lysing, lysed, etc., will be used
 5 generically to refer to a treatment to release intercellular lipids, including breaking or
   permeabilizing the cells. Preferably, the treatment is selected from the group consisting of
   heating the cells, exposing the cells to basic conditions, exposing the cells to a chelating
   compound or combinations thereof. More preferably the lysing or rupturing of the cells
   comprises heating the cells to at least 50'C while exposing the cells to basic conditions, a
10 chelating compound or mixtures thereof.
           Preferably, the gravity separation comprises passing the fermentation broth containing
   the released intercellular lipids through a centrifuge, such as stacked-disc-, separator- or
   decanter-type centrifuges.

                                                    4
            The separated lysed cell mixture comprises a heavy layer which comprises an
   aqueous solution which contains the solid materials resulting from the lysed cells, and a
   light layer which contains lipids.         The light and heavy layers can be separated by
   centrifugation. The lipids may be present in an emulsified state. The light layer can be
 5 further washed with an aqueous washing solution until the lipid becomes substantially
   non-emulsified.     Preferably the treatment to break the emulsion comprises mixing the
   emulsion with water, alcohol, acetone or mixtures thereof and subjecting the mixture to
   gravity separation. Preferably, the process is performed without using nonpolar organic
   solvents such as hexane.
10          When the lipid extraction process of the present invention includes using
   microorganisms from a fermentalon process, the extraction process can also include
   solubilizing at least part of proteinaceous compounds in a fermentation broth by adding a
   base selected from the group consisting of hydroxides, carbonates, bicarbonates,
   phosphates and mixtures thereof.
15          The process of the present invention can also include heating the microorganisms
   to temperature of at least about 50 C. Preferably, a chemical compound, such as a base,
   is added to the culture medium to aid in the lysing of the cells.
            As an alternative to heating, the cells can be lysed with the assistance of a
   chelating compound such as EDTA. In addition to assisting in lysing or rupturing the
20 cells, the chelators assist in preventing oxidation of the lipids during processing by
   chelating (binding with) free radical-producing metal ions in the fermentation broth such
   as iron or copper. Preferred forms of chelators are those that are considered food grade or
   GRAS (Generally Recognized As Safe). Effective chelating compounds include EDTA,
   citric acid or citrate, lactic acid, trisodium phosphate, polyphosphate, hexametaphosphate,
25 EGTA, DTPA, phytic acid, or CDTA and other salt forms of these compounds. In one
   embodiment, sodium EDTA is added to the cells to degrade the cell walls by chelating the
   divalent cations which assist in holding the cell walls together.        The process can be
   performed at higher temperatures with less EDTA or lower temperatures with higher
   concentrations of EDTA.           For example, we have found that DHA-rich cells of
30 Schizochytrium sp. can be permeabilized and/or ruptured by addition of EDTA to the
   cultures at the end of the fermentation process.         A concentration of 10,000 ppm is
   required to assist in rupturing the cells at 30*C, a concentration of 5,000 ppm at 50"C and
   at temperatures above 70"C concentrations of lower than 1000 ppm are effective.

                                                    5
   Chelators can be added to the fermentation broth to make the cells easier to break by
   physical processes such as homogenization. In addition to a chelator, water can also be
   added to increase the internal osmotic pressure in order to lyse the cells.
           Preferably, the microorganisms are capable of growth at salinity level of less than
 5 about 12 g/L of sodium chloride, more preferably less than about 5 g/L of sodium
   chloride and most preferably less than about 3 g/L of sodium chloride. Preferably, the
   microorganisms are capable of growth at salinity levels of less than about 7 g/L of sodium
   and less than about 250 mg/L of chloride. Preferably, the chloride is present in an amount
   from about 70 to about 150 mg/L.
10         Preferably, the microorganisms comprise at least about 20% by weight of lipid,
   more preferably at least about 30% by weight, and most preferably at least about 40%.
   Alternatively at least about 20%, more preferably, at least about 20% of the lipid is
   cholesterol, phytosterols, desmosterol, tocotrienols, tocopherols, ubiquinones, carotenoids
   and xanthophylls such as beta-carotene, lutein, lycopene, astaxanthin, zeaxanthin,
15 canthaxanthin, and fatty acids such as conjugated linoleic acids, and omega-3 and omega
   6 highly unsaturated fatty acids such as eicosapentaenoic acid, docosapentaenoic acid,
   and docosahexaenoic acid, arachidonic acid, stearidonic acid, dihomogammalinolenic
   acid and gamma-linolenic acid or mixtures thereof, preferably at least about 30%, and
   more preferably at least about 40%.
20         In one particular aspect of the present invention the microorganisms are capable of
   producing at least about 0.1 grams per liter per hour of a mixture of lipids, preferably
   including cholesterol, phytosterols, desmosterol, tocotrienols, tocopherols, ubiquinones,
   carotenoids and xanthophylls such as beta-carotene, lutein, lycopene, astaxanthin,
   zeaxanthin, canthaxanthin, and fatty acids such as conjugated linoleic acids, and omega-3
25 and   omega-6      highly   unsaturated    fatty   acids such    as   eicosapentaenoic   acid,
   docosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid, arachidonic acid, stearidonic acid,
   dihomogammalinolenic acid and gamma-linolenic acid or mixtures thereof, more
   preferably at least about 0.2 g/L/h, still more preferably at least about 0.3 g/L/h, and most
   preferably at least about 0.4 g/L/h.
30         In another aspect of the present invention, the microorganism is selected from the
   group consisting of algae, fungi, bacteria and protists. Preferably, the microorganisms are
   of the order Thraustochytriales. More preferably the microorganisms are selected from
   the genus Thraustochytrium,Schizochytrium and mixtures thereof. And most preferably,

                                                   6
   the microorganisms are selected from the group consisting of microorganisms having the
   identifying characteristics of ATCC number 20888, ATCC number 20889, ATCC number
   20890, ATCC number 20891 and ATCC number 20892, mutant strains derived from any
   of the foregoing, and mixtures thereof. Preferably, the microorganisms are selected from
 5 the group consisting of microorganisms having the identifying characteristics of ATCC
   number 20888 and ATCC number 20889, and more preferably ATCC number 20888,
   mutant strains derived from any of the foregoing, and mixtures thereof.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
10         Figure 1 is a flow diagram of one embodiment of a solventless extraction process
   of the present invention.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention is directed to a process for extracting, recovering, isolating
15 or obtaining lipids from microorganisms.          The process of the present invention is
   applicable to extracting a variety of lipids from a variety of microorganisms, for example,
   extracting    lipids   containing  cholesterol,   phytosterols,   desmosterol,  tocotrienols,
   tocopherols, ubiquinones, carotenoids and xanthophylls such as beta-carotene, lutein,
   lycopene, astaxanthin, zeaxanthin, canthaxanthin, and fatty acids such as conjugated
20 linoleic acids, and omega-3 and omega-6 highly unsaturated fatty acids such as
   eicosapentaenoic acid, docosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid, arachidonic
   acid, stearidonic acid, dihomogammalinolenic acid and gamma-linolenic acid or mixtures
   thereof,   more     preferably,   omega-3    highly   unsaturated    fatty acids,  such    as
   docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and/or docosapentaenoic
25 acid (DPA) (i.e., the omega-3 form of DPA), in particular lipids containing a relatively
   large amount of DHA, from microorganisms producing the same; and extracting lipids
   containing omega-6 highly unsaturated fatty acids, such as arachidonic acid and
   docosapentaenoic acid (DPA) (i.e., the omega-6 form of DPA)from microorganisms
   producing the same. Exemplary microorganisms which produce a relatively large amount
30 of omega-3 highly unsaturated fatty acids are disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Patent
   Nos. 5,340,594 and 5,340,742, both issued to Barclay, and exemplary microorganisms
   which produce a relatively large amount of arachidonic acid are disclosed in commonly

                                                  7
   assigned U.S. Patent No. 5,583,019, issued to Barclay. All of the above disclosed patents
   are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
            For the sake of brevity, however, this detailed description of the invention is
   presented for purposes of convenience and illustration for the case of extracting lipids
 5 comprising omega-3 highly unsaturated fatty acid from microorganisms producing the
   same, in particular extracting lipids from microorganisms that produce a relatively high
   amount of DHA. It is to be understood, however, that the invention as a whole is not
   intended to be so limited, and that one skilled in the art will recognize that the concept of
   the present invention will be applicable to other microorganisms producing a variety of
10 lipid compositions in accordance with the techniques discussed herein.                  These
   microorganisms include microorganisms, such as fungi, protists, algae and bacteria,
   which produce a variety of lipids, such as phospholipids; free fatty acids; esters of fatty
   acids, including triglycerides of fatty acids; sterols; pigments (e.g., carotenoids and
   oxycarotenoids) and other lipids, and lipid associated compounds such as phytosterols,
15 ergothionine, lipoic acid and antioxidants including beta-carotene, tocotrienols, and
   tocopherol. Preferred lipids and lipid associated compounds include, but are not limited
   to,  cholesterol,  phytosterols,    desmosterol,   tocotrienols,   tocopherols,  ubiquinones,
   carotenoids and xanthophylls such as beta-carotene, lutein, lycopene, astaxanthin,
   zeaxanthin, canthaxanthin, and fatty acids such as conjugated linoleic acids, and omega-3
20 and    omega-6    highly    unsaturated  fatty   acids    such   as eicosapentaenoic     acid,
   docosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid, arachidonic acid, stearidonic acid,
   dihomogammalinolenic acid and gamma-linolenic acid or mixtures thereof For the sake
   of brevity, unless otherwise stated, the term "lipid" refers to lipid and/or lipid associated
   compounds.      Other lipids and microorganisms which may be suitable for use in the
25 instant invention will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.
           Typical microbial lipid (in particular an oil containing an omega-3 highly
   unsaturated fatty acid such as DHA) manufacturing processes involve growing
   microorganisms which produce DHA in a fermentor, isolating the microorganisms,
   drying the microbial biomass and extracting the intracellular lipids with an non-polar
30 organic solvent, e.g., hexane. The extracted lipid is generally further refined to produce a
   high purity and/or quality lipid. The isolation of microorganisms involves diluting the
   fermentation broth with water and centrifuging the mixture to isolate microorganisms.
   When lipids are not extracted immediately or soon after isolating the microorganisms, the

                                                   8
   isolated microorganisms are typically dried,for example, on a drum dryer, and sealed in a
   package, e.g., in vacuum-sealed bags, to prevent degradation of lipids. Unfortunately, the
   drying process exposes the microorganisms to heat, which can damage, i.e., degrade the
   quality of, the lipid if done incorrectly.     The package may develop leaks, which can
 5 further degrade the quality of the lipids. Furthermore, if the dried microorganisms are not
   treated with an antioxidant, the exposure of microorganisms to air and/or light can further
   degrade the lipids.
            Recovering the crude oil directly from the fermentation broth avoids these
   problems. Avoiding the non-polar organic solvent extraction step reduces manufacturing
10 costs and also eliminates operator exposure to the dried microorganisms, which can cause
   an allergic response in some individuals.
            The   present    invention   provides    a method     for  obtaining  lipids   from
   microorganisms using a substantially nonpolar organic solvent free extraction process,
   i.e., a "solventless" extraction process. The term "solventless extraction process" refers
15 to an extraction process which, when an aqueous or polar solvent is used, the aqueous or
   polar solvent includes less than about 5% of a nonpolar organic solvent, preferably less
   than about 4%, more preferably less than about 2%, and most preferably less than 1%.
   However, solvents can be employed in downstream steps such as in a refining process.
   The process of the present invention can include obtaining or isolating microorganisms,
20 preferably from a fermentation process.        In contrast to the current methods prior art
    processes such as the extraction of oils from soybeans in which the soybeans must be
   dried, the process of the present invention does not require a drying step prior to the
   extraction process. Thus, processes of the present invention are applicable to extracting
   lipids from a microbial biomass containing at least about 10% by weight entrained water,
25 preferably at least about 20%, more preferably at least about 30%, and most preferably at
   least about 50%. When the microorganisms are obtained from a fermentation process, the
   process of the present invention can include adding a base to the fermentation broth to
   dissolve any proteinaceous compound that may be present in the broth.           "Bases" are
   substances which show alkali (basic) reactions in watery solutions, i.e. they attach protons
30 and dissociate hydroxide ions.       The base should be strong enough to hydrolyze or
   solubilize at least a portion of proteinaceous compounds that may be present in the broth.
   Bases which are useful for solubilizing proteins are well known to one of ordinary skill in
   the art of chemistry. Exemplary bases which are useful in the processes of the present

                                                 9
   invention include, but are not limited to, hydroxides, carbonates and bicarbonates of
   lithium, sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium carbonate.             Other very basic
   compounds like basic phosphate salts, such as trisodium phosphate, can also be used.
           The process of the present invention can also include rupturing or lysing the cells
 5 of microorganisms to release the lipids which are present within the cells. Cells can be
   lysed using any of the known methods including chemical; thermal; mechanical,
   including, but not limited to, french press, mills, ultrasonication, homogenization, and
   steam explosion; and combinations thereof. In a thermal lysing of cells, the fermentation
   broth containing microorganisms are heated until cells, i.e., cell walls, of microorganisms
10 degrade or breakdown. Typically, the fermentation broth is heated to a temperature of at
   least about 50"C, preferably at least about 75 0C, more preferably to at least about 100"C,
   and most preferably to at least about 130*C. An important aspect of the process is to
   maintain the temperature below that temperature at which the extracted lipids can be
   degraded. Thermally lysing the cell walls of microorganisms is particularly useful for
15 microorganisms whose cell walls are composed of proteins.          During this process the
   headspace of the fermentor can be filled with nitrogen or another inert gas to prevent
   oxidation of the lipids by oxygen.
           Heating the broth also denatures proteins and helps solubilize organic materials,
   including proteins. Heating of the fermentation broth step can be achieved by any of the
20 known methods, including the use of an in-line heat exchanger, and preferably by
   sparging steam into the fermentation broth and maintaining the broth at a desired
   temperature for less than about 90 minutes, preferably less than about 60 minutes, and
   more preferably less than about 30 minutes.
           The solventless extraction process of the present invention can also include at
25 least partially separating the spent fermentation broth from the lipids. Typically, this is
   achieved by centrifuging, e.g., by passing the broth through a stacked-disc, separator or
   decantor centrifuge, and collecting lipids as an emulsion phase. Centrifuging the mixture
   results in a two phase mixture comprising a heavy layer and a light layer. Typically, the
   heavy layer is an aqueous phase, which contains the majority of cellular debris. The light
30 layer which contains emulsified lipids is then diluted with water, again separated into two
   phase mixture and the light layer is again isolated, This dilution with water, separation
   and isolation processes (i.e., washing process) can be achieved continuously by feeding
   water and removing the heavy layer throughout the process or it can be conducted in

                                                10
   discreet steps.    The washing process is generally repeated until a substantially non
   emulsified lipid layer is obtained, although minor amounts of emulsion can remain. It is
   believed that the oil-water interface of the emulsion is stabilized by residual cellular
   debris which is removed by the washing process.          During the washing process, the
 5 successive amount of water added is reduced to increase the lipid content.           While
   reducing the amount of feed water too quickly can result in loss of lipids to the aqueous
   phase, reducing the amount of feed water too slowly results in an inefficient washing
   process.    One can readily determine an appropriate rate of feed water reduction by
   observing or analyzing the separated aqueous layer. Generally, the lipid layer, i.e., the
10 light layer, is colored; therefore, in many cases one can determine an appropriate rate of
   feed water reduction by simply analyzing or observing the color of the aqueous layer
   which is separated from the lipid layer.
           Alternatively, and preferably, the emulsion can be broken, and the oil recovered
   using the deoiling process outlined in WO 96/05278 which is incorporated herein by
15 reference in its entirety. In this process a water soluble compound, e.g., alcohol and/or
   acetone, is added to the oil/water emulsion to break the emulsion and the resulting
   mixture is separated by centrifugation The isolated lipid can be further refined using a
   process similar to that used to refine standard vegetable oils. Briefly, the lipid refining
   process generally involves hydrating phospholipids by adding phosphoric acid to the lipid
20 followed by adding sodiumium hydroxide to neutralize free fatty acids.               These
    compounds are removed via centrifugation. This is then followed by a water wash step to
    further remove any remaining amounts of hydrated phospholipids             ("gums") and
   neutralized fatty acids ("soapstock") in the lipid. The resulting lipid is bleached using
   TrysilTM and a standard bleaching clay. Citric acid is also added to remove divalent metal
25 ions by chelation. The TrysilTM and bleaching clay are then removed via filtration to
   produce refined lipid. The bleached lipid can be cold filtered to remove high melting
   point compounds that may be present in the lipid; however, this step is generally seldom
   required.
           The resulting lipid can be further refined by removing any low molecular weight
30 components that may be present. Typically, these components are removed by sparging
   with steam at high temperatures, under high vacuum. This process also destroys any
   peroxide bonds which may be present and reduces or removes off- odors and helps

                                                   11
   improve the stability of the oil. An antioxidant may then be added to the resulting
   deodorized lipid to improve product stability.
            During the refining process, the isolated lipid can be winterized to remove high
   melting compounds, such as saturated fatty acids. The winterization process generally
 5 involves dissolving the isolated lipid in an organic solvent, e.g., hexane, cooling the
   resulting organic solution, and filtering the solution to remove the high melting point
   components of the lipid or stearine phase. The winterization process generally produces a
   clear lipid, especially when the isolated lipid is cloudy or opaque. As will be appreciated,
   the use of a solvent such as hexane is acceptable in processes such as the above described
10 "refining" process.       Alternatively, the isolated lipid can be chilled and solidified
   impurities can be filtered out, without employing a solvent.
           The refining, bleaching, deodorizing process outlined above would be used for
   triglyceride-rich lipid mixtures. Alternatively, or in addition to this process, other lipids,
   for example, pigments or carotenoids can be separated and purified, e.g., by partition into
15 various solvents, chromatographic methods, etc.
           While, the process of the present invention can include isolating microorganisms
   from a fermentation process, one of the advantages of the present invention is that it
   allows fermentation of microorganisms and isolation of lipids to be carried out in a single
   vessel. For example, after the fermentation, one can add base to the fermentation vessel
20 and heat the mixture to lyse cells. After separating the phase into a heavy layer and a
   light layer, the light layer can be transferred to another vessel for further processing or the
   heavy layer can be removed from the fermentation vessel, for example, by draining
   through the bottom of the fermentation vessel, and the remaining light layer can be
   further processed within the same fermentaton vessel.
25          If the concentration of lipids in the cells of the microbial culture is high (e.g.,
   greater than about 20%) but the concentration of cells is low (e.g., less than about 40 g/L),
   as in cells grown in continuous fermentation systems, or cultures of difficult (e.g., fragile)
   to grow cells, or cultures produced in photosynthetically-based culture systems the cells
   can be concentrated, e.g., by centrifugation, filtration, or settling, prior to employing the
30 methods of the invention if necessary.
           Additional objects, advantages, and novel features of this invention will become
   apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following examples thereof,
   which are not intended to be limiting.

                                                12
   Examples
            Process reproducibility was characterized by producing three samples of fully
   refined oil using crude oil from the new solventless extraction process.          A hexane
   extracted sample was also fully refined to serve as a control. The fermentation, extraction
 5 and oil isolation steps were performed at a large scale, while the oil refining studies were
   performed at.a small scale.
           The    fully  refined   oil samples   were    analyzed   to   demonstrate    process
   reproducibility.
10 Fermentation:
           An oil-rich microorganism (Schizochytrium sp.) was grown in a 1200 gallon
   fermenter to produce a fermentation broth for the following extraction processes.         A
   single batch was used to generate the starting broth for the three solventless extraction
   processes.    The fermentation was allowed to run for 94 hours, while controlling the
15 glucose levels at 13 g/L, after which time the corn syrup feed was terminated. Residual
   glucose levels dropped to <5 g/L four hours later. This resulted in a final age of 98 hours.
   The final broth volume was 958 gallons. The final yield was 146 g/L dry weight of cells.
   Both in-process contamination checks and a thorough analysis of a final broth sample
   failed to show any signs of contamination.
20
   Hexane-Extracted Control Sample:
            A small aliquot of broth from the fermentation batch was drum-dried and
   extracted with hexane to serve as a control sample.       The biomass intermediate       was
   recovered using a double-drum dryer. Analysis of this lipid is shown in Table 1.
25
                   Table 1. Analysis of drum dried Schizochytrium sp. biomass.
     Parameter                                        Value
     DHA Content (FAME basis)                        35.7%
     Oil Content                                     62.7%
     Peroxide Value (meq/kg)                         2.6
     Total Plate Count (cfu/g)                       <50
     DHA Content                                     20.3%
     FAME Content                                    56.9%
   * cellular dry weight basis

                                                 13
   Solventless Extraction Process:
             Crude oil was obtained by treating three 400-gallon aliquots (approx.) of the
   fermentation broth.       Each 400-gallon aliquot from the fermentor was processed
   separately, starting with the caustic/heat treatment steps. Each aliquot was treated with
 5 20 grams of 45% KOH per liter and heated to 130'C for about 30 minutes by passing
   steam through the fermentation broth. The crude oil was recovered from the treated broth
   using a commercial-scale Westfalia HFA-100 stacked-disc centrifuge. Summary results
   for various process parameters are reported in Table 2, and the final crude oil analysis
   results are shown in Table 3.
10
                   Table 2. Process Data from the Solventless Extraction Process.
    BrothTreatment_                                SFE-1          SFE-2           SFE-3
    Broth Treatment
       Volume of Broth Processed                   288 gal        288 gal        258 gal
       Final Treated pH                            7.5            8.0             8.7
       Final Volume After Heat Treatment           388 gal        398 gal        308 gal
       Volume Increase From Condensate             34.7%          38.2%           19.4%
     1 st Pass Emulsion
       Total Volume (gal)                          180            133             149
       Est. Oil Concentration (w/w)                12.0%          24.5%           16.1%
       Apparent Density (g/mL)                     0.986          0.991          0.999
    Oil Isolation
       Total Crude Oil Recovered (lb)              182            165             174
       DHA Oil Lot Number Assigned                 SFI A          SF2A            SF3A
           Table 3. Analysis of Lots of DHA oil from the Solventless Extraction  Process.
    Parameter                                      SFIA           SF2A            SF3A
    DHA Content (%FAME)                            39.0%          38.6%          39.2%
    Peroxide Value (meq/kg)                        4.6            1.8            2.0
     Acid Value (mg KOH{/g)                        N/D            N/D            N/D
     Moisture Content                              N/D            N/D            N/D
15
   Refining:
             A sample from each aliquot of crude oil was winterized, refined, bleached and
   deodorized at a small scale, as was a sample of the crude oil from the hexane-extracted
   control.    Miscellaneous process data from these small scale experiments is shown in
20 Table 4, including recovery efficiencies for the various processing steps. While it is
   difficult to read too much into recovery efficiencies for bench-scale processes, as losses

                                                 14
   tend to be disproportionately large, the values listed in Table 4 show that values for the
   solventless-extracted samples tend to bracket the values measured for the hexane
   extracted control, with the one exception being the winterization step. While the recovery
   efficiency during the winterization step for the hexane control was lower than those
 5 observed for the other three samples, this difference is insignificant from a statistical
   perspective.   The high losses during the winterization step caused the overall recovery
   efficiency for the hexane-control sample to be lower as well. The lower yield would not
   be expected to have a significant impact on the overall quality of the oil. All in all,
   differences in the processing of the various oil samples were minimal.
10
                Table 4. Miscellaneous Process Data from the Oil Refining Steps.
                                              HEX-I           SFIA             SF2A         | SF3A
    Processing Conditions
      Miscella Concentration                  45.0%           52.9%          1 52.8%        | 45.0%
      Steam Sparge Rate                       3.4%            3.4%           | 2.5%         | 2.2%
    Recovery Efficiencies                                                                  I
      Winterization                           80.6%           92.3%          1 87.7%        | 85.5%
      Refining                                89.4%           84.8%          | 91.8%        195.0%
      Water Wash                              90.6%           94.5%         195.8%          |81.2%
      Bleaching                               86.1%           89.2%          | 87.3%       I 84.1%
      Deodorization                           97.4%           96.1%         197.2%          | 97.5%
      Packaging                               88.2%           89.7%          | 89.3%       195.8%
      Overall                                 48.2%           56.9%          | 58.5%          51.8%
           Fully refined oil samples from the three solventless extraction runs, and the
   hexane-extracted control, were analyzed and the results are shown in Table 5.              Also
15 shown are the corresponding release specifications for each parameter.
           A sample of the starting crude oil from the solventless extraction run was also
   analyzed for iron content.      The iron content of this sample was 0.08 ppm.              The
   concentration of the other trace metals was all below their respective detection limits.
20       Table 5. QC Results for RBD DHA Oil from the Solventless Extraction Process
                                 compared to hexane extracted oil.
    Hexane                                           Solventless Extrac. Process
    Run ID #                         HEX-_           SFA1           SFA2            SFA3
    Peroxide Value (meq/kg)          0.28            0.69           0.35            0.34
    Acid Value (mg KOH/g)            0.17            0.11           0.57            0.24
    Moisture & Volatiles             0.00%           0.06%**        0.00%           0.00%

                                                  15
     Trace Metals (ppm)
      Lead                            <0.20           <0.20          <0.20        <0.20
      Arsenic                         <0.20           <0.20          <0.20        <0.20
      Iron                            0.22            0.21           0.56***      0.02
      Copper                          <0.05           <0.05          <0.05        <0.05
      Mercury                         <0.20           <0.20          <0.20        <0.20
     DHA (%FAME)                      36.9            37.3           37.0         37.7
     DHA (mg/g oil)                   342             345            343          351
     Hexane (ppm)                     <3              <3             <3           <3
   *        Value was reduced to 0.22 mg KOH/g after repeating the refining and bleaching
            steps
   **       Sample analyzed by the San Diego Fermentation Sciences Analytical Group.
   *        Value was reduced to <0.02 ppm after repeating the refining and bleaching steps
 5
            Shown in Table 6 is a more direct comparison of the average analysis results for
   the three samples from the solventless extraction process versus those for the hexane
   control.
10                           Table 6. Comparison of Average Values.
     Hexane                                       Solventless Extraction
     Parameter                        Control     Mean       Std Dev       CV       %Diff
     Peroxide Value (meg/kg)          0.28        0.46       0.20          43.3%    64.3%
     Acid Value (mg KOH/g)            0.17        0.19*      0.06          33.3%     11.2%
     Moisture & Volatiles             0.00%       0.02%      0.03%         173%     ND
     Trace Metals (ppm)
      Lead                            <0.20       <0.20      N/A           N/A      0.0%
      Arsenic                         <0.20       <0.20      N/A           N/A      0.0%
      Iron                            0.22        0.26       0.27          104%      18.2%
      Copper                          <0.05       <0.05      N/A           N/A      0.0%
      Mercury                         <0.20       <0.20      N/A           N/A      0.0%
     DHA Content (%FAME)              36.9%       37.3%      0.4%          0.9%      1.1%
     DHA Content (mg/g)               342         346        4             1.2%      1.2%
     Hexane (ppm)                     <3          <3         N/A           N/A      0.0%
   *        Calculated using the acid value for the re-worked sample.
            The results   from this experiment clearly demonstrate that the solventless
   extraction process is both reproducible and lipids from solventless extraction are
15 relatively indistinguishable from the lipids obtained from hexane extraction process in
   terms of process performance and product quality. The final product from the solventless
   extraction process is substantially equivalent to lipids from a current hexane-based
   extraction process, as determined by similarities between the fatty acid and sterol profiles
   of the product from these two processes.

                                                16
            The present invention, in various embodiments, includes components, methods,
   processes, systems and/or apparatus substantially as depicted and described herein,
   including various embodiments, subcombinations, and subsets thereof. Those of skill in
   the art will understand how to make and use the present invention after understanding the
 5 present disclosure.   The present invention, in various embodiments, includes providing
   devices and processes in the absence of items not depicted and/or described herein or in
   various embodiments hereof, including in the absence of such items as may have been
   used in previous devices or processes, e.g., for improving performance, achieving ease
   and/or reducing cost of implementation.
10          The foregoing discussion of the invention has been presented for purposes of
   illustration and description. The foregoing is not intended to limit the invention to the
   form or forms disclosed herein. Although the description of the invention has included
   description of one or more embodiments and certain variations and modifications, other
   variations and modifications are within the scope of the invention, e.g., as may be within
15 the skill and knowledge of those in the art, after understanding the present disclosure. It
   is intended to obtain rights which include alternative embodiments to the extent
   permitted, including alternate, interchangeable and/or equivalent structures, functions,
   ranges or steps to those claimed, whether or not such alternate, interchangeable and/or
   equivalent structures, functions, ranges or steps are disclosed herein, and without
20 intending      to     publicly     dedicate      any     patentable     subject     matter.

                                                   17
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
        1.      A process for obtaining lipids from microorganisms comprising:
        (a)     growing microorganisms in a culture medium;
        (b)     treating said culture medium and the microorganism cells to release intracellular
lipids;
        (c)     subjecting the culture medium containing the released intracellular lipids to
gravity separation to form a light lipid-containing phase and a heavy phase, wherein said heavy
phase comprises an aqueous solution;
        (d)     separating said light phase from said heavy phase;
        (e)     treating said light phase to break an emulsion formed between said lipid and
water; and
        (f)     recovering a crude lipid,
wherein no nonpolar organic solvent is used.
        2.      The    process   of   Claim    1 wherein   said  microorganisms   are  lipid-rich
microorganisms.
        3.      The process of Claim 1 wherein said microorganisms are selected from the group
consisting of algae, bacteria, fungi and protists.
        4.      The process of Claim 1 wherein said microorganisms are selected from the group
consisting of golden algae, green algae, dinoflagellates, yeast, fungi of the genus Mortierella,
and Stramenopiles.
        5.      The process of Claim 1, wherein said microorganisms comprise microorganisms
of the order Thraustochytriales.
        6.      The process of Claim 5, wherein said microorganisms are selected from the genus
Thraustochytrium, Schizochytrium and mixtures thereof.
        7.      The process of Claim 6, wherein said microorganisms are selected from the group
consisting of microorganisms deposited under ATCC number 20888, ATCC number 20889,
ATCC number 20890, ATCC number 20891 and ATCC number 20892, strains of Mortierella
schmuckeri, strains of Crypthecodinium cohnii, mutant strains derived from any of the foregoing,
and mixtures thereof.

                                                 18
        8.      The process of any one of Claims 1-7, wherein said microorganisms are capable
of producing at least about 0.1 grams per liter per hour of cholesterol, phytosterols, desmosterol,
tocotrienols, tocopherols, ubiquinones, carotenoids and xanthophylls such as beta-carotene,
lutein, lycopene, astaxanthin, zeaxanthin, canthaxanthin, and fatty acids such as conjugated
linoleic acids, and omega-3 and omega-6 highly unsaturated fatty acids such as eicosapentaenoic
acid, docosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid, arachidonic acid, stearidonic acid,
dihomogammalinolenic acid and gamma-linolenic acid or mixtures thereof.
        9.      The process of Claim 8, wherein at least about 20% of said lipid is cholesterol,
phytosterols, desmosterol, tocotrienols, tocopherols, ubiquinones, carotenoids and xanthophylls
such as beta-carotene, lutein, lycopene, astaxanthin, zeaxanthin, canthaxanthin, and fatty acids
such as conjugated linoleic acids, and omega-3 and omega-6 highly unsaturated fatty acids such
as eicosapentaenoic acid, docosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid, arachidonic acid,
stearidonic acid, dihomogammalinolenic acid and gamma-linolenic acid or mixtures thereof.
        10.     The process of any one of Claims 1-9, wherein said treatment includes a treatment
selected from the group consisting of heating said cells, exposing said cells to a basic compound,
exposing said cells to a chelating compound or combinations thereof.
        11.     The process of any one of Claims 1-10, wherein said treatment comprises heating
the cells to at least 50'C before, during or after exposing the cells to a basic compound, a
chelating compound or mixtures thereof.
        12.     The process of any one of Claims 1-11, wherein said gravity separation of step (c)
comprises passing the culture medium containing the released intracellular lipids through a
stacked-disc, separator or decanter centrifuge.
        13.     The process of any one of Claims 1-12, wherein the treatment of step to break the
emulsion comprises mixing the emulsion with water, alcohol and/or acetone and subjecting the
mixture to gravity separation.
        14.     The process      of Claim    13,   wherein   said gravity    separation   comprises
centrifugation.
        15.     The process of Claim 14, wherein said centrifugation includes treatment in a
stacked-disc-, separator- or decanter-type centrifuge.

                                                  19
         16.    The process of Claim 13, wherein said treatment is repeated at least 3 times to
obtain said crude lipid.
         17.    The process of any one of Claims 1-16, wherein said crude lipid is subjected to
further refining or processing to obtain a refined lipid.
         18.    The process of Claim 17, wherein said crude lipid is bleached and deodorized.
         19.    A process for recovering lipids from microorganisms
comprising the steps:
        (a)     growing said microorganisms in a culture medium;
        (b)     treating microorganism cells from said culture medium without drying said cells
to release intracellular lipids;
        (c)     subjecting the culture medium containing the released intracellular lipids to
gravity separation to form a light lipid-containing phase and a heavy phase, wherein said heavy
phase comprises an aqueous solution;
        (d)     separating said light phase from said heavy phase;
        (e)     treating said light phase to break an emulsion formed between said lipid and
water; and
        (f)     recovering a crude lipid,
wherein no nonpolar organic solvent is used.
        20.     The    process   of Claim     19  wherein   said microorganisms    are  lipid-rich
microorganisms.
        21.     The process of Claim 19 wherein said microorganisms are selected from the
group consisting of algae, bacteria, fungi and protists.
        22.     The process of Claim 19 wherein said microorganisms are selected from the
group consisting of golden algae, green algae, dinoflagellates, yeast, fungi of the genus
Mortierella,and Stramenopiles.
        23.     The process of Claim 19, wherein said microorganisms comprise microorganisms
of the order Thraustochytriales.
        24.     The process of Claim 23, wherein said microorganisms are selected from the
genus Thraustochytrium,Schizochytrium and mixtures thereof.

                                                  20
        25.     The process of Claim 24, wherein said microorganisms are selected from the
group consisting of microorganisms deposited under ATCC number 20888, ATCC number
20889, ATCC number 20890, ATCC number 20891 and ATCC number 20892, strains of
Mortierella schmuckeri, strains of Crypthecodinium cohnii, mutant strains derived from any of
the foregoing, and mixtures thereof.
        26.     The process of any one of Claims 19-25, wherein said microorganisms are capable
of producing at least about 0.1 grams per liter per hour of cholesterol, phytosterols, desmosterol,
tocotrienols, tocopherols, ubiquinones, carotenoids and xanthophylls such as beta-carotene,
lutein, lycopene, astaxanthin, zeaxanthin, canthaxanthin, and fatty acids such as conjugated
linoleic acids, and omega-3 and omega-6 highly unsaturated fatty acids such as eicosapentaenoic
acid, docosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid, arachidonic acid, stearidonic acid,
dihomogammalinolenic acid and gamma-linolenic acid or mixtures thereof.
        27.     The process of Claim 26, wherein at least about 20% of said lipid is cholesterol,
phytosterols, desmosterol, tocotrienols, tocopherols, ubiquinones, carotenoids and xanthophylls
such as beta-carotene, lutein, lycopene, astaxanthin, zeaxanthin, canthaxanthin, and fatty acids
such as conjugated linoleic acids, and omega-3 and omega-6 highly unsaturated fatty acids such
as eicosapentaenoic acid, docosapentaenoic acid, and docosahexaenoic acid, arachidonic acid,
stearidonic acid, dihomogammalinolenic acid and gamma-linolenic acid or mixtures thereof.
        28.     The process of any one of Claims 19-27, wherein said treatment of the cells
includes a treatment selected from the group consisting of heating said cells, exposing said cells
to basic conditions, exposing said cells to a chelating compound or combinations thereof.
        29.     The process of any one of Claims 19-28, wherein said treatment of the cells
comprises heating the cells to at least 50'C before, during or after exposing the cells to a basic
condition, a chelating compound or mixtures thereof.
        30.     The process of any one of Claims 19-29, wherein said gravity separation of step
(c) comprises passing the culture medium containing the released intracellular lipids through a
stacked-disc, separator or decanter centrifuge.

                                                   21
        31.     The process of any one of Claims 19-30, wherein the treatment to break the
emulsion comprises mixing the emulsion with water, alcohol and/or acetone and subjecting the
mixture to gravity separation.
        32.     The process      of Claim      31,  wherein said gravity    separation comprises
centrifugation.
        33.     The process of Claim 32, wherein said centrifugation includes treatment in a
stacked-disc-, separator- or decanter-type centrifuge.
        34.     The process of Claim 31, wherein said treatment is repeated at least 3 times to
obtain said crude lipid.
        35.     The process of any one of Claims 19-34, wherein said crude lipid is subjected to
further refining or purification to obtain a refined lipid.
        36.     The process of Claim 35, wherein said crude lipid is bleached and deodorized.
        37.     A lipid made by the process of any one of claims 1-36.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
