                                          ABSTRACT
The disclosure relates to the field of providing a flexible screen which is extensible and
retractable across an opening.     It is desirable to provide a bottom guide track which is
convenient to fit and with a low profile. The disclosed guide track arrangement provides an
elongate mounting member (300) for securing to a support that forms part of the opening,
and which provides at least one elongate connection recess (305, 307); and an elongate
track member (400), formed separately from and attachable to the mounting member (300),
and having a track region (406) with an elongate guide recess (505) for slidingly retaining
an edge of a flexible screen. The track member (400) has at least one engagement part
(402, 404) engageable into the complementary connection recess (305, 307) by lateral
movement of the track member (400) to connect the track member (400) to the mounting
member (300).
Figure 9

        9121
4Z4
    V1%t
             61~

                                                   1
                                  GUIDE TRACK ARRANGEMENT
   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   This application claims priority from Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
   <removed-apn> filed 30 November 2016, Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
 5 <removed-apn> filed 30 November 2016, and Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
   <removed-apn> filed 30 November 2016, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated
   herein by reference.
   FIELD
   The present disclosure relates to a guide track arrangement for use in guiding an edge of
10 an extensible screen, e.g. a lower edge of a horizontal extensible screen. The present
   disclosure further relates to components for use with a guide track arrangement for guiding
   a screen, and to method for installing a screen.
   DEFINITION
   In the specification, the term "comprising" shall be understood to have a broad meaning
15 similar to the term "including" and will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer
   or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or
   group of integers or steps. This definition also applies to variations on the term "comprising"
   such as "comprise" and "comprises".
   BACKGROUND
20 It is known to provide retractable flexible screens which can extend across openings in
   building structures, such as doors and windows.           Some screens, such as those for
   eliminating or reducing passage of insects, are primarily functional when the associated
   door or window opening is open. Other types of screens, such as those for eliminating or
   reducing passage of light, may be used with great utility whether the associated door or
25 window opening is open or closed. Some screens may serve a dual purpose: for example,
   a screen which is primarily an insect screen may also moderate passage of light and may
   therefore be useful in its extended position whether the associated door or window opening
   is open or closed.
   One type of retractable screen provides a roller to which a first edge region of a flexible
30 screen material is attached and onto which the flexible screen material is wound so that the

                                                   2
   screen material can be extended from, and retracted back onto, the roller in a direction
   perpendicular to the axis of the roller and the first edge region of the screen. The roller may
   be biased, for example, by a spring, to bias the screen to its retracted position. The edges
   of the screen perpendicular to the first edge region may be constrained in guide tracks to
 5 avoid gaps between these edges and the structure defining the opening and to thereby
   prevent or reduce unwanted passage of insects or light.
   In some known screen arrangements, the guide tracks project a considerable distance from
   the structure defining the opening, detracting from an attractive appearance of the screen
   arrangement as a whole.
10 In some screen arrangements, for example, screen arrangements for bi-fold or stacking
   doors, the screen extends and retracts horizontally and the top and bottom edges of the
   screen are retained in guide tracks. In such screens, a bottom track which projects unduly
   from the part of the structure defining the bottom of the opening may create an unsightly
   step and may constitute a tripping hazard. Further, a bottom track which is retrofitted close
15 to an existing door may be particularly unsightly and may be conspicuously different in
   appearance to the frame of the door.
   A further issue with some guide track arrangements is that it is difficult and/or costly to
   manufacture an extruded metal, for example, aluminium, guide track with a channel which
   retains a lower edge of a screen, allows the screen material to extend from the channel and
20 allows the screen material to slide freely along the guide track.
   The reference to prior art or other background in this specification is not, and should not be
   taken as, an acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that the referenced prior art or
   other background forms part of the common general knowledge in Australia or in any other
   country.
25 SUMMARY
   According to a first aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a guide track
   arrangement for retaining an edge of a flexible screen which is extensible and retractable
   across an opening, the guide track arrangement comprising:
           a first elongate member adapted to be secured to a support that at least partially
30 defines the opening, the first elongate member providing an elongate base region and a
   connection part, wherein the connection part is arranged to provide an elongate connection
   recess between the base region and the connection part; and

                                                     3
            a second elongate member, formed separately from and attachable to the first
   elongate member, the second elongate member comprising an engagement part
   engageable in the elongate connection recess to connect the second elongate member to
   the first elongate member, and further comprising a track region adapted to provide an
 5 elongate guide recess for receiving an edge of a flexible screen to allow movement of the
   edge of the flexible screen in a direction of elongation of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part of the second elongate member is adapted to
   engage the elongate base region of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part of the second elongate member is adapted to
10 engage the connection part of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part of the second elongate member is adapted to
   engage both the elongate base region and the connection part of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the second elongate member comprises an elongate guide track
   member.
15 In an embodiment, the first elongate member comprises an elongate mounting member.
   In an embodiment, the first elongate member has a direction of elongation.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part of the second elongate member is adapted to be
   moved into the connection recess by movement of the second elongate member in a
   direction substantially perpendicular to the direction of elongation of the first elongate
20 member.
   In an embodiment, the first elongate member has a lateral direction substantially
   perpendicular to the direction of elongation of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the first elongate member is adapted to be attached to a said support
   such that it has a depth direction extending substantially in the direction of a plane
25 corresponding to a plane of the opening, and a lateral direction substantially perpendicular
   to said depth direction and substantially perpendicular to the direction of elongation of the
   first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part of the second elongate member is adapted to be
   moved into the connection recess by movement of the second elongate member
30 substantially in the lateral direction of the first elongate member.

                                                   4
   In an embodiment, the elongate base region comprises an elongate base panel.
   In an embodiment, the elongate base panel is substantially planar.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part of the second elongate member is adapted to be
   moved into the connection recess by movement of the second elongate member in a
 5 direction substantially parallel to a plane defined by the base region.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part of the second elongate member is adapted to be
   moved into the connection recess by movement of the second elongate member in a
   direction substantially parallel to a plane defined by the substantially planar base panel.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part of the second elongate member comprises
10 substantially a single wall thickness of the second elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part of the second elongate member has a thickness
   no more than five times a wall thickness of the base region of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part of the second elongate member has a thickness
   no more than three times a wall thickness of the base region of the first elongate member.
15 In an embodiment, the engagement part of the second elongate member has a thickness
   no more than twice a wall thickness of the base region of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the elongate connection recess has a thickness substantially defined by
   a spacing between the connection part and the base region.
   In an embodiment, the elongate connection recess has a thickness substantially equal to a
20 single wall thickness of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the elongate connection recess has a thickness substantially equal to a
   single wall thickness of the second elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the elongate connection recess has a thickness no more than five times
   a wall thickness of the base region of the first elongate member.
25 In an embodiment, the elongate connection recess has a thickness no more than three
   times a wall thickness of the base region of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the elongate connection recess has a thickness no more than twice a
   wall thickness of the base region of the first elongate member.

                                                 5
   Reference above to 'a thickness of the base region of the first elongate member' may,
   optionally, be taken to mean 'a mean thickness of a wall which defines the base region of
   the first elongate member'.
   In an embodiment, the elongate connection recess has an opening at a lateral side thereof
 5 for allowing insertion of the engagement part of the second elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the elongate connection recess is tapered in a direction of insertion of
   the engagement part of the second elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the second elongate member comprises a base surface adapted to
   slidingly engage a surface of the base region of the first elongate member.
10 In an embodiment, the second elongate member provides at least one accommodating
   recess adapted to accommodate a part of a fastener which protrudes from said surface of
   the base region of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the accommodating recess is at least partially defined by a surface part
   of the second elongate member which is adjacent to and recessed with respect to said base
15 surface.
   In an embodiment, the accommodating recess has a lateral width which is at least as great
   as a lateral distance required to move the engagement part from a position in which it is not
   engaged in the elongate connection recess to a position in which it is fully engaged in the
   elongate connection recess.
20 In an embodiment, the first elongate member has at least one indicium to assist in
   positioning a fastener for use in securing the first elongate member to said support.
   In an embodiment, said at least one indicium is provided on or in the elongate base region.
   In an embodiment, said at least one indicium comprises at least one guide for positioning
   said fastener.
25 In an embodiment, said at least one indicium comprises a groove.
   In an embodiment, said at least one indicium is elongate. In an embodiment, a direction of
   elongation of the indicium corresponds to a direction of elongation of the first elongate
   member.
   In an embodiment, the accommodating space is configured to overlie said indicium.

                                                    6
   In an embodiment, the accommodating space is configured to accommodate a head of a
   screw positioned in accordance with the indicium.
   In an embodiment, at least two laterally spaced indicia are provided.
   In an embodiment, at least two laterally spaced accommodating spaces are provided.
 5 In an embodiment, the connection part of the first elongate member comprises a first
   connection part arranged to provide a first elongate connection recess between the base
   region and the first connection part, and the first elongate member further provides a second
   connection part arranged to provide a second elongate connection recess between the base
   region and the second connection part.
10 In an embodiment, each of the first and second connection parts is elongate and extends
   in a direction of elongation of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the first elongate member has a width substantially transverse to a
   direction of elongation thereof.
   A width direction of the first elongate member may be regarded as a lateral direction thereof.
15 In an embodiment, the first and second connection parts are spaced apart in a width
   direction of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part of the second elongate member comprises a first
   engagement part engageable in the first elongate connection recess and the second
   elongate member further comprises a second engagement part engageable in the second
20 elongate connection recess, to thereby connect the second elongate member to the first
   elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the second elongate member has a width substantially transverse to a
   direction of elongation thereof.
   In an embodiment, the first and second engagement parts are spaced apart in a width
25 direction of the second elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the second elongate member provides at least part of the track region
   substantially between the first and second engagement parts.
   In an embodiment, the track region is elongate and extends in a direction of elongation of
   the second elongate member.

                                                7
   In an embodiment, the second elongate member is integrally formed.
   In an embodiment, the second elongate member is substantially uniform in transverse cross
   sectional shape.
   In an embodiment, the second elongate member is formed by extrusion.
 5 In an embodiment, the first and second engagement parts of the second elongate member
   are adapted to be moved into the respective first and second connection recesses by
   movement of the second elongate member relative to the first elongate member in a
   direction substantially perpendicular to the direction of elongation of the first elongate
   member.
10 In an embodiment, the first and second engagement parts of the second elongate member
   are adapted to be moved into the respective first and second connection recesses by
   movement of the second elongate member relative to the first elongate member in a lateral
   direction of the first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the guide track arrangement further comprises at least one retaining
15 member for preventing inadvertent disconnection of the second elongate member from the
   first elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the at least one retaining member comprises an elongate retaining
   member.
   In an embodiment, the at least one retaining member comprises an elongate flexible strip
20 of material.
   In an embodiment, the at least one retaining member comprises an elongate strip of a
   plastic or a rubber material.
   In an embodiment, the at least one retaining member is insertable between at least part of
   the first elongate member and at least part of the second elongate member.
25 In an embodiment, the at least one retaining member is insertable between at least part of
   the first elongate member and at least part of the second elongate member to restrain the
   first and second elongate members against relative movement.

                                                  8
   In an embodiment, the at least one retaining member is insertable between at least part of
   the first elongate member and at least part of the second elongate member to restrain the
   first and second elongate members against relative lateral movement.
   In an embodiment, the at least one retaining member is insertable between at least part of
 5 the first elongate member and at least part of the second elongate member so that a
   direction of elongation of the retaining member is, in use, substantially aligned with a
   direction of elongation of at least one of the first and second elongate members.
   In an embodiment, the track region of the second elongate member, comprises a guide rail
   for guiding a draw bar.
10 In an embodiment, the elongate guide recess is provided within and substantially aligned
   with said guide rail.
   In an embodiment, the first elongate member comprises a threshold plate part which
   provides a threshold plate part of a frame for a door opening.
   In an embodiment, the threshold plate part comprises a step part adapted to provide a step
15 at a threshold.
   In an embodiment, the threshold plate part comprises a tread formation.
   In an embodiment, the threshold plate part comprises a guide formation for guiding a door
   arrangement.
   In an embodiment, the threshold plate part comprises a guide formation forguiding a sliding,
20 folding or stacking door arrangement.
   In an embodiment, the guide formation comprises a guide channel.
   In an embodiment, the first elongate member comprises a seal formation for providing or
   accommodating a seal for sealing against a door part.
   In an embodiment, the threshold plate part comprises the seal formation.
25 In an embodiment, the seal formation comprises a seal channel for accommodating a
   sealing strip.
   In an embodiment, the first elongate member is integrally formed.

                                                 9
   In an embodiment, the first elongate member is substantially uniform in transverse cross
   sectional shape.
   In an embodiment, the first elongate member is formed by extrusion.
   In an embodiment, the guide track arrangement comprises a cover which can connect to
 5 the first elongate member when the second elongate member is not connected to the first
   elongate member.
   In an embodiment, the cover comprises an engagement part engageable in the elongate
   connection recess of the first elongate member to connect the cover to the first elongate
   member.
10 In an embodiment, the cover is integrally formed.
   In an embodiment, the cover is substantially uniform in transverse cross sectional shape.
   In an embodiment, the cover is formed by extrusion.
   In an embodiment, the cover comprises a tread portion.
   In an embodiment, the screen is an insect screen.
15 In an embodiment, the screen is a screen for reducing transmission of electromagnetic
   radiation therethrough.
   In an embodiment, the screen is a screen for reducing transmission of visible and/or infrared
   electromagnetic radiation therethrough.
   According to a second aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided an elongate guide
20 track member for retaining an edge of a flexible screen which is extensible and retractable
   across an opening, the guide track member comprising:
            a track region adapted to provide:
            an elongate guide recess for retaining an edge of a flexible screen to allow
   movement of the edge of the flexible screen in a direction of elongation of the elongate
25 guide track member; and
            a guide rail for guiding a draw bar adapted to draw the flexible screen across the
   opening, to guide movement of the draw bar in a direction of elongation of the elongate
   guide track member;

                                                  10
            wherein the elongate guide recess is provided substantially within the guide rail.
   In an embodiment, the guide rail is adapted to fit within a bottom cavity of a draw bar.
   In an embodiment, the guide rail is configured to provide a lower region and a higher region,
   and the lower region is narrower than the higher region.
 5 In an embodiment, the guide rail is provided with at least one upper terminal surface, which
   provides a bearing surface for engagement by a brake arrangement of a draw bar.
   In an embodiment, the at least one upper terminal surface is substantially planar.
   According to a third aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided an elongate draw
   bar body member for use in a draw bar arrangement for drawing a flexible screen material
10 across an opening, the elongate draw bar body member having a lateral width and providing
   a retaining formation for retaining a leading edge of the flexible screen material in
   connection with the draw bar, wherein the retaining formation is provided substantially at
   the lateral centre of the elongate draw bar body member.
   In an embodiment, the retaining formation comprises a retaining channel.
15 In an embodiment, the elongate draw bar body member has a first lateral side and a second
   lateral side, and the retaining formation is provided substantially equidistantly between the
   first and second lateral sides.
   In an embodiment, the elongate draw bar body member has an in use leading side which
   in use is distal from a roller onto which the screen material can be wound and unwound.
20 In an embodiment, the elongate draw bar body member has a in use following side which
   in use is closer to said roller.
   In an embodiment, the elongate draw bar body member is configured so that in use the
   sheet of screen material extends from the in use following side of the elongate draw bar
   body member towards the roller.
25 According to a fourth aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a threshold plate
   arrangement for a door opening, the threshold plate arrangement comprising:
            a threshold plate part for a door frame; and

                                                  11
            an elongate mounting member part adapted to be secured to a support that at least
   partially defines the opening, the elongate mounting member part providing an elongate
   base region and a connection part, for connection thereto of either selected one of:
                    an elongate guide track member for retaining an edge of a flexible screen
 5         which is extensible and retractable across the door opening, the elongate guide track
            member being formed separately from and attachable to the elongate mounting
            member, and comprising a track region adapted to provide an elongate guide recess
           for receiving an edge of a flexible screen to allow movement of the edge of the
           flexible screen in a direction of elongation thereof; and
10                  an elongate cover, attachable to the elongate mounting member to cover
            said at least one connection part without providing a track region thereof adapted to
            provide an elongate guide recess for receiving an edge of a flexible screen to allow
            movement of the edge of the flexible screen in a direction of elongation thereof.
   In an embodiment, the threshold plate arrangement according to the fourth aspect is an
15 integrally formed combined frame member for a door opening providing a threshold part of
   the frame, and a mounting member for attachment of an elongate track member.
   In an embodiment, the threshold plate part comprises a step part adapted to provide a step
   at a threshold.
   In an embodiment, the threshold plate part comprises a tread formation.
20 In an embodiment, the tread formation is provided as an upper surface part of the step.
   In an embodiment, the threshold plate part comprises a guide formation for guiding a door
   arrangement.
   In an embodiment, the threshold plate part comprises a guide formation forguiding a sliding,
   folding or stacking door arrangement.
25 In an embodiment, the guide formation comprises a guide channel.
   In an embodiment, threshold plate arrangement comprises a seal formation for providing or
   accommodating a seal for sealing against a door part.
   In an embodiment, the threshold plate part comprises the seal formation.

                                                  12
   In an embodiment, the seal formation comprises a seal channel for accommodating a
   sealing strip.
   The elongate mounting member part may comprise any feature or characteristic of the first
   elongate member, as set out in relation to the first aspect.
 5 According to a fifth aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a kit comprising a
   threshold plate arrangement for a door opening in accordance with the fourth aspect and at
   least one of:
            an elongate guide track member for retaining an edge of a flexible screen which is
   extensible and retractable across the door opening, the elongate guide track member being
10 formed separately from and attachable to the elongate mounting member, and comprising
   a track region adapted to provide an elongate guide recess for receiving an edge of a flexible
   screen to allow movement of the edge of the flexible screen in a direction of elongation
   thereof; and
            an elongate cover, attachable to the elongate mounting member to cover said at
15 least one connection part without providing a track region thereof adapted to provide an
   elongate guide recess for receiving an edge of a flexible screen to allow movement of the
   edge of the flexible screen in a direction of elongation thereof.
   In an embodiment, the kit comprises both of said elongate guide track member and said
   elongate cover.
20 According to a sixth aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a guide track
   arrangement for retaining an edge of a flexible screen which is extensible and retractable
   across an opening, the guide track arrangement comprising:
            an elongate guide track member comprising a track region which provides an
   elongate guide recess for receiving an edge of a flexible screen to allow movement of the
25          edge of the flexible screen in a direction of elongation of the elongate guide track
   member, the elongate guide recess providing an axially extending opening; and
            an elongate guide recess insert, receivable within the elongate guide recess, the
   elongate guide recess insert comprising a substantially tubular member defining an
   elongate guide channel therein, with an axially extending opening extending substantially
30 the length thereof, and wherein in use the axially extending opening of the guide recess
   insert is aligned with, and narrower than, the axially extending opening of the elongate guide
   recess.

                                                 13
   In an embodiment, the elongate guide recess is substantially uniform in transverse cross
   sectional shape.
   In an embodiment, the elongate guide recess insert is substantially uniform in transverse
   cross sectional shape.
 5 In an embodiment, the elongate guide recess insert provides at least one axially extending
   rib.
   In an embodiment, at least one said axially extending rib is adapted to engage the elongate
   guide track member to prevent rotation of the guide recess insert relative to the guide track
   member which would misalign the axially extending opening of the elongate guide recess
10 insert and the axially extending opening of the elongate guide recess.
   In an embodiment, at least one said axially extending rib is adapted to extend into the axially
   extending opening of the elongate guide track member.
   In an embodiment, the elongate guide recess insert provides a first axially extending rib
   extending along a first side of the axially extending opening thereof, and a second axially
15 extending rib extending along a second side of the axially extending opening thereof.
   In an embodiment, each of the first and second axially extending ribs is adapted to extend
   into the axially extending opening of the elongate guide track member.
   In an embodiment, the elongate guide track member is made substantially of metal.
   In an embodiment, the elongate guide recess insert is made substantially of a plastic.
20 In an embodiment, the elongate guide track member is manufactured by an extrusion
   process.
   In an embodiment, the elongate guide recess insert is manufactured by an extrusion
   process.
   According to a seventh aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided an elongate guide
25 track member for retaining an edge of a flexible screen which is extensible and retractable
   across an opening, the guide track member comprising:
           a track region adapted to provide an elongate guide recess for receiving an edge of
   a flexible screen to allow movement of the edge of the flexible screen in a direction of
   elongation of the elongate guide track member;

                                                 14
           and an engagement part engageable in an elongate connection recess provided in
   a complementary elongate mounting member which is adapted to be secured to a support
   that at least partially defines the opening.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part comprises a lateral edge of the elongate guide
 5 track member.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part is adapted to be inserted into said elongate
   connection recess by substantially lateral movement of the guide track member.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part comprises a first engagement part engageable in
   a first elongate connection recess of said elongate mounting member and the elongate
10 guide track member further comprises a second engagement part engageable in a second
   elongate connection recess of said elongate mounting member, to thereby connect the
   elongate guide track member to said elongate mounting member.
   In an embodiment, the elongate guide track member has a width substantially transverse
   to a direction of elongation thereof.
15 In an embodiment, the first and second engagement parts are spaced apart in a width
   direction of the elongate guide track member.
   In an embodiment, the elongate guide track member provides at least part of the track
   region substantially between the first and second engagement parts.
   In an embodiment, the track region is elongate and extends in a direction of elongation of
20 the elongate guide track member.
   In an embodiment, the first and second engagement parts of the elongate guide track
   member are adapted to be moved into the respective first and second connection recesses
   by movement of the second elongate member in a direction substantially perpendicular to
   the direction of elongation of the elongate guide track member.
25 In an embodiment, the first and second engagement parts are adapted to be moved into
   the respective first and second connection recesses by movement of the elongate guide
   track member relative to said elongate mounting member in a lateral direction of the
   elongate guide track member.

                                                 15
   According to an eighth aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a method of
   installing a bottom guide track for a flexible screen which is extensible and retractable
   across an opening, the method comprising:
            providing a guide track member for retaining an edge of a flexible screen; and
 5          attaching the guide track member to a combination threshold plate and mounting
   member part to retain an edge of the screen in a guide channel of the guide track member
   during extension and retraction of the screen.
   In an embodiment, the combination threshold plate and mounting member part comprises:
   an elongate mounting member part providing an elongate base region and a connection
10 part for connection thereto of the guide track member, and; a threshold plate of a door
   opening.
   In an embodiment, the mounting member part is integrally formed with the threshold plate.
   In an embodiment, the combination threshold plate and mounting member part is formed
   by extrusion.
15 In an embodiment, the method comprises attaching the guide track member to the mounting
   member part.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises attaching the guide track member to the
   combination threshold plate and mounting member part, after the combination threshold
   plate and mounting member part has been installed in the opening for at least 30 days.
20 In an embodiment, the method comprises attaching the guide track member to the
   combination threshold plate and mounting member part after removal of a cover from the
   combination threshold plate and mounting member part.
   In an embodiment, the method comprises replacing the cover with the guide track member.
   In an embodiment, the guide track member comprises an elongate guide track member as
25 set out in the seventh aspect.
   In an embodiment, the guide track member comprises an elongate guide track member as
   set out in relation to any preceding aspect.
   In an embodiment, the combination threshold plate and mounting member comprises a
   threshold plate as set out in the fourth aspect.

                                                 16
   According to a ninth aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a method of installing
   a bottom guide track for a flexible screen which is extensible and retractable across an
   opening, the method comprising:
            providing a guide track member for retaining an edge of a flexible screen;
 5          removing a cover from a mounting member previously secured in or adjacent the
   opening by detaching the cover from the mounting member; and
            attaching the guide track member to the mounting member to retain an edge of the
   screen in the guide track member during extension and retraction of the screen.
   According to a tenth aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a guide track
10 arrangement for retaining an edge of a flexible screen which is extensible and retractable
   across an opening, the guide track arrangement comprising:
            an elongate mounting member adapted to be secured to a support that at least
   partially defines the opening, the elongate mounting member providing an elongate base
   region having a first lateral side and a second lateral side and a connection part, wherein
15 the connection part is arranged to provide an elongate connection recess between the
   elongate base region and the connection part; and
            an elongate track member, formed separately from and attachable to the elongate
   mounting member, the elongate track member comprising an engagement part engageable
   in the elongate connection recess to connect the track member to the mounting member,
20 and further comprising a guide track region comprising an elongate guide recess for
   receiving an edge of a flexible screen to guide movement of the edge of the flexible screen
   in a direction of elongation of the elongate mounting member.
   In an embodiment, the elongate connection recess has an opening along a lateral side
   thereof for insertion of the engagement part of the elongate track member.
25 In an embodiment, the engagement part of the elongate track member is moveable into the
   connection recess by movement of the elongate track member relative to the elongate
   mounting member substantially in a lateral direction of the elongate mounting member.
   In an embodiment, the elongate connection recess is defined by a first wall of the elongate
   mounting member and a first return connection part and has a blind side defined by the first
30 wall and an opposite open side facing towards the second lateral side of the elongate
   mounting member.

                                                 17
   In an embodiment, the connection part of the elongate mounting member is a first
   connection part and the elongate connection recess is a first elongate connection recess,
   and the elongate mounting member further provides a second connection part arranged to
   provide a second elongate connection recess between the base region and the second
 5 connection part.
   In an embodiment, the first and second elongate connection recesses each have an open
   side facing towards the second lateral side of the elongate mounting member.
   In an embodiment, the engagement part of the elongate track member is a first engagement
   part engageable with the first elongate connection recess and the elongate track member
10 further comprises a second elongate engagement part engageable with the second
   elongate connection recess.
   In an embodiment, one or both of the first elongate connection recess and the second
   connection recess are tapered away from their open side towards their blind sides.
   In an embodiment, the first engagement part comprises a projection that is shaped
15 complementary to the taper of the first elongate connection recess.
   In an embodiment, the second engagement part is a projection that is shaped
   complementary to the taper of the second elongate connection recess.
   In an embodiment, the elongate mounting member comprises a securing wall projecting at
   or adjacent the second lateral side of the base region of the elongate mounting member,
20 the securing wall being arranged to provide an elongate channel between the securing wall
   and the elongate track member when the elongate track member is connected to the
   elongate mounting member, and wherein the guide track arrangement further comprises a
   securing strip that is receivable in the elongate channel to restrict lateral movement of the
   elongate track member relative to the elongate mounting member which would result in
25 disengagement of the engagement part of the elongate track member from the connection
   recess.
   In an embodiment, the base region comprises an elongate base panel.
   In an embodiment, the guide track region is intermediate a first lateral side of the guide track
   member and a second lateral side of the guide track member.

                                                 18
   In an embodiment, the guide track member comprises a first limb extending laterally from
   the guide track region and terminating in the first engagement part with a first base portion
   that engages the elongate base panel.
   In an embodiment, the guide track member comprises a second limb extending laterally
 5 from the guide track region that provides a second base portion for engaging the elongate
   base panel.
   In an embodiment, the second engagement part is connected to the second limb by a
   bridging portion and the second engagement part has a further base portion for engaging
   the elongate base panel.
10 In an embodiment, the guide track region has a guide base portion that engages the
   elongate base panel, and at least one of the first and second limbs provides an underside
   which has a recessed surface region that provides an accommodating space between the
   elongate track member and the elongate mounting member for receiving a head of a
   fastener used to secure the elongate mounting member to the support.
15 In an embodiment, the elongate guide recess provides an axially extending opening
   narrower than a maximum transverse width of the elongate guide recess, and the guide
   track arrangement further comprises an elongate guide recess insert, receivable within the
   elongate guide recess.
   In an embodiment, the elongate guide recess insert comprises a substantially tubular
20 member defining an elongate guide channel therein, with an axially extending opening
   extending substantially the length thereof, and in use the axially extending opening of the
   guide recess insert is aligned with, and narrower than, the axially extending opening of the
   elongate guide recess.
   In an embodiment, the elongate guide recess insert provides at least one axially extending
25 rib adapted to engage the elongate guide track member to prevent rotation of the guide
   recess insert relative to the guide track member which would misalign the axially extending
   opening of the elongate guide recess insert and the axially extending opening of the
   elongate guide recess.
   In an embodiment, the guide track region is configured to provide a guide rail for guiding a
30 draw bar adapted to draw the flexible screen across the opening, to guide movement of the
   draw bar in a direction of elongation of the elongate guide track member, and the elongate
   guide recess is provided substantially laterally centrally within the guide rail.

                                                  19
   In an embodiment, the guide rail is configured to be received within a recess provided at
   the bottom of said draw bar, the guide rail is configured to provide a proximal region closer
   to the base region of the elongate mounting member and a distal region further from the
   base region of the elongate mounting member, and the proximal region is laterally narrower
 5 than the distal region.
   In an embodiment, the elongate mounting member further comprises an integral threshold
   plate part.
   In an embodiment, the integral threshold plate part provides a step part adapted to provide
   a step at a threshold.
10 In an embodiment, the integral threshold plate part provides a tread formation.
   In an embodiment, the integral threshold plate part provides a guide formation for guiding a
   sliding, folding or stacking door arrangement.      In an embodiment, the guide formation
   comprises a door guiding channel.
   In an embodiment, the guide track arrangement further comprises a cover attachable to the
15 elongate mounting member when the elongate track member is not connected to the
   elongate mounting member, the cover comprising an engagement part engageable in the
   elongate connection recess of the elongate mounting member to connect the cover to the
   first elongate member.
   It will be appreciated that features set out above in relation to any aspect may be
20 incorporated mutatis mutandis in other aspects.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Embodiments will be described below, in detail, with reference to accompanying drawings.
   The primary purpose of this detailed description is to instruct persons having an interest in
   the subject matter of the invention how to carry the invention into practical effect. However,
25 it is to be clearly understood that the specific nature of this detailed description does not
   supersede the generality of the preceding statements in the above Summary.              In the
   accompanying diagrammatic drawings:
   Figure 1 is a schematic illustration of an embodiment of a screen arrangement which
   provides a horizontally extensible and retractable screen, and which includes upper and
30 lower guide tracks for retaining upper and lower edges of the screen;

                                                   20
   Figure 2 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a length of a lower guide track assembly
   in accordance with the present disclosure, which can be used in the screen arrangement of
   Figure 1;
   Figure 3 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a mounting component of the lower
 5 guide track assembly of Figure 2;
   Figure 4 is a perspective view of an embodiment of a guide component of the lower guide
   track assembly of Figure 2;
   Figure 5 is a perspective view of the guide component of Figure 4 adjacent an associated
   guide insert for facilitating retention of a lower edge of a screen;
10 Figure 6 is a perspective view of the guide component and associated guide insert of Figure
   5, with the guide insert fitted within the guide component;
   Figure 7 is an end view of the guide component and associated guide insert of Figure 6,
   with the guide insert fitted within the guide component;
   Figure 8 is an end view corresponding to Figure 7 also showing, in end view, the mounting
15 component of Figure 3;
   Figure 9 shows in end view an initial step in connecting the guide component and associated
   guide insert of Figure 5 to the mounting component of Figure 3;
   Figure 10 shows in end view a further step in connecting the guide component and
   associated guide insert of Figure 5 to the mounting component of Figure 3;
20 Figure 11 shows an end view corresponding to Figure 10 and further showing a securing
   strip used to secure the guide component and associated guide insert to the mounting
   component;
   Figure 12(a) shows an end view corresponding to Figure 11 and further shows a draw bar
   of a screen to illustrate complimentary shapes of the guide component and the bottom of
25 the draw bar;
   Figure 12(b) shows an end view corresponding to Figure 12, but showing the draw bar
   mounted on the guide component;
   Figure 13(a) and 13(b) illustrate schematically a truncated bottom portion of the draw bar of
   Figure 12(a) and 12(b) in isolation;

                                                  21
   Figure 13(c) illustrates a cross section of a draw bar body;
   Figure 14 shows in end view the mounting component of Figure 3 to which a cover, rather
   than a guide component has been attached;
   Figure 15 corresponds to Figure 14, but shows a variation of the cover which has a greater
 5 height;
   Figure 16 is a perspective view of an end of the guide component and mounting component
   as shown in Figure 11, with an end cap provided for fitting to an end of the guide component;
   Figure 17 is a transverse cross sectional view showing engagement of the end cap shown
   in Figure 16 with the guide component and mounting component;
10 Figure 18 is a transverse cross sectional view of an alternative embodiment in which a
   mounting component with similarities to the mounting component of Figure 3 is integrated
   with a threshold plate for a door, and in which a cover is attached to the integrated mounting
   component and threshold plate;
   Figure 19 is a transverse cross sectional view showing the integrated mounting component
15 and threshold plate of Figure 18, but showing a guide component, rather than a cover,
   attached thereto;
   Figure 20(a) is a transverse cross sectional view showing an alternative embodiment of an
   integrated mounting component and threshold plate with a cover attached thereto;
   Figure 20(b) is a transverse cross sectional view showing the integrated mounting
20 component and threshold plate of Figure 20(a), but showing a guide component, rather than
   a cover, attached thereto;
   Figure 21 is a schematic view, illustrating an embodiment of a screen arrangement,
   including an integrated mounting component and threshold plate, which provides a
   horizontally extensible and retractable screen, and in which some parts are shown truncated
25 in a horizontal plane;
   Figure 22 is an end view showing a guide track assembly similar to that illustrated in Figure
   11, but illustrating an alternative embodiment of a mounting component;
   Figure 23 is and end view showing the mounting component of Figure 22, but showing a
   cover, rather than a guide component, attached thereto; and

                                                   22
   Figure 24 is an end view illustrating a variation of the mounting component of Figures 22
   and 23.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
   With reference to the accompanying drawings, embodiments of a guide track arrangement
 5 for retaining an edge of a flexible screen will be described.
   Figure 1 illustrates schematically a screen arrangement 10, comprising a vertically
   orientated roller cover 11 which houses a vertically orientated biased roller (not shown) to
   which a first vertical edge (not shown) of a flexible screen 12 is attached. The flexible screen
   12 is wound on the roller so that the screen 12 is extensible across an opening 13, and
10 retractable onto the roller, as indicated by a double headed arrow 14. The roller cover 11,
   or a frame part (not shown) associated therewith, provides a first upright frame part of the
   screen arrangement 10. The screen arrangement 10 further comprises an upper guide
   track 15 which retains an upper edge of the flexible screen 12, a bottom guide track 16
   which retains a lower edge of the flexible screen 12, and a second upright frame part 17.
15 The upper and bottom guide tracks 15, 16 extend between the roller cover 11 and the
   second upright frame part 17. The screen arrangement 10 further comprises a draw bar 18
   which is retained between the upper and bottom guide tracks 15, 16 and is moveable
   between the roller cover 11 and the second upright frame part 17.             The draw bar 18
   connected to a second vertical edge of the flexible screen 12 opposed to the first vertical
20 edge, so that movement of the drawbar extends or retracts the flexible screen 12.
   Figures 2 to 14 illustrate an embodiment of a guide track arrangement, generally designated
   20, in accordance with the present disclosure and various components thereof. The guide
   track arrangement 20 is suitable for providing the bottom guide track 16 of the screen
   arrangement 10.        The embodiments of the present disclosure are suitable for insect
25 screens, and also applicable to screens for reducing transmission of electromagnetic
   radiation, and especially but not exclusively, visible and/or infrared electromagnetic
   radiation, therethrough.
   As illustrated in Figure 2, the guide track arrangement 20 comprises an elongate mounting
   element 300 which is for attachment to a floor surface or other support at the bottom of the
30 opening in which the screen is to be used. The elongate mounting element 300 is an
   example of an elongate mounting member and of a first elongate member adapted to be
   secured to a support that at least partially defines the opening.

                                                  23
   The elongate mounting element 300 is illustrated in isolation in Figure 3, and is also shown
   in enlarged end view, which corresponds substantially to transverse cross sectional view,
   in Figures 8 to 11.
   The elongate mounting element 300 comprises an elongate base panel 301. The elongate
 5 mounting element 300 further comprises first and second connection portions 304, 306,
   which provide respective first and second connection slots 305, 307 between the respective
   first and second connection portions 304, 306 and the elongate base panel 301.
   The guide track arrangement 20 further comprises an elongate track element 400 which is
   formed separately to the elongate mounting element 300, and which can be fixedly attached
10 to the elongate mounting element 300, as will be described in more detail below. The
   elongate track element 400 is an example of an elongate track member and of a second
   elongate member, formed separately from and attachable to the first elongate member. The
   elongate track element 400 is illustrated in isolation in Figure 4. The elongate track element
   400 provides first and second engagement portions 402, 404 adapted to engage in the first
15 and second connection slots 305, 307 of the elongate mounting element 300 to connect the
   elongate track element 400 to the elongate mounting element 300. The elongate track
   element 400 further comprises a track portion 406 which provides an elongate guide cavity
   407 for receiving an edge of a flexible screen.
   The guide track arrangement 20 further comprises a guide cavity insert in the form of a track
20 runner 500, which in use is retained within the elongate guide cavity 407, and a securing
   strip 1100 which can be applied to retain the elongate track element 400 connected to the
   elongate mounting element 300, and which can be removed to allow the elongate track
   element 400 to be detached from the elongate mounting element 300.
   With particular reference to Figures 3 and 8, the elongate mounting element 300 may be in
25 the form of an elongate extrusion (for example, of aluminium or another suitable metal)
   which can be cut to a length suitable for use for a particular opening.             In such an
   embodiment, the elongate mounting element 300 may be formed as an integrally formed
   element, but it should be appreciated that variations, such as elongate mounting members
   which are formed from two or more parts, are within the scope of the present disclosure.
30 The elongate base panel 301 extends substantially the width of the elongate mounting
   element 300 between a first transverse side 310 and a second transverse side 312. The
   elongate base panel 301 has a first major surface, inner surface 302, which in use faces
   away from the support to which the mounting element 300 is attached, and a second major

                                                    24
   surface, outer surface 303, which in use faces towards and contacts the support to which
   the mounting element 300 is attached.
   The elongate mounting element 300 provides one or more indicia or guides to assist a user
   in positioning screws or other fasteners in order to mount the elongate mounting element
 5 300 to a support surface. In the illustrated embodiment, the one or more indicia or guides
   comprise first and second shallow grooves 311, 313, provided on the inner surface 302 of
   the elongate base panel 301, and which extend in the direction of elongation of the elongate
   mounting element 300.
   At the first transverse side 310 the elongate mounting element 300 provides a first wall 314
10 which projects away from the elongate base panel 301, a short distance.                In this
   embodiment, the first wall 314 projects substantially perpendicularly away from the elongate
   base panel 301. The first wall 314 terminates, along its edge distal from the elongate base
   panel 301, in a first return portion 316 which extends away from first wall substantially
   towards the second transverse side 312 of the elongate mounting element 300. The first
15 wall 314 and first return portion 316 provide the first connection portion 304, which defines
   the first connection slot 305. The first connection slot 305 is thus elongate and bounded in
   three of its transverse directions (e.g. left, top and bottom as seen in Figure 8) by the first
   wall 314, the first return portion 316, and part of the elongate base panel 301, while being
   open along its fourth transverse direction (e.g. right as seen in Figure 8) which faces the
20 second transverse side of the elongate base panel 301.
   Close to, but spaced apart from, the second transverse side 312 of the elongate mounting
   element 300 the second connection portion 306 projects from the elongate base panel 301.
   The second connection portion 306 comprises a second wall 318 which projects away from
   the elongate base panel 301, a short distance. In this embodiment, the second wall 318
25 projects substantially perpendicularly away from the elongate base panel 301. The second
   wall 318 terminates, along its edge distal from the elongate base panel 301, in a second
   return portion 320 which extends away from the second wall 318 substantially towards the
   second transverse side 312 of the elongate mounting element 300. The second wall 318
   and second return portion 320 together provide the second connection portion 306, which
30 defines the second connection slot 307. The second connection slot 307 is thus elongate
   and bounded in three of its transverse-section directions (e.g. left, top and bottom as seen
   in Figure 8) by the second wall 318, the second return portion 320, and part of the elongate
   base panel 301, while being open along its fourth transverse-section direction (e.g. right as

                                                   25
   seen in Figure 8) which faces the second transverse side 312 of the elongate base panel
   301.
   In the illustrated embodiments, the first and second connection slots 305, 307 are tapered,
   so that they narrow progressively from their open ends to their blind end.
 5 Thus, it will be appreciated that in this embodiment, the shapes of the first and second
   connection portions 304, 306, are similar to each other and spaced apart in the transverse
   width direction of the elongate mounting element 300. In this embodiment, the respective
   first and second connection slots 305, 307 are also similar to each other and spaced apart
   in the transverse width direction of the elongate mounting element 300.
10 At the second transverse side 312 of the elongate mounting element 300 there is further
   wall 322 which projects away from the elongate base panel 301, a short distance but slightly
   further than do first and second walls 314, 318. In this embodiment, the further wall 322
   projects substantially perpendicularly away from the elongate base panel 301. The further
   wall provides a small retainer projection 324 along its edge distal from the elongate base
15 panel 301, which projects slightly towards the first transverse side 310 of the elongate
   mounting element 300.
   In the illustrated embodiment, the inner surface 302 of the elongate base panel 301 may be
   regarded as being divided by the second wall 318, into first and second parts, specifically a
   first part 302A between the first wall 316 and the second wall 318 and a second part 302B
20 between the second wall 318 and the further wall 322. In the illustrated embodiment, the
   first part 302A is substantially laterally wider that the second part 302B. For example, the
   second part 302B may be between about 15% and 30% of the width of the first part 302A.
   With particular reference to Figures 4 to 8, the elongate track element 400 may be in the
   form of an elongate extrusion (for example, of aluminium or another suitable metal) which
25 can be cut to a length suitable for use for a particular opening.     In such an embodiment,
   the elongate track element 400 may be formed as an integrally formed element, but it should
   be appreciated that variations, such as elongate track members which are formed from two
   or more parts, are within the scope of the present disclosure.
   The elongate track element 400, in this embodiment, provides the first engagement portion
30 402 (adapted to engage in the first connection slot 305 of the elongate mounting element
   300) extending along a first transverse side of the elongate track element 400. Further, the
   elongate track element 400, in this embodiment, provides the second engagement portion

                                                      26
   404 (adapted to engage in the second connection slot 307 of the elongate mounting element
   300) close to a second transverse side of the elongate track element 400. Further, the
   elongate track element 400, in this embodiment, provides the track portion 406, which
   provides the elongate guide cavity 407, extending along a transversely generally central
 5 region of the elongate track element 400. In this embodiment, the elongate guide cavity
   407 is substantially circular in transverse cross section.
   The elongate track element 400, in this embodiment, may be regarded as having a
   transversely generally central region which provides the track portion 406, and as having
   first and second transversely extending limbs 408, 409. The first engagement portion 402
10 may be regarded as being provided at a transversely terminal portion of the first transversely
   extending limb 408, and the second engagement portion 404 may be regarded as being
   provided at a transversely terminal portion of the second transversely extending limb 409.
   The first engagement portion 402 is dimensioned to fit closely in the first connection slot
   305, and is thus in the form of a projection having surfaces for engagement with the surface
15 parts of the first wall 314, the first return portion 316, and the elongate base panel 301 which
   define the first connection slot 305. That is, the first engagement portion 402 has a base
   surface portion 410 for engaging the elongate base panel 301, a first-side surface portion
   412 for approaching and possibly engaging the first wall 314, and a return surface part 414
   for engaging the first return portion 316. In this embodiment, the first-side surface portion
20 412 defines a first side edge of the elongate track element 400.
   The first transversely extending limb 408 extends between the first engagement portion 402
   and the track portion 406, and a shoulder 416 is provided at the transition between the first
   transversely extending limb 408 and the first engagement portion 402. In use, the shoulder
   416 may abut part of the first connection portion 304.             In the particular embodiment
25 illustrated, shoulder 416 may abut the end of the first return portion 316 of the first
   connection portion 304.
   The track portion 406 provides first and second track regions 418, 420 which are laterally
   adjacent but slightly spaced apart and shaped to define the elongate guide cavity 407
   therebetween. The first and second track regions 418, 420 are both connected to a base
30 region 422 of the track portion 406. The base region 422 provides a base surface portion
   424 for engagement with the elongate base panel 301 of the elongate mounting element
   300.

                                                  27
   Each of the first and second track regions 418, 420 has a laterally outwardly facing surface
   426, 428, respectively, which faces generally laterally outwardly towards a lateral edge of
   the elongate track element 400. The laterally outwardly facing surfaces 426, 428 transition
   into surfaces of the first and second transversely extending limbs 408, 409. In the illustrated
 5 embodiment, the laterally outwardly facing surfaces 426, 428 are concave, so that the track
   portion 406 (formed by the first and second track regions 418, 420) is laterally wider closer
   to and further from the base region 422, and laterally narrower at an intermediate distance
   from the base region 422. Thus, the track portion 406 may be regarded as having an
   'hourglass' shape, and/or an outwardly tapering terminal part distal from the base region
10 422.
   Further, each of the first and second track regions 418, 420 has a laterally inwardly facing
   surface 430, 432, respectively, which faces generally laterally inwardly, so that the laterally
   inwardly facing surfaces 430, 432 substantially face each other, and substantially define the
   elongate guide cavity 407 therebetween. In this embodiment, the laterally inwardly facing
15 surfaces 430, 432 are arcuate in transverse cross section (that is, in the plane perpendicular
   to the direction of elongation of the elongate track element 400) and define a transverse
   cross sectional shape of the elongate guide cavity 407 which is generally circular, but which
   has an opening adjacent the parts of the first and second track regions 418, 420 which are
   distal from the base region 422. That is, the parts of the first and second track regions 418,
20 420 which are distal from the base region 422, are spaced apart to provide an elongate
   opening 434 of the elongate guide cavity 407. It should be appreciated that a guide cavity
   with a transverse cross section shape other than substantially circular could be used if
   desired.
   Each of the first and second track regions 418, 420 has a terminal surface 436, 438,
25 respectively. The terminal surfaces 436, 438 correspond to the parts of the first and second
   track regions 418, 420 which are distal from the base region 422. In this embodiment, the
   terminal surfaces 436, 438 extend between the laterally outwardly facing surfaces 426, 428
   and the laterally inwardly facing surfaces 430, 432.
   In this embodiment, the first and second track regions 418, 420 which form the track portion
30 406 may be regarded together as providing a bifurcated track body, which provides a guide
   rail formation for the draw bar, and in which the guide cavity 407 for guiding an edge of the
   screen is provided in the guide rail formation. When used with a draw bar which has one
   or more brakes for selectively inhibiting movement of the draw bar (for example, to resist a
   force applied by a biased roller) the guide rail formation may also provide a passive braking

                                                   28
   formation, engageable by one or more brake parts. A draw bar with one or more brakes is
   disclosed in Australian Patent Application No. 2010241510, the disclosure of which is
   incorporated herein by reference, and in which a draw bar is referred to as a handle post.
   Interaction of the guide rail formation with a draw bar is illustrated in Figures 12 and 13 of
 5 the present disclosure and will be described in more detail in due course. It will be noted
   that the cross sectional shape of the track portion 406, as illustrated and as described above
   (having an 'hourglass' shape, and/or an outwardly tapering terminal part, or more generally
   a part closer to the terminal part that is laterally wider than a part further from the terminal
   part) allows it to be entrapped within a complementary recess provided at an end of the
10 draw bar, so that the draw bar can be securely retained on and by the track portion 406
   (guide rail formation) in use.
   The second engagement portion 404 is dimensioned to fit closely in the second connection
   slot 307, and thus comprises a projection having surfaces for engagement with the surface
   parts of the second return portion 320 and the elongate base panel 301 (and possibly the
15 second wall 318) which together define the second connection slot 307. That is, the second
   engagement portion 404 has a base surface portion 440 for engaging the elongate base
   panel 301, a side surface portion 442 for approaching and possibly engaging the second
   wall 318, and a return surface part 444 for engaging the second return portion 320.
   The second engagement portion 404 is connected to the second transversely extending
20 limb 409 by a bridging portion 446. The bridging portion 446 is configured in use to extend
   over the second connection portion 306 of the elongate mounting element 300, as can be
   seen in Figures 9 to 11, in order to connect the second engagement portion 404 to the
   second transversely extending limb 409 (and to the rest of the elongate track element 400).
   In this embodiment, the bridging portion 446 comprises a second-side wall portion 448
25 which extends substantially perpendicularly away from the base surface portion 440 and
   which terminates where it connects to a laterally narrow bridging panel 450. The bridging
   panel 450 extends substantially parallel to the base surface portion 440 and connects to
   the second transversely extending limb 409.
   In use, a laterally inner wall surface 452 of the second-side wall portion 448 may abut part
30 of the second connection portion 306. In the particular embodiment illustrated, laterally
   inner wall surface 452 may abut the end of the second return portion 320 of second
   connection portion 306.

                                                   29
   The bridging portion 446 provides a retainer projection 454.
   At the transition between the bridging portion 446 and the second transversely extending
   limb 409, the elongate track element provides a base surface portion 456. In use, the base
   surface portion 456 engages the inner surface 302 of the elongate base panel 301.
 5 The first transversely extending limb 408 provides a recessed surface 458 between the
   base surface portion 424 of the track portion 406 and the base surface portion 410 of the
   first engagement portion 402, which is provided at the distal end of the first extending limb
   408. This provides a first accommodating space 459 which in use may accommodate the
   heads (or parts thereof) of screws or other fasteners used to secure the elongate mounting
10 element 300 to a support. The first transversely extending limb 408 further provides an
   opposed surface 460 (which is upwardly facing when the elongate track element 400 forms
   part of a bottom guide track).
   The second transversely extending limb 409 provides a recessed surface 461 between the
   base surface portion 424 of the track portion 406 and the base surface portion 456 provided
15 at the distal end of second transversely extending limb 409.          This provides a second
   accommodating space 462. The second transversely extending limb 409 provides an
   opposed surface 463 (which is upwardly facing when the elongate track element 400 forms
   part of a bottom guide track).
   The elongate guide cavity 407 provided in the elongate track element 400 is intended to
20 accommodate an edge part of a screen, with the screen material extending out of the
   elongate guide cavity 407 through the elongate opening 434, and to allow the screen to
   slide between its extended and retracted positions while being retained along the edges
   that extend in the direction of movement.        The retained edge of the screen includes a
   retainable edge part which is in use retained in the guide cavity 407, and which may
25 comprise a thickened edge region, a bead, a number of retainable elements (for example,
   like the teeth of a zip), or the like, as is known per se. In the illustrated embodiment, the
   elongate opening 434 is sufficiently wide that it would allow a thickened edge part of a
   screen to pass therethrough.       As foreshadowed above, the track runner 500 is, in use,
   retained within the elongate guide cavity 407.
30 The track runner 500 is illustrated separately to the elongate track element 400 in Figure 5,
   and is also shown in enlarged end view, which corresponds substantially to transverse cross
   sectional view, in Figures 8 to 11.

                                                  30
   The track runner 500 is an embodiment of a guide recess insert. In this embodiment, the
   track runner 500 may be regarded as comprising a liner for the elongate guide cavity 407.
   The track runner 500 may be made of a suitable plastic, such as (but not limited to) PVC,
   and may have a coating or additive to assist in reducing friction between the edge of the
 5 screen and the track runner 500. For example, the track runner 500 may have a lubricating
   (or low-friction) material coating provided on the interior surface defining the elongate guide
   cavity 505, and/or may have a lubricating (or low-friction) material applied to the surface for
   example, by application of a spray or the like. The lubricating (or low-friction) material may
   be PTFE (polytetrafluoroethylene). Additionally or alternatively, the plastic used may have
10 PTFE or some other suitable lubricating (or low-friction) material distributed therethrough.
   The track runner 500 comprises a substantially tubular body 502 which provides an axially
   extending opening 504 which in use defines an opening of a guide channel provided by the
   elongate guide cavity 407. Thus, an edge of the screen is retained in an elongate guide
   cavity 505 defined by the track runner 500, which is also within elongate guide cavity 407
15 defined by the track portion 406. The opening 504 provided by the track runner 500 is, in
   use, narrower than the opening 434 provided by the track portion 406 when the track runner
   500 is not present.
   The track runner 500 provides first and second axially extending outwardly projecting ribs
   506, 508. These provide an irregularity in the transverse cross sectional shape of the outer
20 surface of the track runner 500 which facilitates rotational alignment of the opening 504 of
   the track runner with the opening 434 of the elongate guide cavity 407, during insertion of
   the track runner 500 into the elongate guide cavity 407. The outwardly projecting ribs 506,
   508 also help prevent the track runner 500 from rotating or twisting about its axis of
   elongation in use, to help maintain the alignment of the opening 504 of the track runner with
25 the opening 434 of the elongate guide cavity 407.
   In this embodiment, the first and second radially projecting ribs 506, 508 extend along
   respective opposed edges of the opening 504, and project into the opening 434 defined by
   the track portion 406. Thus, the ribs 506, 508 also assist in providing opposed opening
   defining surfaces 510, 512 (see Figure 7) which define the opening 504 and which extend
30 a greater transverse distance than the mean thickness of the track runner. This may reduce
   the likelihood of the screen material catching or snagging on the surfaces defining the
   opening of the guide channel.

                                                 31
   The track runner 500 may be manufactured by an extrusion process. The track runner 500
   fits reasonably snugly within the elongate guide cavity 407 but the fit allows some movement
   of the track runner 500 within the elongate guide cavity 407, to allow the track runner 500
   to be pushed axially into the elongate guide cavity 407. Further, in certain embodiments,
 5 movement and/or deformation of the track runner 500 may reduce or mitigate forces that
   may be applied to the screen, and therefore also to the thickened edge of the screen located
   within the track runner 500, in use.
   Both the track runner 500 and the surface defining the guide cavity 407 taper inwardly
   towards the openings 504, 434. In an embodiment, this has the effect that an outwards
10 (upwards in the drawings) force applied to the edge of the screen retained in the track runner
   (for example, due to a force, such as an impact, applied to the screen) which will tend to
   force or drag the track runner towards or into the opening 434 will cause the inwardly
   tapered outer surfaces of the track runner 500 to bear against the inwardly tapered inner
   wall surfaces of the guide cavity 407, forcing the sides of the opening 504 towards each
15 other and thus narrowing the opening 504. This can assist in retaining the edge of the
   screen in the elongate guide cavity 505, and in the guide cavity 407, even in the event of
   application of such a force. This contrasts with use of some known channels for retaining
   the thickened edge of a screen, in which forcing the thickened edge against the interior of
   the channel opening tends to force apart the edges of the opening, leading to a risk that
20 part of the thickened edge might pass through the opening and exit the channel and/or
   wedge in the opening.
   When the force is no longer applied, the track runner may revert towards its equilibrium
   shape (for example, as a consequence of the resilience of the plastic from which it is
25 formed).
   In the event of a sideways force on the screen, for example, due to the screen being blown
   by a strong wind, the track runner 500 can rotate slightly within elongate guide cavity 407,
   for example, due to the screen pressing against one or other of the opposed opening
30 defining surfaces 510, 512, so that the opening 504 orients in or towards the direction in
   which the screen is being forced. This can reduce or mitigate forces applied to the screen
   at or adjacent its thickened edge.
   Under some circumstances, the narrowing of the opening 504 and the rotation of the track
35 runner 500 may in response to the same force or forces being applied to the screen.

                                                 32
   Provision of a track runner 500, or more generally a plastic/polymer insert which in use
   defines the elongate opening of the guide channel, can provide a more reliable and/or
   economical way of providing an opening of the guide channel to a fine tolerance than
   attempting to manufacture an aluminium extrusion providing a track element which defines
 5 the opening itself. It is considered that providing the opening 434 with a uniform width of
   less than about 1.5 mm would present technical difficulties and/or incur additional cost,
   whereas use of the track runner 500 allows a substantially uniform width of around
   0.5 mm to 1.0 mm to be reliably and economically provided.
   A method of installing the guide track arrangement 20 will now be described with particular
10 reference to Figures 8 to 11.
   The elongate mounting element 300 is secured to a support defining an opening, in the
   desired position. For the purpose of this description, it is assumed that the guide track
   arrangement 20 is to be used to provide a bottom track for providing a horizontally opening
   screen in the corresponding to a set of folding (e.g. bi-fold) or stacking doors, although it
15 should be appreciated that the guide track arrangement 20 may be utilised for other
   purposes.
   Thus, in this example, the elongate mounting element 300 may be secured to part of a floor
   (not shown). The elongate mounting element 300 may conveniently be secured by use of
   screws or other fasteners passing through the base panel 301 of the elongate mounting
20 element 300, and positioned in the width direction of the base panel 301 coinciding with the
   grooves 311, 313.
   After the elongate mounting element 300 is secured, the elongate track element 400 (with
   the track runner 500 already positioned in the elongate guide cavity 407 thereof) is brought
   close to the mounting element 300, as illustrated schematically in Figure 8.
25 To attach the elongate track element 400 to the elongate mounting element 300, the
   elongate track element 400 is brought into contact with the elongate mounting element 300,
   as illustrated in Figure 9. As illustrated, the base surface portions 410, 424, 440 of the
   elongate track element 400 are brought into contact with the inner surface 302 of the base
   panel 301, so that the bridging portion 446 overlies the second connection portion 306. This
30 is effected by moving the elongate track element 400 in a direction substantially
   perpendicular to the base panel 301.       At this stage, the first and second engagement
   portions 402, 404 do not engage (or only incidentally engage) the first and second
   connection portions 304, 306. Further, it should be appreciated that at this stage of initial

                                                   33
   engagement the recessed surfaces 458, 461 overlie the grooves 311, 313 where the heads
   of any screws used to secure the elongate mounting element 300 to the support would be
   located. Thus, any part of the head of a screw or other fastener used to secure the mounting
   element 300 to the support which projects beyond the inner surface 302 of the base panel
 5 301 is accommodated in one of the first and second accommodating spaces 459, 462.
   The elongate track element 400 is then moved laterally (to the left as shown in Figure 9),
   so that the first engagement portion 402, enters and is tightly engaged in the first connection
   slot 305, and the second engagement portion 404 enters and is tightly engaged in the
   second connection slot 307, as shown in Figure 10. It will be appreciated that the recessed
10 surfaces 458, 461 still are of sufficient lateral extent that they overlie the grooves 311, 313
   throughout the lateral movement of the elongate track element 400 that moves it from its
   initially engaged position (Figure 9) to its position (Figure 10) where the first and second
   engagement portions 402, 404 are engaged in the first and second connection slots 305,
   307.     Thus, any protruding screw are accommodated in one of the first and second
15 accommodating spaces 459, 462, throughout the lateral movement required for connection
   of the elongate track element 400 to the elongate mounting element 300, and do not
   interfere with the elongate track element 400 either during connection or during use of the
   guide track arrangement 20.
   Because the first and second engagement portions 402, 404 and the first and second
20 connection slots 305, 307 are tapered, the engagement portions 402, 404 can be regarded
   as being wedged into the connection slots 305, 307. This effectively prevents movement
   of the elongate track element 400 in its axial direction.          Further, engagement of the
   engagement portions 402, 404 in the connection slots 305, 307 effectively prevents
   movement of the elongate track element 400 relative to the elongate mounting element 300
25 in each direction perpendicular to the plane of the base panel 301 (corresponding to the up
   and down directions in this example) and in the lateral direction towards the first side of the
   elongate mounting element 300 (that is to the left as illustrated in Figure 10).
   At this stage (as illustrated in Figure 10) the elongate track element 400 is not constrained
   (other than by frictional engagement) against lateral movement in the direction opposite to
30 that required to move the engagement portions 402, 404 into the connection slots 305, 307.
   Such movement would move the engagement portions 402, 404 out of the connection slots
   305, 307, allowing vertical movement of the elongate track element 400 and disconnection
   from the elongate mounting element 300.

                                                    34
   As illustrated in Figure 11, a securing strip 1100 can be applied to secure the elongate track
   element 400 against lateral movement in the direction which moves the engagement
   portions 402, 404 out of the connection slots 305, 307. The securing strip 1100 may
   comprise any suitable strip-like member, and in this embodiment comprises a flexible chord
 5 or spline of the type often used to secure insect screen material to the frame of a screen
   door. The securing strip 1100 may be made of a flexible PVC material. As illustrated, the
   securing strip is provided between the second edge of the elongate track element 400 and
   the second edge of the elongate mounting element 300, and more specifically, in this
   embodiment, between second-side wall portion 448 (provided at the second edge of the
10 elongate track element 400) and further wall 322 (provided at the second edge of the
   elongate mounting element 300). The space between the second-side wall portion 448 and
   the further wall 322 which receives the securing strip 1100 may be regarded as a securing
   strip recess 1011.
   The securing strip 1100 can be inserted into the securing strip recess 1011 in any desired
15 and convenient manner, for example, manually without tools, or by use of a suitable tool
   such as a spline roller. If and when removal of the securing strip 1100 is desired, removal
   can be effected by releasing part of the securing strip 1100 from the securing strip recess
   1011, for example, using a suitable tool, such as a screwdriver, and then pulling the securing
   strip progressively out of the securing strip recess.
20 The securing strip is retained against inadvertent removal by the retaining projections 324,
   454.
   It will be appreciated from the above that the elongate track element 400 can be attached
   to the secured elongate mounting element 300 quickly and easily by simply dropping or
   placing it into the relative position illustrated in Figure 9, moving it laterally relative to the
25 elongate mounting element 300 to the position illustrated in Figure 10, and then applying
   the securing strip 1100, as illustrated in Figure 11 to substantially secure the elongate track
   element 400 against movement relative to the elongate mounting element 300. A guide
   track arrangement 20 of considerable length (for example, using an elongate track element
   400 of substantially corresponding length) can be easily assembled in this manner.
30 The heads of screws (or otherwise exposed parts of other fasteners) used to secure the
   elongate mounting element 300 are effectively concealed under or behind the elongate
   track element 400.

                                                  35
   Thus, in an embodiment, when the elongate track element 400 (or another element such
   as a cover, which will be described hereafter) is attached to the elongate mounting element
   300, screws (or other fasteners) used to secure the elongate mounting element 300 to a
   support will not be visible. In particular, the heads of screws which extend through the
 5 elongate base panel 301 will not be visible in use.        Avoidance of exposed fasteners
   enhances the aesthetics of the guide track arrangement, which may be a significant
   consideration in many circumstances.
   The disclosed guide track arrangement 20 may have a very low profile. For example, an
   embodiment in accordance with Figures 2 to 11 may have a height of about 12 to 13 mm.
10 In one such embodiment, the total lateral width of the elongate mounting element 300 is
   about 63 mm, and the total lateral width of the elongate track element 400 is about 56 mm.
   That is, the perpendicular distance between the outer surface 303 of the elongate base
   panel 301 and the terminal surface 436, 438 of the track portion 406, may be about 12 to
   13 mm. If the outer surface 303 of the elongate base panel 301 engages and is secured to
15 a floor surface, this equates to the standing height of the guide track arrangement 20.
   As foreshadowed above, the provision of a low profile guide track is desirable. A number
   of features included in the described embodiment are considered to contribute to providing
   a low profile guide track arrangement, including: the arrangement of the connection
   between the elongate track element 400 and the elongate mounting element 300; the
20 provision in the elongate track element 400 of accommodating spaces for the heads of
   fasteners used to secure the elongate mounting element 300 to a support; and the provision
   of the guide channel within a guide rail for the draw bar.
   As foreshadowed above, the shape of the track portion 406 allows it to be entrapped within
   a complementary recess provided at an end of a draw bar, so that the draw bar can be
25 securely retained on and by the track portion 406 (which provides a guide rail formation) in
   use.
   Figures 12(a) and 12(b) illustrate a bottom region of a draw bar 1200 for an extensible roller
   screen, and show an elongate body element 1201 of the draw bar extending upwardly from
   a bottom end cap 1202. A shaped bottom cavity 1210 at the bottom of the draw bar 1200
30 is formed in the bottom end cap 1202.

                                                   36
   Figure 12(a) illustrates the draw bar 1200 in proximity to the guide track arrangement 20 as
   illustrated in Figure 11 to aid understanding of complementary shapes, and Figure 13
   illustrates the draw bar 1200 mounted on the guide track arrangement 20.
   It will be appreciated that the bottom cavity 1210 is shaped to be complementary to the
 5 shape of the track portion 406 as described above. That is, the bottom cavity 1210 provides
   a narrower lower region 1212 (which is slightly wider than the narrowest region of the track
   portion 406 to allow the draw bar to slide, but narrower than the terminal part of the track
   portion 406), and a wider upper region 1214 (which is slightly wider than the terminal part
   of the track portion 406). The bottom region of the draw bar may include a bottom latch
10 mechanism (not shown) for allowing the draw bar to be retained in its fully closed position
   by a catch provided in the region of the bottom track (see Figures 16 and 17). A downwardly
   biased retractable brake pad 1216 may be provided at or adjacent the wider upper region
   1214 to resist a bias force of a roller tending to retract the screen. In Figure 12(b) the brake
   pad 1216 is shown in contact with the terminal surfaces 436, 438 of the track portion 406
15 but it should be appreciated that the brake pad 1216 can typically be retracted, for example,
   by operation of a handle, by a user wishing to move the draw bar 1200. Any desired and
   suitable type of handle, brake arrangement and/or bottom latch arrangement may be used.
   As mentioned above, a draw bar with one or more brakes is disclosed in Australian Patent
   Application No. 2010241510.
20 The lower narrower lower region 1212 of the bottom cavity 1210 may be regarded as being
   defined by first and second lower side portions 1218, 1220 which are spaced apart such
   that they define a width of the narrower lower region 1212 of the bottom cavity 1210 which
   is slightly wider than the narrowest region of the track portion 406, but narrower than the
   terminal part of the track portion 406.       In this embodiment, the bottom cavity 1210 is
25 substantially at the lateral centre of the draw bar 1200.        First- and second-side bottom
   surfaces 1222, 1224 of the draw bar 1200 engage respective upwardly facing surfaces 460,
   463 of the elongate track element 400, to at least partially support the draw bar on the
   elongate track element 400. The draw bar 1200 may also, in use, be supported at its other
   end (for example, its top) by a similar or different arrangement.
30 Because the guide channel provided by the elongate guide cavity 407 is provided
   substantially at the lateral centre of the guide rail (provided by the track portion 406) the
   connection of the screen material to the draw bar may easily be configured so it is spaced
   equidistant to each side of the guide rail, and equidistant to each side of the draw bar 1200.

                                                   37
   Figures 13(a) to 13(c) illustrate an embodiment of a draw bar 1200 which comprises at least
   one elongate body element 1201 configured with a retaining channel 1240 for retaining a
   leading edge of the flexible screen material (not shown in Figures 12(a) to 13(c), but see
   Figure 21). The draw bar 1200 may be regarded as having a leading side 1242 which in
 5 use is distal from a roller onto which the screen material can be wound and unwound, a
   following side 1244 which in use is closer to said roller, and a lateral width extending
   between first and second lateral sides 1246, 1248 of the draw bar 1200. As foreshadowed
   above, the retaining channel 1240 is provided substantially laterally centrally in relation to
   the draw bar 1200, and is also provided substantially laterally centrally in relation to the
10 elongate body element 1201.
   As best illustrated in Figure 13(b) the retaining channel 1240 is provided substantially
   laterally centrally in relation to the bottom cavity 1210 of the draw bar 1200. This means
   that the retaining channel 1240 is, in use, substantially aligned with the opening 434, 504
   of the guide channel (guide cavity 407, which retains the bottom edge of the screen
15 material).
   Thus, the extension of the screen material from the draw bar 1200 into the guide channel
   (guide cavity 407) is aligned with the lateral centre of the draw bar. Such an arrangement
   is aesthetically pleasing in its symmetry and can avoid a retraction force applied to the
   drawbar by the screen, or a short period of higher than normal friction between the screen
20 edge and the interior of the guide channel, imparting substantial torque on the drawbar and
   its engagement with the guide rail. This can assist smooth running of the draw bar on the
   guide rail as it slides therealong, for example, between an open position towards the roller
   onto which the screen material can be wound and unwound and a closed position further
   away from the roller.
25 It should be appreciated that the cross sectional shape shown in Figure 13(c) is of the
   elongate body element 1201 of the draw bar 1200. The draw bar may include a handle
   region (not shown) which provides a handle to facilitate movement of the draw bar (and, if
   applicable, to facilitate disengagement of a brake) and which has a different cross sectional
   configuration (not shown). The handle region may be at an axially (for example, in use
30 vertically) generally central part of the draw bar and an elongate body element, for example,
   corresponding to the elongate body element 1201) may be provided on each lateral side
   (for example, in use above and below) the handle region. Figures 13(a) and 13(b) show an
   optional rod or cable 1260 which may be provided to extend though the elongate body

                                                   38
   element 1201 to connect a handle to a brake mechanism. The, or each, elongate body
   element (e.g. 1201) may be formed by extrusion.
   Further detail of the draw bar, the handle arrangement and other related subject matter is
   provided in the Australian patent applications from which this patent application claims
 5 priority, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
   As illustrated in Figures 13(a) to 13(c), connection of the screen material to the drawbar
   may be via engagement of a leading edge of the screen material in a laterally central
   channel which extends the height of the drawbar, on the side of the drawbar proximal the
   roller of the screen.
10 Figure 14 illustrates a cover 1400, rather than the elongate track element 400, attached to
   the elongate mounting element 300.
   The cover 1400 comprises first and second engagement portions 1402, 1404 which are
   similar in form and function to the first and second engagement portions 402, 404 provided
   on the elongate track element 400. The first and second engagement portions 1402, 1404
15 are dimensioned to fit closely in the first and second connection slots 305, 307, respectively.
   The first engagement portion 1402 has a base surface portion 1410 for engaging the
   elongate base panel 301, a first-side surface portion 1412 for approaching and possibly
   engaging the first wall 314, and a return surface part 1414 for engaging the first return
   portion 316. In this embodiment, the first-side surface portion 1412 defines a first side edge
20 of the cover 1400.
   The second engagement portion 1404 has a base surface portion 1440 for engaging the
   elongate base panel 301, a side surface portion 1442 for approaching and possibly
   engaging the second wall 318, and a return surface part 1444 for engaging the second
   return portion 320.
25 The cover 1400 can be mounted to, and demounted from, the elongate mounting element
   300 in a manner corresponding to the mounting and demounting of the elongate track
   element 400 on the elongate mounting element 300.            The cover provides a retaining
   projection 1454 corresponding in function to retaining projection 454.
   The cover 1400 further comprises a cover panel 1460, which may be a tread panel suitable
30 for being stepped upon. The cover panel 1460 is supported relative to, and spaced apart
   from, the first and second engagement portions 1402, 1404 by respective first and second

                                               39
   support walls 1416, 1418. The first support wall 1416 connects the cover panel 1460 to the
   first engagement portion 1402, and the second support wall 1418 connects the cover panel
   1460 to the second engagement portion 1404.
   In use with the elongate mounting element 300, as illustrated in Figure 14, the first and
 5 second support walls 1416, 1418 (and to some extent the first and second engagement
   portions 1402, 1404) support the cover panel 1460 away from the base panel 301. Thus,
   the cover may be regarded as providing at least one accommodating space 1459, which
   can accommodate protruding heads of screws or the like used to secure the elongate
   mounting element 300 to a support.       The at least one accommodating space 1459 is
10 analogous in function to the first and second accommodating spaces 459, 462 of the
   elongate track element 400.
   In the illustrated embodiment, the cover 1400 has a third, laterally intermediate support wall
   1420, which provides a base surface portion 1421 for engaging the base panel 301. The
   intermediate support wall 1420 may be regarded as dividing accommodating space 1459
15 into two laterally separated accommodating spaces. The intermediate support wall 1420 is
   positioned so that it does not adversely affect the function of the at least one
   accommodating space 1459, that is, so that the cover 1400 can be moved laterally across
   the base panel 301 in order to mount or demount the cover 1400, without the intermediate
   support wall 1420 engaging the protruding heads of screws or the like which are located in
20 the grooves 311, 313.
   The cover 1400 may be in the form of an elongate extrusion (for example, of aluminium or
   another suitable metal) which can be cut to a desired length.
   The provision of a cover, such as cover 1400, allows an elongate mounting element 300 to
   be secured adjacent an opening in advance of a need or desire to mount a screen (or
25 elongate track element 400), while covering and protecting the elongate mounting element
   300, and providing a more aesthetically pleasing and practical arrangement than would be
   provided by mounting the elongate track element 400.          This can greatly enhance the
   practicality of securing a mounting element in advance, for example, at the same time as
   providing a frame for a door, to thereby facilitate future installation of a screen and track
30 element. Further, the cover provides a useful option in the circumstances that a screen is
   temporarily removed or deliberately temporarily disabled.
   Figure 15 corresponds to Figure 14 but illustrates an alternative embodiment of a cover,
   designated 1500, rather than the cover 1400 of Figure 14. The cover 1500, as illustrated,

                                                     40
   is substantially identical to the cover 1400 except that the cover 1500 is adapted to extend
   further from the base panel 301 than is the cover 1400. Where the base panel 301 is
   provided so that it extends horizontally at the bottom of an opening, this greater extension
   corresponds to a greater height of the cover 1500.
 5 In this embodiment, the greater extension (height) is provided by providing the cover 1500
   with support walls proportioned and dimensioned differently to the support walls 1416, 1418,
   1420 of the cover 1400.
   In the embodiment illustrated in Figure 15, the cover 1500 comprises first, second and
   intermediate support walls 1516, 1518, 1520 corresponding generally to the support walls
10 1416, 1418, 1420 of cover 1400, but of greater height.
   Use of a cover of greater height may be desirable under some circumstances, for example,
   to align the top surface of the cover with an adjacent surface so that the top surface of the
   cover and the adjacent cover are substantially coplanar.            This can provide enhance
   appearance in the surround of an opening.
15 Figure 16 is a perspective view of an end of the guide track arrangement 20 (comprising
   elongate mounting element 300 and elongate track element 400) with an end cap 1600
   provided for fitting at an end thereof, and Figure 17 is a transverse cross sectional view
   showing engagement of the end cap 1600 shown in Figure 16 with the elongate mounting
   element 300 and elongate track element 400.
20 The end cap 1600 comprises an end panel 1610 adapted to abut a transverse end of the
   guide track arrangement 20. The end cap 1600 provides a first-side member 1602 adapted
   align with the first lateral side of the guide track arrangement 20 and to overlie an end region
   of the first connection portion 304.
   The end cap 1600 further provides a second-side member 1604 adapted to align with the
25 second lateral side of the guide track arrangement 20 and to overlie an end region of the
   second connection portion 306. The first- and second-side members 1602, 1604 enhance
   the appearance of the connection of the guide track arrangement 20 to end panel 1610 of
   the end cap 1600.
   The end cap 1600 further comprises a cavity projection 1620 which projects perpendicular
30 to the end panel 1610 and which is adapted to project a short distance into an end region
   of the guide cavity 407 that has been left without any of the track runner 500 provided
   therein. The cavity projection 1620 is sized and shaped to fit closely to the interior walls of

                                                  41
   the guide cavity 407. The cavity projection 1620 provides an end face 1622 distal from the
   end panel 1610. The end face 1622 may, in use, abut an end surface of a length of track
   runner 500 provided in the guide cavity 407.
   The cavity projection 1620 further comprises a catch portion 1624 which in use extends
 5 through the opening 434 and may provide a catch formation for engagement by, and
   retention of, a lower latch mechanism provided on the drawbar. This can assist in retaining
   the drawbar in a position corresponding to the fully extended (closed) position of the screen.
   The catch portion 1624 provides a ramp portion 1626 on a side which in use faces towards
   the roller of the screen, to enable the lower latch of the drawbar to ride up and over the
10 catch portion 1624 merely by movement of the drawbar, and an abutment portion 1628 on
   a side which in use faces away from the roller of the screen to provide capture of the latch,
   unless it is deliberately released, when the drawbar is in a position corresponding to the
   fully extended (closed) position of the screen. This can allow the latch to be engaged
   automatically upon full extension of the screen, but to require deliberate and/or manual
15 release in order to allow movement of the drawbar from that position in the retraction
   direction of the screen.
   The end cap 1600 can be attached to the elongate track element 400, by insertion of the
   cavity projection 1620 into the guide cavity 407, before the elongate track element 400 is
   attached to the elongate mounting element 300 (as described above) so that it does not
20 interfere with the attachment of the elongate track element 400 to the elongate mounting
   element 300.
   Figure 18 is a transverse cross sectional view of an alternative embodiment in which a
   mounting portion with substantial similarities to the elongate mounting element 300 of
   Figure 3 is integrated with a threshold plate for a door, to provide an integrated mounting
25 portion and threshold plate 1800, and in which a cover 1500 is attached thereto. Figure 19
   is a transverse cross sectional view showing the integrated mounting portion and threshold
   plate 1800 of Figure 18, but showing a guide track part, similar or identical in structure and
   function to the elongate track element 400, rather than the cover 1500, attached thereto.
   As illustrated in Figures 18 and 19, the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 1800
30 comprises a mounting portion region 1830 which may, for example, be similar in form and
   function to the mounting portion 300, and a threshold region 1860 which in use is
   substantially underlies a door or door assembly.

                                                    42
   In the illustrated embodiment, the threshold region 1860 comprises an upstanding step
   section or tread section 1862 and an upstanding guide section 1864, which together define
   a door channel 1866 for accommodating part of door arrangement (for example, of a sliding,
   folding and/or stacking door).      In the illustrated embodiment, the door channel 1866 is
 5 provided between the tread section 1862 and the guide section 1864.
   In the illustrated embodiment, the tread section 1862, guide section 1864, and door channel
   1866 share a common base panel portion 1868.
   The mounting portion region 1830 is provided adjacent the threshold region 1860 to
   facilitate mounting and operation of an extensible screen adjacent a door arrangement
10 which is accommodated by the door channel 1866.            In the illustrated embodiment, an
   upstanding wall 1822 of mounting portion region 1830, is common with a wall part of the
   threshold region 1860.        For example, the upstanding wall 1822 may correspond
   substantially to the further wall 322 of elongate mounting element 300, may substantially
   define a second edge of the mounting portion region 1830, and may be common with a wall
15 of the guide section 1864.
   The mounting portion region 1830 may comprise a base panel portion 1831.           The base
   panel portion 1831 may corresponding generally to the base panel 301 of elongate
   mounting element 300. The base panel portion 1831 (of the mounting portion region 1830)
   may be substantially coplanar with the base panel portion 1868 (of the threshold region
20 1860).
   The base panel portion 1831 (of the mounting portion region 1830) may be substantially
   coplanar with the base panel portion 1868 (of the threshold region 1860).
   It will be appreciated that the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 1800 may be
   of low profile, and that the height of the mounting portion region 1830, whether having a
25 cover (e.g. cover 1500) or a track element (e.g. elongate track element 400) attached
   thereto may be less than the height of the threshold region 1860. The threshold region
   1860 of the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 1800 can be of the same height
   as an alternative, known, threshold plate that does not include a mounting portion region
   for providing a guide channel for a horizontally extensible screen.
30 Thus use of the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 1800 can allow a mounting
   component for providing a guide channel for a horizontally extensible screen to be
   conveniently provided at the same time a threshold plate for a door is provided, to facilitate

                                                  43
   installation of a horizontally extensible screen at generally the same time as the door, or at
   some later time as desired. This can be achieved in a manner in which installation of the
   mounting component is integral with the mounting of the threshold plate, rather than a
   separate operation, saving time and therefore cost.
 5 Further, the mounting component does not result in a greater height (or higher profile) of
   the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 1800, compared to a threshold plate
   that does not include a mounting portion region for providing a guide channel for a
   horizontally extensible screen.
   Further use of a cover, such as cover 1500, which can be replaced by a suitable track
10 element (such as elongate track element 400) as and when desired, can provide an
   arrangement that is more attractive and robust than installation of a track element long
   before installation of a screen.
   Further, the mounting component and threshold plate, being parts of a single component
   (and the cover and track element, being specifically for use therewith) may easily be
15 provided to have visual harmony, for example, well-matched colour, shape, etc.
   Figures 20(a) and 20(b) show an alternative integrated mounting portion and threshold
   plate, generally designated 2000, which has many similarities to the integrated mounting
   portion and threshold plate 1800 of Figures 18 and 19.
   In the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 2000, a mounting portion region 2030
20 (with similarities to mounting portion region 1830) is provided adjacent a threshold region
   2060 (with similarities to threshold region 1860) to facilitate mounting and operation of an
   extensible screen adjacent a door arrangement. The threshold region 2060 is provided with
   support walls 2080, 2082, which may be regarded as extending downwardly from a base
   panel portion 2068 (corresponding broadly to base panel portion 1868).           Further, the
25 mounting portion region 2030 is provided with support walls 2090, 2092, and is also
   connected by a further support wall 2094 to an upper region of the threshold region 2060.
   A significant difference between the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 2000
   and the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 1800, is that the integrated
   mounting portion and threshold plate 2000 provides a higher overall profile. The integrated
30 mounting portion and threshold plate 2000 is configured to provide the mounting portion
   region 2030 so that in use it is located somewhat higher than the threshold region 2060

                                                  44
   (whereas in the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 1800, the mounting portion
   region 1830 is, in use, substantially level with the threshold region 1860).
   The integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 2000 is suitable for use in providing a
   bottom frame part of a door opening between an internal floor surface and an external
 5 ground surface where the internal floor surface is higher than the external ground surface.
   That is, the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 2000 may be located on the
   exterior ground surface, with the outermost support wall 2082 and an associated tread
   section or external step section 2062 (corresponding somewhat to tread section 1862)
   providing an external step at a height between that of the external ground surface and that
10 of the internal floor surface, and with the height and configuration of the mounting portion
   region 2030 being such that the cover (for example, cover 1500) and/or elongate track
   element 400 is substantially aligned with the interior floor surface. That is, the uppermost
   part or the cover (for example, cover 1500) and/or elongate track element 400 may be
   arranged to be substantially aligned with the interior floor surface. Thus in an embodiment,
15 the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 2000 is configured so that in use, the
   top surface or cover panel of the cover (for example, cover 1500), and/or the terminal
   surfaces 436, 438 of the track portion 406 of the elongate track element 400, are in use
   substantially aligned and flush with the interior floor surface.
   Of course, various embodiments may be provided to provide different step heights and/or
20 to accommodate different height differences between an internal floor surface and an
   external ground surface, for example, (but not limited to) by providing support walls 2080,
   2082, 2090, 2092, 2094 of appropriate heights.
   In the illustrated embodiment, the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 2000
   provides a channel 2066 for accommodating and guiding part of a door arrangement. In
25 this embodiment, the channel 2066 is provided between the external step section 2062 and
   the mounting portion region 2030.
   In the illustrated embodiment, the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 2000
   provides a seal formation 2096 which provides or accommodates a seal for sealing against
   a door part (not shown) when the door arrangement is in a closed configuration. In the
30 illustrated embodiment, the seal formation provides a seal channel for accommodating a
   sealing strip, such as a rubber or brush seal.
    In the illustrated embodiment, the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate 2000
   provides a drainage region to allow water such as rainwater or condensation to drain

                                                  45
   therefrom, and especially to allow water to drain from the channel 2066. In the illustrated
   embodiment, the drainage region is in the form of a void 2070 provided below the channel
   2066 and/or the step section 2062. In this embodiment, the void 2070 is provided by the
   support walls 2080, 2082 being configured to space at least part of the rest of the threshold
 5 region 2060 above a surface on which the integrated mounting portion and threshold plate
   2000 is to be secured.
   That is, in a particular embodiment, the void 2070 is defined by the support walls 2080,
   2082 and the base panel portion 2068. In use, apertures (not shown) are provided to allow
   water to drain from the channel 2066 into the void 2070. The water may then drain from
10 the void 2070, for example, under the support wall 2082 and/or through drainage apertures
   or channels provided either in the support wall 2082 or otherwise.
   Figure 21 is a schematic view, illustrating an embodiment of a screen arrangement 2100,
   including an integrated mounting component and threshold plate, for example, integrated
   mounting component and threshold plate 2000, to which an elongate track element, for
15 example, elongate track element 400, is attached. The screen arrangement 2100 provides
   a horizontally extensible and retractable screen, operable by a draw bar, for example, draw
   bar 1200. Some parts are shown truncated in a horizontal plane to illustrate detail that
   would otherwise not be visible.
   Figure 21 shows an external ground surface 2110 and an internal floor surface 2120, the
20 external ground surface 2110 being lower than the internal floor surface 2120. The external
   step section 2062 of the integrated mounting component and threshold plate 2000 provides
   an upper tread surface which is elevated above the external ground surface 2110, but which
   is (in this embodiment, although not necessarily) lower than the internal floor surface 2120.
   As foreshadowed above, the integrated mounting component and threshold plate 2000 is
25 configured so that it supports the elongate track element 400 so that an upper surface
   thereof (in this embodiment, the terminal surfaces 436, 438 of the first and second track
   regions 418, 420) are substantially level with the internal floor surface 2120.
   It will be appreciated that the integrated mounting component and threshold plate 2000 may
   be installed before it is established whether it is desired to provide a screen for the opening.
30 A cover, for example, cover 1500, may be attached to the integrated mounting component
   and threshold plate 2000 so that (in the absence of, or prior to installation of, a screen) the
   integrated mounting component and threshold plate 2000 functions substantially as a
   threshold plate only. The upper surface of the cover may be substantially level with and

                                                     46
   aligned with the internal floor surface. When, or if, it is desired to provide a screen, the
   cover (for example, 1500) may be removed and replaced with a track member, for example,
   elongate track element 400. Thus use of an integrated mounting component and threshold
   plate can substantially facilitate fitting of a screen a substantially after (for example, 30 days
 5 or more after) installation of the integrated mounting component and threshold plate.
   As foreshadowed above, in the description of Figures 12 and 13, the connection of screen
   material 2130 to the drawbar 1200 comprises engagement of a leading edge of the screen
   material 2130 in a laterally central channel 1240 which extends the height of the drawbar
   1200, on the side of the drawbar 1200 proximal a roller 2150 of the screen arrangement
10 2100.
   Figures 22 to 24 illustrate alternative embodiments of elongate mounting elements.
   Figure 22 illustrates an alternative embodiment of an elongate mounting element,
   designated 2200. The elongate mounting element 2200 is similar to the elongate mounting
   element 300, except that a first wall 2214 (corresponding substantially to first wall 314 of
15 elongate mounting element 300)              is extended    away from the base panel 2201
   (corresponding substantially to base panel 301 in elongate mounting element 300) to allow
   securing by screws (or other appropriate fasteners) to a surface perpendicular to the base
   panel 2201. This can reduce the number of screws that need to be inserted into the support
   surface which the base panel 301, 2201 overlies.             For example, when the elongate
20 mounting element 2200 is to be secured to a floor, this can reduce the number of screws
   that need to be inserted into the floor. This may be useful, for example, if the floor is of a
   material into which it is more difficult to insert screws (for example, stone or marble) and a
   tread plate adjacent to which the mounting element 2200 is to be fixed is of a material into
   which it is less difficult to insert screws (for example, timber).         It should, similarly, be
25 appreciated that securing an elongate mounting element by using fasteners extending
   through a wall extending away from, for example, perpendicular from, a base panel of the
   elongate mounting element may also be convenient for embodiments where the base panel
   is spaced apart from an underlying surface, as is the case in, for example, the integrated
   mounting portion and threshold plate 2000.
30 The elongate track element may be the same as elongate track element 400.
   Figure 23 illustrates the elongate mounting element 2200 having a cover used therewith.
   The cover may be the same as the cover 1500 of Figure 15 as shown in Figure 23, or if
   desired a different form of cover, for example, the cover 1400 of Figure 14, could be used.

                                                   47
   Figure 24 illustrates a further alternative embodiment of an elongate mounting element,
   generally designated 2400, in which a securing spline 2401 (corresponding generally in
   form and function to securing strip 1100) is insertable into (and removable from) a receiving
   space provided close to an edge wall 2402 which is adapted to be secured to a surface
 5 perpendicular to the base panel.
   It will be appreciated that the embodiments of mounting elements (e.g. mounting element
   300, being an embodiment of a mounting member) and track elements (e.g. elongate track
   element 400, being an embodiment of a track member) may be manufactured as extrusions,
   and that each mounting element and each track element can be in the form of a single
10 integrally formed unit or piece. However, it should be appreciated that it is within the scope
   of the present disclosure to provide alternative embodiments in which one or each said
   member is manufactured other than by extrusion, and/or comprises two or more constituent
   parts.
   It will be appreciated that embodiments described herein can provide a number of working
15 advantages over at least some known guide tracks for blinds, and especially to some known
   guide tracks for blinds which provide bottom tracks for horizontally extensible blinds which
   open across doorways where folding and/or stacking door arrangements are provided.
   Provision of the guide cavity 407 within the guide rail for the draw bar can contribute to the
   ability to provide a low profile embodiment of a guide track arrangement 20.
20 The connection arrangement as illustrated and described above, which provides connection
   slots 305, 307 into which engagement portions 402, 404 can be slid, by lateral sliding
   movement of the elongate track element 400 relative to the elongate mounting element 300,
   can further contribute to the ability to provide a low profile embodiment. As illustrated, in an
   embodiment the thickness of the connection slots 305, 307 and engagement portions 402,
25 404 (in the direction perpendicular to the elongate base panel 301) is substantially the same
   as the wall thickness of the extrusions which provide the elongate track element 400 and
   the elongate mounting element 300, which can assist in providing a very compact
   connection.
   The provision of one or more accommodating spaces 459, 462 in the underside of the
30 elongate track element 400, can further assist in providing a low profile embodiment.
   Provision of a cover 1400 substitutable for the elongate track element 400 and attachable
   to the elongate mounting element 300 in a corresponding manner can assist in providing

                                                48
   an elongate mounting element 300 installable in advance of installation of a screen, in a
   manner which reduces or avoids inconvenience in doing so.
   Providing a combined mounting member and door threshold plate 1800 can facilitate
   installation, in advance, of a mounting element, and can allow a screen to be installed more
 5 easily at a later time, while not adding unduly to the difficulty of initially installing the door
   frame and threshold plate.
   The use of an insert 500 can facilitate manufacturing of the elongate mounting element 300
   while allowing an opening of desired width to be provided to a high level of accuracy.
   Of course, the above features or functionalities described in relation to the embodiments
10 are provided by way of example only. Modifications and improvements may be incorporated
   without departing from the scope of the invention.

                                                 49
   CLAIMS
   1.         A guide track arrangement for retaining an edge of a flexible screen which is
   extensible and retractable across an opening, the guide track arrangement comprising:
              an elongate mounting member adapted to be secured to a support that at least
 5 partially defines the opening, the elongate mounting member providing an elongate base
   region having a first lateral side and a second lateral side and a connection part, wherein
   the connection part is arranged to provide an elongate connection recess between the
   elongate base region and the connection part; and
              an elongate track member, formed separately from and attachable to the elongate
10 mounting member, the elongate track member comprising an engagement part engageable
   in the elongate connection recess to connect the track member to the mounting member,
   and further comprising a guide track region comprising an elongate guide recess for
   receiving an edge of a flexible screen to guide movement of the edge of the flexible screen
   in a direction of elongation of the elongate mounting member.
15 2.         The guide track arrangement of claim 1, wherein the elongate connection recess
   has an opening along a lateral side thereof for insertion of the engagement part of the
   elongate track member, and wherein the engagement part of the elongate track member is
   moveable into the connection recess by movement of the elongate track member relative
   to the elongate mounting member substantially in a lateral direction of the elongate
20 mounting member.
   3.         The guide track arrangement of either preceding claim, wherein the elongate
   connection recess is defined by a first wall of the elongate mounting member and a first
   return connection part and has a blind side defined by the first wall and an opposite open
   side facing towards the second lateral side of the elongate mounting member.
25 4.         The guide track arrangement of claim 3, wherein the connection part of the
   elongate mounting member is a first connection part and the elongate connection recess is
   a first elongate connection recess, wherein the elongate mounting member further provides
   a second connection part arranged to provide a second elongate connection recess
   between the base region and the second connection part, and the first and second elongate
30 connection recesses each have an open side facing towards the second lateral side of the
   elongate mounting member, and wherein the engagement part of the elongate track
   member is a first engagement part engageable with the first elongate connection recess
   and the elongate track member further comprises a second elongate engagement part
   engageable with the second elongate connection recess.

                                                  50
   5.         The guide track arrangement of claim 4, wherein the first elongate connection
   recess and the second connection recess are each tapered away from their open side
   towards their blind sides, wherein the first engagement part comprises a projection that is
   shaped complementary to the taper of the first elongate connection recess and the second
 5 engagement part is a projection that is shaped complementary to the taper of the second
   elongate connection recess.
   6.         The guide track arrangement of claim 2, or any of claims 3 to 5 when dependent
   upon claim 2, wherein the elongate mounting member comprises a securing wall projecting
   at or adjacent the second lateral side of the base region of the elongate mounting member,
10 the securing wall being arranged to provide an elongate channel between the securing wall
   and the elongate track member when the elongate track member is connected to the
   elongate mounting member, and wherein the guide track arrangement further comprises a
   securing strip that is receivable in the elongate channel to restrict lateral movement of the
   elongate track member relative to the elongate mounting member which would result in
15 disengagement of the engagement part of the elongate track member from the connection
   recess.
   7.         The guide track arrangement of claim 4, or either of claims 5 or 6 when dependent
   upon claim 4, wherein the base region comprises an elongate base panel, the guide track
   region is intermediate a first lateral side of the guide track member and a second lateral
20 side of the guide track member, and the guide track member comprises a first limb
   extending laterally from the guide track region and terminating in the first engagement part
   with a first base portion that engages the elongate base panel, a second limb extending
   laterally from the guide track region that provides a second base portion for engaging the
   elongate base panel, the second engagement part is connected to the second limb by a
25 bridging portion and the second engagement part has a further base portion for engaging
   the elongate base panel.
   8.         The guide track arrangement of claim 7, wherein the guide track region has a guide
   base portion that engages the elongate base panel, and at least one of the first and second
   limbs provides an underside which has a recessed surface region that provides an
30 accommodating space between the elongate track member and the elongate mounting
   member for receiving a head of a fastener used to secure the elongate mounting member
   to the support.
   9.         The guide track arrangement of any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the elongate guide
   recess provides an axially extending opening narrower than a maximum transverse width

                                                   51
   of the elongate guide recess, and wherein the guide track arrangement further comprises
   an elongate guide recess insert, receivable within the elongate guide recess, the elongate
   guide recess insert comprising a substantially tubular member defining an elongate guide
   channel therein, with an axially extending opening extending substantially the length
 5 thereof, and wherein in use the axially extending opening of the guide recess insert is
   aligned with, and narrower than, the axially extending opening of the elongate guide recess.
   10.       The guide track arrangement of claim 9, wherein the elongate guide recess insert
   provides at least one axially extending rib adapted to engage the elongate guide track
   member to prevent rotation of the guide recess insert relative to the guide track member
10 which would misalign the axially extending opening of the elongate guide recess insert and
   the axially extending opening of the elongate guide recess.
   11.       The guide track arrangement of any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the guide track
   region is configured to provide a guide rail for guiding a draw bar adapted to draw the flexible
   screen across the opening, to guide movement of the draw bar in a direction of elongation
15 of the elongate guide track member, and wherein the elongate guide recess is provided
   substantially laterally centrally within the guide rail.
   12.       The guide track arrangement of claim 11, wherein the guide rail is configured to be
   received within a recess provided at the bottom of said draw bar, and wherein the guide rail
   is configured to provide a proximal region closer to the base region of the elongate mounting
20 member and a distal region further from the base region of the elongate mounting member,
   and the proximal region is laterally narrower than the distal region.
   13.       The guide track arrangement of any of claims 1 to 12, wherein the elongate
   mounting member further comprises an integral threshold plate part which provides one or
   more of: a step part adapted to provide a step at a threshold; a tread formation; a guide
25 formation for guiding a sliding, folding or stacking door arrangement.
   14.       The guide track arrangement of any of claims 1 to 13, further comprising a cover
   attachable to the elongate mounting member when the elongate track member is not
   connected to the elongate mounting member, the cover comprising an engagement part
   engageable in the elongate connection recess of the elongate mounting member to connect
30 the cover to the first elongate member.
   15.       A threshold plate arrangement for a door opening, the threshold plate arrangement
   comprising:

                                                  52
             a threshold plate part for a door frame; and
             an elongate mounting member part adapted to be secured to a support that at least
   partially defines the opening, the elongate mounting member part providing an elongate
   base region and a connection part, for connection thereto of either selected one of:
 5                   an elongate guide track member for retaining an edge of a flexible screen
             which is extensible and retractable across the door opening,      the elongate guide
             track member being formed separately from and attachable to the elongate
             mounting member, and comprising a track region adapted to provide an elongate
             guide recess for receiving an edge of a flexible screen to allow movement of the
10           edge of the flexible screen in a direction of elongation thereof; and
                     an elongate cover, attachable to the elongate mounting member to cover
             said at least one connection part without providing a track region thereof adapted
             to provide an elongate guide recess for receiving an edge of a flexible screen to
             allow movement of the edge of the flexible screen in a direction of elongation
15           thereof.
   16.       The threshold plate arrangement of claim 15, wherein the threshold plate
   arrangement further comprises the elongate cover.
   17.       The threshold plate arrangement of either of claims 15 or 16, wherein the elongate
   connection recess is defined by a first wall of the elongate mounting member part and a first
20 return connection part and has a blind side defined by the first wall and an opposite open
   side facing towards the second lateral side of the elongate mounting member, wherein the
   connection part of the elongate mounting member is a first connection part and the elongate
   connection recess is a first elongate connection recess, wherein the elongate mounting
   member further provides a second connection part arranged to provide a second elongate
25 connection recess between the base region and the second connection part, and the first
   and second elongate connection recesses each have an open side facing towards the same
   lateral side of the elongate mounting member part.
   18.       A method of installing a bottom guide track for a flexible screen which is extensible
   and retractable across an opening, the method comprising:
30           providing a guide track member for retaining an edge of a flexible screen;
             removing a cover from a mounting member previously secured in or adjacent the
   opening by detaching the cover from the mounting member; and

                                                 53
           attaching the guide track member to the mounting member to retain an edge of the
   screen in the guide track member during extension and retraction of the screen.
   19.       The method according to claim 18, wherein:
             the mounting member is elongate, is adapted to be secured to a support that at
 5 least partially defines an opening, and provides an elongate base region having a first lateral
   side and a second lateral side and a connection part, wherein the connection part is
   arranged to provide an elongate connection recess between the elongate base region and
   the connection part; and
             the guide track member is formed separately from and attachable to the elongate
10 mounting member, the guide track member comprising an engagement part engageable in
   the elongate connection recess to connect the track member to the mounting member, and
   further comprising a guide track region comprising an elongate guide recess for receiving
   the edge of the flexible screen to guide movement of the edge of the flexible screen in a
   direction of elongation of the elongate mounting member.
15 20.       The method according to either of claims 18 or 19, wherein the mounting member
   comprises a combination threshold plate and mounting member part, and wherein the
   method comprises attaching the guide track member to the combination threshold plate and
   mounting member part, after the combination threshold plate and mounting member part
   has been installed in the opening for at least 30 days
20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
