                                        ABSTRACT
         A catheter is made by coextruding first and second molten polymers, where
5  in the second molten polymer forms a flexible inner core and the first molten pol
   ymer forms exactly two bands on opposite sides of the inner core. The inner core
   is braided, and a third molten polymer extruded onto the braid to form a flexible
   jacket that encloses the braid, the bands and the inner core. The bands are more
   rigid than the inner core, and they provide preferential in-plane bending.
LO

       2/2
    ClI
C--

                              Extrusion with Preferential Bend Axis
    COPYRIGHT NOTICE
           [0001]    A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material
    that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to
  5 the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclo
    sure, as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records, but
    otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.
    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
     1. Field of the Invention.
 LO        [0002]    This invention relates to instruments for performing medical exami
    nations of the interior of cavities or tubes of the body. More particularly, this in
    vention relates to a medical catheter constructed by a process for applying fluent
    materials to a surface or part of a surface.
    2. Description of the Related Art.
 L5        [0003]    It is common to map and ablate endocardial tissue in subjects hav
    ing electrical conduction abnormalities. The procedures are performed with an
    elongate catheter having a lumen extending longitudinally through it. One tech
    nique, described in U.S. Patent No. 5,993,462, involves inserting a core wire into a
    catheter via the lumen. The core wire includes a pre-shaped region. Such cathe
20  ters includes a proximal section that is sufficiently rigid to straighten the core wire
    when the core wire is disposed within the proximal section. A distal section of the
    catheter is significantly more flexible than the proximal section.
           [0004]    Deflectable catheters are widely used for a variety of applications.
    In the area of electrophysiology. However, due to their inherent flexibility, cathe
25  ters can be difficult to control as precisely as would be desired. Accordingly, a
    needs exists for a deflectable catheter having a mechanism to enhance the user's
    ability to control the degree and direction of deflection of the catheter. Moreover,
    it is desirable to provide preferential in-plane bidirectional deflection for cardiac
    catheters. Currently catheters of this sort are produced by extrusion. In-plane bi
30  directional deflection for an extrusion is achieved by using either a blade design

     or two polyimide struts that provides the extrusion a preferential bending along
     one axis. Both methods rely upon attaching a multi-lumen deflectable extrusion to
     the distal end of a single lumen shaft extrusion. Neither is compatible with a con
     tinuous process, whereby the shaft and deflectable part are made as one piece.
  5  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            [0005]  According to disclosed embodiments of the invention, a catheter is
     formed by an intermittent extrusion over the outer jacket of a braided multi-lumen
     catheter that produces variable degrees of hardness along its length. The intermit
     tent extrusion is coupled with a coextrusion, whereby bands of a relatively stiffer
 LO  resin are extruded along the outside of the shaft, opposite each other. On the
     proximal section of the shaft the stiffer resin is close in properties to the resin used
     on the outer jacket, so there is little preferential bending. On the distal section a
     larger difference between the stiff coextruded bands, and the relatively floppy
     jacket, allows for preferential in-plane bending.
 L5         [0006]  Moreover, the process allows for the same multi-lumen configura
     tion to extend along the entire length of the catheter, so that routed wires, tubes,
     and coils can never tangle. The process is less expensive than conventional meth
     ods. It completely eliminates the use of polyimide for stiffeners or deflection as
     well as eliminating a shrink sleeve, as no reflow steps are needed.
  )O        [0007]  There is provided according to embodiments of the invention a
     method, which is carried out by coextruding a first molten polymer with a second
     molten polymer, wherein the second molten polymer forms a flexible inner core
     and the first molten polymer forms exactly two bands on opposite sides of the in
     ner core, the bands being more rigid than the inner core. The method is further
25   carried out by overlaying a braid on the inner core and the bands, and extruding
     a third molten polymer onto the braid to form a flexible jacket that encloses the
     braid, the bands and the inner core.
            [0008]  According to one aspect of the method, the first molten polymer is a
     polyamide.
30          [0009]  According to one aspect of the method, the second and third molten
     polymer is polyether block amide and barium sulfate.
            [0010]  According to an additional aspect of the method, in a solid state the
     first molten polymer has a higher durometer than the second molten polymer.

          [0011]    According to yet another aspect of the method, the third molten
    polymer also includes a color concentrate.
          [0012]    A further aspect of the method is carried out during the coextrusion
    by changing a first composition of the third molten polymer to a second composi
  5 tion of the third molten polymer to define a proximal segment and a distal seg
    ment of a shaft and a transitional segment therebetween, the proximal segment
    being more rigid than the distal segment.
          [0013]    According to still another aspect of the method in the proximal
    segment the braid has a first configuration, in the distal segment the braid has a
 L0 second configuration and in the transitional region the braid transitions between
    the first configuration and the second configuration. The first configuration offers
    more resistance to flexion of the shaft than the second configuration.
          [0014]    There is further provided according to embodiments of the inven
    tion an apparatus including a catheter shaft prepared by a process, which is car
 L5 ried out coextruding a first molten polymer with a second molten polymer, where
    in the second molten polymer forms a flexible inner core and the first molten pol
    ymer forms exactly two bands on opposite sides of the inner core, the bands be
    ing more rigid than the inner core. The process is further carried out by overlay
    ing a braid on the inner core and the bands, and coextruding a third molten poly
  0 mer onto the braid to form a flexible jacket that encloses the braid, the bands and
    the                                      inner                                   core.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SEVERAL VIEWS OF THE DRAWINGS
          [0015]    For a better understanding of the present invention, reference is
    made to the detailed description of the invention, by way of example, which is to
25  be read in conjunction with the following drawings, wherein like elements are
    given like reference numerals, and wherein:
          [0016]    Fig. 1 is a schematic diagram of a medical catheter that can be con
    structed according to an embodiment of the invention;
          [0017]    Fig. 2 is a cross sectional view of the shaft of the catheter shown in
30  Fig. 1 in accordance with an embodiment of the invention;
          [0018]    Fig. 3 is a schematic cross sectional view through a shaft of a cathe
    ter that was produced in accordance with an embodiment of the invention; and

           [0019]    Fig. 4 is a diagram illustrating braids of a coextruded catheter
    shaft in accordance with an alternate embodiment of the invention.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           [0020]    In the following description, numerous specific details are set forth
  5 in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various principles of the
    present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art, however, that not all
    these details are necessarily needed for practicing the present invention. In this
    instance, well-known circuits, control logic, and the details of computer program
    instructions for conventional algorithms and processes have not been shown in
 L0 detail in order not to obscure the general concepts unnecessarily.
           [0021]    Documents incorporated by reference herein are to be considered
    an integral part of the application except that, to the extent that any terms are de
    fined in these incorporated documents in a manner that conflicts with definitions
    made explicitly or implicitly in the present specification, only the definitions in the
 L5 present specification should be considered.
           [0022]    Turning now to the drawings, reference is initially made to Fig. 1,
    which is a schematic diagram of a medical catheter 10 that can be constructed ac
    cording to an embodiment of the invention. The catheter 10 comprises an elongat
    ed catheter shaft 12 having a proximal section 14, distal section 16 and an inter
  0 mediate section 18. One or more electrodes or other devices are mounted on the
    distal section 16 for performing mapping, ablation or another desired function,
    and a control handle 20 is located at the proximal section 14 of the shaft 12. An in
    fusion tube 22 is provided to introduce fluid through a lumen (not shown) of the
    shaft 12. A luer hub 24 is mounted on the proximal end of the infusion tube 22 to
25  facilitate introduction of the fluid into the catheter 10.
           [0023]    Reference is now made to Fig. 2, which is a cross sectional view of
    the shaft 12 in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The shaft is con
    structed by extrusion, as described in the detailed description below. In the de
    picted embodiment, the shaft 12 includes lumens 26, 28, 30, 32 surrounded by a
30  relatively soft inner extrusion 34, which is drawn through a metallic braid 36.
    While 4 lumens are shown, a catheter may comprise more or fewer lumens, de
    pending on the application intended.
                                               4

          [0024]    The inner extrusion 34 and braid 36 are surrounded by an outer
    jacket 38, which is more rigid than the inner extrusion 34. As explained below the
    jacket 38 is most rigid in the proximal section 14 and least rigid in the distal sec
    tion 16. The intermediate section 18, which is typically about 7 cm in length, forms
  5 a transitional zone having an intermediate rigidity.
    Coextrusion.
          [0025]    Reference is now made to Fig. 3, which is a schematic cross section
    al view through a shaft 40 of a catheter that was produced in accordance with an
    embodiment of the invention. The coextrusion of the shaft 40 is done simultane
 10 ously. Two hoppers (each with its own resin) feed one die that takes the materials
    at one time and produces an extrusion with a circular outside diameter and having
    two bands present to produce the structure shown in Fig. 2. In this example an in
    ner extrusion 42 has four lumens 44.
          [0026]    The rigidity of bands 46 is greater than that of inner extrusion 42,
 15 which allows for preferential flexion of the outstretched shaft away from its longi
    tudinal axis. The shaft 40 resists flexion maximally with respect to axis 48 in a di
    rection of either of the bands 46 as indicated by arrows 50 and lessens as the bend
    angle deviates from that direction. Resistance to flexion is minimal when the direc
    tion of bending is perpendicular to a line connecting the two bands 46 as indicat
  0 ed by arrows 54. The resistance to bending creates a preferential bend plane for
    the shaft 40 and helps to overcome any undesired bend biases created by asym
    metry in the lumen location or wall thicknesses. The lumens 44 are aligned with
    the arrows 54, i.e., on a diameter of the inner extrusion 42 that is perpendicular to
    diameter passing through the bands 46. This arrangement facilitates manipulation
25  of the shaft by core wires inserted through the lumens 44 as described in the
    above-noted U.S. Patent No. 5,993,462, because the forces produced by manipula
    tion of the core wires are exerted primarily along the preferential bend plane.
          [0027]    The inner extrusion 42 and the bands 46 are braided with a braiding
    machine. After braiding, the shaft 40 is drawn through a second extruder that ex
30  trudes another molten polymer to form a jacket 56 over the braid. The extrusion of
    the jacket 56 can be performed by a process known as "Total Intermittent Extru
    sion" (TIE), which has been popularized by Putnam Plastics, 130 Louisa Viens
    Drive Dayville, CT 06241. This process is capable of producing extrusions with
                                             5

    variable durometers along the length. It works by quickly switching between dif
    ferent resins according to a schedule. This allows the extruder to vary the stiffness
    of the jacket in small discrete steps, and hence, to vary the rigidity of the catheter
    shaft in a nearly continuous manner. Alternatively, if desired, sections (a proximal
  5 stiff section, and a distal floppy section for a catheter) can be cut out of the contin
    uous spool produced by the extruders and rejoined to form the shaft of the cathe
    ter.
    Example.
           [0028]     A catheter shaft may be produced by coextrusion as described
 LO above to the following specifications:
           [0029]     Bands: Vestamid® Care polyamide ML21)
           [0030]     Jacket (Polymer 60) Proximal Section
           [0031]     96%: pre-compounded:
 L5                [0032]    50%: 80% polyether block amide (Pebax® 6333 Sa01 Med
           with 20% BaSo4 50%):
                   [0033]    80% Pebax 7233 Sa01 Med with 20% BaSO4
           [0034]     4%:
                   [0035]    PMS 3005c Color Concentrate Cs5916 (Blue)
  0        [0036]     Jacket (Polymer 60) Distal Section
           [0037]     96%: pre-compounded:
                 [0038]        80% Pebax 4033 Sa0I Med with 20% BaSO4
           [0039]     4%:
             [0040]     PMS 2190CP Color Concentrate (Light Blue)
25
           [0041]     Inner Extrusion:
             [0042]     100%: Pre-Compounded,       80% Pebax      4033   Sa01   Med with
                     20% BaSO4.
    Alternate Embodiment.
30         [0043]     In this embodiment coextrusion is performed using the procedure
    described with reference to Fig. 3, except that the TIE procedure need not be im
    plemented. Instead a jacket of constant durometer in the range of 40D-55D is ex-

   truded by a suitable choice of the polymer. Variable stiffness in different sections
   the shaft is achieved by varying the characteristics of the braid.
         [0044]    Reference is now made to Fig. 4, which is a diagram illustrating
   braids of a catheter shaft 62 in accordance with an alternate embodiment of the
 5 invention. Proximal section 64 of the shaft 62 is shown on the left-hand-side of the
   figure; distal section 66 of the shaft 62 is shown on the right-hand-side, and a tran
   sition region 68 is shown in the middle of the figure, connecting the proximal and
   distal sections.
         [0045]    The braids comprise a set of wires 70 that are woven in a cross
10 braiding configuration. In the distal section, the density of the same set of wires 70
   is increased, increasing the braid angle and making the distal section more axially
   compliant at the expense of torque. Selective directional rigidity is provided by
   the bands (not shown in Fig. 4) as in the previous embodiment.
         [0046]    Both proximal section 64 and distal section 66 transfer rotational
L5 torque about the catheter axis 72 to the catheter distal tip, enabling the operator to
   rotate the catheter as desired.
         [0047]    It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the present
   invention is not limited to what has been particularly shown and described
   hereinabove.      Rather,  the  scope    of the   present   invention  includes   both
)0 combinations       and   sub-combinations      of the  various   features   described
   hereinabove, as well as variations and modifications thereof that are not in the
   prior art, which would occur to persons skilled in the art upon reading the
   foregoing description.

    CLAIMS.
           1. A method, comprising the steps of:
          coextruding a first molten polymer with a second molten polymer, wherein
  5 the second molten polymer forms a flexible inner core and the first molten
    polymer forms exactly two bands on opposite sides of the inner core, the bands
    being more rigid than the inner core.
          2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising overlaying a braid on
 LO the inner core and the bands.
          3. The method according to claim 2, further comprising coextruding a third
    molten polymer onto the braid to form a flexible jacket that encloses the braid, the
    bands and the inner core.
 L5
          4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising:
          while performing the step of coextruding changing a first composition of the
    third molten polymer to a second composition of the third molten polymer to
    define a proximal segment and a distal segment of a shaft and a transitional
 )0 segment therebetween, the proximal segment being more rigid than the distal
    segment.
          5. The method according to claim 4, wherein in the proximal segment the
    braid has a first configuration, in the distal segment the braid has a second
25  configuration and in the transitional segment the braid transitions between the
    first configuration and the second configuration, wherein the first configuration
    offers more resistance to flexion of the shaft than the second configuration.
          6. The method according to claim 3, wherein the third molten polymer
30  comprises polyether block amide and barium sulfate.
           7. The method according to claim 3, wherein the third molten polymer
    comprises a color concentrate.

          8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first molten polymer
    comprises a polyamide.
  5       9. The method according to claim 1, wherein in a solid state the first molten
    polymer has a higher durometer than the second molten polymer.
           10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the inner core has two lumens
    formed therethrough, the lumens being aligned on a diameter of the inner core
 10 that is perpendicular to a diameter passing through the bands and dimensioned to
    accept core wires.
           11. An apparatus   comprising a catheter    shaft prepared by a process
    comprising the steps of:
 15       coextruding a first molten polymer with a second molten polymer, wherein
    the second molten polymer forms a flexible inner core and the first molten
    polymer forms two bands on opposite sides of the inner core, the bands being
    more rigid than the inner core;
          overlaying a braid on the inner core and the bands; and
  0       coextruding a third molten polymer onto the braid to form a flexible jacket
    that encloses the braid, the bands and the inner core.
           12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the first molten polymer
    comprises a polyamide.
25
           13. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the third molten polymer
    comprises polyether block amide and barium sulfate.
           14. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the first polymer has a
30  higher durometer than the second polymer.
           15. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the third molten polymer
    further comprises a color concentrate.
                                               9

          16. The apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising:
          while performing the step of coextruding changing a first composition of the
    third molten polymer to a second composition of the third molten polymer to
  5 define a proximal segment and a distal segment of the shaft and a transitional
    segment therebetween, the proximal segment being more rigid than the distal
    segment.
          17. The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the braid has a first
 10 configuration in the proximal segment, and a second configuration in the distal
    segment and in the transitional segment the braid transitions between the first
    configuration and the second configuration, wherein the first configuration offers
    more resistance to flexion of the shaft than the second configuration.
 L5       18. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the inner core has two
    lumens formed therethrough, the lumens being aligned on a diameter of the inner
    core that is perpendicular      to a diameter passing through the bands and
    dimensioned to accept core wires.
 )0
25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
