   ABSTRACT
           A fluid leakage data management apparatus comprising: an input unit to
   which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid leak diagnosis of a plant is
 5 input; a display unit on which the data input to the input unit is displayed; and a
   data processing unit that displays, on the display unit, a pipe connection deducing
   image in which, with respect to positional data on fluid leak portions occurring in
   piping of the plant, of positional data indicating the positions, in the plant, of the
   respective fluid leak portions input to the input unit, indicators representing the
10 respective fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on a piping diagram image
   of the plant at locations corresponding to the positional data of the respective fluid
   leak portions on the piping diagram image.

                                               1/17
                                    C0-)
                                         Coo
   CD CDC              C
 _  _               _      0_                       0
(D 5?     -2    -2    -2       -
 r=
   C        CD 0D 0          0     0
E
      ,,-000            0    0D
           F,00            a     0                       LiU
                   N    ~ ~t ~o ~ccl 0-a> o-w                -
        _     _    _                                  E      C)4
                                          4- 0         0     a 4
                                          zx E
                           0o)

                                        DESCRIPTION
     FLUID LEAKAGE DATA MANAGEMENT APPARATUS AND MANAGEMENT
                                            SYSTEM
 5
   Related Application
   [0001]   This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
   2015329347, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.        Most of
   the disclosure of that application is included herein.     However, reference may be
10 made to the specification of that application as filed or accepted to gain further
   understanding of the invention claimed herein.
   Technical Field
   [0001A]           The present invention relates to a fluid leakage data management
15 apparatus and management system for managing data on fluid leak portions
   collected through a fluid leak diagnosis of a plant.
   Background Art
   [0002] In production activities at plants of various fields such as the petroleum
20 refining industry, petrochemical industry, general chemical industry, steel industry,
   heavy industry, automobile industry, and food and drink industry, various fluids
   such as various gases (hydrogen, nitrogen, town gas, argon, carbon dioxide, carbonic
   acid gas, etc.), air, and steam are used.   In these types of plants, deterioration over
   time of a piping system and a vessel system as a result of production activities at
25 the plants and poor maintenance and construction of the plants may result in the
   occurrence of fluid leaks from the piping system and the vessel system.        Such fluid
   leaks waste energy and incur costs in production activities at the plants, and may
   also lead to an accident if the leaking fluid is a combustible or toxic gas. Therefore,
   accurately diagnosing a portion of a plant at which a fluid leak is occurring and
30 repairing that portion (i.e., maintenance of the plant) is crucially important in terms
   of energy and cost savings and safety.
   [0003]   Typically, fluid leak portions are repaired at a later date after the fluid leak
   portions have been identified through an operation for diagnosing a fluid leak
   portion.   In order to facilitate the repair of detected fluid leak portions, Patent
35 Document 1 proposes, as a leakage detecting device that is used for the operation for
   diagnosing a fluid leak portion, a portable leakage detecting device including a
   microphone for detecting ultrasonic waves generated at a fluid leak portion; input
   means for inputting positional information of the leak portion; photographic means
   for photographing the leak portion; display means for displaying the positional
40 information input by the input means and a photographed image of the leak portion

   obtained by the photographic means; data processing means for associating with
   one another and storing output data from the microphone, the positional
   information input by the input means, and the photographed image obtained by the
   photographic means with respect to the same leak portion; and computing means
 5 for computing the amount of fluid leakage at the corresponding leak portion.
    [0004] Since the device proposed in Patent Document 1 stores data in which the
   output data from the microphone, the input positional information, and the
   photographed image of each leak portion are associated with one another, it is easy
   for a repairer to identify a fluid leak portion by using this data, and the operating
10 efficiency advantageously improves.
   Prior Art Documents
   Patent Documents
    [0005]  Patent Document 1: JP 2003-106927A
15
    [0006]  However, the above-described data is used by merely referring to data on
   individual fluid leak portions separately, and there is room for improvement in the
   method for making use of the data on fluid leak portions collected by the device
   proposed in Patent Document 1.
20  [0007]  For example, it takes much time and effort to repair fluid leak portions, and
   in order to save such time and effort, there is a demand for a method for making use
   of data in such a manner as not only to make it easy to identify fluid leak portions
   but also to make it possible to devise a repair plan according to what repairs can be
   performed efficiently.
25  [0008]  Moreover, in a plant, a fluid leak occurs due to deterioration over time of a
   piping system or a vessel system as a result of production activities at the plant,
   and therefore, even if a fluid leak portion is completely repaired, a fluid leak will
   occur again somewhere in the plant over the course of time.       For this reason, in
   order to avoid problems that are caused by fluid leaks in terms of energy and cost
30 savings and safety, it is necessary to periodically perform maintenance of the plant.
   However, granted that maintenance is periodically performed, the frequency of
   occurrence of fluid leaks differs from plant to plant, and furthermore, even in the
   same plant, fluid leaks occur in clusters in some areas and not in other areas.
   Therefore, it is necessary to devise a maintenance plan that takes into account the
35 trend of fluid leaks in a plant such as those described above.    Under these
   conditions, there is a demand for a method that makes use of data in such a manner
   as to be able to comprehend the trend of fluid leaks in a plant.
   Summary
40  [0009]  In view of these circumstances, some embodiments of an aspect of the

   present disclosure provide a fluid leakage data management apparatus and
   management system with which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid
   leak diagnosis of a plant can be effectively used.
    [0009A]         According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a
 5 fluid leakage data management apparatus comprising:
            an input unit to which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid
   leak diagnosis of a plant is input;
            a display unit on which the data input to the input unit is displayed; and
            a data processing unit that displays, on the display unit, a pipe connection
10 deducing image in which, with respect to positional data on fluid leak portions
   occurring in piping of the plant, of positional data indicating the positions, in the
   plant, of the respective fluid leak portions input to the input unit, indicators
   representing the respective fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on a
   piping diagram image of the plant at locations corresponding to the positional data of
15 the respective fluid leak portions on the piping diagram image.
    [0009B]         According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a
   fluid leakage data management apparatus comprising:
            an input unit to which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid
   leak diagnosis of a plant is input,
20          a display unit on which the data input to the input unit is displayed, and
            a data processing unit that generates a leak portion display image in which,
   with respect to positional data of fluid leak portions occurring in piping of the plant,
   of positional data indicating the positions, in the plant, of the respective fluid leak
   portions input to the input unit, indicators representing the respective fluid leak
25 portions are displayed superimposed on a configuration diagram image of the plant
   at locations corresponding to the positional data of the respective fluid leak portions
   on the configuration diagram image, wherein
            the data processing unit is configured to display, on the display unit, a pipe
   connection deducing image in which a piping diagram image of the plant and an
30 image of a range in the leak portion display image that corresponds to the piping
   diagram image are displayed next to each other.
    [0009C]         According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a
   method for deducing pipe connection, wherein a fluid leakage data management
   apparatus is used, the management apparatus including:
35          an input unit to which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid
   leak diagnosis of a plant is input;
            a display unit on which the data input to the input unit is displayed; and
            a data processing unit that displays, on the display unit, a leak portion
   display image in which, with respect to positional data indicating the positions, in
40 the plant, of respective fluid leak portions occurring in piping of the plant, of the

   fluid leak portions input to the input unit, indicators representing the respective
   fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on a configuration diagram image of
   the plant at locations corresponding to the positional data of the respective fluid leak
   portions on the overall configuration diagram image; wherein
 5          a connection state of the piping of the plant is deduced by referring to a
   piping diagram of the plant and the locations of the indicators in the leak portion
   display image.
    [0009D]         According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a
   fluid leakage data management apparatus comprising:
10          an input unit to which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid
   leak diagnosis of a plant is input;
            a data processing unit that displays, on the display unit, a leak portion
   display image in which, with respect to positional data indicating the positions, in
   the plant, of respective fluid leak portions occurring in piping of the plant, of the
15 fluid leak portions input to the input unit, indicators representing the respective
   fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on an overall configuration diagram
   image of the plant at locations corresponding to the positional data of the respective
   fluid leak portions on the overall configuration diagram image.
    [0010] A fluid leakage data management apparatus according to the present
20 disclosure is a fluid leakage data management apparatus, including:
            an input unit to which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid
   leak diagnosis of a plant is input;
            a display unit on which the data input to the input unit is displayed; and
            a data processing unit that displays, on the display unit, a leak portion
25 display image in which, with respect to positional data indicating positions, in the
   plant, of the respective fluid leak portions input to the input unit, indicators
   representing the respective fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on a
   configuration diagram image of the plant at locations corresponding to the
   positional data of the respective fluid leak portions on the configuration diagram
30 image.
    [0011]  In a configuration, it is possible to precisely comprehend the trend of fluid
   leaks in a plant, such as an area in which fluid leaks occur in clusters, an area in
   which not many fluid leaks occur, and the like, from a distribution of the indicators
   on the configuration diagram image of the plant.
35  [0012] Thus, it is possible to devise an efficient plan for future maintenance, for
   example, which area should be diagnosed with high priority, taking into account the
   trend of fluid leaks in the plant.   Moreover, it is possible to deduce the extent of
   deterioration of equipment and a defect in the equipment from the trend of fluid
   leaks in the plant indicated by the distribution of the indicators.    For example, with
40 respect to an area in the target plant where a large number of fluid leak portions

   are present, it can be deduced that the equipment has deteriorated, or if the number
   of fluid leak portions is abnormally large, it can be deduced that some kind of defect
   has occurred in the equipment.      In this manner, it is possible to perform various
   analyses based on the trend of fluid leaks in the plant by making use of the leak
 5 portion display image.
    [0013] Furthermore, it is possible to clearly comprehend the positional relationship
   of the fluid leak portions in the plant from the positional relationship of the
   indicators on the leak portion display image, and thus, it is possible to devise an
   efficient repair plan including, for example, the order in which the fluid leak
10 portions are to be repaired.
    [0014] Here, a fluid leak diagnosis of a plant refers to diagnosing a fluid leak from
   each portion of a piping system and a vessel system of a plant.
    [0015] Preferred aspects of the fluid leakage data management apparatus
   according to the present disclosure will be described below.      However, the scope of
15 the present disclosure is not limited to the following examples of preferred aspects.
    [0016] According to an aspect, it is preferable that the data processing unit is
   configured to display the indicators displayed on the leak portion display image in a
   state in which the indicators are associated with an amount of fluid leakage at the
   respective corresponding fluid leak portions.
20  [0017]  With this configuration, it is possible to even more precisely comprehend the
   trend of fluid leaks in the plant, including not only the distribution of fluid leak
   portions in the plant but also the distribution of the amounts of fluid leakage, by
   using the leak portion display image.      Thus, analyses based on the trend of fluid
   leaks in the plant, such as the devising of a future maintenance plan and the
25 deduction of the extent of deterioration of the equipment and a defect, can be more
   accurately performed.
    [0018]  Moreover, only fluid leak portions at which the amount of fluid leakage is
   equal to or more than a certain amount are intended to be repaired, it is possible to
   easily narrow down fluid leak portions to be repaired by using the leak portion
30 display image according to this configuration, and it is possible to easily devise a
   repair plan for those fluid leak portions.
    [0019] According to an aspect, it is preferable that the data processing unit is
   configured to display the indicators displayed on the leak portion display image in a
   state in which the indicators are associated with the type of leaking fluid at the
35 respective corresponding fluid leak portions.
    [0020] With this configuration, it is possible to even more precisely comprehend the
   trend of fluid leaks in the plant, including not only the distribution of fluid leak
   portions in the plant but also the distribution of the types of leaking fluid, by using
   the leak portion display image.     Thus, analyses such as the devising of a future
40 maintenance plan based on the trend of fluid leaks in the plant and the deduction of

   the extent of deterioration of the equipment and a defect can be more accurately
   performed.
    [0021] Moreover, only fluid leak portions related to a specific type of leaking fluid
   are intended to be repaired, it is possible to easily narrow down fluid leak portions
 5 to be repaired by using the leak portion display image according to this
   configuration, and it is possible to easily devise a repair plan for those fluid leak
   portions.
    [0022] According to an aspect, it is preferable that the management apparatus
   further includes a leaking fluid type selecting unit that makes an instruction to
10 select the type of leaking fluid, and the data processing unit is configured to display
   only the indicators associated with one or two or more selected types of leaking fluid
   on the display unit, in accordance with a selection instruction made by the leaking
   fluid type selecting unit.
    [0023] With this configuration, since only the indicators indicating the type of
15 leaking fluid that is focused on are displayed on the leak portion display image, it is
   possible to clearly comprehend the trend of fluid leaks related to the type of leaking
   fluid that is focused on, and thus, it is possible to easily perform an analysis
   focusing on a specific type of leaking fluid.
    [0024] According to an aspect, it is preferable that the management apparatus
20 further includes a scaling instructing unit that makes an instruction to scale up or
   down the leak portion display image displayed on the display unit, and the data
   processing unit is configured to scale up or down the leak portion display image and
   display the resulting leak portion display image on the display unit, in accordance
   with an instruction made by the scaling instructing unit.
25  [0025] With this configuration, since only a region that is focused on in the plant is
   displayed, it is possible to clearly comprehend the trend of fluid leaks in that specific
   region, and thus, it is possible to easily perform an analysis focusing on a specific
   region.
    [0026] According to an aspect, it is preferable that the management apparatus
30 further includes a ratio instructing unit that makes an instruction for a ratio for
   uniformly changing the size of all the indicators displayed on the display unit at a
   fixed ratio, and the data processing unit is configured to uniformly change the size
   of all the indicators at a ratio according to an instruction made by the ratio
   instructing unit and display the resulting indicators on the display unit.
35  [0027] With this configuration, in the case where the indicators on the leak portion
   display image overlap one another, making it difficult to know the distribution of
   the indicators, it is possible to make it easy to know the distribution of the
   indicators by adjusting the size of the indicators.
    [0028] According to an aspect, it is preferable that the management apparatus
40 further includes an indicator selecting unit that selects an indicator to be displayed

   on the display unit from the indicators, and the data processing unit is configured to
   display, on the display unit, as detailed data on a fluid leak portion corresponding to
   an indicator selected from the indicators in accordance with a selection instruction
   made by the indicator selecting unit, at least one of a device at which a fluid leak
 5 has occurred and a site of the fluid leak in the device, an amount of fluid leakage at
   the fluid leak portion, a type of leaking fluid at the fluid leak portion, and a
   photographed image of the fluid leak portion such that the detailed data is
   displayed superimposed on the leak portion display image.
    [0029] With this configuration, by using the detailed data on the fluid leak portions,
10 it is possible to perform various analyses and the devising of a repair plan taking
   into account detailed information regarding each of the fluid leak portions, in
   addition to the trend of fluid leaks in the plant, which can be comprehended from
   the leak portion display image.
    [0030] According to an aspect, it is preferable that the management apparatus
15 further includes a storage unit in which the data input to the input unit is
   cumulatively stored, and the data processing unit is configured to generate the leak
   portion display image for each of a plurality of fluid leak diagnoses of the same
   plant cumulatively stored in the storage unit and to be capable of displaying, on the
   display unit, an image in which the leak portion display images generated
20 respectively for the plurality of fluid leak diagnoses are arranged.
    [0031] With this configuration, since the image in which the leak portion display
   images generated for the respective fluid leak diagnoses of the target plant from
   past to present are arranged is displayed, it is possible to comprehend changes in
   the distributions of fluid leak portions, types of leaking fluid, and amounts of fluid
25 leakage in the target plant.    Thus, it is possible to comprehend the chronological
   trend of fluid leaks in the plant, and it is possible to even more precisely
   comprehend the trend of fluid leaks in the target plant by also taking into account
   the chronological trend.    Therefore, analyses based on the trend of fluid leaks in
   the plant, such as the devising of a maintenance plan future plant and the
30 deduction of the extent of deterioration of the equipment and a defect, can be more
   accurately performed.
    [0032]  Moreover, it is possible to confirm the effect of continuously performing fluid
   leak diagnoses and repairs based on the results of the diagnoses, from the changes
   in fluid leaks in the target plant from past to present.
35  [0033] According to an aspect, it is preferable that the management apparatus
   further includes a storage unit in which the data input to the input unit is
   cumulatively stored, and the data processing unit is configured to generate the leak
   portion display image for each fluid leak diagnosis of each of a plurality of plants
   cumulatively stored in the storage unit and to be capable of displaying, on the
40 display unit, an image in which the leak portion display images generated

   respectively for the plurality of plants are arranged.
    [0034]  With this configuration, since the image in which the leak portion display
   images generated respectively for the plurality of plants are arranged is displayed,
   it is possible to comprehend differences in fluid leaks (differences in distributions of
 5 fluid leak portions, types of leaking fluid, and amounts of fluid leakage) between the
   plants to be compared.     Then, an analysis of the relationship of the differences in
   fluid leaks between the plants to be compared with differences in operating
   conditions (equipment configurations of the plants, operating times, amounts of
   various fluids used, and the like) between the plants to be compared makes it
10 possible to deduce which difference in the operating conditions between the plants
   causes the difference in fluid leaks between the plants to be compared, that is, the
   cause of the differences in fluid leaks.    Thus, it is possible to take measures against
   fluid leaks in the target plant.
    [0035] According to an aspect, it is preferable that the data processing unit is
15 configured to generate the leak portion display image based on data that is input to
   the input unit in the middle of a fluid leak diagnosis of the plant.
    [0036]  With this configuration, it is possible to know the trends in the distributions
   of fluid leak portions, types of leaking fluid, and amounts of fluid leakage within a
   region in which the fluid leak diagnosis has been performed.         Thus, it is possible to
20 evaluate whether the diagnosis plan that has been carried out in the diagnosed
   region is appropriate.    Furthermore, it is possible to infer the trend of fluid leaks in
   the undiagnosed region from the trend of fluid leaks in the region in which the fluid
   leak diagnosis has been performed, and thus, based on the inferred trend of fluid
   leaks in the undiagnosed region, it is possible to change the plan for the fluid leak
25 diagnosis of the undiagnosed region to an effective plan tailored to the trend of fluid
   leaks.    For example, in the case where it is deduced that there is a possibility that
   fluid leaks are occurring in clusters in a region that was not originally scheduled to
   be diagnosed, the diagnosis plan is changed so that this region will be diagnosed.
    [0037]  According to an aspect, it is preferable that the data processing unit is
30 configured to display the leak portion display image such that a diagnosed region
   that has been diagnosed in the fluid leak diagnosis of the plant and an undiagnosed
   region are differentiated from each other.
    [0038]  With this configuration, it is possible to clearly comprehend which region of
   the leak portion display image has already been diagnosed.          For example, it is
35 possible to clearly comprehend whether a region in which no indicators are
   displayed on the leak portion display image is a region in which diagnosis has
   already been finished, but no fluid leak portions have been found, or is simply an
   undiagnosed region.      Therefore, it is possible to even more precisely evaluate
   whether the diagnosis plan that has been carried out in the diagnosed region is
40 appropriate, and it is possible to even more precisely infer the trend of fluid leaks in

   the undiagnosed region.      Thus, the plan for the fluid leak diagnosis of the
   undiagnosed region can be changed to an even more effective plan.
    [0039] A fluid leak portion management system according to the present disclosure
   is a fluid leak portion management system including:
 5          the management apparatus according to any aspect of the present
   disclosure; and
            a portable leakage detecting device used for a fluid leak diagnosis of the
   plant,
            wherein data on the fluid leak portions collected by the leakage detecting
10 device is input to the input unit of the management apparatus from the leakage
   detecting device,
            the leakage detecting device is configured such that detected positional data
   can be input to the leakage detecting device, the detected positional data indicating
   positions, in the plant, of respective fluid leak portions that have been detected, and
15          the data processing unit is configured to use the detected positional data
   input to the input unit as the positional data, and dispose the indicators on the leak
   portion display image at locations corresponding to the detected positional data on
   the configuration diagram image.
    [0040] With this configuration, since the data on fluid leak portions is input to the
20 management apparatus by the leakage detecting device, the complicated job of
   manually inputting individual pieces of data on fluid leak portions one by one is
   eliminated, and thus, the data can be easily input to the management apparatus.
   Furthermore, since the indicators are displayed on the leak portion display image
   such that the indicators are disposed at locations corresponding to the detected
25 positional data, if detected positional data indicating the position of a detected leak
   portion is input to the leakage detecting device upon detection of that fluid leak
   portion during the fluid leak diagnosis, an indicator can automatically be disposed
   at the position of the fluid leak portion on the leak portion display image with only a
   data input operation from the leakage detecting device to the management
30 apparatus without complicated work being involved.
    [0041] An indicator can be disposed at a position corresponding to the detected
   positional data on the leak portion display image by appropriate means.        For
   example, the data processing unit may convert the detected positional data input to
   the input unit into coordinate values on the configuration diagram image, and the
35 location indicated by the converted coordinate values may be used as the location of
   the indicator on the leak portion display image.     Alternatively, the leakage
   detecting device may convert the detected positional data into coordinate values on
   the configuration diagram image and input the detected positional data converted
   into the coordinate values to the management apparatus, and the location indicated
40 by the coordinate values may be used as the location of the indicator on the leak

   portion display image.
   [0042] According to an aspect, it is preferable that the leakage detecting device
   includes a display, and in a state in which an image indicating a diagnosis area is
   displayed on the display, when a mark indicating a position of a fluid leak portion in
 5 the diagnosis area is added to the displayed image in accordance with a manual
   position indicating operation, the position indicated by the mark on the displayed
   image is used as the detected positional data, and the detected positional data is
   input to the leakage detecting device.
   [0043]  With this configuration, since the detected positional data indicating the
10 position of a fluid leak portion is input while referring to an image indicating a
   diagnosis area through a so-called marking operation, the detected positional data
   can be precisely and easily input to the leakage detecting device.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
15 [0043A]          In order that the invention may be more clearly ascertained,
   embodiments will now be described by way of example with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which:
   [0044]  FIG. 1 schematically shows a management system according to the present
   disclosure.
20         FIG. 2 shows a manner in which a leak portion is detected.
           FIG. 3 is a perspective view of a leakage detecting device.
           FIG. 4 shows a rear end of a mobile detector in an enlarged manner.
           FIG. 5 shows a front end of the mobile detector in an enlarged manner.
           FIG. 6 shows a data input screen.
25         FIG. 7 shows a positional information input screen.
           FIG. 8 shows a computing condition input screen.
           FIG. 9 shows a photographed image screen.
           FIG. 10 shows an area map screen.
           FIG. 11 is a block diagram of the leakage detecting device.
30         FIG. 12 is a block diagram of a management apparatus.
           FIG. 13 shows a list image.
           FIG. 14a shows a detailed data image.
           FIG. 14b shows a detailed data image.
           FIG. 14c shows a detailed data image.
35         FIG. 15a shows a map image.
           FIG. 15b shows a map image.
           FIG. 15c shows a map image.
           FIG. 16 shows a repair schedule.
           FIG. 17 shows a monetary conversion table.
40         FIG. 18 shows a diagnosis report.

   Detailed Description of Embodiments
    [0045] The present disclosure relates to a management apparatus that manages
   data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid leak diagnosis of a plant and a
 5 management system constituted by the management apparatus and a leakage
   detecting device that is used for the fluid leak diagnosis.     FIG. 1 schematically
   shows the present disclosure.       According to the present disclosure, a fluid leak
   diagnosis of a plant is performed using a portable leakage detecting device R, and
   collected data is input to a host computer 24 serving as the management apparatus.
10  [0046] As the fluid leak diagnosis, a fluid leak from each of the various portions of a
   piping system and a vessel system of a plant is diagnosed using the leakage
   detecting device R.    If a fluid leak is detected by the leakage detecting device R
   (reference numeral L in FIG. 1), various kinds of information (type of leaking fluid,
   date and time of detection, device in which a fluid leak portion has developed, etc.)
15 are input to the leakage detecting device R, a computation of the amount of fluid
   leakage at that portion is instructed, the fluid leak portion is photographed, and the
   fluid leak portion is marked on an area map image Pa of a diagnosis area and a
   photographed image Pb.        Thus, collected data D is produced in which the
   above-described input information, the computed amount of fluid leakage, the
20 photographed image Pb, and the positions indicated on the area map image Pa and
   the photographed image Pb are associated with a management number given to
   that leak portion.    That is to say, the collected data D is a collective set of data
   including the state of the fluid leak (amount of fluid leakage, type of leaking fluid,
   device in which the leak has occurred, etc.) and the specific position of the fluid leak
25 (the photographed image Pb, the marking positions on the area map image Pa, and
   the photographed image Pb, etc.).       Diagnoses of various portions are sequentially
   performed, and each time a fluid leak is detected, collected data D for each fluid
   leak portion is produced.     The collected data D is accumulated and stored.
    [0047] After a predetermined diagnostic process has been completed, the
30 accumulated collected data D is input to the host computer 24.         Although described
   in detail later, the host computer 24, based on the input collected data D, not only
   simply uses the collected data D to identify the fluid leak portions, but also provides
   information regarding the economic effect that is to be obtained by repairing the
   fluid leak portions, the devising of a plan for repair of the fluid leak portions that
35 have been found and a plan for future maintenance, and the improvement of the
   equipment of the plant.      That is to say, according to the present disclosure, a
   method for effectively using the collected data collected through a fluid leak
   diagnosis of a plant can be provided.
    [0048] Hereinafter, the present disclosure will be specifically described.       First, the
40 configuration of the leakage detecting device used for fluid leak diagnosis will be

   described.   Subsequently, a method for performing a fluid leak diagnosis of a plant
   and collecting data on fluid leak portions using the leakage detecting device will be
   described.   After that, management of the collected data using the management
   apparatus (host computer 24 in the description below) will be described.
 5
   Configuration of Leakage Detecting Device
   [0049] As shown in FIGS. 2 and 3, the leakage detecting device R includes a
   gun-shaped mobile detector 1 serving as a main device, and a mobile computer 2
   attached to the mobile detector 1.
10 [0050] As shown in FIGS. 3 and 4, directional microphones 3 for detecting
   ultrasonic waves generated at a fluid leak portion and a light source 4 for emitting a
   light beam are arranged on a front end portion of the mobile detector 1, and a
   display unit 5 for displaying detected ultrasonic wave values (specifically, detected
   sound pressures) in bar-graphic representation and digital representation as well as
15 various keys 6 are arranged on a rear end portion of the mobile detector 1.
   Moreover, an earphone 7 for outputting detection sounds obtained by making the
   detected ultrasonic waves audible is connected to the mobile detector 1.
   [0051] As shown in FIG. 11, the mobile detector 1 is equipped with a computing
   unit 12 to which signals output from the microphones 3 are input via an
20 amplification unit 8, a filter unit 9, a demodulation unit 10, and a rectification unit
   11 and which in turn causes the display unit 5 to display detected ultrasonic wave
   values based on the input signals and also causes the earphone 7 to output detection
   sounds obtained by making the detected ultrasonic waves audible, as well as a
   storage unit 13 for storing various kinds of data.
25 [0052] As shown in FIG. 5, the plurality of microphones 3 are arranged oriented in
   the same direction while being dispersed at the vertex positions of a regular polygon
   K (regular hexagon in the present example) in a state in which their directional
   ranges S have common overlapping portions SS.        On the other hand, the light
   source 4 for emitting a light beam is disposed at the center of gravity of the regular
30 polygon K as viewed in the directivity direction of the microphones such that the
   light beam is emitted to the common overlapping portions SS of the directional
   ranges S of the microphones.     Thus, as shown in FIG. 2, in detecting a leak portion
   based on detected ultrasonic wave values and detection sounds while changing the
   directivity direction of the microphones 3 by changing the orientation of the front
35 end of the mobile detector 1, the detection of a leak portion can be performed while
   visually observing light beam irradiation points and visually checking detection
   target portions in a clear manner at the thus respectively irradiated points one after
   another.
   [0053]   Changing the settings of ultrasonic wave detecting sensitivity (i.e., the
40 degree of signal amplification in the amplification unit 8) can be performed by

   operating the keys 6.    The sensitivity that is set is displayed on the display unit 5
   together with the detected ultrasonic wave values.       When a leak portion is detected,
   the keys 6 are operated to cause the computing unit 12 to associate an ultrasonic
   wave value detected at that leak portion, which is the output data from the
 5 microphones at that leak portion, with the sensitivity that is set at that time by
   using a management number given to that leak portion and to store the detected
   ultrasonic wave value in the storage unit 13 together with the set sensitivity.
   [0054] Reference numeral 14 denotes a conical cap having a small opening 15 at a
   front end thereof. When a possible leak portion is detected, the cap 14 is fitted to
10 the front end portion of the mobile detector 1, if necessary, to enhance the directivity
   of the plurality of microphones 3 as a whole, and in this state, the detector is moved
   closer to the leak portion to check the leak portion based on the ultrasonic wave
   value and detection sound at that time.
   [0055]   Reference numeral 16 denotes a power switch that can be operated in the
15 same manner as a trigger.      When the power switch 16 is turned ON, the detector is
   brought into an ultrasonic wave detection state.      It should be noted that light beam
   emission is switched ON/OFF by operating the keys 6.
   [0056] As shown in FIGS. 1 and 11, the mobile computer 2 includes a computing
   unit 17, a storage unit 18, a display 19, and various keys 20, and a small-sized
20 digital camera 21 can be mounted to the mobile computer 2.         The mobile computer
   2 can be detachably attached to an upper portion of the mobile detector 1 through
   an attaching element 22 such that the position of the mobile computer 2 is
   adjustable, and can also communicate with the mobile detector 1 via a wired or
   wireless communication unit 23.
25
   Fluid Leak Diagnosis
   [0057]   To perform a fluid leak diagnosis, first, an area map image Pa (image such
   as that shown in FIG. 10) of a diagnosis area in a plant to be diagnosed is stored in
   the storage unit 18 of the mobile computer 2.      After that, while a diagnosis staff
30 moves around the diagnosis area, leak portions are diagnosed based on detected
   ultrasonic wave values and detection sounds using the mobile detector 1 as shown
   in FIG. 2.   If a leak portion is found, the ultrasonic wave value detected at that
   leak portion is stored in the storage unit 13 of the mobile detector 1 by operating the
   keys 6 as described above.
35 [0058] After this storing operation has been performed, the computing unit 12 of
   the mobile detector 1 calls the computing unit 17 of the mobile computer 2.       In
   response to this, the computing unit 17 of the mobile computer 2 reads the detected
   ultrasonic wave value and the set sensitivity that have been associated with each
   other by using the management number and stored in the storage unit 13 of the
40 mobile detector 1, and displays a data input screen Ga such as that shown in FIG. 6

   on the display 19.    In the data input screen Ga, with respect to that leak portion,
   the management number, the detected ultrasonic wave value, the set sensitivity, the
   date and time of detection, the name (or ID) of the diagnosis staff, and a checkbox
   indicating whether repair has been finished are displayed.
 5  [0059] Moreover, when an instruction to compute the amount of leakage is given
   through a key operation in the data input screen Ga, the computing unit 17 displays
   a computing condition input screen Gb such as that shown in FIG. 8 on the display
   19.   When computing conditions for that leak portion with respect to various items,
   namely, distance, type, direction, and fluid are input in the computing condition
10 input screen Gb, the computing unit 17 calculates the amount of fluid leakage at
   that leak portion based on the detected ultrasonic wave value at that leak portion
   and the input computing conditions, and displays the calculated amount of leakage
   in the computing condition input screen Gb.
    [0060] It should be noted that with regard to the above-described items, distance
15 means the distance between a leak point and the detector 1, type means the type of
   a piping member or the like that leaks, direction means the direction in which
   ultrasonic waves are detected relative to the leak point, and fluid means the type of
   leaking fluid.
    [0061] During input of the conditions in the computing condition input screen Gb,
20 with respect to the items, type, direction, and fluid, when display of a list is
   instructed through a key operation in the screen Gb, the computing unit 17 displays,
   for each of the items, a list (pulldown menu) of computing condition data in the
   screen Gb.    When the computing condition data corresponding to the relevant leak
   portion is selected from the list, the computing unit 17 executes the above-described
25 calculation using the selected data as an input computing condition.
    [0062] Before a series of detecting operations are performed, the computing
   condition data in each list has been produced by the host computer 24 using a
   dedicated program, transmitted from the host computer 24 to the mobile computer 2
   via a wired or wireless communication unit 25 as shown in FIG. 1, and stored in the
30 storage unit 18 of the mobile computer 2.    The computing condition data can be
   rewritten through the same operation whenever necessary depending on the target
   diagnosis area, the type of leak portions to be detected, and the like.
    [0063] The function of computing the amount of leakage is also provided in the
   mobile detector 1 so that the amount of leakage can be computed even in the case
35 where the mobile computer 2 is removed from the mobile detector 1 and the
   detection of leak portions is performed using the mobile detector 1 alone.      In
   storing a detected ultrasonic wave value in the storage unit 13 of the mobile
   detector 1, the computing conditions with respect to the various items are input by
   operating the keys 6 while confirming the input data on the display unit 5. Then,
40 the computing unit 12 of the mobile detector 1 calculates the amount of fluid

   leakage based on the detected ultrasonic wave value and the input computing
   conditions, displays the calculated amount of leakage on the display unit 5.       Also,
   the computing unit 12 associates the calculated amount of leakage, the detected
   ultrasonic wave value, and the set sensitivity with one another by using the
 5 management number given to the relevant leak portion, and stores them in the
   storage unit 13.
    [0064] It should be noted that in the case where the amount of leakage is computed
   on the mobile detector 1 side as described above with the mobile computer 2 being
   mounted to the mobile detector 1, the computing unit 17 of the mobile computer 2
10 when reading the detected ultrasonic wave value and the set sensitivity stored in
   the storage unit 13 of the mobile detector 1 also reads the calculated amount of
   leakage from the storage unit 13 of the mobile detector 1.       Then, the amount of
   leakage that has been computed on the mobile computer 2 side or the mobile
   detector 1 side is displayed in the data input screen Ga together with the
15 management number, the detected ultrasonic wave value, the set sensitivity, the
   date and time of detection, the name of the diagnosis staff, and the checkbox
   indicating whether repair has been finished with respect to that leak portion.
    [0065] In the data input screen Ga, when an instruction to display a positional
   information input screen is given through a key operation in the screen Ga, the
20 computing unit 17 displays a positional information input screen Gc such as that
   shown in FIG. 7 on the display 19. In the positional information input screen Gc,
   positional information of that leak portion is input with respect to the following
   items: area, floor, target member, target site, and type of fluid used (it should be
   noted that the target site and the type of fluid used are hidden in FIG. 7, and input
25 to each of these items, the target site and the type of fluid used, is performed after
   the item has been displayed by operating a scroll bar).       Moreover, during input of
   information in the positional information input screen Gc, when an instruction to
   display a list is given through a key operation on the screen Gc with respect to each
   of the items, namely, area, floor, target member, target site, and type of fluid used,
30 the computing unit 17 displays a list (pulldown menu) of positional data in the
   screen Gc for each item individually.     When the positional data corresponding to
   the relevant leak portion is selected from the list, the computing unit 17 uses the
   selected data as input positional information with respect to that leak portion.
    [0066] In should be noted that, with regard to the above-described items, the area
35 means the name of the area in which diagnosis is performed, the floor means the
   floor number of the diagnosis area in the plant, the target member means the type
   of a device (pipe, valve, or the like) that leaks the fluid, the target site means the
   site (main body portion, joint portion, flange portion, or the like) of the target
   member where the leak has occurred, and the type of fluid used means the type of
40 the fluid that is used in the target member.

   [0067] As in the case of the above-described computing condition data, the
   positional data in each list and the item names of the items, area, floor, target
   member, and target site have been produced by the host computer 24 using a
   dedicated program and stored in the storage unit 18 of the mobile computer 2 before
 5 the series of detecting operations are performed, and can be rewritten whenever
   necessary depending on the target diagnosis area, the type of leak portions to be
   detected, and the like.
   [0068]   Moreover, a remarks field is provided in a lower portion of the positional
   information input screen Gc so as to enable input of detailed place information
10 ("north side - main line - valve", for example) indicating a specific place within an
   area.
   [0069]   Furthermore, when an instruction to display an area map in the data input
   screen Ga is given through a key operation in the screen Ga, the computing unit 17
   displays an area map screen Gd such as that shown in FIG. 10 on the display 19
15 and displays the area map image Pa stored in the storage unit 18 in the area map
   screen Gd.    Then, when a marking operation (corresponding to a manual
   position-indicating operation) for indicating the position of the leak portion on the
   displayed area map image Pa (i.e., position of the leak portion in the diagnosis area)
   is performed in accordance with a predetermined operation procedure, the
20 computing unit 17 displays a mark Ma (in the present example, a circle centered on
   the indicated position) in the area map image Pa as shown in FIG. 10, the mark Ma
   indicating the position of the leak portion.
   [0070]   Similarly, after the leak portion has been photographed using the camera 21
   mounted to the mobile computer 2, when an instruction to display a photographed
25 image in the data input screen Ga is given through a key operation in the screen Ga,
   the computing unit 17 displays a photographed image screen Ge such as that shown
   in FIG. 9 on the display 19 and displays a photographed image Pb of the leak
   portion in the photographed image screen Ge.       Then, when a marking operation for
   indicating a detailed position of the leak on the photographed image Pb is
30 performed in accordance with a predetermined operation procedure, the computing
   unit 17 displays a mark Mb (in the present example, a circle centered on the
   indicated position) in the displayed photographed image Pb as shown in FIG. 9, the
   mark Mb indicating the detailed position of the leak. It should be noted that,
   although not shown in the drawings, in addition to the image such as that shown in
35 FIG. 9, which is obtained by photographing the leak position while zooming in on
   the leak position, an image obtained by zooming out so as to also show the
   equipment around the leak position may also be photographed as the photographed
   image Pb, if necessary, and the same marking operation may be performed on the
   zoomed-out image as well.
40 [0071]   Moreover, there are cases where the detection of a leak portion and the

   repair of the leak portion are performed simultaneously, and if repair is performed
   simultaneously, the checkbox indicating whether repair has been finished is checked
   through a key operation on the data input screen Ga.
    [0072]   Then, when input in the above-described screens Ga to Ge is completed, the
 5 computing unit 17 associates with one another, with respect to the leak portion, the
   detected ultrasonic wave value, the set sensitivity, the amount of leakage, the date
   and time of detection, the name of the diagnosis staff, the input positional
   information (area, floor, target member, target site, type of fluid used, detailed place
   information entered in the remarks field), the input computing conditions (distance,
10 type, direction, fluid), the position indicated by the mark Ma in the displayed area
   map image Pa, the photographed image Pb, the position indicated by the mark Mb
   in the displayed photographed image Pb of the leak portion, and whether or not the
   checkbox indicating whether repair has been finished is checked, by using the
   management number given to that leak portion, and stores them in the storage unit
15 18 as the collected data D.     The position indicated by the mark Ma in the displayed
   area map image Pa is converted to coordinate values in the area map image Pa, and
   the coordinate values are stored in the storage unit 18.      Similarly, the position
   indicated by the mark Mb in the photographed image Pb is also stored in the
   storage unit 18 as coordinate values in the photographed image Pb.
20  [0073]   That is to say, while moving around the diagnosis area and sequentially
   detecting leak portions, the diagnosis staff performs the above-described processing
   operations for each of the leak portions.     As a result, the collected data D (the
   detected ultrasonic wave value, the set sensitivity, the amount of leakage, the date
   and time of detection, the name of the diagnosis staff, the input positional
25 information, the input computing conditions, the position indicated by the mark Ma,
   the photographed image Pb, the position indicated by the mark Mb, whether or not
   the checkbox indicating whether repair has been finished is checked with respect to
   the same leak portion, which are associated with one another by using the
   management number given to that leak portion) on each of the leak portions is
30 accumulated in the storage unit 18 of the mobile computer 2.
    [0074] After a series of diagnosing operations has been completed, as in the case of
   writing of the computing condition data and the positional data, the collected data D
   stored in the storage unit 18 of the mobile computer 2 is input to the host computer
   24 via the wired or wireless communication unit 25, as shown in FIG. 1.
35  [0075]   It should be noted that the mobile detector 1 is also enabled to perform
   wired or wireless communication with the host computer 24 for cases where the
   mobile detector 1 is used alone, and the collected data D stored in the storage unit
    13 of the mobile detector 1 can be input to the host computer 24, or various kinds of
   data can be directly written to the storage unit 13 of the mobile detector 1 from the
40 host computer 24.

   [0076] Moreover, when management IDs are assigned to devices in the plant
   including pipes, the management IDs may each be associated with the area, floor,
   target member, type of fluid used, and detailed place information of the plant in
   advance, and the resulting correspondence table is stored in the storage unit 18, so
 5 that simply inputting a management ID as the positional information to be input in
   the positional information input screen Gc causes the computing unit 17 to convert
   the management ID into the corresponding area, floor, target member, type of fluid
   used, and detailed place information, the converted positional information is stored
   in the storage unit 18 in a state in which the positional information is associated
10 with the management number given to the leak portion.          Furthermore, the
   management IDs may each be associated with coordinate values in the area map
   image Pa, and the resulting correspondence table may be stored in the storage unit
   18 in advance, so that inputting a management ID causes the computing unit 17 to
   convert the management ID into the corresponding coordinate values in the area
15 map image Pa, and the coordinate values of the mark Ma is stored in the storage
   unit 18 in a state in which they are associated with the management number given
   to the leak portion, without performing the marking operation on the area map
   image Pa.     It should be noted that conversion of a management ID into positional
   information or coordinate values of the mark Ma may also be performed by a
20 database management unit 32, which will be described later.
   [0077]   Instead of the area map image Pa, a configuration diagram image of the
   plant may also be stored in the storage unit 18.     In this case, a marking operation
   for indicating the position of the leak portion on the configuration diagram image is
   performed, the mark Ma indicating the position of the leak portion is displayed on
25 the configuration diagram image, and furthermore, the coordinate values of the
   mark Ma on the configuration diagram image are stored in the storage unit 18 in a
   state in which the coordinate values are associated with the management number
   given to the leak portion.
30 Management of Collected Data
   [0078] As shown in FIG. 1, the host computer (corresponding to the management
   apparatus) 24 includes an operation unit 26 (corresponding to a leaking fluid type
   selecting unit, a scaling instructing unit, a ratio instructing unit, and an indicator
   selecting unit) constituted by a keyboard and a mouse; an input unit 27 constituted
35 by a dedicated terminal for the mobile computer 2 or the mobile detector 1, wireless
   communication means such as infrared communication equipment, a CD drive, and
   the like; a storage unit 28 constituted by a hard disk, a computing unit
   (corresponding to a data processing unit) 29 constituted by an internal CPU, and a
   display unit 30 constituted by a display. A management program and a database
40 Db are stored in the storage unit 28.    The host computer 24 performs operations,

   such as processing of input data, as per the computing unit 29 executing the
   management program.
   [0079]   The collected data D (collected data D stored in the storage unit 18 of the
   mobile computer 2 or the storage unit 13 of the mobile detector 1) on individual fluid
 5 leak portions that has been collected through a fluid leak diagnosis of a plant is
   input to the host computer 24 by the input unit 27.     The input collected data D is
   cumulatively recorded in the database Db as described later.
   [0080]   In order to receive an input of an instruction through a simple operation of
   the operation unit 26 via the display unit 30, the host computer 24 includes a GUI
10 unit 31 that realizes a graphic user interface, as shown in FIG. 12.    The GUI unit
   31 cooperates with various functional units, namely, the database management unit
   32, an analytic processing unit 33, and a diagnosis report producing unit 42.
   Moreover, the analytic processing unit 33 is constituted by the following functional
   units: a leak portion map producing unit 34, a leak trend deducing unit 35, plant
15 comparison information generating unit 36, a diagnosis plan evaluating unit 37, a
   pipe connection deducing unit 38, a repair schedule producing unit 39, a monetary
   conversion unit 40, and a compressor judging unit 41.      Thus, the host computer 24
   performs operations corresponding to the various functional units in accordance
   with instructions from the operation unit 26.     The following is a description of the
20 various functional units.
   Database Management Unit 32
   [0081]   The database management unit 32 performs management of the database
   Db and display of data recorded in the database Db.      The database management
25 unit 32 has the database recording function of reading the collected data D from the
   input unit 27 and cumulatively recording the read data in the database Db, and also
   reading an overall configuration diagram image (or a partial configuration diagram
   image, the same applies below) of a plant to be subjected to a fluid leak diagnosis
   from the input unit 27 and recording the read image in the database Db. Moreover,
30 in the case where management IDs are assigned to devices in the plant including
   pipes, the management IDs may each be associated with an area in the plant, floor,
   target member, type of fluid used, and pieces of detailed place information, and the
   resulting correspondence table may be stored in the storage unit 28 in advance.
   Then, the management IDs may each be converted into the corresponding area, floor,
35 target member, type of fluid used, and detailed place information, and the converted
   positional information may be recorded in the database Db.       Furthermore, the
   management IDs may each be associated with coordinate values in the area map
   image Pa, and the resulting correspondence table may be stored in the storage unit
   28 in advance.    Then, the management IDs may each be converted into the
40 corresponding coordinate values in the area map image Pa, and the coordinate

   values may be recorded in the database Db.
   [0082]   Furthermore, the database management unit 32 has the database
   displaying function of displaying a list image Pc on the display unit 30 as shown in
   FIG. 13, the list image Pc showing data such as the collected data D recorded in the
 5 database Db in a table format.      Moreover, the database management unit 32 has
   the database editing function of being able to edit data in the list on the list image
   Pc by, for example, rewriting the data or writing data to the data through an
   operation of the operation unit 26.     In the case where the data is edited, the
   database Db is updated in accordance with the edit.        In the list image Pc, data on a
10 desired fluid leak portion can be displayed by scrolling through the list using the
   operation unit 26.    Moreover, the database management unit 32 has the filtering
   function (see the fields of area, floor, and diagnosis staff in an upper portion of FIG.
   13), so that only fluid leak portions that satisfy a specific condition can be displayed.
   For example, only data on fluid leak portions within a designated area can be
15 displayed, or only data on fluid leak portions diagnosed by specified diagnosis staff
   can be displayed.
   [0083]   The database management unit 32 makes it possible to look at all data on
   all of the fluid leak portions and to display only the required data.      Thus, data
   management is easy. Moreover, any error in the collected data D can be easily
20 corrected through data editing.
   [0084] In the database management unit 32, it is possible to input and edit the
   annual operating time of the plant, the unit price of each fluid used, and a check
   mark indicating whether to lock the operating time and the unit price, which are
   required for the computation in the monetary conversion unit 40.          For example, as
25 the database editing function, a collective entry field (not shown) of the annual
   operating time of the plant and a collective entry field (not shown) of the unit price
   of a fluid used are provided for each combination of the type of fluid used and the
   area in the plant, and by inputting the annual operating time of the plant and the
   unit price of the fluid used into the respective collective entry fields, it is possible to
30 collectively input the input operating time and unit price of the fluid used into the
   fields of the operating time and the fields of the unit price of the fluid used,
   respectively, of target fluid leak portions. Moreover, values can also be directly
   input, respectively, into the field of the operating time and the field of the unit price
   of the fluid used with respect to each of the fluid leak portions shown in the list
35 image Pc, and thus, editing can be performed for each fluid leak portion individually.
   It should be noted that the database Db is updated in accordance with the input
   contents.    When a checkbox indicating whether to lock the operating time and the
   unit price is checked, even if a new operating time or unit price is input into the
   collective entry field (not shown) of the annual operating time of the plant or the
40 collective entry field of the unit price of the fluid used, the value input into that

   collective entry field is not input into the field for a leak portion with respect to
   which the checkbox is checked, and the originally input value in that field is fixed.
    [0085] In this manner, the annual operating time of the plant and the unit price of
   each fluid used can be collectively entered, and this makes it possible to easily
 5 change computing conditions used in the monetary conversion unit 39, which will be
   described later.   Moreover, the checkboxes indicating whether to lock the operating
   time and the unit price are provided, making it possible for a value to remain fixed
   even if an operating time and a unit price is collectively entered.     Thus, cases
   where a fluid leak portion for which the operating time or the unit price of the fluid
10 used is set at a value different from that for other portions is included can also be
   dealt with.    Examples of such cases include a case where a fluid leak portion is
   located in a place where the operation is performed within only a specific period of
   time while the plant is in operation, and a case where a fluid leak portion is located
   in a special environment, and therefore the unit price of the fluid used at that
15 portion is higher than the unit price of the same type of fluid used at another
   portion.
    [0086] It should be noted that the collective entry field of the annual operating time
   of the plant is also provided only for each type of fluid used or for each area in the
   plant, and the collective entry field of the unit price of the fluid used is also provided
20 only for each type of fluid used.    Moreover, the input operating time and unit price
   and the check mark in the checkbox indicating whether to lock the operating time
   and the unit price are recorded in the database Db.
    [0087] The database management unit 32 has the function of displaying detailed
   data, and when an item in the list image Pc is selected through the operation unit
25 26, the database management unit 32 accesses the database Db to extract data, and
   displays a detailed data image Pd regarding a fluid leak portion corresponding to
   the selected item such that the detailed data image Pd is superimposed on the list
   image Pc.    More specifically, as shown in FIG. 14, the host computer 24 displays, as
   the detailed data image Pd, an image Pdl showing fluid leak information, positional
30 information, photographed images Pb, and the like of the selected fluid leak portion,
   an arrangement plan image Pd2 showing the position of the selected fluid leak
   portion on the overall configuration diagram of the plant, and a supplementary
   information image Pd3 showing supplementary information, which are switched
   through an operation of the operation unit 26.
35  [0088] Specifically, in the image Pdl, as shown in FIG. 14a, the detected ultrasonic
   wave value (measured sound pressure), the set sensitivity, the date and time of
   detection, the amount of leakage (leakage amount), and the input computing
   conditions (distance, type, direction, fluid) are displayed in the top portion as the
   fluid leak information; the input positional information (area, floor, target member,
40 target site, type of fluid used) is displayed in the middle portion as the positional

   information; and the photographed images Pb each having a mark Mb are displayed
   in the bottom portion.    The photographed images Pb displayed in the bottom
   portion are respectively an image (corresponding to "Close up" in the diagram), such
   as that shown in FIG. 9, obtained by photographing the leak position while zooming
 5 in on the leak position and an image (corresponding to "Long shot" in the diagram)
   obtained by zooming out so as to also show the equipment around the leak position.
   If no zoomed-out image has been photographed, the zoomed-out image portion is left
   blank.    Moreover, the name of the diagnosis staff (name of measurer), the annual
   operating time of the plant, the unit price of the fluid used, the checkbox indicating
10 whether to lock the operating time and the unit price, and the checkbox indicating
   whether repair has been finished are shown in the middle portion as other
   information.    In this case as well, various data editing operations, such as
   rewriting and writing of the various kinds of information, replacement of the
   photographed images Pb, and alteration of the positions of the mark Mb on a
15 photographed images Pb, can be performed through operations of the operation unit
   26.   In the case where the data is edited, the database Db is updated in accordance
   with the edit.
    [0089]  In the arrangement plan image Pd2, as shown in FIG. 14b, an image in
   which a mark Ma is placed on the overall configuration diagram image of the plant
20 recorded in the database Db in accordance with the position indicated by the mark
   Ma corresponding to the selected fluid leak portion is displayed.      The position of
   the mark Ma is editable through an operation of the operation unit 26.        In the case
   where the data is edited, the contents of the collected data D stored in the storage
   unit 28 are updated accordingly.      Moreover, a configuration is adopted in which the
25 displayed overall configuration diagram image may be scaled up or down in
   accordance with an operation of the operation unit 26, or the displayed portion of
   the overall configuration diagram image is changed by scrolling through the overall
   configuration diagram image.
    [0090] In the supplementary information image Pd3, as shown in FIG. 14c, a
30 remarks field (corresponding to "Note" in the diagram) in which the detailed place
   information is displayed, the diagnosis staff remarks field in which a message from
   the diagnosis staff is entered, an edit field (corresponding to "Customized item" in
   the diagram) in which the details of data editing of the images Pdl and Pd2 are
   entered are displayed.     In this case as well, data editing, such as rewriting and
35 writing, of the individual fields can be performed through operations of the
   operation unit 26, and in the case where the data is edited, the database Db is
   updated accordingly.
    [0091] The above-described detailed data displaying function makes it possible to
   collectively know and manage data on fluid leak portions for each fluid leak portion
40 individually.   Also, in combination with the database displaying function, the

   detailed data displaying function makes it possible to effectively manage the
   database Db.
   Leak Portion Map Producing Unit 34
 5 [0092]    The leak portion map producing unit 34 accesses the database Db via the
   database management unit 32, produces, as shown in FIG. 15a, a map image (leak
   portion display image) Pe in which, with respect to the positional data indicating
   the positions of respective fluid leak portions in the plant, indicators representing
   the respective fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on the overall
10 configuration diagram image (or the partial configuration diagram image) of the
   target plant at locations corresponding to the positional data of the respective fluid
   leak portions on the overall configuration diagram image, and displays the produced
   map image Pe on the display unit 30.       Specifically, coordinate values, which
   represent the position indicated by the mark Ma, in the area map image Pa are
15 converted into coordinate values in the overall configuration diagram image, the
   converted coordinate values are used as the positional data, and an indicator is
   disposed at the location indicated by the converted coordinate values.       In the map
   image Pe, the indicators are configured to be displayed in a state in which the
   indicators are associated with the amount of fluid leakage and the type of leaking
20 fluid at the respective corresponding fluid leak portions. Specifically, in FIG. 15a,
   the amounts of fluid leakage are classified into four levels, the higher the level of
   the amount of fluid leakage an indicator belongs to, the larger the size of the
   indicator that is displayed, and furthermore, the indicators are displayed in a
   color-coded manner with colors that are respectively set for different types of
25 leaking fluid.    It should be noted that, although the case where the indicators are
   associated with the amount of fluid leakage and the type of leaking fluid at the
   respective corresponding fluid leak portions is described here, the indicators may
   also be displayed associated with other data, such as, for example, the area or the
   floor to which each fluid leak portion belongs, the device that is leaking fluid or the
30 site of the fluid leak (i.e., target member or target site of the collected data D), the
   date and time of detection, or the name of the diagnosis staff.
   [0093]    The leak portion map producing unit 34 is configured to display only a
   specific indicator on the map image Pe, to scale up or down the map image Pe and
   display the resulting map image Pe, or to display an indicator with its display
35 format changed, in accordance with an instruction received through the operation
   unit 26.
   [0094] Specifically, only those indicators that are associated with one or two or
   more types of leaking fluid selected through the operation unit 26 can be displayed
   on the map image Pe.        For example, in FIG. 15b, only those indicators that are
40 associated with "Fluid type 4" of the type of leaking fluid are displayed.     It should

   be noted that, in addition to the type of leaking fluid, only those indicators that
   belong to a level of the amount of fluid leakage selected through the operation unit
   26 can be displayed on the map image Pe.         Moreover, in the case where the
   indicators are associated with other items of collected data D, among categories (for
 5 example, if indicators are associated with devices that leak fluid, the types of the
   devices) included in the data associated with the indicators, only those indicators
   that belong to a category selected through the operation unit 26 can be displayed on
   the map image Pe.      Moreover, it is also possible to hide an indicator corresponding
   to a repaired fluid leak portion.
10  [0095] Also, in addition to scaling up or down the map image Pe, it is possible to
   change the displayed portion of the map image Pe by scrolling the display screen.
   FIG. 15c shows a portion enclosed by the dashed lines in FIG. 15a, the portion being
   displayed in a scaled-up manner as a result of scaling up and scrolling through the
   map image Pe.
15  [0096] Also, it is possible to uniformly change (scale up or down) the size of all the
   indicators at a ratio as instructed through the operation unit 26, and display the
   resulting indicators on the map image Pe.        The shape (circle, triangle, square, or
   the like), the color, and the size of indicators that are displayed can also be changed
   freely. Moreover, the form of association with the data (that is, which display
20 format of the indicators is to be changed for each category included in the data) can
   also be changed freely.
    [0097] Furthermore, as shown in FIG. 15c, when an indicator is selected through
   the operation unit 26, the database Db is accessed, and the device that is leaking
   fluid and the site of the fluid leak (i.e., target member and target site of the collected
25 data D), the amount of fluid leakage at that fluid leak portion, the type of leaking
   fluid at that fluid leak portion, and a photographed image Pb of that fluid leak
   portion are displayed next to the map image Pe as the detailed data on a fluid leak
   portion corresponding to the selected indicator.
    [0098] It should be noted that in the case where the collected data D with respect
30 to a plurality of plants is cumulatively stored in the database Db, the map image Pe
   with respect to a plant selected through the operation unit 26 out of a plurality of
   plants is displayed, and the displayed map image Pe is appropriately switched and
   changed to the map image Pe of a target plant as instructed through the operation
   unit 26.
35  [0099] The above-described leak portion map producing unit 34 makes it possible to
   deduce the extent of deterioration of the equipment of a target plant and a defect in
   the equipment from a trend in the distribution of the indicators displayed on the
   map image Pe.      For example, with respect to an area in the target plant where a
   large number of fluid leak portions are present, it can be deduced that the
40 equipment is deteriorating, or if the number of fluid leak portions or the amount of

   fluid leakage is abnormally large, it can be deduced that some kind of defect has
   occurred in the equipment.      Moreover, it is possible to comprehend a trend in the
   data distribution of fluid leaks in the target plant based on the distribution of the
   indicators, and it is possible to devise an efficient plan for future fluid leak diagnosis,
 5 for example, which area or which type of fluid used is to be given priority in
   performing diagnosis or to be diagnosed frequently. In the above-described manner,
   various analyses can be performed by using the leak portion map producing unit 34.
   Leak Trend Deducing Unit 35
10  [0100] In the case where the results of fluid leak diagnoses that have been
   performed with respect to the same plant in the past are accumulated and stored in
   the database Db, the leak trend deducing unit 35 generates fluid leak trend
   information indicating a chronological fluid leak trend in the target plant, in which
   information regarding fluid leak portions in the plant that have been detected in a
15 plurality of fluid leak diagnoses from past to present, and displays the generated
   fluid leak trend information on the display unit 30.      After a fluid leak diagnosis has
   been performed, fluid leak portions are repaired based on the results of the
   diagnosis.   Therefore, essentially, data on the plurality of fluid leak diagnoses from
   past to present is data on fluid leak portions that have newly developed between a
20 previously performed fluid leak diagnosis and the latest fluid leak diagnosis of the
   plurality of fluid leak diagnoses.   Thus, the fluid leak trend information indicates
   information regarding fluid leak portions that have newly developed in each of the
   intervals between the plurality of fluid leak diagnoses from past to present (interval
   between a preceding fluid leak diagnosis and a subsequent fluid leak diagnosis).
25  [0101] For example, the leak trend deducing unit 35 generates, as the fluid leak
   trend information, an image in which map images Pe (i.e., images in each of which
   indicators representing fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on the
   overall configuration diagram image of the target plant at locations corresponding
   to the positional data of the respective fluid leak portions on the overall
30 configuration diagram image) produced by the leak portion map producing unit 34
   for the respective fluid leak diagnoses are arranged.      Alternatively, the leak trend
   deducing unit 35 may generate a map image Pe in which indicators representing
   fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on the overall configuration diagram
   image of the target plant at locations corresponding to the positional data of the
35 respective fluid leak portions on the overall configuration diagram, and the
   indicators representing the fluid leak portions detected in different fluid leak
   diagnoses of the plurality of fluid leak diagnoses are displayed in different display
   formats (colors or shapes (circles, triangles, squares, or the like)).   Moreover, the
   leak trend deducing unit 35 may also generate, as the fluid leak trend information,
40 data in which, with respect to the entire target plant or with respect to each area in

   the target plant, the total number of fluid leak portions, the total amount of fluid
   leakage, and the like for each type of leaking fluid in the individual fluid leak
   diagnoses are arranged.     The fluid leak diagnosis data that is displayed as the fluid
   leak trend information may be data regarding all of the fluid leak diagnoses from
 5 past to present, or may be data regarding only a selected fluid leak diagnosis from
   among all of the fluid leak diagnoses.
    [0102] With the above-described fluid leak trend information, it is possible to
   comprehend changes in fluid leak portions, types of leaking fluid, and amounts of
   fluid leakage in the target plant from past to present, and therefore, it is possible to
10 comprehend a fluid leak trend in the target plant including a chronological trend.
   Thus, the deduction can be performed taking into account not only the trend in the
   data distribution of fluid leak portions but also the chronological trend of fluid leaks.
   For example, it can be deduced that the equipment is deteriorating in an area in the
   target plant where fluid leaks occur at a high frequency, and it can be deduced that
15 some defect has occurred in the equipment in the case where the fluid leak trend
   has changed toward an abnormally large number of fluid leak portions or an
   abnormally large amount of fluid leakage when compared with a past trend.
   Consequently, it is possible to even more precisely deduce the extent of deterioration
   of the equipment and a defect in the equipment.        Moreover, by taking into account
20 not only the trend in the data distribution of fluid leak portions but also the
   chronological trend of fluid leaks, it is possible to devise an even more efficient plan
   for future fluid leak diagnoses, such as an appropriate interval between fluid leak
   diagnoses in the target plant and which area or which type of fluid used is to be
   given priority in performing diagnosis or to be frequently diagnosed. Moreover,
25 based on changes in fluid leaks in the target plant from past to present, it is possible
   to confirm the effect of continuously performing fluid leak diagnoses and repairs
   based on the results of the diagnoses.
    [0103] It should be noted that the leak trend deducing unit 35 may also include an
   algorithm for analyzing a chronological fluid leak trend in the target plant based on
30 changes in fluid leaks in the target plant that are indicated by the fluid leak trend
   information or other data on fluid leak portions detected in the individual fluid leak
   diagnoses, and evaluating the extent of deterioration of the equipment and a defect
   in the equipment in the target plant based on the changes in fluid leaks and the
   chronological fluid leak trend, and an algorithm for producing a plan for future fluid
35 leak diagnoses that is appropriate for the changes in fluid leaks and the trend of
   fluid leaks.   Therefore, the leak trend deducing unit 35 may be configured to not
   only produce and display the fluid leak trend information but also to produce
   evaluation information regarding the extent of deterioration of the equipment and a
   defect in the equipment and a plan for future fluid leak diagnoses and display the
40 evaluation information and the plan on the display unit 30.

   Plant Comparison Information Generating Unit 36
   [0104] In the case where the results of fluid leak diagnoses that have been
   performed for a plurality of plants are accumulated and stored in the database Db,
 5 the plant comparison information generating unit 36 generates plant comparison
   information for comparing fluid leak trends in two or more plants to be compared
   and displays the plant comparison information on the display unit 30.       For
   example, the plant comparison information generating unit 36 generates, as the
   plant comparison information, an image in which map images Pe of each plant that
10 have been produced by the leak portion map producing unit 34 are arranged for
   each plant.    Moreover, the plant comparison information generating unit 36
   generates, as the plant comparison information, data in which, with respect to the
   entirety of each of the plants to be compared or with respect to each area in the
   plants to be compared, a total number of fluid leak portions and a total amount of
15 fluid leakage for each type of leaking fluid in the fluid leak diagnosis are arranged.
   In the case where data on a plurality of fluid leak diagnoses that have been
   performed from past to present with respect to the plants to be compared is
   accumulated in the database Db, the plant comparison information generating unit
   36 can generate the plant comparison information regarding data on a fluid leak
20 diagnosis selected through the operation unit 26 out of the plurality of fluid leak
   diagnoses recorded in the database Db.        Moreover, the plant comparison
   information generating unit 36 can generate, as the plant comparison information,
   data in which sets of fluid leak trend information generated by the leak trend
   deducing unit 35 are arranged for each plant to be compared.        The number of
25 plants that are compared in the plant comparison information is not limited, and
   may be any number equal to or greater than 2.
   [0105]   With the above-described plant comparison information, it is possible to
   know differences in fluid leaks (differences in trend of various kinds of data such as
   distribution of fluid leak portions, type of leaking fluid, and amount of fluid leakage,
30 and the differences in chronological trend of fluid leaks from past to present)
   between the plants to be compared.        Then, by analyzing the relationship of these
   differences in fluid leaks with differences in operating conditions between the plants
   to be compared (equipment configurations of the plants, operating times, amounts of
   various fluids used, etc.), it is possible to deduce which difference in operating
35 conditions between the plants to be compared causes the differences in fluid leaks
   between those plants, that is, the cause of the differences in fluid leaks, and thus, it
   is possible to take measures against fluid leaks in the target plant.
   [0106]   It should be noted that the plant comparison information generating unit 36
   may also include an algorithm for reading the operating conditions of the plants to
40 be compared from the outside and analyzing the relationship of the differences in

   fluid leaks between the plants to be compared with the differences in operating
   conditions between those plants, and an algorithm for deducing, based on the
   analyzed relationship, the cause of the differences in fluid leaks between the plants
   to be compared, and proposing measures to be taken against fluid leaks in the
 5 target plant.   Thus, the plant comparison information generating unit 36 may be
   configured to not only generate and display the plant comparison information but to
   also generate the analysis results with respect to the relationship of the differences
   in fluid leaks between the plants to be compared with the differences in operating
   conditions between those plants, the cause of the differences in fluid leaks, and the
10 measures to be against fluid leaks and display them on the display unit 30.
   Diagnosis Plan Evaluating Unit 37
    [0107] A fluid leak diagnosis of a plant is performed for a plurality of days in
   accordance with a preliminarily planned diagnostic process.      The fluid leak
15 diagnosis is not necessarily performed in all portions of the plant.   Depending on
   the size of the plant, the complexity of the equipment of the plant, and the cost
   required for diagnosis, there are cases where a fluid leak diagnosis is performed
   within a limited number of days with areas, devices, and the like to be diagnosed in
   the plant being limited in advance.    In these cases, areas and devices to be
20 diagnosed, the route along which diagnosis is to be performed, and the like are
   determined as a diagnosis plan based on certain criteria.     However, this diagnosis
   plan is not necessarily appropriate for any plant to be diagnosed.    Therefore, there
   may be cases where an expected number of fluid leak portions are not found in the
   middle of a fluid leak diagnosis, and then, it is necessary to contemplate changing
25 the diagnosis plan for the rest of the diagnosis.
    [0108]  In such cases, the diagnosis plan evaluating unit 37 generates a diagnosis
   range display image in which, with respect to the plant in the middle of the fluid
   leak diagnosis, an overall configuration diagram image (or a partial configuration
   diagram image) of that plant is displayed such that a diagnosed region that has
30 already been diagnosed in the fluid leak diagnosis and an undiagnosed region are
   differentiated from each other, and indicators are displayed on the overall
   configuration diagram of the plant, the indicators being superimposed on locations
   corresponding to the positional data (positions indicated by marks Ma) of respective
   fluid leak portions that have been detected in the diagnosed region, and displays the
35 generated diagnosis range display image on the display unit 30.      With regard to the
   display format in which a diagnosed region and an undiagnosed region are
   differentiated from each other, the diagnosed region may be enclosed by a line, or
   the diagnosed region and the undiagnosed region are displayed in a color-coded
   manner, for example.     As in the case of the leak portion map producing unit 34, the
40 indicators are displayed in a state in which they are associated with the amount of

   fluid leakage and the type of leaking fluid at the respective corresponding fluid leak
   portions.
    [0109]  With the above-described diagnosis range display image, it is possible to
   comprehend the region where the fluid leak diagnosis has been performed and the
 5 trends in distributions of fluid leak portions, types of leaking fluid, and amounts of
   fluid leakage in that region.    Thus, it is possible to evaluate whether the diagnosis
   plan that has been carried out for the diagnosed region is appropriate.
   Furthermore, it is possible to infer the trend of fluid leaks in the undiagnosed region
   from the trend of fluid leaks in the diagnosed region.      The evaluation of the
10 diagnosis plan and the inferring of the trend of fluid leaks in the undiagnosed
   region are performed by, for example, referring to the trend of fluid leaks in the
   plant in the past, the trend of fluid leaks in another plant, or the like based on the
   trend of fluid leaks in the diagnosed region.     Then, based on the inferred trend of
   fluid leaks in the undiagnosed region, the plan for fluid leak diagnosis of the
15 undiagnosed region can be changed to an effective plan suited to the trend of fluid
   leaks.   For example, in the case where it is deduced that there is a possibility that
   fluid leaks are occurring in clusters in a region that was not originally scheduled to
   be diagnosed, the diagnosis plan is changed so that this region will be diagnosed.
   As described above, the diagnosis plan evaluating unit 37 makes it possible to
20 evaluate the appropriateness of the plan for fluid leak diagnosis whenever
   necessary while performing the fluid leak diagnosis and to change the plan to a
   more effective plan.
    [0110]  It should be noted that the diagnostic process display unit may also include
   an algorithm for evaluating the appropriateness of the present diagnosis plan from
25 the trend of fluid leaks in the diagnosed region and also inferring the trend of fluid
   leaks in the undiagnosed region, and an algorithm for proposing a plan for fluid leak
   diagnosis of the undiagnosed region based on the inferred trend of fluid leaks in the
   undiagnosed region.       Thus, the diagnostic process display unit may be configured
   to not only generate and display the diagnosis range display image but also to read
30 a diagnosis plan for the target plant from the outside, generate evaluation
   information regarding the appropriateness of the present diagnosis plan,
   information regarding the trend of fluid leaks in the undiagnosed region, and a plan
   for fluid leak diagnosis of the undiagnosed region, and display them on the display
   unit 30.    In this case, data collected through fluid leak diagnoses in the past with
35 respect to the plant to be subjected to a fluid leak diagnosis and data collected
   through fluid leak diagnoses of other plants may be accumulated and stored in the
   database Db, and the evaluation of the appropriateness of the present diagnosis
   plan and the inferring of the trend of fluid leaks in the undiagnosed region may be
   performed based on the accumulated data.
40

   Pipe Connection Deducing Unit 38
   [0111]   Typically, in a plant in which various fluids, such as various gases, air,
   steam, and the like, are used, branch pipes are added to the piping due to repairs,
   replacement, and the like of piping and devices after the plant was constructed.         In
 5 that case, the connection state of the piping is complex, and it is difficult to know
   which pipe is connected to which pipe, for example.      Furthermore, in the case
   where the piping diagram has never updated after the plant was constructed, a pipe
   that is not shown on the piping diagram is present in the plant.      However, being
   unable to accurately comprehend the connection state of piping causes a problem in
10 terms of managing the plant.
   [0112]   In such a case, the pipe connection deducing unit 38 reads the piping
   diagram of the target plant from the outside, generates a pipe connection deducing
   image in which indicators are displayed on the read piping diagram, the indicators
   being superimposed on locations corresponding to the positional data (positions on
15 the piping diagram into which positions indicated by marks Ma are respectively
   converted) of respective fluid leak portions, and displays the generated image on the
   display unit 30.    Alternatively, the pipe connection deducing unit 38 may generate
   a pipe connection deducing image in which the read piping diagram and an image of
   a range corresponding to the range shown in the piping diagram, of the
20 above-described map image Pe in which the indicators representing the respective
   fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on the overall configuration diagram
   (or the partial configuration diagram) of the plant are displayed next to each other.
   [0113]   Based on these pipe connection deducing images, for example, in the case
   where a fluid leak portion is located at a position where no pipe is shown on the
25 read piping diagram, it is clear that a new pipe was provided at that position after
   the plant was constructed.      Moreover, based on a trend in the distribution of fluid
   leak portions (e.g., fluid leak portions occur successively in a specific series of pipes,
   or no fluid leak portion has developed in a specific series of pipes), it is possible to
   deduce a series of pipes on the piping diagram that are in a connected state.       As
30 described above, a connected state of piping can be deduced from the pipe
   connection deducing image, and the piping diagram can be updated based on the
   deduction.    Furthermore, in the case where a fluid leak portion is located on an
   unused pipe to which the flow of fluid has been cut off, it is clear that the flow of
   fluid to that unused pipe has not been completely cut off.
35 [0114]   It should be noted that, in the case where a fluid leak portion is located at a
   position where no pipe is shown on the read piping diagram, an indicator
   corresponding to that fluid leak portion may be displayed in a highlighted manner.
   Thus, it can be easily found that a new pipe has been provided in that position after
   the plant was constructed.      Moreover, an unused pipe to which the flow of fluid has
40 been cut off on the read piping diagram may be displayed differentiated from other

   pipes that are in use by, for example, displaying the unused pipe in a different color
   from the color of the other pipes.    Furthermore, in the case where a fluid leak
   portion is located on an unused pipe, the indicator corresponding to that fluid leak
   portion may be displayed in a highlighted manner.       Thus, it can be easily
 5 comprehended that a fluid leak is occurring in the unused pipe, and it can be easily
   found that the flow of fluid to the unused pipe has not been completely cut off. Any
   methods with which an indicator can be displayed in a highlighted manner
   compared with other indicators may be used as the method for highlighting an
   indicator, and examples thereof include displaying a large indicator, displaying the
10 indicator in a different color, and displaying the indicator with a thick line.
    [0115] Moreover, the pipe connection deducing unit 38 may also include an
   algorithm for deducing a series of pipes that are in a connected state on the piping
   diagram from the trend in the distribution of fluid leak portions.      Thus, the pipe
   connection deducing unit 38 may be configured to generate deduction information
15 regarding the connected state of pipes and, in accordance with the deduction
   information, display a pipe connection deducing image in a state in which the series
   of pipes that have been deduced to be in a connected state are displayed in a
   highlighted manner, displayed in the same color, or displayed with lines drawn
   along those pipes, for example, so as to indicate that the pipes are connected.
20
   Repair Schedule Producing Unit 39
    [0116]  The repair schedule producing unit 39 produces a repair schedule S for fluid
   leak portions in the plant based on the positional data and the like of the fluid leak
   portions, and displays the repair schedule S on the display unit 30. For example,
25 based on the positional data on the fluid leak portions to be repaired, a total moving
   distance required for a repair work or the order in which the repair work is to be
   performed within a short total moving time is obtained through computation.
   Moreover, for each fluid leak portion, a repair slip in which the amount of fluid
   leakage at the fluid leak portion, the type of leaking fluid at the fluid leak portion,
30 the target member (device that leaks fluid), the target site (site of the device where
   the fluid leak has occurred), detailed place information, and the photographed
   image Pb and the arrangement plan image Pd2 of the fluid leak portion are
   collected is generated, and then, data, such as that shown in FIG. 16, in which the
   repair slips are arranged in the computed order in which the repair work is
35 performed is produced as the repair schedule S.      In this case, for each area in the
   plant, the order in which fluid leak portions in that area are repaired may also be
   obtained.
    [0117]  Moreover, a fluid leak portion at which the amount of fluid leakage is small
   may be left as is without being repaired.    For this reason, in producing a repair
40 schedule S, it is also possible to narrow down fluid leak portions to be repaired

   based on the amounts of fluid leakage at the respective fluid leak portions and
   produce the repair schedule with respect to the narrowed-down fluid leak portions.
    [0118]  It should be noted that the type of repair work, such as that involving a
   replacement member, a tool, and the like required for repairing the fluid leak
 5 portion, varies according to the target member and the target site, and thus, in view
   of the requirements with respect to a replacement member or a tool required for
   repair, there may be cases where, in order to perform an efficient repair work, it is
   better to perform repair with a higher priority given to fluid leak portions for which
   the same type of repair work is to be performed, rather than to attach greater
10 importance to the total moving distance during the repair work.      For this reason, in
   performing computation with respect to the repair work, the order in which the
   repair work is to be performed may be obtained taking into account not only the
   positional data of fluid leak portions but also the target members and the target
   sites.
15
   Monetary Conversion Unit 40
    [0119]  The monetary conversion unit 40 computes the value of the amount of fluid
   leakage at each fluid leak portion in monetary terms, and produces a monetary
   conversion table.    For example, in the case where the amount of fluid leakage at
20 each fluid leak portion recorded in the database Db is an amount of fluid leakage
   per unit time, the monetary conversion unit 40 computes, with respect to all the
   fluid leak portions excluding the repaired fluid leak portions, a total amount of fluid
   leakage per unit time for each type of leaking fluid.   Then, based on the computed
   total amount of fluid leakage per unit time for each type of leaking fluid, the annual
25 operating time of the plant, and the unit price per unit amount of fluid of each fluid
   that is used, the monetary conversion unit 40 computes the value of "amount of
   fluid leakage x operating time x unit price" in monetary terms for each type of
   leaking fluid, and adds up the converted monetary values for all of the types of
   leaking fluid, thereby computing the amount of annual loss caused by fluid leaks in
30 the target plant.   Then, the monetary conversion unit 40 generates a monetary
   conversion table M, such as that shown in FIG. 17, including the converted
   monetary values for the respective types of leaking fluid (i.e., the values of annual
   loss caused by fluid leaks with respect to the respective types of leaking fluid) and
   the value of annual loss caused by fluid leaks in the target plant, and displays the
35 monetary conversion table M on the display unit 30.
    [0120] The above-described monetary conversion unit 40 makes it possible to
   comprehend how much loss has occurred in the plant due to fluid leaks at present.
   Thus, it is possible to clearly comprehend the magnitude of the economic effect of
   repairing the fluid leak portions will be.
40

   Compressor Judging Unit 41
    [0121] Based on the total amount of fluid leakage with respect to the fluid leak
   portions in the target plant, the compressor judging unit 41 generates compressor
   judgment information for judging, assuming the fluid leak portions in the target
 5 plant are repaired, whether the number of compressors in the target plant and the
   models of the compressors are appropriate for the plant after repair.
    [0122] Specifically, first, the compressor judging unit 41 acquires the number of
   compressors used in the target plant, the models of the compressors, the deliverable
   amount of fluid Ld for each model, and the amount of fluid usage La per unit time
10 for each type of fluid used in the target plant by reading them from the outside.
   Then, the compressor judging unit 41 computes a total amount of fluid leakage Lb
   per unit time for each fluid type from the amounts of fluid leakage at the respective
   fluid leak portions stored in the database Db.       Furthermore, the compressor
   judging unit 41 subtracts the total amount of fluid leakage Lb for each fluid type
15 from the amount of fluid usage La for each type of fluid used, thereby computing the
   amount of fluid usage after repair Lc that is necessary for the operation of the plant
   after repair.
    [0123]  It should be noted that the total amount of fluid leakage Lb per unit time for
   each fluid type is the amount of fluid leakage that can be reduced by repairing the
20 fluid leak portions, of the amount of fluid usage La per unit time for each type of
   fluid used in the target plant, and corresponds to the amount of fluid that is not
   related to the operation of the plant and that is wastefully generated by the
   compressors in the plant.      That is to say, the required amount of fluid usage Lc,
   which is obtained by subtracting the total amount of fluid leakage Lb for each fluid
25 type from the amount of fluid usage La for each type of fluid used, means a truly
   necessary and sufficient amount of fluid usage for the operation of the plant.
    [0124] Moreover, for each type of fluid used, a total deliverable amount of fluid Le
   is computed by adding up the deliverable amounts of fluid Ld by each individual
   compressor used to deliver a corresponding fluid, a deliverable amount of fluid Ld
30 being the amount of fluid that can be delivered by each compressor model.
    [0125]  Then, for the purpose of judging the number of compressors used in the
   plant and the models of the compressors, the compressor judging unit 41 generates,
   as the compressor judgment information, data in which, for each type of fluid used,
   the amount of fluid usage La per unit time, the total amount of fluid leakage Lb per
35 unit time, the post-repair fluid usage amount Lc per unit time, the deliverable
   amounts of fluid Ld corresponding to individual models of the compressors used to
   deliver the fluid to be used, and the total deliverable amount of fluid Le, in the
   target plant, are arranged, and displays the generated data on the display unit 30.
   With this compressor judgment information, it is possible to evaluate how much
40 wastage occurs in the compressors that are used at present due to fluid leaks.       For

   example, by making a comparison of the post-repair fluid usage amount Lc with the
   deliverable amounts of fluid Ld and the total deliverable amount of fluid Le, it can
   be found that, in order to deliver an amount of fluid corresponding to the post-repair
   fluid usage amount Lc, a number of compressors larger than necessary will be used,
 5 or a compressor having a larger than necessary deliverable amount of fluid Ld will
   be used.    Furthermore, based on the post-repair fluid usage amount Lc, an optimal
   number of compressors and an optimal combination of models of compressors can be
   conceived.
    [0126]  Thus, it is possible to comprehend not only the loss in the plant directly
10 caused by the fluid leaks that can be determined by the monetary conversion unit
   40 but also the loss caused by wasteful usage conditions of the compressors due to
   fluid leaks, and therefore, it is possible to even more clearly comprehend the
   magnitude of the economic effect of repairing the fluid leak portions.
    [0127]  It should be noted that, although an example in which the various amounts
15 of fluid La to Le per unit time are displayed on the display unit 30 as the
   compressor judgment information to make a judgment about the number of
   compressors and the models of the compressors has been described above, it is also
   possible to input or compute amounts of electric power Wa to We respectively
   corresponding to the amounts of fluid La to Le and display the amounts of electric
20 power Wa to We on the display unit 30 as the compressor judgment information to
   make a judgment regarding the number of compressors and the models of the
   compressors.    In this case, the displayed compressor judgment information is
   composed of the electric power consumption Wa of the compressors per unit time in
   the target plant, the converted amount of electric power Wb obtained by converting
25 the total amount of fluid leakage Lb per unit time into electric power, the
   post-repair electric power usage amount Wc per unit time, the maximum electric
   power consumption Wd corresponds to individual models of the compressors used to
   deliver the fluid used, and the total electric power consumption We, which is the
   sum of the maximum electric power consumptions Wd.
30  [0128] Moreover, the compressor judging unit 41 may include an algorithm for
   judging, based on the compressor judgment information, assuming the fluid leak
   portions are repaired, whether the number of compressors that are used at present
   and the models of the compressors are appropriate for the plant after repair, and an
   algorithm for deriving, based on the compressor judgment information, an optimal
35 number of compressors and an optimal combination of models of the compressors for
   the post-repair fluid usage amount Lc.       Thus, the compressor judging unit 41 may
   make a judgment regarding the number and the models of the compressors used in
   the plant and derive an optimal combination of compressors after the fluid leak
   portions have been repaired, generate judgment information regarding the
40 compressors that are used at present and combination information regarding the

   optimal combination of compressors, and display the generated information on the
   display unit 30.
   Diagnostic Report Producing Unit 42
 5  [0129]  The diagnosis report producing unit 42 produces a diagnosis report X in
   which all or selected pieces of the data and images produced by the above-described
   various functional units are collected.   For example, as shown in FIG. 18, the
   diagnosis report producing unit 42 produces a diagnosis report in which the
   monetary conversion table M produced by the monetary conversion unit 40, a list of
10 leak portions extracted from the data produced by the database management unit
   32, the map image Pe produced by the leak portion map producing unit 34, and the
   repair schedule S produced by the repair schedule producing function are collected.
   Implementation of the Present Invention
15  [0130] The maintenance of a plant using the present invention is performed
   according to the following procedures (a) to (e), for example.
    [0131]  (a) The range of fluid leak diagnosis of a plant is determined by consulting
   with a client of the plant maintenance.    Specifically, whether the fluid leak
   diagnosis is to be performed over the entire range of the plant or within a partial
20 region of the plant, whether the fluid leak diagnosis is to be performed for all of the
   pieces of equipment or for only a specific device, and the like are determined
   through preliminary discussions with the client.      In this case, at least a diagnosis
   range within which, after a fluid leak portion has been found and repaired, the
   effect of the repair can be comprehended is set.
25  [0132]  (b) An overall configuration diagram (or a partial configuration diagram) of
   the plant and an area map of an area to be diagnosed are obtained from the client,
   and an overall configuration diagram image and an area map image are input to the
   host computer 24 and the leakage detecting device R.       Moreover, a fluid leak
   diagnosis plan is devised based on the overall configuration diagram and the area
30 map.
    [0133]  (c) Within the range that has been determined by consulting with the client,
   a fluid leak diagnosis is performed based on the devised diagnosis plan, and
   collected data D is input to the host computer 24 to cumulatively store the collected
   data D in the database Db.     At this time, based on a diagnosis range display image
35 produced by the diagnosis plan evaluating unit 37, if necessary, the plan for the
   fluid leak diagnosis that is currently in progress is evaluated, and modification of
   the plan with respect to portions that have not been diagnosed is considered.
    [0134] (d) After the entire diagnostic process has been completed, and the collected
   data D on all of the fluid leak portions has been input to the host computer 24,
40 various analyses are performed by the analytic processing unit 33 of the host

   computer 24.      Then, a diagnosis report X in which images and information
   generated by the analytic processing unit 32 are collected is produced by the
   diagnosis report producing unit 42.     It should be noted that the diagnosis report X
   contains information regarding the economic effect to be achieved by repairing the
 5 fluid leak portions, the devising of a plan for repairing of a found fluid leak portion
   and a plan for future maintenance, and the improvement of the equipment of the
   plant.
   [0135] (e) After the diagnosis report X has been produced, the repair work is
   performed based on the repair schedule S contained in the diagnosis report X.
10 Moreover, the diagnosis report X is presented to the client, and the effects of the
   plant maintenance are presented to the client.      For example, the economic effect of
   repairing the fluid leak portions may be presented based on the monetary
   conversion table M and the compressor judgment information, or if the plant
   comparison information has been generated by the plant comparison information
15 generating unit 36 using the results of fluid leak diagnoses in other plants,
   measures to be taken against fluid leaks in the target plant may be presented based
   on the plant comparison information.
   [0136]   Then, simultaneously with the presentation of the diagnosis report X, future
   maintenance of the plant is proposed to the client.     Specifically, the following two
20 options for the plant maintenance are proposed to the client: outsourcing periodic
   fluid leak diagnoses, or purchasing a device such as the leakage detecting device R
   and performing fluid leak diagnoses on their own.
   [0137]   In the case where the client chooses to outsource fluid leak diagnoses, if
   there is any range in the target plant within which the fluid leak diagnosis has not
25 been performed, a fluid leak diagnosis plan for the remaining ranges is devised, and
   a fluid leak diagnosis as well as the repair of a fluid leak portion found by the
   diagnosis are performed.     Then, a future plant maintenance plan (intervals, etc.) is
   determined through consultation while referring to the diagnosis report X.
   [0138]   In the case where the client chooses to purchase a device such as the
30 leakage detecting device R and perform fluid leak diagnoses on their own, the
   criteria on which the plant maintenance is to be carried out are proposed to the
   client while referring to the diagnosis report X. Moreover, a diagnosis staff is
   determined, and the diagnosis staff is trained to perform fluid leak diagnosis using
   the leakage detecting device R.
35
   Other Embodiments
   [0139]   (1) The function realized by the above-described leak trend deducing unit 35
   can be realized by not only the host computer 24, but can also be realized by
            a fluid leakage data management apparatus including an input unit to
40 which data on fluid leak portions detected through a fluid leak diagnosis as a result

   of the fluid leak diagnosis of a plant is input, and a storage unit in which the data
   input to the input unit is cumulatively stored,
            the management apparatus including a leak trend deducing unit that
   generates, from the results of a plurality of fluid leak diagnoses of the same plant
 5 stored in the storage unit, fluid leak trend information indicating a chronological
   fluid leak trend in the target plant.
   [0140] In the management apparatus of the other embodiment (1), the leak trend
   deducing unit may also be configured to generate, as the fluid leak trend
   information, leak portion display images for the respective fluid leak diagnoses in
10 each of which leak portion display images, with respect to the positional data
   indicating the positions, in the target plant, of the respective fluid leak portions
   input to the input unit, indicators representing the respective fluid leak portions are
   displayed superimposed on the configuration diagram image of the target plant at
   locations corresponding to the positional data of the respective fluid leak portions on
15 the configuration diagram image, and to generate an image in which the leak
   portion display images are arranged.
   [0141] In the management apparatus of the other embodiment (1), the leak trend
   deducing unit may also be configured to generate, as the fluid leak trend
   information, an image in which, with respect to the positional data indicating the
20 positions, in the target plant, of the respective fluid leak portions for all of the fluid
   leak diagnoses, indicators representing the respective fluid leak portions are
   displayed superimposed on the configuration diagram image of the target plant at
   locations corresponding to the positional data of the respective fluid leak portions on
   the configuration diagram image, and also the indicators representing the fluid leak
25 portions detected in different fluid leak diagnoses are displayed in different display
   formats.
   [0142] In the management apparatus of the other embodiment (1), the leak trend
   deducing unit may also be configured to generate, as the fluid leak trend
   information, data in which, with respect to the entire target plant or with respect to
30 each area in the target plant, a total number of fluid leak portions and a total
   amount of fluid leakage for each type of leaking fluid in the individual fluid leak
   diagnoses are arranged.
   [0143] In the management apparatus of the other embodiment (1), the leak trend
   deducing unit may also be configured to analyze the chronological fluid leak trend in
35 the target plant based on changes in fluid leaks in the target plant indicated by the
   data on the fluid leak portions detected in the individual fluid leak diagnosis and
   generate evaluation information in which the extent of deterioration of the
   equipment in the target plant and a defect in the equipment are evaluated from the
   changes in fluid leaks and the chronological fluid leak trend.     Furthermore, the
40 leak trend deducing unit may also be configured to generate a plan for future fluid

   leak diagnoses from the changes in fluid leaks and the chronological fluid leak
   trend.
    [0144] It should be noted that, in the management apparatus of the other
   embodiment (1), the above-described configurations can be used not only alone but
 5 also in combination.    Moreover, the management apparatus of the other
   embodiment (1) may also have the other functions of the host computer 24.
    [0145] (2) The function realized by the above-described plant comparison
   information generating unit 36 can be realized by not only the host computer 24,
   but can also be realized by a fluid leakage data management apparatus including
10 an input unit to which data on fluid leak portions detected through a fluid leak
   diagnosis as a result of the fluid leak diagnosis of a plant is input, and a storage
   unit in which the data input to the input unit is cumulatively stored,
            the management apparatus including a plant comparison information
   generating unit that generates, from the results of fluid leak diagnoses of a plurality
15 of plants cumulatively stored in the storage unit, plant comparison information for
   comparing fluid leak trends in two or more plants to be compared.
    [0146] In the management apparatus of the other embodiment (2), the plant
   comparison information generating unit may be configured to generate leak portion
   display images for the respective target plants to be compared in each of which leak
20 portion display images, with respect to the positional data indicating the positions,
   in the target plant, of the respective fluid leak portions input to the input unit,
   indicators representing the respective fluid leak portions are displayed
   superimposed on the configuration diagram image of that target plant to be
   compared at locations corresponding to the positional data of the respective fluid
25 leak portions on the overall configuration diagram image, and to generate an image
   in which the generated leak portion display images are arranged, as the plant
   comparison information.      Alternatively, the plant comparison information
   generating unit may be configured to generate, as the plant comparison information,
   data in which, with respect to the entirety of each of the target plants to be
30 compared or with respect to each area in each of the target plants to be compared, a
   total number of fluid leak portions and a total amount of fluid leakage for each type
   of leaking fluid are arranged.
    [0147] The management apparatus of the other embodiment (2) may also include a
   leak trend deducing unit that generates, from the results of a plurality of fluid leak
35 diagnoses of the same plant that are cumulatively stored in the storage unit, fluid
   leak trend information indicating a chronological fluid leak trend in the target plant,
   and the plant comparison information generating unit may also be configured to
   generate, as the plant comparison information, data in which the sets of fluid leak
   trend information of the respective target plants to be compared are arranged.
40  [0148] In the management apparatus of other embodiment (2), operating

   conditions in the target plants to be compared may be input to the input unit, and
   the plant comparison information generating unit may also be configured to
   generate analysis result information obtained by analyzing the relationship of
   differences in fluid leaks between the target plants to be compared, the differences
 5 being indicated by data on fluid leak portions detected in fluid leak diagnoses of the
   respective target plants to be compared, with the differences in the operating
   conditions between the target plants to be compared.      Furthermore, the plant
   comparison information generating unit may also be configured to generate
   evaluation information obtained by deducing the cause of the differences in fluid
10 leaks between the target plants to be compared based on the analyzed relationship,
   and a proposal of measures to be taken against the cause in the target plants to be
   compared.
   [0149] It should be noted that in the management apparatus of the other
   embodiment (2), the above-described configurations can be used not only alone but
15 also in combination.    Moreover, information generated by the leak trend deducing
   unit 35 can be used as the sets of fluid leak trend information to be compared in the
   plant comparison information.      Furthermore, the management apparatus of the
   other embodiment (2) may also have the other functions of the host computer 24.
   Here, differences in fluid leaks mean differences in trend of various types of data,
20 such as the distribution of fluid leak portions, the types of leaking fluid, and the
   amounts of fluid leakage, differences in chronological trend of fluid leaks from the
   past to the present, and the like, and differences in operating conditions between
   plants refer to equipment configurations of the plants, operating times, amounts of
   various fluids used, and the like.
25 [0150]   (3) The function realized by the above-described diagnosis plan evaluating
   unit 37 can be realized by not only the host computer 24, but can also be realized by
            a fluid leakage data management apparatus including an input unit to
   which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid leak diagnosis of a plant
   is input,
30          the management apparatus including a diagnosis plan evaluating unit that
   generates, based on the data input to the input unit in the middle of a fluid leak
   diagnosis of the plant that is performed according to a predetermined diagnosis plan,
   evaluation information regarding the diagnosis plan for the fluid leak diagnosis of
   the plant.
35 [0151]   The management apparatus of the other embodiment (3) may also include a
   display unit on which the data input to the input unit is displayed, and the
   diagnosis plan evaluating unit may also be configured to generate, as the evaluation
   information, a diagnosis range display image in which the overall configuration
   diagram image of the plant is displayed such that a diagnosed region that has
40 already been diagnosed in the fluid leak diagnosis and an undiagnosed region are

   differentiated from each other, and, with respect to the positional data indicating
   the positions, in the plant, of the respective leak portions input to the input unit,
   indicators representing the respective fluid leak portions are displayed
   superimposed on the diagnosis range display image at locations corresponding to
 5 the positional data of the respective fluid leak portions on the diagnosis range
   display image, and to display the diagnosis range display image on the display unit.
    [0152] In the management apparatus of the other embodiment (3), the diagnosis
   plan evaluating unit may also be configured to analyze a trend in data on fluid leak
   portions detected in a fluid leak diagnosis of the plant and generate information for
10 evaluating the appropriateness of the diagnosis plan based on the analyzed trend as
   the evaluation information.      Furthermore, the diagnosis plan evaluating unit may
   also be configured to generate trend deduction information obtained by deducing a
   trend of fluid leaks in the undiagnosed region based on the analyzed trend.
    [0153] The management apparatus of the other embodiment (3) may also include a
15 storage unit in which the data input to the input unit is cumulatively stored, and
   the diagnosis plan evaluating unit may also be configured to generate the trend
   deduction information based on a trend of data on fluid leak portions detected in a
   past fluid leak diagnosis of the same or another plant cumulatively stored in the
   storage unit and the analyzed trend.
20  [0154] In the management apparatus of the other embodiment (3), the diagnosis
   plan evaluating unit may also be configured to generate a plan for fluid leak
   diagnosis of the undiagnosed region based on the trend deduction information.
    [0155]  It should be noted that, in the management apparatus of the other
   embodiment (3), the above-described configuration can be used not only alone but
25 also in combination.    Furthermore, the management apparatus of the other
   embodiment (3) may also have the other functions of the host computer 24.
    [0156]  (4) The function realized by the above-described pipe connection deducing
   unit 38 can also be realized by
            a method for deducing pipe connection,
30          wherein a fluid leakage data management apparatus is used, the
   management apparatus including an input unit to which data on fluid leak portions
   collected through a fluid leak diagnosis of a plant is input, a display unit on which
   the data input to the input unit is displayed, and a data processing unit that
   displays, on the display unit, a leak portion display image in which, with respect to
35 positional data indicating the positions, in the plant, of respective fluid leak portions
   occurring in piping of the plant, of the fluid leak portions input to the input unit,
   indicators representing the respective fluid leak portions are displayed
   superimposed on an overall configuration diagram image of the plant at locations
   corresponding to the positional data of the respective fluid leak portions on the
40 overall configuration diagram image, and

            a connection state of the piping of the plant is deduced by referring to a
   piping diagram of the plant and the locations of the indicators in the leak portion
   display image.
   [0157] In the method for deducing pipe connection of the other embodiment (4),
 5          when an indicator is located at a position on the leak portion display image
   where no pipe is shown on the piping diagram,
            a new pipe may be deduced to have been provided in the position
   corresponding to the indicator,
            a series of pipes on the piping diagram may be deduced to be in a connected
10 state based on a distribution of the indicators on the leak portion display image, or
            when an indicator is located at a position on the leak portion display image,
   a position corresponding to an unused pipe to which the flow of fluid has been cut off
   on the piping diagram, the flow of fluid to the unused pipe may be deduced to have
   not been cut off.
15 [0158]   Moreover, the function realized by the above-described pipe connection
   deducing unit 38 can be realized by not only the host computer 24 and the
   above-described method, but can also be realized by
            a fluid leakage data management apparatus including an input unit to
   which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid leak diagnosis of a plant
20 is input, and a display unit on which the data input to the input unit is displayed,
            the management apparatus including a data processing unit that displays,
   on the display unit, a pipe connection deducing image in which, with respect to
   positional data on fluid leak portions occurring in piping of the plant, of positional
   data indicating the positions, in the plant, of the respective fluid leak portions input
25 to the input unit, indicators representing the respective fluid leak portions are
   displayed superimposed on a piping diagram image of the plant at locations
   corresponding to the positional data of the respective fluid leak portions on the
   piping diagram image; or
            a fluid leakage data management apparatus including an input unit to
30 which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid leak diagnosis of a plant
   is input, and a display unit on which the data input to the input unit is displayed,
            the management apparatus including a data processing unit that generates
   a leak portion display image in which, with respect to positional data of fluid leak
   portions occurring in piping of the plant, of positional data indicating the positions,
35 in the plant, of the respective fluid leak portions input to the input unit, indicators
   representing the respective fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on an
   overall configuration diagram image of the plant at locations corresponding to the
   positional data of the respective fluid leak portions on the overall configuration
   diagram image,
40          the data processing unit being configured to display, on the display unit, a

   pipe connection deducing image in which a piping diagram image of the plant and
   an image of a range in the leak portion display image that corresponds to the piping
   diagram image are displayed next to each other.
   [0159]   In either of the above-described management apparatuses of the other
 5 embodiment (4),
            the data processing unit may be configured to display, on the pipe
   connection deducing image, an indicator in a highlighted manner when the
   indicator is located at a position where no pipe is shown,
            may be configured to deduce a series of pipes that are in a connected state
10 based on a distribution of the indicators on the pipe connection deducing image, and
   to display the series of pipes that are deduced to be in the connected state on the
   pipe connection deducing image in a state in which the pipes are shown to be in the
   connected state, or
            may be configured to display, on the pipe connection deducing image, an
15 indicator in a highlighted manner when the indicator is located at a position
   corresponding to an unused pipe to which the flow of fluid has been cut off, and in
   this configuration, may further be configured to display the unused pipe, of pipes
   shown on the pipe connection deducing image, such that the unused pipe is
   differentiated from the other pipes.
20 [0160]   It should be noted that in the management apparatus of the other
   embodiment (4), the above-described configurations can be used not only alone, but
   can also be used in combination.     Furthermore, the management apparatus of the
   other embodiment (4) may also have the other functions of the host computer 24.
   Any methods with which an indicator can be displayed in a highlighted manner
25 compared with other indicators may be used as the method for highlighting an
   indicator, and examples thereof include displaying a large indicator, displaying the
   indicator in a different color, and displaying the indicator with a thick line.
   Moreover, with respect to the state in which the pipes are shown to be in the
   connected state, any methods with which pipes can be shown to be in a connected
30 state may be used, and examples thereof include displaying a series of pipes that
   are deduced to be in a connected state in a highlighted manner, displaying those
   pipes in the same color, and displaying those pipes with lines drawn along them.
   [0161]   (5) The function realized by the above-described repair schedule producing
   unit 39 can be realized by not only the host computer 24, but can also be realized by
35          a fluid leakage data management apparatus including an input unit to
   which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid leak diagnosis of a plant
   is input, and a data processing unit that generates, based on the data input to the
   input unit, sets of repair work data for the respective fluid leak portions in each of
   which data on each of the fluid leak portions is collected,
40          wherein each of the sets of repair work data is composed of a device that

   leaks fluid and a detailed site of the fluid leak in the device, an image showing a
   photographed image of the fluid leak portion, with a mark being placed at a position
   corresponding to the fluid leak portion in that photographed image, and an image
   showing a configuration diagram image of the plant, with a mark being placed at a
 5 position corresponding to the fluid leak portion in that configuration diagram image,
   and
            the data processing unit is configured to generate a repair schedule in which
   the sets of repair work data for the respective fluid leak portions to be repaired are
   arranged in a predetermined order.
10  [0162] In the management apparatus of the other embodiment (5), the data
   processing unit may also be configured to determine the order of the repair schedule
   based on a total moving distance or a total moving time during repair work that is
   computed using the positional data indicating the positions, in the plant, of the
   respective fluid leak portions to be repaired, may furthermore be configured to
15 determine the order of the repair schedule taking into account also the type of
   repair work that is determined depending on the device that is leaking fluid and the
   detailed site of the fluid leak in the device, or may be configured to select fluid leak
   portions to be repaired based on the amount of fluid leakage at each of the fluid leak
   portions.
20  [0163]  It should be noted that in the management apparatus of the other
   embodiment (5), the above-described configurations can be used not only alone but
   also in combination.     Furthermore, the management apparatus of the other
   embodiment (5) may have the other functions of the host computer 24.
    [0164] (6) The function realized by the above-described compressor judging unit 41
25 can be realized by not only a management apparatus such as the host computer 24,
   but can also be realized by
            a fluid leakage data management apparatus including an input unit to
   which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid leak diagnosis of a plant
   is input,
30          the management apparatus including a compressor judging unit that
   generates judgment information for judging, assuming the fluid leak portions in the
   target plant are repaired, whether the number of compressors used in the target
   plant and the models of the compressors are appropriate for the plant after repair,
   based on a total amount of fluid leakage in the target plant.
35  [0165] In the management apparatus of the other embodiment (6),
            the compressor judging unit may be configured to compute the post-repair
   fluid usage amount in the plant after repair by subtracting the total amount of fluid
   leakage from a total amount of fluid usage in the target plant, and to generate, as
   the judgment information, fluid amount comparison information in which the
40 post-repair fluid usage amount and the deliverable amounts of fluid by the

   individual compressors, a deliverable amount of fluid referring to the amount of
   fluid that can be delivered by each compressor model, are collected, or
            may be configured to compute a converted amount of electric power by
   converting the total amount of fluid leakage into electric power, to compute the
 5 electric power consumption after repair, of the compressors in the plant after repair
   by subtracting the converted amount of electric power from a total electric power
   consumption of the compressors in the plant, and to generate, as the judgment
   information, electric power amount comparison information in which the electric
   power consumption after repair and maximum electric power consumption for each
10 of the compressors, the maximum electric power consumption varying depending on
   the compressor model, are collected.
    [0166] In the management apparatus of the other embodiment (6), the compressor
   judging unit may be configured to generate the fluid amount comparison
   information or the electric power amount comparison information for each type of
15 leaking fluid.
    [0167] In the management apparatus of the other embodiment (6), the compressor
   judging unit may be configured to judge whether the number of compressors and
   the models of the compressors are appropriate for the plant after repair based on
   the fluid amount comparison information or the electric power amount comparison
20 information, and may furthermore be configured to propose an optimal combination
   of the number of compressors and the models of the compressors for the plant after
   repair.
    [0168] It should be noted that in the management apparatus of the other
   embodiment (6), the above-described configurations can be used not only alone but
25 also in combination.   Furthermore, the management apparatus of the other
   embodiment (6) may also have the other functions of the host computer 24.
   (7) Further Other Embodiments
    [0169] The area map image Pa stored in the storage unit 18 of the mobile computer
30 2 can be input to the mobile computer 2 using appropriate means. For example,
   the area map image Pa may be input to the mobile computer 2 from the host
   computer 24 via wired or wireless communication means.        Moreover, when
   necessary, for example, when the diagnosis staff has moved to an area different from
   the area map image Pa stored in the storage unit 18 during a diagnosis operation, a
35 new area map image Pa may also be sent to the leakage detecting device R from the
   host computer, whenever necessary, via wireless communication means.
    [0170] Although the configuration in which the collected data D accumulated and
   stored in the storage unit 18 of the mobile computer 2 is collectively input to the
   host computer 24 side is described above, a configuration may also be adopted in
40 which the collected data D on fluid leak portions is sent to the host computer 24,

   whenever necessary, during the diagnosis operation via wireless communication.
   Industrial Applicability
   [0171]   The fluid leakage data management apparatus and management system
 5 according to the present disclosure can be applied to management of fluid leakage
   data of various plants in various fields.
   Description of Reference Signs
   [0172]   19: Display
10          24: Host computer (management apparatus)
           26: Operation unit (leaking fluid type selecting unit, scaling instructing unit,
   ratio instructing unit, indicator selecting unit)
            27: Input unit
            28: Storage unit
15          29: Computing unit (data processing unit)
            30: Display unit
            D: Collected data (data on fluid leak portion)
            Ma: Mark
            Pa: Area map image (image showing diagnosis area)
20          Pe: Map image (leak portion display image)
            R: Portable leakage detecting device
   [0173]   In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
25 implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is
   used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not
   to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of
   the invention.
   [0174] It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein,
30 such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of
   the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.

                                           CLAIMS
   1.       A fluid leakage data management apparatus comprising:
            an input unit to which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid
 5 leak diagnosis of a plant is input;
            a display unit on which the data input to the input unit is displayed; and
            a data processing unit that displays, on the display unit, a pipe connection
   deducing image in which, with respect to positional data on fluid leak portions
   occurring in piping of the plant, of positional data indicating the positions, in the
10 plant, of the respective fluid leak portions input to the input unit, indicators
   representing the respective fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on a
   piping diagram image of the plant at locations corresponding to the positional data of
   the respective fluid leak portions on the piping diagram image.
15 2.       A fluid leakage data management apparatus comprising:
            an input unit to which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid
   leak diagnosis of a plant is input,
            a display unit on which the data input to the input unit is displayed, and
            a data processing unit that generates a leak portion display image in which,
20 with respect to positional data of fluid leak portions occurring in piping of the plant,
   of positional data indicating the positions, in the plant, of the respective fluid leak
   portions input to the input unit, indicators representing the respective fluid leak
   portions are displayed superimposed on a configuration diagram image of the plant
   at locations corresponding to the positional data of the respective fluid leak portions
25 on the configuration diagram image, wherein
            the data processing unit is configured to display, on the display unit, a pipe
   connection deducing image in which a piping diagram image of the plant and an
   image of a range in the leak portion display image that corresponds to the piping
   diagram image are displayed next to each other.
30
   3.       The management apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, wherein
            the data processing unit is configured to display, on the pipe connection
   deducing image, an indicator in a highlighted manner when the indicator is located
   at a position where no pipe is shown.
35
   4.       The management apparatus according to any one of claims 1 - 3, wherein:
            the data processing unit is configured to deduce a series of pipes that are in a
   connected state based on a distribution of the indicators on the pipe connection
   deducing image, and to display the series of pipes that are deduced to be in the
40 connected state on the pipe connection deducing image in a state in which the pipes

   are shown to be in the connected state.
   5.       The management apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein
            the data processing unit is configured to display, on the pipe connection
 5 deducing image, an indicator in a highlighted manner when the indicator is located
   at a position corresponding to an unused pipe to which the flow of fluid has been cut
   off, and in this configuration.
   6.       The management apparatus according to claim 5, wherein
10          the data processing unit is further configured to display the unused pipe, of
   pipes shown on the pipe connection deducing image, such that the unused pipe is
   differentiated from the other pipes
   7.       A method for deducing pipe connection, wherein a fluid leakage data
15 management apparatus is used, the management apparatus including:
            an input unit to which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid
   leak diagnosis of a plant is input;
            a display unit on which the data input to the input unit is displayed; and
            a data processing unit that displays, on the display unit, a leak portion
20 display image in which, with respect to positional data indicating the positions, in
   the plant, of respective fluid leak portions occurring in piping of the plant, of the
   fluid leak portions input to the input unit, indicators representing the respective
   fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on a configuration diagram image of
   the plant at locations corresponding to the positional data of the respective fluid leak
25 portions on the overall configuration diagram image; wherein
            a connection state of the piping of the plant is deduced by referring to a
   piping diagram of the plant and the locations of the indicators in the leak portion
   display image.
30 8.       A fluid leakage data management apparatus comprising:
            an input unit to which data on fluid leak portions collected through a fluid
   leak diagnosis of a plant is input;
            a data processing unit that displays, on the display unit, a leak portion
   display image in which, with respect to positional data indicating the positions, in
35 the plant, of respective fluid leak portions occurring in piping of the plant, of the
   fluid leak portions input to the input unit, indicators representing the respective
   fluid leak portions are displayed superimposed on an overall configuration diagram
   image of the plant at locations corresponding to the positional data of the respective
   fluid leak portions on the overall configuration diagram image.
40

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
