   ACTRIIB PROTEINS AND VARIANTS AND USES THEREFORE RELATING TO
         UTROPHIN INDUCTION FOR MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY THERAPY
5                                           ABSTRACT
         In certain aspects, the present invention provides compositions and methods for
  inducing utrophin expression in muscle with an ActRIIB protein as therapy for muscular
  dystrophy. The present invention also provides methods of screening compounds that
0 modulate activity of an ActRIIB protein and/or an ActRIIB ligand.

     ACTRIIB PROTEINS AND VARIANTS AND USES THEREFORE RELATING
        TO UTROPHIN INDUCTION FOR MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY THERAPY
                RELATED APPLICATIONS
             The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
 5 No. <removed-apn>, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
             This application claims the benefit of Provisional Application Serial Nos.
   61/281,386, filed November 17, 2009, 61/318,126, filed on March 26, 2010, and
   61/331,686, filed on May 5, 2010. All the teachings of the above-referenced
   applications are incorporated herein by reference.
10              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             Duchenne's Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) is a genetic disease that results from a
   variety of different mutations in the gene coding for dystrophin. Dystrophin is a large
   cytoskeletal protein that provides structural integrity to contracting muscle fibers. DMD
   patients produce little, if any, functional dystrophin, resulting in fragility of the
15 sarcolemmal membranes that surround each muscle fiber. As a consequence of this
   fragility, DMD patients exhibit progressive degeneration of skeletal and cardiac
   muscles, with onset typically at age two to six. The disease causes generalized
   weakness and muscle wasting. Survival is rare beyond the early 30s.
             In a related and somewhat milder condition, Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD),
20 the patient produces some functional dystrophin, but not enough to provide normal
   durability and maintenance of muscle tissue. BMD patients usually have a longer
   lifespan than DMD patients.
             While DMD and BMD are presently incurable diseases, one therapeutic
   approach under investigation involves treatment with agents that increase the levels of
25 a protein called utrophin. Utrophin is structurally and functionally similar to dystrophin.
   Moreover, utrophin is normally present in muscle fibers during fetal development and
   remains in the mature fibers at neuromuscular junctions. At sufficient levels and with
   appropriate localization to the sarcolemma, utrophin shows evidence of partially
   compensating for the absence of dystrophin in animal models of DMD.

       DMD and BMD patients have a normal utrophin gene, and it may be possible to
increase the strength of muscle fibers in patients by increasing utrophin production.
       Thus, there is a need for agents that increase utrophin production and/or
sarcolemmal localization of utrophin.

    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            In certain aspects, the present disclosure provides methods for increasing utrophin
    expression and/or localization at the cell membrane (sarcolemma) of muscle fibers in DMD
    and BMD patients by using antagonists of the ActRIIB signaling pathway. Such antagonists
 5  may be, for example, soluble ActRIIB proteins (e.g., ActRIIB-Fc fusion proteins),
    antagonists that bind to ActRIIB or inhibit ActRIIB expression, and antagonists that bind to
    or inhibit the expression of ligands that signal through ActRIIB and participate in the
    regulation of utrophin expression in skeletal or cardiac muscle. Such ligands include
    myostatin, GDF3, activins, BMP7, BMP2 and BMP4. In particular, the disclosure
 0  demonstrates that ActRIIB-Fc fusion proteins increase sarcolemmal expression of utrophin in
    a mouse model of muscular dystrophy. By increasing the resistance of the sarcolemma to
    damage, antagonists of the ActRIIB signaling pathway may decrease the cycle of muscle
    injury, inflammation and degradation that is the hallmark of dystrophin-deficient conditions,
    such as DMD and BMD. These beneficial effects are combined with the pronounced effects
 5  of ActRIIB antagonists on overall muscle mass and strength. As a consequence, the
    disclosure provides a paradigm shift for the use of ActRIIB pathway antagonists in the
    management of muscle disorders, moving from a paradigm emphasizing the increase of
    muscle fiber size and strength to a paradigm that acknowledges an increase in muscle fiber
    integrity, a feature that is particularly relevant in muscular dystrophies. A consequence of
 '0 muscle fragility in muscular dystrophy patients is an increase in serum markers of muscle
    degeneration such as creatine kinase (particularly isoform MM, also referred to as CK-MM).
    The data provided herein indicate that ActRIIB pathway antagonists can increase muscle
    fiber integrity and therefore decrease the level of serum markers, such as CK-MM.
    Therefore, markers of muscle degeneration, such as serum CK-MM levels, may be used as a
25  mechanism for monitoring efficacy of such therapies in DMD and BMD patients. For
    example, failure to decrease a marker of muscle degeneration may be used as an indicator to
    increase dose or terminate dosing for lack of benefit, and successful decrease of a marker of
    muscle degeneration may be used as an indicator that a successful dose has been reached.
    Similarly, a patient with an elevated marker of muscle degeneration may be a particularly
30  appropriate candidate for treatment with ActRIIB antagonists. As described in Zatz et al. (J.
    Neurol. Sci. 1991 102(2):190-6), CK levels reach maxima in DMD and BMD patients during
    a time period of maximum muscle degeneration (typically in an age range of 1 to 6, 7, or 8
    years of age in DMD and 10 to 15 years of age in BMD), and thus DMD and BMD patients
                                                       2

    with high levels of a marker of muscle degeneration (elevated even as compared to others
    with the disease state, e.g., serum CK-MM levels higher than 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% of
    other patients with such disease) are particularly appropriate patients for treatment with
    ActRIIB antagonists such as ActRIIB-Fc proteins.
 5           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for increasing sarcolemmal
    expression of utrophin by administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of an
    ActRIIB-related polypeptide. An ActRIIB-related polypeptide may be an ActRIIB
    polypeptide (e.g., an ActRIIB extracellular domain or portion thereof) that binds to an
    ActRIIB ligand such as GDF3, BMP2, BMP4, BMP7, GDF8, GDF 11, activin or nodal.
 0  Optionally, the ActRIIB polypeptide binds to an ActRIIB ligand with a Kd less than 10
    micromolar or less than 1 micromolar, 100, 10 or 1 nanomolar. A variety of suitable
    ActRIIB polypeptides have been described in the following published PCT patent
    applications, all of which are incorporated by reference herein: WO 00/43781, WO
    04/039948, WO 06/012627, WO 07/053775, WO 08/097541, and WO 08/109167.
 5  Optionally, the ActRIIB polypeptide inhibits ActRIIB signaling, such as intracellular signal
    transduction events triggered by an ActRIIB ligand. A soluble ActRIIB polypeptide for use
    in such a preparation may be any of those disclosed herein, such as a polypeptide having an
    amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 5, 12, and 23, or having an amino acid
    sequence that is at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97% or 99% identical to an amino acid
 '0 sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: : 1, 2, 5, 12, and 23. A soluble ActRIIB polypeptide
    may include a functional fragment of a natural ActRIIB polypeptide, such as one comprising
    at least 10, 20 or 30 amino acids of a sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: : 1, 2, 5, 12, and
    23, or a sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, lacking the C-terminal 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 10 to 15 amino
    acids and lacking 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acids at the N-terminus. Optionally, polypeptides will
25  comprise a truncation relative to SEQ ID NO: 1 of between 2 and 5 amino acids at the N
    terminus and no more than 3 amino acids at the C-terminus. Another polypeptide is that
    presented as SEQ ID NO: 12. A soluble ActRIIB polypeptide may include one, two, three,
    four, five or more alterations in the amino acid sequence (e.g., in the ligand-binding domain)
    relative to a naturally occurring ActRIIB polypeptide. The alteration in the amino acid
30  sequence may, for example, alter glycosylation of the polypeptide when produced in a
    mammalian, insect or other eukaryotic cell or alter proteolytic cleavage of the polypeptide
    relative to the naturally occurring ActRIIB polypeptide. A soluble ActRIIB polypeptide may
    be a fusion protein that has, as one domain, an ActRIIB polypeptide (e.g., a ligand-binding
                                                      3

    domain of an ActRIIB or a variant thereof) and one or more additional domains that provide a
    desirable property, such as improved pharmacokinetics, easier purification, targeting to
    particular tissues, etc. For example, a domain of a fusion protein may enhance one or more
    of in vivo stability, in vivo half life, uptake/administration, tissue localization or distribution,
 5  formation of protein complexes, multimerization of the fusion protein, and/or purification. A
    soluble ActRIIB fusion protein may include an immunoglobulin constant domain, such as an
    Fc domain (wild-type or mutant) or a serum albumin. In certain embodiments, an ActRIIB
    Fc fusion comprises a relatively unstructured linker positioned between the Fc domain and
    the extracellular ActRIIB domain. This unstructured linker may correspond to the roughly 15
 0  amino acid unstructured region at the C-terminal end of the extracellular domain of ActRIIB
    (the "tail"), or it may be an artificial sequence of between 5 and 15, 20, 30, 50 or more amino
    acids that are relatively free of secondary structure. A linker may be rich in glycine and
    proline residues and may, for example, contain repeating or non-repeating sequences of
    threonine/serine and/or glycines (e.g., TG 4 , TG 3 , SG 4 , SG3 , G4, G3 , G2 , G). A fusion protein
 5  may include a purification subsequence, such as an epitope tag, a FLAG tag, a polyhistidine
    sequence, and a GST fusion. Optionally, a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide includes one or
    more modified amino acid residues selected from: a glycosylated amino acid, a PEGylated
    amino acid, a farnesylated amino acid, an acetylated amino acid, a biotinylated amino acid,
    an amino acid conjugated to a lipid moiety, and an amino acid conjugated to an organic
 '0 derivatizing agent. In general, it is preferable that an ActRIIB protein be expressed in a
    mammalian cell line that mediates suitably natural glycosylation of the ActRIIB protein so as
    to diminish the likelihood of an unfavorable immune response in a patient. Human and CHO
    cell lines have been used successfully, and it is expected that other common mammalian
    expression vectors will be useful.
25           In certain aspects, a compound disclosed herein may be formulated as a
    pharmaceutical preparation. A pharmaceutical preparation may also include one or more
    additional compounds such as a compound that is used to treat an ActRIIB-associated
    disorder. Preferably, a pharmaceutical preparation is substantially pyrogen free.
             In certain aspects, the disclosure provides nucleic acids encoding a soluble ActRIIB
30  polypeptide, which do not encode a complete ActRIIB polypeptide. An isolated
    polynucleotide may comprise a coding sequence for a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide, such as
    described above. For example, an isolated nucleic acid may include a sequence coding for an
    extracellular domain (e.g., ligand-binding domain) of an ActRIIB and a sequence that would
                                                      4

    code for part or all of the transmembrane domain and/or the cytoplasmic domain of an
    ActRIIB, but for a stop codon positioned within the transmembrane domain or the
    cytoplasmic domain, or positioned between the extracellular domain and the transmembrane
    domain or cytoplasmic domain. For example, an isolated polynucleotide may comprise a
 5  full-length ActRIIB polynucleotide sequence such as SEQ ID NO: 4 (Figure 4), or a partially
    truncated version, said isolated polynucleotide further comprising a transcription termination
    codon at least six hundred nucleotides before the 3'-terminus or otherwise positioned such
    that translation of the polynucleotide gives rise to an extracellular domain optionally fused to
    a truncated portion of a full-length ActRIIB. Nucleic acids disclosed herein may be operably
 0  linked to a promoter for expression, and the disclosure provides cells transformed with such
    recombinant polynucleotides. Preferably the cell is a mammalian cell such as a CHO cell.
             In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for making a soluble ActRIIB
    polypeptide. Such a method may include expressing any of the nucleic acids (e.g., SEQ ID
    NO: 3) disclosed herein in a suitable cell, such as a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell. Such
 5  a method may comprise: a) culturing a cell under conditions suitable for expression of the
    soluble ActRIIB polypeptide, wherein said cell is transformed with a soluble ActRIIB
    expression construct; and b) recovering the soluble ActRIIB polypeptide so expressed.
    Soluble ActRIIB polypeptides may be recovered as crude, partially purified or highly purified
    fractions using any of the well known techniques for obtaining protein from cell cultures.
 10          In certain aspects, increasing sarcolemmal expression of utrophin using a compound
    described herein may be useful in the treatment of muscular dystrophies in which the
    dystrophin protein is absent, deficient, or defective. Examples include treatment of
    Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Becker muscular dystrophy.
             In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for antagonizing activity of an
25  ActRIIB polypeptide or an ActRIIB ligand (e.g., GDF8, GDF 11, activin, BMP7, and Nodal)
    in a cell. The methods comprise contacting the cell with a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide.
    Optionally, the activity of the ActRIIB polypeptide or the ActRIIB ligand is monitored by a
    signaling transduction mediated by the ActRIIB/ActRIIB ligand complex, for example, by
    monitoring cell proliferation, hypertrophy, or the level of utrophin expression or localization
30  of utrophin. The cells of the methods include an a myocyte and a muscle cell.
             In certain aspects, the disclosure provides uses of a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide for
    making a medicament for the treatment of a disorder or condition as described herein.
                                                      5

             In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for increasing sarcolemmal
    expression of utrophin in a patient in need thereof, and such method may comprise
    administering an effective amount of a compound selected from the group consisting of: a
    polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 90% identical to the sequence
 5  of amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID NO: 2 and a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid that
    hybridizes under stringent hybridization conditions to a nucleic acid of SEQ ID NO: 3
    (Figure 3). The polypeptide may be a fusion protein comprising a heterologous portion. The
    polypeptide may be a dimer. The polypeptide may be fused to a constant domain of an
    immunoglobulin. The polypeptide may be fused to an Fc portion of an immunoglobulin,
 0  such as an IgGI, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4. The polypeptide may comprise an amino acid sequence
    that is at least 80%, 90%, 93%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to the sequence of
    amino acids 29-109, 29-128, 29-131, 29-134, 25-109, 25-128, 25-131, 25-134 or 20-134 of
    SEQ ID NO: 2 (Figure 2). The polypeptide may comprise an amino acid sequence that is at
    least 80%, 90%, 93%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to the sequence of amino
 5  acids of SEQ ID NO: 5, 12, or 23. A patient to be treated with such a compound may be one
    having a disorder described herein, including, for example, a muscular dystrophy.
             In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for increasing sarcolemmal
    expression of utrophin in a patient in need thereof, the method comprising administering an
    effective amount of a compound that inhibits the ActRIIB signaling pathway, either by
 '0 targeting ActRIIB or a ligand that signals through ActRIIB. Examples of such compounds
    include antagonists of ActRIIB; antagonists of myostatin; antagonists of BMP7; antagonists
    of BMP2; antagonists of BMP4 and antagonists of GDF3. Antagonists of each of the
    foregoing may be an antibody or other protein that specifically binds to and inhibits such
    target (e.g., an antibody such as a monoclonal antibody, or a propeptide in the case of
25  myostatin and GDF3). Antagonists of the foregoing may also be a compound, such as a
    nucleic acid based compound (e.g., an antisense or RNAi nucleic acid) that inhibits the
    expression of ActRIIB or the ligand. A patient to be treated with such a compound may be
    one having a disorder described herein, including, for example, a muscular dystrophy.
30
                                                      6

    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
             The patent or application file contains at least one drawing executed in color. Copies
    of this patent or patent application publication with color drawing(s) will be provided by the
    Office upon request and payment of the necessary fee.
 5           Figure 1 shows a human ActRIIB soluble (extracellular) polypeptide sequence (SEQ
    ID NO: 1). The C-terminal "tail" is underlined.
             Figure 2 shows human ActRIIB precursor protein sequence (SEQ ID NO: 2). The
    signal peptide is underlined; the extracellular domain is in bold (also referred to as SEQ ID
    NO: 1); and the potential N-linked glycosylation sites are boxed.
 0           Figure 3 shows a nucleic acid sequence encoding a human ActRIIB soluble
    (extracellular) polypeptide, designated as SEQ ID NO: 3.
             Figure 4 shows a nucleic acid sequence encoding human ActRIIB precursor protein,
    designated as SEQ ID NO: 4.
             Figure 5 shows an alignment of human ActRIIA (SEQ ID NO: 14) and ActRIIB with
 5  the residues that are deduced herein, based on composite analysis of multiple ActRIIB and
    ActRIIA crystal structures to directly contact ligand (the ligand binding pocket) indicated
    with boxes.
             Figure 6 shows a multiple sequence alignment of various vertebrate ActRIIB proteins
    and human ActRIIA (SEQ ID NOs: 15-22).
 10          Figure 7 shows the full amino acid sequence of ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc. The TPA
    leader (residues 1-22) and truncated ActRIIB extracellular domain (native residues 25-131)
    are each underlined. Highlighted is the glutamate revealed by sequencing to be the N
    terminal amino acid of the mature fusion protein.
             Figure 8 shows a nucleotide sequence encoding ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc (the coding
25  strand is shown at top and the complement shown at bottom 3'-5'). Sequences encoding the
    TPA leader (nucleotides 1-66) and ActRIIB extracellular domain (nucleotides 73-396) are
    underlined. The corresponding amino acid sequence for ActRIIB(25-13 1) is also shown.
             Figure 9 shows the effect of ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc treatment for 20 weeks on
    utrophin protein levels in muscle in an mdx mouse model of muscular dystrophy. A. Western
30  blot analysis of utrophin protein in homogenates of pectoralis major muscle. B.
                                                     7

    Densitometric quantitation of utrophin bands shown in A, normalized to GAPDH
    (glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase) protein and expressed in relative units (RU).
    Data are means ± SEM; n       = 5 mice per group; *, p < 0.05. Chronic treatment of middle-aged
    mdx mice with ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc increased utrophin levels in pectoralis muscle by more
 5  than 80%.
             Figure 10 shows the effect of ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc treatment for 20 weeks on
    utrophin distribution in muscle fibers in an mdx mouse model of muscular dystrophy. Shown
    are transverse sections through the extensor digitorum longus (EDL). Scale bar, 50 pim.
    ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc treatment broadly increased sarcolemmal levels of utrophin. A. mdx
 0  mice were treated with vehicle. B. mdx mice were treated with ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc.
             Figure 11 shows enlargements from Figure 10 for greater clarity. Scale bar, 50 pim.
    A. mdx mice were treated with vehicle. B. mdx mice were treated with ActRIIB(20-134)
    mFc.
             Figure 12 show the effect of ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc on serum creatine kinase levels.
 5  A. shows the experimental design for the study described in Example 7. B. The graph shows
    serum creatine kinase levels for each of the four experimental groups. Group 4 had
    statistically lower serum creatine kinase levels than each of Groups 1 through 3.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 10 1.       Overview
             In certain aspects, the present invention relates to ActRIIB polypeptides. As used
    herein, the term "ActRIIB" refers to a family of activin receptor type JIB (ActRIIB) proteins
    and ActRIIB-related proteins, derived from any species. Members of the ActRIIB family are
    generally all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain
25  with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted
    serine/threonine kinase specificity. Amino acid sequences of human ActRIIA precursor
    protein (SEQ ID NO: 14, provided for comparison) and ActRIIB precursor protein are
    illustrated in Figure 5.
             The term "ActRIIB polypeptide" is used to refer to polypeptides comprising any
30  naturally occurring polypeptide of an ActRIIB family member as well as any variants thereof
    (including mutants, fragments, fusions, and peptidomimetic forms) that retain a useful
                                                      8

   activity. For example, ActRIIB polypeptides include polypeptides derived from the sequence
   of any known ActRIIB having a sequence at least about 80% identical to the sequence of an
   ActRIIB polypeptide, and preferably at least 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 99% or greater identity.
            In a specific embodiment, the invention relates to soluble ActRIIB polypeptides. As
 5 described herein, the term "soluble ActRIIB polypeptide" generally refers to polypeptides
   comprising an extracellular domain of an ActRIIB protein. The term "soluble ActRIIB
   polypeptide," as used herein, includes any naturally occurring extracellular domain of an
   ActRIIB protein as well as any variants thereof (including mutants, fragments and
   peptidomimetic forms) that retain a useful activity. For example, the extracellular domain of
 0 an ActRIIB protein binds to a ligand and is generally soluble. Examples of soluble ActRIIB
   polypeptides include ActRIIB soluble polypeptides illustrated in Figure 1 (SEQ ID NO: 1).
   Other examples of soluble ActRIIB polypeptides comprise a signal sequence in addition to
   the extracellular domain of an ActRIIB protein (see Example 1). The signal sequence can be
   a native signal sequence of an ActRIIB, or a signal sequence from another protein, such as a
 5 tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) signal sequence or a honey bee melatin (HBM) signal
   sequence.
            TGF-f signals are mediated by heteromeric complexes of type I and type II serine/
   threonine kinase receptors, which phosphorylate and activate downstream Smad proteins
   upon ligand stimulation (Massagud, 2000, Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 1:169-178). These type I
 0 and type II receptors are all transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding
   extracellular domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic
   domain with predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for
   signaling; and type II receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I
   receptors. Type I and II activin receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding,
25 resulting in phosphorylation of type I receptors by type II receptors.
            Two related type II receptors, ActRIIA and ActRIIB, have been identified as the type
   II receptors for activins (Mathews and Vale, 1991, Cell 65:973-982; Attisano et al., 1992,
   Cell 68: 97-108). Besides activins, ActRIIA and ActRIIB can biochemically interact with
   several other TGF-P family proteins, including BMP7, Nodal, GDF8, and GDF1 1 (Yamashita
30 et al., 1995, J. Cell Biol. 130:217-226; Lee and McPherron, 2001, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.
   98:9306-9311; Yeo and Whitman, 2001, Mol. Cell 7: 949-957; Oh et al., 2002, Genes Dev.
   16:2749-54). Applicants have found that soluble ActRIIA-Fc fusion proteins and ActRIIB
                                                   9

    Fc fusion proteins have substantially different effects in vivo, with ActRIIA-Fc having
    primary effects on bone and ActRIIB-Fc having primary effects on skeletal muscle.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention relates to antagonizing a ligand of
    ActRIIB receptors (also referred to as an ActRIIB ligand) with a subject ActRIIB polypeptide
 5  (e.g., a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide). Thus, compositions and methods of the present
    invention are useful for treating disorders associated with abnormal activity of one or more
    ligands of ActRIIB receptors. Exemplary ligands of ActRIIB receptors include some TGF-p
    family members, such as activin, Nodal, GDF8, GDF 11, and BMP7.
              Activins are dimeric polypeptide growth factors and belong to the TGF-beta
 0  superfamily. There are three activins (A, B, and AB) that are homo/heterodimers of two
    closely related   P subunits (PAPA,  fB3B,  and PAPB). In the TGF-beta superfamily, activins are
    unique and multifunctional factors that can stimulate hormone production in ovarian and
    placental cells, support neuronal cell survival, influence cell-cycle progress positively or
    negatively depending on cell type, and induce mesodermal differentiation at least in
 5  amphibian embryos (DePaolo et al., 1991, Proc SocEp Biol Med. 198:500-512; Dyson et al.,
    1997, Curr Biol. 7:81-84; Woodruff, 1998, Biochem Pharmacol. 55:953-963). Moreover,
    erythroid differentiation factor (EDF) isolated from the stimulated human monocytic
    leukemic cells was found to be identical to activin A (Murata et al., 1988, PNAS, 85:2434).
    It was suggested that activin A acts as a natural regulator of erythropoiesis in the bone
 '0 marrow. In several tissues, activin signaling is antagonized by its related heterodimer,
    inhibin. For example, during the release of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) from the
    pituitary, activin promotes FSH secretion and synthesis, while inhibin prevents FSH secretion
    and synthesis. Other proteins that may regulate activin bioactivity and/or bind to activin
    include follistatin (FS), follistatin-related protein (FSRP), U2-macroglobulin, Cerberus, and
25  endoglin, which are described below.
             Nodal proteins have functions in mesoderm and endoderm induction and formation,
    as well as subsequent organization of axial structures such as heart and stomach in early
    embryogenesis. It has been demonstrated that dorsal tissue in a developing vertebrate
    embryo contributes predominantly to the axial structures of the notochord and pre-chordal
30  plate while it recruits surrounding cells to form non-axial embryonic structures. Nodal
    appears to signal through both type I and type II receptors and intracellular effectors known
    as Smad proteins. Recent studies support the idea that ActRIIA and ActRIIB serve as type II
                                                      10

   receptors for Nodal (Sakuma et al., Genes Cells. 2002, 7:401-12). It is suggested that Nodal
   ligands interact with their co-factors (e.g., cripto) to activate activin type I and type II
   receptors, which phosphorylate Smad2. Nodal proteins are implicated in many events critical
   to the early vertebrate embryo, including mesoderm formation, anterior patterning, and left
 5 right axis specification. Experimental evidence has demonstrated that Nodal signaling
   activates pAR3-Lux, a luciferase reporter previously shown to respond specifically to activin
   and TGF-beta. However, Nodal is unable to induce pTlx2-Lux, a reporter specifically
   responsive to bone morphogenetic proteins. Recent results provide direct biochemical
   evidence that Nodal signaling is mediated by both activin-TGF-beta pathway Smads, Smad2
 0 and Smad3. Further evidence has shown that the extracellular cripto protein is required for
   Nodal signaling, making it distinct from activin or TGF-beta signaling.
           Growth and Differentiation Factor-8 (GDF8) is also known as myostatin. GDF8 is a
   negative regulator of skeletal muscle mass. GDF8 is highly expressed in the developing and
   adult skeletal muscle. The GDF8 null mutation in transgenic mice is characterized by a
 5 marked hypertrophy and hyperplasia of the skeletal muscle (McPherron et al., Nature, 1997,
   387:83-90). Similar increases in skeletal muscle mass are evident in naturally occurring
   mutations of GDF8 in cattle (Ashmore et al., 1974, Growth, 38:501-507; Swatland and
   Kieffer, J. Anim. Sci., 1994, 38:752-757; McPherron and Lee, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA,
   1997, 94:12457-12461; and Kambadur et al., Genome Res., 1997, 7:910-915) and, strikingly,
 0 in humans (Schuelke et al., N Engl J Med 2004;350:2682-8). Studies have also shown that
   muscle wasting associated with HIV-infection in humans is accompanied by increases in
   GDF8 protein expression (Gonzalez-Cadavid et al., PNAS, 1998, 95:14938-43). In addition,
   GDF8 can modulate the production of muscle-specific enzymes (e.g., creatine kinase) and
   modulate myoblast cell proliferation (WO 00/43781). The GDF8 propeptide can
25 noncovalently bind to the mature GDF8 domain dimer, inactivating its biological activity
   (Miyazono et al. (1988) J. Biol. Chem., 263: 6407-6415; Wakefield et al. (1988) J. Biol.
   Chem., 263; 7646-7654; and Brown et al. (1990) Growth Factors, 3: 35-43). Other proteins
   which bind to GDF8 or structurally related proteins and inhibit their biological activity
   include follistatin, and potentially, follistatin-related proteins (Gamer et al. (1999) Dev. Biol.,
30 208: 222-232).
           Growth and Differentiation Factor-I1 (GDF 11), also known as BMP 11, is a secreted
   protein (McPherron et al., 1999, Nat. Genet. 22: 260-264). GDF1 1 is expressed in the tail
   bud, limb bud, maxillary and mandibular arches, and dorsal root ganglia during mouse
                                                      11

   development (Nakashima et al., 1999, Mech. Dev. 80: 185-189). GDF 11 plays a unique role
   in patterning both mesodermal and neural tissues (Gamer et al., 1999, Dev Biol., 208:222
   32). GDF 11 was shown to be a negative regulator of chondrogenesis and myogenesis in
   developing chick limb (Gamer et al., 2001, Dev Biol. 229:407-20). The expression of
 5 GDF1 1 in muscle also suggests its role in regulating muscle growth in a similar way to
   GDF8. In addition, the expression of GDF 11 in brain suggests that GDF 11 may also possess
   activities that relate to the function of the nervous system. Interestingly, GDF II was found
   to inhibit neurogenesis in the olfactory epithelium (Wu et al., 2003, Neuron. 37:197-207).
   Hence, GDF 11 may have in vitro and in vivo applications in the treatment of diseases such as
 0 muscle diseases and neurodegenerative diseases (e.g., amyotrophic lateral sclerosis).
            Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP7), also called osteogenic protein-I (OP-1), is well
   known to induce cartilage and bone formation. In addition, BMP7 regulates a wide array of
   physiological processes. For example, BMP7 may be the osteoinductive factor responsible
   for the phenomenon of epithelial osteogenesis. It is also found that BMP7 plays a role in
 5 calcium regulation and bone homeostasis. Like activin, BMP7 binds to type II receptors,
   ActRIIA and JIB. However, BMP7 and activin recruit distinct type I receptors into
   heteromeric receptor complexes. The major BMP7 type I receptor observed was ALK2,
   while activin bound exclusively to ALK4 (ActRIIB). BMP7 and activin elicited distinct
   biological responses and activated different Smad pathways (Macias-Silva et al., 1998, J Biol
 0 Chem. 273:25628-36).
            In certain aspects, the present invention relates to the use of certain ActRIIB
   polypeptides (e.g., soluble ActRIIB polypeptides) to antagonize the signaling of ActRIIB
   ligands generally, in any process associated with ActRIIB activity. Optionally, ActRIIB
   polypeptides of the invention may antagonize one or more ligands of ActRIIB receptors, such
25 as activin, Nodal, GDF8, GDF 11, and BMP7, and may therefore be useful in the treatment of
   additional disorders.
            Therefore, the present invention contemplates using ActRIIB polypeptides in treating
   or preventing diseases or conditions that are associated with abnormal activity of an ActRIIB
   or an ActRIIB ligand. ActRIIB or ActRIIB ligands are involved in the regulation of many
30 critical biological processes. Due to their key functions in these processes, they may be
   desirable targets for therapeutic intervention. For example, ActRIIB polypeptides (e.g.,
   soluble ActRIIB polypeptides) may be used to treat human or animal disorders or
                                                     12

   conditions. In particular, the present disclosure provides surprising evidence that antagonists
   of ActRIIB signaling, such as ActRIIB-Fc fusion proteins, may directly address the
   underlying defect in dystrophin deficient patients by increasing the level of utrophin present
   in the sarcolemma. While previous publications have indicated that such agents may be
 5 useful for increasing muscle mass and strength in muscular dystrophy patients, these data
   indicate that such agents may have a direct effect on muscle fiber fragility in DMD and BMD
   patients. These disorders and conditions are discussed below under "Exemplary Therapeutic
   Uses."
           The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art,
 0 within the context of this invention and in the specific context where each term is used.
   Certain terms are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification, to provide additional
   guidance to the practitioner in describing the compositions and methods of the invention and
   how to make and use them. The scope or meaning of any use of a term will be apparent from
   the specific context in which the term is used.
 5         "About" and "approximately" shall generally mean an acceptable degree of error for
   the quantity measured given the nature or precision of the measurements. Typically,
   exemplary degrees of error are within 20 percent (%), preferably within 10%, and more
   preferably within 5% of a given value or range of values.
           Alternatively, and particularly in biological systems, the terms "about" and
 0 "approximately" may mean values that are within an order of magnitude, preferably within 5
   fold and more preferably within 2-fold of a given value. Numerical quantities given herein
   are approximate unless stated otherwise, meaning that the term "about" or "approximately"
   can be inferred when not expressly stated.
           The methods of the invention may include steps of comparing sequences to each
25 other, including wild-type sequence to one or more mutants (sequence variants). Such
   comparisons typically comprise alignments of polymer sequences, e.g., using sequence
   alignment programs and/or algorithms that are well known in the art (for example, BLAST,
   FASTA and MEGALIGN, to name a few). The skilled artisan can readily appreciate that, in
   such alignments, where a mutation contains a residue insertion or deletion, the sequence
30 alignment will introduce a "gap" (typically represented by a dash, or "A") in the polymer
   sequence not containing the inserted or deleted residue.
                                                   13

            "Homologous," in all its grammatical forms and spelling variations, refers to the
    relationship between two proteins that possess a "common evolutionary origin," including
    proteins from superfamilies in the same species of organism, as well as homologous proteins
    from different species of organism. Such proteins (and their encoding nucleic acids) have
 5  sequence homology, as reflected by their sequence similarity, whether in terms of percent
    identity or by the presence of specific residues or motifs and conserved positions.
            The term "sequence similarity," in all its grammatical forms, refers to the degree of
    identity or correspondence between nucleic acid or amino acid sequences that may or may
    not share a common evolutionary origin.
 0          However, in common usage and in the instant application, the term "homologous,"
    when modified with an adverb such as "highly," may refer to sequence similarity and may or
    may not relate to a common evolutionary origin.
    2.      ActRIIB Polypeptides
 5          In certain aspects, the invention relates to ActRIIB variant polypeptides (e.g., soluble
    ActRIIB polypeptides). Optionally, the fragments, functional variants, and modified forms
    have similar or the same biological activities of their corresponding wild-type ActRIIB
    polypeptides. For example, an ActRIIB variant of the invention may bind to and inhibit
    function of an ActRIIB ligand (e.g., activin A, activin AB, activin B, Nodal, GDF8, GDF1 1
 '0 or BMP7). Optionally, an ActRIIB polypeptide modulates growth of muscle. Examples of
    ActRIIB polypeptides include human ActRIIB precursor polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 2), and
    soluble human ActRIIB polypeptides (e.g., SEQ ID NOs: 1, 5, and 12).
            The disclosure identifies functionally active portions and variants of ActRIIB.
    Applicants have ascertained that an Fc fusion protein having the sequence disclosed by
25  Hilden et al. (Blood. 1994 Apr 15;83(8):2163-70), which has an Alanine at the position
    corresponding to amino acid 64 of SEQ ID NO: 2 (A64), has a relatively low affinity for
    activin and GDF-1 1. By contrast, the same Fc fusion protein with an Arginine at position 64
    (R64) has an affinity for activin and GDF-1 1 in the low nanomolar to high picomolar range.
    Therefore, a sequence with an R64 is used as the wild-type reference sequence for human
30  ActRIIB in this disclosure.
                                                     14

             Attisano et al. (Cell. 1992 Jan 10;68(1):97-108) showed that a deletion of the proline
    knot at the C-terminus of the extracellular domain of ActRIIB reduced the affinity of the
    receptor for activin. Data presented here shows that an ActRIIB-Fc fusion protein containing
    amino acids 20-119 of SEQ ID NO: 2, "ActRIIB(20-119)-Fc" has reduced binding to GDF
 5  11 and activin relative to an ActRIIB(20-134)-Fc, which includes the proline knot region and
    the complete juxtamembrane domain. However, an ActRIIB(20-129)-Fc protein retains
    similar but somewhat reduced activity relative to the wild type, even though the proline knot
    region is disrupted. Thus, ActRIIB extracellular domains that stop at amino acid 134, 133,
    132, 131, 130 and 129 are all expected to be active, but constructs stopping at 134 or 133
 0  may be most active. Similarly, mutations at any of residues 129-134 are not expected to alter
    ligand binding affinity by large margins. In support of this, mutations of P129 and P130 do
    not substantially decrease ligand binding. Therefore, an ActRIIB-Fc fusion protein may end
    as early as amino acid 109 (the final cysteine), however, forms ending at or between 109 and
    119 are expected to have reduced ligand binding. Amino acid 119 is poorly conserved and so
 5  is readily altered or truncated. Forms ending at 128 or later retain ligand binding activity.
    Forms ending at or between 119 and 127 will have an intermediate binding ability. Any of
    these forms may be desirable to use, depending on the clinical or experimental setting.
             At the N-terminus of ActRIIB, it is expected that a protein beginning at amino acid 29
    or before will retain ligand binding activity. Amino acid 29 represents the initial cysteine.
 ,0 An alanine to asparagine mutation at position 24 introduces an N-linked glycosylation
    sequence without substantially affecting ligand binding. This confirms that mutations in the
    region between the signal cleavage peptide and the cysteine cross-linked region,
    corresponding to amino acids 20-29 are well tolerated. In particular, constructs beginning at
    position 20, 21, 22, 23 and 24 will retain activity, and constructs beginning at positions 25,
25  26, 27, 28 and 29 are also expected to retain activity. A construct beginning at 22, 23, 24 or
    25 will have the most activity.
             Taken together, an active portion of ActRIIB comprises amino acids 29-109 of SEQ
    ID NO: 2, and constructs may, for example, begin at a residue corresponding to amino acids
    20-29 and end at a position corresponding to amino acids 109-134. Other examples include
30  constructs that begin at a position from 20-29 or 21-29 and end at a position from 119-134,
    119-133 or 129-134, 129-133. Other examples include constructs that begin at a position
    from 20-24 (or 21-24, or 22-25) and end at a position from 109-134 (or 109-133), 119-134
    (or 119-133) or 129-134 (or 129-133). Variants within these ranges are also contemplated,
                                                     15

    particularly those having at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95% or 99% identity to the corresponding
    portion of SEQ ID NO: 2.
            The disclosure includes the results of an analysis of composite ActRIIB structures,
    shown in Figure 5, demonstrating that the ligand binding pocket is defined by residues Y3 1,
 5  N33, N35, L38 through T41, E47, E50, Q53 through K55, L57, H58, Y60, S62, K74, W78
    through N83, Y85, R87, A92, and E94 through F1I.         At these positions, it is expected that
    conservative mutations will be tolerated, although a K74A mutation is well-tolerated, as are
    R40A, K55A, F82A and mutations at position L79. R40 is a K in Xenopus, indicating that
    basic amino acids at this position will be tolerated. Q53 is R in bovine ActRIIB and K in
 0  Xenopus ActRIIB, and therefore amino acids including R, K,       Q, N and H will be   tolerated at
    this position. Thus, a general formula for an active ActRIIB variant protein is one that
    comprises amino acids 29-109, but optionally beginning at a position ranging from 20-24 or
    22-25 and ending at a position ranging from 129-134, and comprising no more than 1, 2, 5,
    10 or 15 conservative amino acid changes in the ligand binding pocket, and zero, one or more
 5  non-conservative alterations at positions 40, 53, 55, 74, 79 and/or 82 in the ligand binding
    pocket. Such a protein may retain greater than 80%, 90%, 95% or 99% sequence identity to
    the sequence of amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID NO: 2. Sites outside the binding pocket, at
    which variability may be particularly well tolerated, include the amino and carboxy termini of
    the extracellular domain (as noted above), and positions 42-46 and 65-73. An asparagine to
 '0 alanine alteration at position 65 (N65A) actually improves ligand binding in the A64
    background, and is thus expected to have no detrimental effect on ligand binding in the R64
    background. This change probably eliminates glycosylation at N65 in the A64 background,
    thus demonstrating that a significant change in this region is likely to be tolerated. While an
    R64A change is poorly tolerated, R64K is well-tolerated, and thus another basic residue, such
25  as H may be tolerated at position 64.
            ActRIIB is well-conserved across nearly all vertebrates, with large stretches of the
    extracellular domain conserved completely. Many of the ligands that bind to ActRIIB are
    also highly conserved. Accordingly, comparisons of ActRIIB sequences from various
    vertebrate organisms provide insights into residues that may be altered (Figure 6). Therefore,
30  an active, human ActRIIB variant may include one or more amino acids at corresponding
    positions from the sequence of another vertebrate ActRIIB, or may include a residue that is
    similar to that in the human or other vertebrate sequence. The following examples illustrate
    this approach to defining an active ActRIIB variant. L46 is a valine in Xenopus ActRIIB,
                                                    16

   and so this position may be altered, and optionally may be altered to another hydrophobic
   residue, such as V, I or F, or a non-polar residue such as A. E52 is a K in Xenopus,
   indicating that this site may be tolerant of a wide variety of changes, including polar residues,
   such as E, D, K, R, H, S, T, P, G, Y and probably A. T93 is a K in Xenopus, indicating that a
 5 wide structural variation is tolerated at this position, with polar residues favored, such as S,
   K, R, E, D, H, G, P, G and Y. F108 is a Y in Xenopus, and therefore Y or other hydrophobic
   group, such as I, V or L should be tolerated. E 111 is K in Xenopus, indicating that charged
   residues will be tolerated at this position, including D, R, K and H, as well as  Q and N.   RI 12
   is K in Xenopus, indicating that basic residues are tolerated at this position, including R and
 0 H. A at position 119 is relatively poorly conserved, and appears as P in rodents and V in
   Xenopus, thus essentially any amino acid should be tolerated at this position.
           The disclosure demonstrates that the addition of a further N-linked glycosylation site
   (N-X-S/T) increases the serum half-life of an ActRIIB-Fc fusion protein, relative to the
   ActRIIB(R64)-Fc form. By introducing an asparagine at position 24 (A24N construct), an
 5 NXT sequence is created that confers a longer half-life. Other NX(T/S) sequences are found
   at 42-44 (NQS) and 65-67 (NSS), although the latter may not be efficiently glycosylated with
   the R at position 64. N-X-S/T sequences may be generally introduced at positions outside the
   ligand binding pocket defined in Figure 5. Particularly suitable sites for the introduction of
   non-endogenous N-X-S/T sequences include amino acids 20-29, 20-24, 22-25, 109-134, 120
 O 134 or 129-134. N-X-S/T sequences may also be introduced into the linker between the
   ActRIIB sequence and the Fc or other fusion component. Such a site may be introduced with
   minimal effort by introducing an N in the correct position with respect to a pre-existing S or
   T, or by introducing an S or T at a position corresponding to a pre-existing N. Thus,
   desirable alterations that would create an N-linked glycosylation site are: A24N, R64N, S67N
25 (possibly combined with an N65A alteration), E106N, RI 12N, G120N, E123N, P129N,
   A132N, RI 12S and RI 12T. Any S that is predicted to be glycosylated may be altered to a T
   without creating an immunogenic site, because of the protection afforded by the
   glycosylation. Likewise, any T that is predicted to be glycosylated may be altered to an S.
   Thus the alterations S67T and S44T are contemplated. Likewise, in an A24N variant, an
30 S26T alteration may be used. Accordingly, an ActRIIB variant may include one or more
   additional, non-endogenous N-linked glycosylation consensus sequences.
           Position L79 may be altered to confer altered activin - myostatin (GDF- 11) binding
   properties. L79A or L79P reduces GDF-1 1 binding to a greater extent than activin binding.
                                                     17

    L79E or L79D retains GDF-1 1 binding. Remarkably, the L79E and L79D variants have
    greatly reduced activin binding. In vivo experiments indicate that these non-activin receptors
    retain significant ability to increase muscle mass but show decreased effects on other tissues.
    These data demonstrate the desirability and feasibility for obtaining polypeptides with
 5  reduced effects on activin.
            The variations described may be combined in various ways. Additionally, the results
    of mutagenesis program described herein indicate that there are amino acid positions in
    ActRIIB that are often beneficial to conserve. These include position 64 (basic amino acid),
    position 80 (acidic or hydrophobic amino acid), position 78 (hydrophobic, and particularly
 0  tryptophan), position 37 (acidic, and particularly aspartic or glutamic acid), position 56 (basic
    amino acid), position 60 (hydrophobic amino acid, particularly phenylalanine or tyrosine).
    Thus, in each of the variants disclosed herein, the disclosure provides a framework of amino
    acids that may be conserved. Other positions that may be desirable to conserve are as
    follows: position 52 (acidic amino acid), position 55 (basic amino acid), position 81 (acidic),
 5  98 (polar or charged, particularly E, D, R or K).
            In certain embodiments, isolated fragments of the ActRIIB polypeptides can be
    obtained by screening polypeptides recombinantly produced from the corresponding
    fragment of the nucleic acid encoding an ActRIIB polypeptide (e.g., SEQ ID NOs: 3 and 4).
    In addition, fragments can be chemically synthesized using techniques known in the art such
 0O as conventional Merrifield solid phase f-Moc or t-Boc chemistry. The fragments can be
    produced (recombinantly or by chemical synthesis) and tested to identify those peptidyl
    fragments that can function, for example, as antagonists (inhibitors) or agonists (activators) of
    an ActRIIB protein or an ActRIIB ligand.
            In certain embodiments, a functional variant of the ActRIIB polypeptides has an
25  amino acid sequence that is at least 75% identical to an amino acid sequence selected from
    SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 5, 12, and 23. In certain cases, the functional variant has an amino acid
    sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90%,      9 5 %, 9 7 %, 98%, 9 9 % or 100% identical to an amino acid
    sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1, 2, 5, 12, and 23.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates making functional
30  variants by modifying the structure of an ActRIIB polypeptide for such purposes as
    enhancing therapeutic efficacy, or stability (e.g., ex vivo shelf life and resistance to
    proteolytic degradation in vivo). Modified ActRIIB polypeptides can also be produced, for
                                                       18

    instance, by amino acid substitution, deletion, or addition. For instance, it is reasonable to
    expect that an isolated replacement of a leucine with an isoleucine or valine, an aspartate with
    a glutamate, a threonine with a serine, or a similar replacement of an amino acid with a
    structurally related amino acid (e.g., conservative mutations) will not have a major effect on
 5  the biological activity of the resulting molecule. Conservative replacements are those that
    take place within a family of amino acids that are related in their side chains. Whether a
    change in the amino acid sequence of an ActRIIB polypeptide results in a functional homolog
    can be readily determined by assessing the ability of the variant ActRIIB polypeptide to
    produce a response in cells in a fashion similar to the wild-type ActRIIB polypeptide, or to
 0  bind to one or more ligands, such as activin, GDF- 11 or myostatin in a fashion similar to wild
    type.
            In certain specific embodiments, the present invention contemplates making
    mutations in the extracellular domain (also referred to as ligand-binding domain) of an
    ActRIIB polypeptide such that the variant (or mutant) ActRIIB polypeptide has altered
 5  ligand-binding activities (e.g., binding affinity or binding specificity). In certain cases, such
    variant ActRIIB polypeptides have altered (elevated or reduced) binding affinity for a
    specific ligand. In other cases, the variant ActRIIB polypeptides have altered binding
    specificity for their ligands.
            For example, the disclosure provides variant ActRIIB polypeptides that preferentially
 '0 bind to GDF8/GDF1 1 relative to activins. The disclosure further establishes the desirability
    of such polypeptides for reducing off-target effects, although such selective variants may be
    less desirable for the treatment of severe diseases where very large gains in muscle mass may
    be needed for therapeutic effect and where some level of off-target effect is acceptable. For
    example, amino acid residues of the ActRIIB protein, such as E39, K55, Y60, K74, W78,
25  D80, and F101, are in the ligand-binding pocket and mediate binding to its ligands such as
    activin and GDF8. Thus, the present invention provides an altered ligand-binding domain
    (e.g., GDF8-binding domain) of an ActRIIB receptor, which comprises one or more
    mutations at those amino acid residues. Optionally, the altered ligand-binding domain can
    have increased selectivity for a ligand such as GDF8 relative to a wild-type ligand-binding
30  domain of an ActRIIB receptor. To illustrate, these mutations increase the selectivity of the
    altered ligand-binding domain for GDF8 over activin. Optionally, the altered ligand-binding
    domain has a ratio of Kd for activin binding to K for GDF8 binding that is at least 2, 5, 10, or
    even 100 fold greater relative to the ratio for the wild-type ligand-binding domain.
                                                     19

    Optionally, the altered ligand-binding domain has a ratio of IC50 for inhibiting activin to IC 50
    for inhibiting GDF8 that is at least 2, 5, 10, or even 100 fold greater relative to the wild-type
    ligand-binding domain. Optionally, the altered ligand-binding domain inhibits GDF8 with an
    IC 50 at least 2, 5, 10, or even 100 times less than the IC 50 for inhibiting activin.
 5           As a specific example, the positively-charged amino acid residue Asp (D80) of the
    ligand-binding domain of ActRIIB can be mutated to a different amino acid residue such that
    the variant ActRIIB polypeptide preferentially binds to GDF8, but not activin. Preferably,
    the D80 residue is changed to an amino acid residue selected from the group consisting of: a
    uncharged amino acid residue, a negative amino acid residue, and a hydrophobic amino acid
 0  residue. As a further specific example, the hydrophobic residue L79 can be altered to the
    acidic amino acids aspartic acid or glutamic acid to greatly reduce activin binding while
    retaining GDF 11 binding. As will be recognized by one of skill in the art, most of the
    described mutations, variants or modifications may be made at the nucleic acid level or, in
    some cases, by post translational modification or chemical synthesis. Such techniques are
 5  well known in the art.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates specific mutations of the
    ActRIIB polypeptides so as to alter the glycosylation of the polypeptide. Exemplary
    glycosylation sites in ActRIIB polypeptides are illustrated in Figure 2. Such mutations may
    be selected so as to introduce or eliminate one or more glycosylation sites, such as O-linked
 '0 or N-linked glycosylation sites. Asparagine-linked glycosylation recognition sites generally
    comprise a tripeptide sequence, asparagine-X-threonine (where "X" is any amino acid) which
    is specifically recognized by appropriate cellular glycosylation enzymes. The alteration may
    also be made by the addition of, or substitution by, one or more serine or threonine residues
    to the sequence of the wild-type ActRIIB polypeptide (for O-linked glycosylation sites). A
25  variety of amino acid substitutions or deletions at one or both of the first or third amino acid
    positions of a glycosylation recognition site (and/or amino acid deletion at the second
    position) results in non-glycosylation at the modified tripeptide sequence. Another means of
    increasing the number of carbohydrate moieties on an ActRIIB polypeptide is by chemical or
    enzymatic coupling of glycosides to the ActRIIB polypeptide. Depending on the coupling
30  mode used, the sugar(s) may be attached to (a) arginine and histidine; (b) free carboxyl
    groups; (c) free sulfhydryl groups such as those of cysteine; (d) free hydroxyl groups such as
    those of serine, threonine, or hydroxyproline; (e) aromatic residues such as those of
    phenylalanine, tyrosine, or tryptophan; or (f) the amide group of glutamine. These methods
                                                      20

    are described in WO 87/05330 published Sep. 11, 1987, and in Aplin and Wriston (1981)
    CRC Crit. Rev. Biochem., pp. 259-306, incorporated by reference herein. Removal of one or
    more carbohydrate moieties present on an ActRIIB polypeptide may be accomplished
    chemically and/or enzymatically. Chemical deglycosylation may involve, for example,
 5  exposure of the ActRIIB polypeptide to the compound trifluoromethanesulfonic acid, or an
    equivalent compound. This treatment results in the cleavage of most or all sugars except the
    linking sugar (N-acetylglucosamine or N-acetylgalactosamine), while leaving the amino acid
    sequence intact. Chemical deglycosylation is further described by Hakimuddin et al. (1987)
    Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 259:52 and by Edge et al. (1981) Anal. Biochem. 118:131.
 0  Enzymatic cleavage of carbohydrate moieties on ActRIIB polypeptides can be achieved by
    the use of a variety of endo- and exo-glycosidases as described by Thotakura et al. (1987)
    Meth. Enzymol. 138:350. The sequence of an ActRIIB polypeptide may be adjusted, as
    appropriate, depending on the type of expression system used, as mammalian, yeast, insect
    and plant cells may all introduce differing glycosylation patterns that can be affected by the
 5  amino acid sequence of the peptide. In general, ActRIIB proteins for use in humans will be
    expressed in a mammalian cell line that provides proper glycosylation, such as HEK293 or
    CHO cell lines, although other mammalian expression cell lines are expected to be useful as
    well.
            This disclosure further contemplates a method of generating variants, particularly sets
 '0 of combinatorial variants of an ActRIIB polypeptide, including, optionally, truncation
    variants; pools of combinatorial mutants are especially useful for identifying functional
    variant sequences. The purpose of screening such combinatorial libraries may be to generate,
    for example, ActRIIB polypeptide variants which have altered properties, such as altered
    pharmacokinetics, or altered ligand binding. A variety of screening assays are provided
25  below, and such assays may be used to evaluate variants. For example, an ActRIIB
    polypeptide variant may be screened for ability to bind to an ActRIIB polypeptide, to prevent
    binding of an ActRIIB ligand to an ActRIIB polypeptide.
            The activity of an ActRIIB polypeptide or its variants may also be tested in a cell
    based or in vivo assay. For example, the effect of an ActRIIB polypeptide variant on the
30  expression of genes involved in bone production in an osteoblast or precursor may be
    assessed. This may, as needed, be performed in the presence of one or more recombinant
    ActRIIB ligand protein (e.g., BMP7), and cells may be transfected so as to produce an
    ActRIIB polypeptide and/or variants thereof, and optionally, an ActRIIB ligand. Likewise,
                                                   21

   an ActRIIB polypeptide may be administered to a mouse or other animal, and one or more
   bone properties, such as density or volume may be assessed. The healing rate for bone
   fractures may also be evaluated. Similarly, the activity of an ActRIIB polypeptide or its
   variants may be tested in muscle cells, adipocytes, and neuronal cells for any effect on
 5 growth of these cells, for example, by the assays as described below. Such assays are well
   known and routine in the art. A SMAD-responsive reporter gene may be used in such cell
   lines to monitor effects on downstream signaling.
           Combinatorially-derived variants can be generated which have a selective potency
   relative to a naturally occurring ActRIIB polypeptide. Such variant proteins, when expressed
 0 from recombinant DNA constructs, can be used in gene therapy protocols. Likewise,
   mutagenesis can give rise to variants which have intracellular half-lives dramatically different
   than the corresponding wild-type ActRIIB polypeptide. For example, the altered protein can
   be rendered either more stable or less stable to proteolytic degradation or other processes
   which result in destruction of, or otherwise inactivation of a native ActRIIB polypeptide.
 5 Such variants, and the genes which encode them, can be utilized to alter ActRIIB polypeptide
   levels by modulating the half-life of the ActRIIB polypeptides. For instance, a short half-life
   can give rise to more transient biological effects and, when part of an inducible expression
   system, can allow tighter control of recombinant ActRIIB polypeptide levels within the cell.
           In certain embodiments, the ActRIIB polypeptides of the invention may further
 O comprise post-translational modifications in addition to any that are naturally present in the
   ActRIIB polypeptides. Such modifications include, but are not limited to, acetylation,
   carboxylation, glycosylation, phosphorylation, lipidation, and acylation. As a result, the
   modified ActRIIB polypeptides may contain non-amino acid elements, such as polyethylene
   glycols, lipids, poly- or mono-saccharide, and phosphates. Effects of such non-amino acid
25 elements on the functionality of a ActRIIB polypeptide may be tested as described herein for
   other ActRIIB polypeptide variants. When an ActRIIB polypeptide is produced in cells by
   cleaving a nascent form of the ActRIIB polypeptide, post-translational processing may also
   be important for correct folding and/or function of the protein. Different cells (such as CHO,
   HeLa, MDCK, 293, W138, NIH-3T3 or HEK293) have specific cellular machinery and
30 characteristic mechanisms for such post-translational activities and may be chosen to ensure
   the correct modification and processing of the ActRIIB polypeptides.
                                                   22

             In certain aspects, functional variants or modified forms of the ActRIIB polypeptides
    include fusion proteins having at least a portion of the ActRIIB polypeptides and one or more
    fusion domains. Well known examples of such fusion domains include, but are not limited
    to, polyhistidine, Glu-Glu, glutathione S transferase (GST), thioredoxin, protein A, protein G,
 5  an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region (e.g., an Fc), maltose binding protein
    (MBP), or human serum albumin. A fusion domain may be selected so as to confer a desired
    property. For example, some fusion domains are particularly useful for isolation of the fusion
    proteins by affinity chromatography. For the purpose of affinity purification, relevant
    matrices for affinity chromatography, such as glutathione-, amylase-, and nickel- or cobalt
 0  conjugated resins are used. Many of such matrices are available in "kit" form, such as the
                                                               TM
    Pharmacia GST purification system and the QlAexpress           system (Qiagen) useful with
    (HIS 6 ) fusion partners. As another example, a fusion domain may be selected so as to
    facilitate detection of the ActRIIB polypeptides. Examples of such detection domains
    include the various fluorescent proteins (e.g., GFP) as well as "epitope tags," which are
 5  usually short peptide sequences for which a specific antibody is available. Well known
    epitope tags for which specific monoclonal antibodies are readily available include FLAG,
    influenza virus haemagglutinin (HA), and c-myc tags. In some cases, the fusion domains
    have a protease cleavage site, such as for Factor Xa or Thrombin, which allows the relevant
    protease to partially digest the fusion proteins and thereby liberate the recombinant proteins
 '0 therefrom. The liberated proteins can then be isolated from the fusion domain by subsequent
    chromatographic separation. In certain preferred embodiments, an ActRIIB polypeptide is
    fused with a domain that stabilizes the ActRIIB polypeptide in vivo (a "stabilizer" domain).
    By "stabilizing" is meant anything that increases serum half life, regardless of whether this is
    because of decreased destruction, decreased clearance by the kidney, or other
25  pharmacokinetic effect. Fusions with the Fc portion of an immunoglobulin are known to
    confer desirable pharmacokinetic properties on a wide range of proteins. Likewise, fusions to
    human serum albumin can confer desirable properties. Other types of fusion domains that
    may be selected include multimerizing (e.g., dimerizing, tetramerizing) domains and
    functional domains (that confer an additional biological function, such as further stimulation
30  of muscle growth).
             As a specific example, the present invention provides a fusion protein as a GDF8
    antagonist which comprises an extracellular (e.g., GDF8-binding) domain fused to an Fc
    domain (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 13).
                                                     23

    THTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVD(A)VSHEDPEVKFNWYVDG
    VEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCK (A) VSNKALPVP IEKTISKAK
    GQPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDG
    PFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHN (A) HYTQKSLSLSPGK*
 5           Preferably, the Fc domain has one or more mutations at residues such as Asp-265,
    lysine 322, and Asn-434. In certain cases, the mutant Fc domain having one or more of these
    mutations (e.g., Asp-265 mutation) has reduced ability of binding to the FcY receptor relative
    to a wildtype Fc domain. In other cases, the mutant Fc domain having one or more of these
    mutations (e.g., Asn-434 mutation) has increased ability of binding to the MHC class I
 0  related Fc-receptor (FcRN) relative to a wildtype Fc domain.
             It is understood that different elements of the fusion proteins may be arranged in any
    manner that is consistent with the desired functionality. For example, an ActRIIB
    polypeptide may be placed C-terminal to a heterologous domain, or, alternatively, a
    heterologous domain may be placed C-terminal to an ActRIIB polypeptide. The ActRIIB
 5  polypeptide domain and the heterologous domain need not be adjacent in a fusion protein,
    and additional domains or amino acid sequences may be included C- or N-terminal to either
    domain or between the domains.
             In certain embodiments, the ActRIIB polypeptides of the present invention contain
    one or more modifications that are capable of stabilizing the ActRIIB polypeptides. For
 '0 example, such modifications enhance the in vitro half life of the ActRIIB polypeptides,
    enhance circulatory half life of the ActRIIB polypeptides or reducing proteolytic degradation
    of the ActRIIB polypeptides. Such stabilizing modifications include, but are not limited to,
    fusion proteins (including, for example, fusion proteins comprising an ActRIIB polypeptide
    and a stabilizer domain), modifications of a glycosylation site (including, for example,
25  addition of a glycosylation site to an ActRIIB polypeptide), and modifications of
    carbohydrate moiety (including, for example, removal of carbohydrate moieties from an
    ActRIIB polypeptide). In the case of fusion proteins, an ActRIIB polypeptide is fused to a
    stabilizer domain such as an IgG molecule (e.g., an Fc domain). As used herein, the term
    "stabilizer domain" not only refers to a fusion domain (e.g., Fc) as in the case of fusion
30  proteins, but also includes nonproteinaceous modifications such as a carbohydrate moiety, or
    nonproteinaceous polymer, such as polyethylene glycol.
                                                     24

           In certain embodiments, the present invention makes available isolated and/or purified
   forms of the ActRIIB polypeptides, which are isolated from, or otherwise substantially free
   of, other proteins.
           In certain embodiments, ActRIIB polypeptides (unmodified or modified) of the
 5 invention can be produced by a variety of art-known techniques. For example, such ActRIIB
   polypeptides can be synthesized using standard protein chemistry techniques such as those
   described in Bodansky, M. Principles of Peptide Synthesis, Springer Verlag, Berlin (1993)
   and Grant G. A. (ed.), Synthetic Peptides: A User's Guide, W. H. Freeman and Company,
   New York (1992). In addition, automated peptide synthesizers are commercially available
 0 (e.g., Advanced ChemTech Model 396; Milligen/Biosearch 9600). Alternatively, the
   ActRIIB polypeptides, fragments or variants thereof may be recombinantly produced using
   various expression systems (e.g., E. coli, Chinese Hamster Ovary cells, COS cells,
   baculovirus) as is well known in the art (also see below). In a further embodiment, the
   modified or unmodified ActRIIB polypeptides may be produced by digestion of naturally
 5 occurring or recombinantly produced full-length ActRIIB polypeptides by using, for
   example, a protease, e.g., trypsin, thermolysin, chymotrypsin, pepsin, or paired basic amino
   acid converting enzyme (PACE). Computer analysis (using a commercially available
   software, e.g., MacVector, Omega, PCGene, Molecular Simulation, Inc.) can be used to
   identify proteolytic cleavage sites. Alternatively, such ActRIIB polypeptides may be
 0 produced from naturally occurring or recombinantly produced full-length ActRIIB
   polypeptides such as standard techniques known in the art, such as by chemical cleavage
   (e.g., cyanogen bromide, hydroxylamine).
   3.      Nucleic Acids Encoding ActRIIB Polypeptides
25         In certain aspects, the invention provides isolated and/or recombinant nucleic acids
   encoding any of the ActRIIB polypeptides (e.g., soluble ActRIIB polypeptides), including
   any of the variants disclosed herein. For example, SEQ ID NO: 4 encodes a naturally
   occurring ActRIIB precursor polypeptide (Figure 4), while SEQ ID NO: 3 encodes a soluble
   ActRIIB polypeptide (Figure 3). The subject nucleic acids may be single-stranded or double
30 stranded. Such nucleic acids may be DNA or RNA molecules. These nucleic acids are may
   be used, for example, in methods for making ActRIIB polypeptides or as direct therapeutic
   agents (e.g., in a gene therapy approach).
                                                   25

             In certain aspects, the subject nucleic acids encoding ActRIIB polypeptides are further
    understood to include nucleic acids that are variants of SEQ ID NO: 3. Variant nucleotide
    sequences include sequences that differ by one or more nucleotide substitutions, additions or
    deletions, such as allelic variants; and will, therefore, include coding sequences that differ
 5  from the nucleotide sequence of the coding sequence designated in SEQ ID NO: 4.
             In certain embodiments, the invention provides isolated or recombinant nucleic acid
    sequences that are at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to SEQ
    ID NO: 3. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that nucleic acid sequences
    complementary to SEQ ID NO: 3, and variants of SEQ ID NO: 3 are also within the scope of
 0  this invention. In further embodiments, the nucleic acid sequences of the invention can be
    isolated, recombinant, and/or fused with a heterologous nucleotide sequence, or in a DNA
    library.
             In other embodiments, nucleic acids of the invention also include nucleotide
    sequences that hybridize under highly stringent conditions to the nucleotide sequence
 5  designated in SEQ ID NO: 3, complement sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3, or fragments thereof.
    As discussed above, one of ordinary skill in the art will understand readily that appropriate
    stringency conditions which promote DNA hybridization can be varied. One of ordinary skill
    in the art will understand readily that appropriate stringency conditions which promote DNA
    hybridization can be varied. For example, one could perform the hybridization at 6.0 x
 '0 sodium chloride/sodium citrate (SSC) at about 45 'C, followed by a wash of 2.0 x SSC at 50
    'C. For example, the salt concentration in the wash step can be selected from a low
    stringency of about 2.0 x SSC at 50 'C to a high stringency of about 0.2 x SSC at 50 'C. In
    addition, the temperature in the wash step can be increased from low stringency conditions at
    room temperature, about 22 'C, to high stringency conditions at about 65 'C. Both
25  temperature and salt may be varied, or temperature or salt concentration may be held constant
    while the other variable is changed. In one embodiment, the invention provides nucleic acids
    which hybridize under low stringency conditions of 6 x SSC at room temperature followed by
    a wash at 2 x SSC at room temperature.
             Isolated nucleic acids which differ from the nucleic acids as set forth in SEQ ID NO:
30  3 due to degeneracy in the genetic code are also within the scope of the invention. For
    example, a number of amino acids are designated by more than one triplet. Codons that
    specify the same amino acid, or synonyms (for example, CAU and CAC are synonyms for
                                                     26

    histidine) may result in "silent" mutations which do not affect the amino acid sequence of the
    protein. However, it is expected that DNA sequence polymorphisms that do lead to changes
    in the amino acid sequences of the subject proteins will exist among mammalian cells. One
    skilled in the art will appreciate that these variations in one or more nucleotides (up to about
 5  3-5% of the nucleotides) of the nucleic acids encoding a particular protein may exist among
    individuals of a given species due to natural allelic variation. Any and all such nucleotide
    variations and resulting amino acid polymorphisms are within the scope of this invention.
            In certain embodiments, the recombinant nucleic acids of the invention may be
    operably linked to one or more regulatory nucleotide sequences in an expression construct.
 0  Regulatory nucleotide sequences will generally be appropriate to the host cell used for
    expression. Numerous types of appropriate expression vectors and suitable regulatory
    sequences are known in the art for a variety of host cells. Typically, said one or more
    regulatory nucleotide sequences may include, but are not limited to, promoter sequences,
    leader or signal sequences, ribosomal binding sites, transcriptional start and termination
 5  sequences, translational start and termination sequences, and enhancer or activator sequences.
    Constitutive or inducible promoters as known in the art are contemplated by the invention.
    The promoters may be either naturally occurring promoters, or hybrid promoters that
    combine elements of more than one promoter. An expression construct may be present in a
    cell on an episome, such as a plasmid, or the expression construct may be inserted in a
 '0 chromosome. In a preferred embodiment, the expression vector contains a selectable marker
    gene to allow the selection of transformed host cells. Selectable marker genes are well
    known in the art and will vary with the host cell used.
            In certain aspects of the invention, the subject nucleic acid is provided in an
    expression vector comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding an ActRIIB polypeptide and
25  operably linked to at least one regulatory sequence. Regulatory sequences are art-recognized
    and are selected to direct expression of the ActRIIB polypeptide. Accordingly, the term
    regulatory sequence includes promoters, enhancers, and other expression control elements.
    Exemplary regulatory sequences are described in Goeddel; Gene Expression Technology:
    Methods in Enzymology, Academic Press, San Diego, CA (1990). For instance, any of a wide
30  variety of expression control sequences that control the expression of a DNA sequence when
    operatively linked to it may be used in these vectors to express DNA sequences encoding an
    ActRIIB polypeptide. Such useful expression control sequences, include, for example, the
    early and late promoters of SV40, tet promoter, adenovirus or cytomegalovirus immediate
                                                     27

    early promoter, RSV promoters, the lac system, the trp system, the TAC or TRC system, T7
    promoter whose expression is directed by T7 RNA polymerase, the major operator and
    promoter regions of phage lambda , the control regions for fd coat protein, the promoter for
    3-phosphoglycerate kinase or other glycolytic enzymes, the promoters of acid phosphatase,
 5  e.g., Pho5, the promoters of the yeast a-mating factors, the polyhedron promoter of the
    baculovirus system and other sequences known to control the expression of genes of
    prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells or their viruses, and various combinations thereof. It should
    be understood that the design of the expression vector may depend on such factors as the
    choice of the host cell to be transformed and/or the type of protein desired to be expressed.
 0  Moreover, the vector's copy number, the ability to control that copy number and the
    expression of any other protein encoded by the vector, such as antibiotic markers, should also
    be considered.
             A recombinant nucleic acid of the invention can be produced by ligating the cloned
    gene, or a portion thereof, into a vector suitable for expression in either prokaryotic cells,
 5  eukaryotic cells (yeast, avian, insect or mammalian), or both. Expression vehicles for
    production of a recombinant ActRIIB polypeptide include plasmids and other vectors. For
    instance, suitable vectors include plasmids of the types: pBR322-derived plasmids, pEMBL
    derived plasmids, pEX-derived plasmids, pBTac-derived plasmids and pUC-derived plasmids
    for expression in prokaryotic cells, such as E. coli.
 10          Some mammalian expression vectors contain both prokaryotic sequences to facilitate
    the propagation of the vector in bacteria, and one or more eukaryotic transcription units that
    are expressed in eukaryotic cells. The pcDNAI/amp, pcDNAI/neo, pRc/CMV, pSV2gpt,
    pSV2neo, pSV2-dhfr, pTk2, pRSVneo, pMSG, pSVT7, pko-neo and pHyg derived vectors
    are examples of mammalian expression vectors suitable for transfection of eukaryotic cells.
25  Some of these vectors are modified with sequences from bacterial plasmids, such as pBR322,
    to facilitate replication and drug resistance selection in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells.
    Alternatively, derivatives of viruses such as the bovine papilloma virus (BPV-1), or Epstein
    Barr virus (pHEBo, pREP-derived and p205) can be used for transient expression of proteins
    in eukaryotic cells. Examples of other viral (including retroviral) expression systems can be
30  found below in the description of gene therapy delivery systems. The various methods
    employed in the preparation of the plasmids and in transformation of host organisms are well
    known in the art. For other suitable expression systems for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic
    cells, as well as general recombinant procedures, see Molecular CloningA
                                                     28

   LaboratoryManual, 2nd Ed., ed. by Sambrook, Fritsch and Maniatis (Cold Spring Harbor
   Laboratory Press, 1989) Chapters 16 and 17. In some instances, it may be desirable to
   express the recombinant polypeptides by the use of a baculovirus expression system.
   Examples of such baculovirus expression systems include pVL-derived vectors (such as
 5 pVL1392, pVL1393 and pVL941), pAcUW-derived vectors (such as pAcUW1), and
   pBlueBac-derived vectors (such as the B-gal containing pBlueBac III).
            In a preferred embodiment, a vector will be designed for production of the subject
   ActRIIB polypeptides in CHO cells, such as a Pcmv-Script vector (Stratagene, La Jolla,
   Calif.), pcDNA4 vectors (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.) and pCI-neo vectors (Promega,
 0 Madison, Wisc.). As will be apparent, the subject gene constructs can be used to cause
   expression of the subject ActRIIB polypeptides in cells propagated in culture, e.g., to produce
   proteins, including fusion proteins or variant proteins, for purification.
            This invention also pertains to a host cell transfected with a recombinant gene
   including a coding sequence (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 4) for one or more of the subject ActRIIB
 5 polypeptide. The host cell may be any prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell. For example, an
   ActRIIB polypeptide of the invention may be expressed in bacterial cells such as E. coli,
   insect cells (e.g., using a baculovirus expression system), yeast, or mammalian cells. Other
   suitable host cells are known to those skilled in the art.
            Accordingly, the present invention further pertains to methods of producing the
 0 subject ActRIIB polypeptides. For example, a host cell transfected with an expression vector
   encoding an ActRIIB polypeptide can be cultured under appropriate conditions to allow
   expression of the ActRIIB polypeptide to occur. The ActRIIB polypeptide may be secreted
   and isolated from a mixture of cells and medium containing the ActRIIB polypeptide.
   Alternatively, the ActRIIB polypeptide may be retained cytoplasmically or in a membrane
25 fraction and the cells harvested, lysed and the protein isolated. A cell culture includes host
   cells, media and other byproducts. Suitable media for cell culture are well known in the art.
   The subject ActRIIB polypeptides can be isolated from cell culture medium, host cells, or
   both, using techniques known in the art for purifying proteins, including ion-exchange
   chromatography, gel filtration chromatography, ultrafiltration, electrophoresis, and
30 immunoaffinity purification with antibodies specific for particular epitopes of the ActRIIB
   polypeptides. In a preferred embodiment, the ActRIIB polypeptide is a fusion protein
   containing a domain which facilitates its purification.
                                                    29

            In another embodiment, a fusion gene coding for a purification leader sequence, such
    as a poly-(His)/enterokinase cleavage site sequence at the N-terminus of the desired portion
    of the recombinant ActRIIB polypeptide, can allow purification of the expressed fusion
    protein by affinity chromatography using a Ni2+ metal resin. The purification leader
 5  sequence can then be subsequently removed by treatment with enterokinase to provide the
    purified ActRIIB polypeptide (e.g., see Hochuli et al., (1987) J Chromatography411:177;
    and Janknecht et al., PNAS USA 88:8972).
            Techniques for making fusion genes are well known. Essentially, the joining of
    various DNA fragments coding for different polypeptide sequences is performed in
 0  accordance with conventional techniques, employing blunt-ended or stagger-ended termini
    for ligation, restriction enzyme digestion to provide for appropriate termini, filling-in of
    cohesive ends as appropriate, alkaline phosphatase treatment to avoid undesirable joining,
    and enzymatic ligation. In another embodiment, the fusion gene can be synthesized by
    conventional techniques including automated DNA synthesizers. Alternatively, PCR
 5  amplification of gene fragments can be carried out using anchor primers which give rise to
    complementary overhangs between two consecutive gene fragments which can subsequently
    be annealed to generate a chimeric gene sequence (see, for example, Current Protocolsin
    Molecular Biology, eds. Ausubel et al., John Wiley & Sons: 1992).
 '0 4.      Antibodies
            Another aspect of the invention pertains to antibodies. An antibody that is
    specifically reactive with an ActRIIB polypeptide (e.g., a soluble ActRIIB polypeptide) and
    which binds competitively with the ActRIIB polypeptide may be used as an antagonist of
    ActRIIB polypeptide activities. For example, by using immunogens derived from an
25  ActRIIB polypeptide, anti-protein/anti-peptide antisera or monoclonal antibodies can be
    made by standard protocols (see, for example, Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual ed. by
    Harlow and Lane (Cold Spring Harbor Press: 1988)). A mammal, such as a mouse, a hamster
    or rabbit can be immunized with an immunogenic form of the ActRIIB polypeptide, an
    antigenic fragment which is capable of eliciting an antibody response, or a fusion protein.
30  Techniques for conferring immunogenicity on a protein or peptide include conjugation to
    carriers or other techniques well known in the art. An immunogenic portion of an ActRIIB
    polypeptide can be administered in the presence of adjuvant. The progress of immunization
                                                    30

   can be monitored by detection of antibody titers in plasma or serum. Standard ELISA or
   other immunoassays can be used with the immunogen as antigen to assess the levels of
   antibodies.
            Following immunization of an animal with an antigenic preparation of an ActRIIB
 5 polypeptide, antisera can be obtained and, if desired, polyclonal antibodies can be isolated
   from the serum. To produce monoclonal antibodies, antibody-producing cells (lymphocytes)
   can be harvested from an immunized animal and fused by standard somatic cell fusion
   procedures with immortalizing cells such as myeloma cells to yield hybridoma cells. Such
   techniques are well known in the art, and include, for example, the hybridoma technique
 0 (originally developed by Kohler and Milstein, (1975) Nature, 256: 495-497), the human B
   cell hybridoma technique (Kozbar et al., (1983) Immunology Today, 4: 72), and the EBV
   hybridoma technique to produce human monoclonal antibodies (Cole et al., (1985)
   Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy, Alan R. Liss, Inc. pp. 77-96). Hybridoma cells
   can be screened immunochemically for production of antibodies specifically reactive with an
 5 ActRIIB polypeptide and monoclonal antibodies isolated from a culture comprising such
   hybridoma cells.
            The term "antibody" as used herein is intended to include fragments thereof which are
   also specifically reactive with a subject ActRIIB polypeptide. Antibodies can be fragmented
   using conventional techniques and the fragments screened for utility in the same manner as
 O described above for whole antibodies. For example, F(ab) 2 fragments can be generated by
   treating antibody with pepsin. The resulting F(ab) 2 fragment can be treated to reduce
   disulfide bridges to produce Fab fragments. The antibody of the present invention is further
   intended to include bispecific, single-chain, and chimeric and humanized molecules having
   affinity for an ActRIIB polypeptide conferred by at least one CDR region of the antibody. In
25 preferred embodiments, the antibody further comprises a label attached thereto and able to be
   detected (e.g., the label can be a radioisotope, fluorescent compound, enzyme or enzyme co
   factor).
            In certain preferred embodiments, an antibody of the invention is a monoclonal
   antibody, and in certain embodiments, the invention makes available methods for generating
30 novel antibodies. For example, a method for generating a monoclonal antibody that binds
   specifically to an ActRIIB polypeptide may comprise administering to a mouse an amount of
   an immunogenic composition comprising the ActRIIB polypeptide effective to stimulate a
                                                    31

    detectable immune response, obtaining antibody-producing cells (e.g., cells from the spleen)
    from the mouse and fusing the antibody-producing cells with myeloma cells to obtain
    antibody-producing hybridomas, and testing the antibody-producing hybridomas to identify a
    hybridoma that produces a monocolonal antibody that binds specifically to the ActRIIB
 5  polypeptide. Once obtained, a hybridoma can be propagated in a cell culture, optionally in
    culture conditions where the hybridoma-derived cells produce the monoclonal antibody that
    binds specifically to the ActRIIB polypeptide. The monoclonal antibody may be purified
    from the cell culture.
             The adjective "specifically reactive with" as used in reference to an antibody is
 0  intended to mean, as is generally understood in the art, that the antibody is sufficiently
    selective between the antigen of interest (e.g., an ActRIIB polypeptide) and other antigens
    that are not of interest that the antibody is useful for, at minimum, detecting the presence of
    the antigen of interest in a particular type of biological sample. In certain methods employing
    the antibody, such as therapeutic applications, a higher degree of specificity in binding may
 5  be desirable. Monoclonal antibodies generally have a greater tendency (as compared to
    polyclonal antibodies) to discriminate effectively between the desired antigens and cross
    reacting polypeptides. One characteristic that influences the specificity of an
    antibody:antigen interaction is the affinity of the antibody for the antigen. Although the
    desired specificity may be reached with a range of different affinities, generally preferred
 '0 antibodies will have an affinity (a dissociation constant) of about 10-6, 10-', 10-8, 10-9 or less.
             In addition, the techniques used to screen antibodies in order to identify a desirable
    antibody may influence the properties of the antibody obtained. For example, if an antibody
    is to be used for binding an antigen in solution, it may be desirable to test solution binding. A
    variety of different techniques are available for testing interaction between antibodies and
25  antigens to identify particularly desirable antibodies. Such techniques include ELISAs,
    surface plasmon resonance binding assays (e.g., the Biacore binding assay, Bia-core AB,
    Uppsala, Sweden), sandwich assays (e.g., the paramagnetic bead system of IGEN
    International, Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland), western blots, immunoprecipitation assays, and
    immunohistochemistry.
30           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides antibodies that bind to a soluble ActRIIB
    polypeptide. Such antibodies may be generated much as described above, using a soluble
    ActRIIB polypeptide or fragment thereof as an antigen. Antibodies of this type can be used,
                                                     32

   e.g., to detect ActRIIB polypeptides in biological samples and/or to monitor soluble ActRIIB
   polypeptide levels in an individual. In certain cases, an antibody that specifically binds to a
   soluble ActRIIB polypeptide can be used to modulate activity of an ActRIIB polypeptide
   and/or an ActRIIB ligand, thereby regulating (promoting or inhibiting) growth of tissues,
 5 such as bone, cartilage, muscle, fat, and neurons, or increasing sarcolemmal utrophin.
   5.       Screening Assays
 0          In certain aspects, the present invention relates to the use of the subject ActRIIB
   polypeptides (e.g., soluble ActRIIB polypeptides) to identify compounds (agents) which are
   agonist or antagonists of the ActRIIB polypeptides. Compounds identified through this
   screening can be tested in tissues such as bone, cartilage, muscle, fat, and/or neurons, to
   assess their ability to modulate tissue growth in vitro. Optionally, these compounds can
 5 further be tested in animal models to assess their ability to modulate tissue growth in vivo.
            There are numerous approaches to screening for therapeutic agents for modulating
   tissue growth by targeting the ActRIIB polypeptides. In certain embodiments, high
   throughput screening of compounds can be carried out to identify agents that perturb
   ActRIIB-mediated effects on growth of bone, cartilage, muscle, fat, and/or neurons. In
 O certain embodiments, the assay is carried out to screen and identify compounds that
   specifically inhibit or reduce binding of an ActRIIB polypeptide to its binding partner, such
   as an ActRIIB ligand (e.g., activin, Nodal, GDF8, GDF1 1 or BMP7). Alternatively, the assay
   can be used to identify compounds that enhance binding of an ActRIIB polypeptide to its
   binding protein such as an ActRIIB ligand. In a further embodiment, the compounds can be
25 identified by their ability to interact with an ActRIIB polypeptide.
            A variety of assay formats will suffice and, in light of the present disclosure, those not
   expressly described herein will nevertheless be comprehended by one of ordinary skill in the
   art. As described herein, the test compounds (agents) of the invention may be created by any
   combinatorial chemical method. Alternatively, the subject compounds may be naturally
30 occurring biomolecules synthesized in vivo or in vitro. Compounds (agents) to be tested for
   their ability to act as modulators of tissue growth can be produced, for example, by bacteria,
                                                    33

   yeast, plants or other organisms (e.g., natural products), produced chemically (e.g., small
   molecules, including peptidomimetics), or produced recombinantly. Test compounds
   contemplated by the present invention include non-peptidyl organic molecules, peptides,
   polypeptides, peptidomimetics, sugars, hormones, and nucleic acid molecules. In a specific
 5 embodiment, the test agent is a small organic molecule having a molecular weight of less
   than about 2,000 daltons.
            The test compounds of the invention can be provided as single, discrete entities, or
   provided in libraries of greater complexity, such as made by combinatorial chemistry. These
   libraries can comprise, for example, alcohols, alkyl halides, amines, amides, esters,
 0 aldehydes, ethers and other classes of organic compounds. Presentation of test compounds to
   the test system can be in either an isolated form or as mixtures of compounds, especially in
   initial screening steps. Optionally, the compounds may be optionally derivatized with other
   compounds and have derivatizing groups that facilitate isolation of the compounds. Non
   limiting examples of derivatizing groups include biotin, fluorescein, digoxygenin, green
 5 fluorescent protein, isotopes, polyhistidine, magnetic beads, glutathione S transferase (GST),
   photoactivatible crosslinkers or any combinations thereof.
            In many drug screening programs which test libraries of compounds and natural
   extracts, high throughput assays are desirable in order to maximize the number of compounds
   surveyed in a given period of time. Assays which are performed in cell-free systems, such as
 0 may be derived with purified or semi-purified proteins, are often preferred as "primary"
   screens in that they can be generated to permit rapid development and relatively easy
   detection of an alteration in a molecular target which is mediated by a test compound.
   Moreover, the effects of cellular toxicity or bioavailability of the test compound can be
   generally ignored in the in vitro system, the assay instead being focused primarily on the
25 effect of the drug on the molecular target as may be manifest in an alteration of binding
   affinity between an ActRIIB polypeptide and its binding protein (e.g., an ActRIIB ligand).
            Merely to illustrate, in an exemplary screening assay of the present invention, the
   compound of interest is contacted with an isolated and purified ActRIIB polypeptide which is
   ordinarily capable of binding to an ActRIIB ligand, as appropriate for the intention of the
30 assay. To the mixture of the compound and ActRIIB polypeptide is then added a
   composition containing an ActRIIB ligand. Detection and quantification of
   ActRIIB/ActRIIB ligand complexes provides a means for determining the compound's
                                                   34

    efficacy at inhibiting (or potentiating) complex formation between the ActRIIB polypeptide
    and its binding protein. The efficacy of the compound can be assessed by generating dose
    response curves from data obtained using various concentrations of the test compound.
    Moreover, a control assay can also be performed to provide a baseline for comparison. For
 5  example, in a control assay, isolated and purified ActRIIB ligand is added to a composition
    containing the ActRIIB polypeptide, and the formation of ActRIIB/ActRIIB ligand complex
    is quantitated in the absence of the test compound. It will be understood that, in general, the
    order in which the reactants may be admixed can be varied, and can be admixed
    simultaneously. Moreover, in place of purified proteins, cellular extracts and lysates may be
 0  used to render a suitable cell-free assay system.
             Complex formation between the ActRIIB polypeptide and its binding protein may be
    detected by a variety of techniques. For instance, modulation of the formation of complexes
    can be quantitated using, for example, detectably labeled proteins such as radiolabeled (e.g.,
    32    5,    C or 3 H), fluorescently labeled (e.g., FITC), or enzymatically labeled ActRIIB
 5  polypeptide or its binding protein, by immunoassay, or by chromatographic detection.
             In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates the use of fluorescence
    polarization assays and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) assays in measuring,
    either directly or indirectly, the degree of interaction between an ActRIIB polypeptide and its
    binding protein. Further, other modes of detection, such as those based on optical
 '0 waveguides (PCT Publication WO 96/26432 and U.S. Pat. No. 5,677,196), surface plasmon
    resonance (SPR), surface charge sensors, and surface force sensors, are compatible with
    many embodiments of the invention.
             Moreover, the present invention contemplates the use of an interaction trap assay, also
    known as the "two hybrid assay," for identifying agents that disrupt or potentiate interaction
25  between an ActRIIB polypeptide and its binding protein. See for example, U.S. Pat. No.
    5,283,317; Zervos et al. (1993) Cell 72:223-232; Madura et al. (1993) J Biol Chem
    268:12046-12054; Bartel et al. (1993) Biotechniques 14:920-924; and Iwabuchi et al. (1993)
    Oncogene 8:1693-1696). In a specific embodiment, the present invention contemplates the
    use of reverse two hybrid systems to identify compounds (e.g., small molecules or peptides)
30  that dissociate interactions between an ActRIIB polypeptide and its binding protein. See for
    example, Vidal and Legrain, (1999) Nucleic Acids Res 27:919-29; Vidal and Legrain, (1999)
    Trends Biotechnol 17:374-81; and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,525,490; 5,955,280; and 5,965,368.
                                                      35

            In certain embodiments, the subject compounds are identified by their ability to
    interact with an ActRIIB polypeptide of the invention. The interaction between the
    compound and the ActRIIB polypeptide may be covalent or non-covalent. For example, such
    interaction can be identified at the protein level using in vitro biochemical methods, including
 5  photo-crosslinking, radiolabeled ligand binding, and affinity chromatography (Jakoby WB et
    al., 1974, Methods in Enzymology 46: 1). In certain cases, the compounds may be screened
    in a mechanism based assay, such as an assay to detect compounds which bind to an ActRIIB
    polypeptide. This may include a solid phase or fluid phase binding event. Alternatively, the
    gene encoding an ActRIIB polypeptide can be transfected with a reporter system (e.g., P
 0  galactosidase, luciferase, or green fluorescent protein) into a cell and screened against the
    library preferably by a high throughput screening or with individual members of the library.
    Other mechanism based binding assays may be used, for example, binding assays which
    detect changes in free energy. Binding assays can be performed with the target fixed to a
    well, bead or chip or captured by an immobilized antibody or resolved by capillary
 5  electrophoresis. The bound compounds may be detected usually using colorimetric or
    fluorescence or surface plasmon resonance.
            In certain aspects, the present invention provides methods and agents for stimulating
    muscle growth and increasing muscle mass, for example, by antagonizing functions of an
    ActRIIB polypeptide and/or an ActRIIB ligand. Therefore, any compound identified can be
 '0 tested in whole cells or tissues, in vitro or in vivo, to confirm their ability to modulate muscle
    growth or alter utrophin levels at the sarcolemma. Various methods known in the art can be
    utilized for this purpose. For example, methods of the invention are performed such that the
    signal transduction through an ActRIIB protein activated by binding to an ActRIIB ligand
    (e.g., GDF8) has been reduced or inhibited. It will be recognized that the growth of muscle
25  tissue in the organism would result in an increased muscle mass in the organism as compared
    to the muscle mass of a corresponding organism (or population of organisms) in which the
    signal transduction through an ActRIIB protein had not been so effected.
            For example, the effect of the ActRIIB polypeptides or test compounds on muscle cell
    growth/proliferation can be determined by measuring gene expression of Pax-3 and Myf-5
30  which are associated with proliferation of myogenic cells, and gene expression of MyoD
    which is associated with muscle differentiation (e.g., Amthor et al., Dev Biol. 2002, 251:241
    57). It is known that GDF8 down-regulates gene expression of Pax-3 and Myf-5, and
    prevents gene expression of MyoD. The ActRIIB polypeptides or test compounds are
                                                      36

    expected to antagonize this activity of GDF8. Another example of cell-based assays includes
    measuring the proliferation of myoblasts such as C(2)C(12) myoblasts in the presence of the
    ActRIIB polypeptides or test compounds (e.g., Thomas et al., J Biol Chem. 2000, 275:40235
    43).
 5          The present invention also contemplates in vivo or ex vivo assays to measure muscle
    mass and strength. For example, Whittemore et al. (Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2003,
    300:965-71) disclose a method of measuring increased skeletal muscle mass and increased
    grip strength in mice. Optionally, this method can be used to determine therapeutic effects of
    test compounds (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides) on muscle diseases or conditions, for example
 0  those diseases for which muscle mass is limiting. Moreover, the mechanical response of a
    muscle to repeated contraction can be used to assess the physiological integrity of that muscle
    after therapeutic intervention. For example, mouse models of muscular dystrophy typically
    display an excessive drop in maximal tetanic force after a series of eccentric contractions,
    during which muscle fibers lengthen as they exert force (contract). A smaller drop in force
 5  after administration of a therapeutic agent (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptide) can indicate beneficial
    effects on sarcolemmal integrity. Thus, Krag et al. (2004, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA
    101:13856-13860) disclose a method for conducting such assays with isolated muscles ex
    vivo. Alternatively, Blaauw et al. (2008, Hum Mol Genet 17:3686-3696) disclose a method
    for such testing in vivo.
 10         It is understood that the screening assays of the present invention apply to not only the
    subject ActRIIB polypeptides and variants of the ActRIIB polypeptides, but also any test
    compounds including agonists and antagonist of the ActRIIB polypeptides. Further, these
    screening assays are useful for drug target verification and quality control purposes.
25  6.      Exemplary Therapeutic Uses
            In certain embodiments, compositions (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides) of the present
    invention can be used for treating or preventing a disease or condition that is associated with
    abnormal activity of an ActRIIB polypeptide and/or an ActRIIB ligand (e.g., GDF8). These
    diseases, disorders or conditions are generally referred to herein as "ActRIIB-associated
30  conditions." In certain embodiments, the present invention provides methods of treating or
    preventing a disease, disorder, or condition in an individual in need thereof through
    administering to the individual a therapeutically effective amount of an ActRIIB polypeptide
                                                    37

   as described above. These methods are particularly aimed at therapeutic and prophylactic
   treatments of animals, and more particularly, humans.
            As used herein, a therapeutic that "prevents" a disorder or condition refers to a
   compound that, in a statistical sample, reduces the occurrence of the disorder or condition in
 5 the treated sample relative to an untreated control sample, or delays the onset or reduces the
   severity of one or more symptoms of the disorder or condition relative to the untreated
   control sample. The term "treating" as used herein includes prophylaxis of the named
   condition or amelioration or elimination of the condition once it has been established.
            In certain embodiments, compositions (e.g., soluble ActRIIB polypeptides) of the
 0 invention are used as part of a treatment for a muscular dystrophy. The term "muscular
   dystrophy" refers to a group of degenerative muscle diseases characterized by gradual
   weakening and deterioration of skeletal muscles and sometimes the heart and respiratory
   muscles. Muscular dystrophies are genetic disorders characterized by progressive muscle
   wasting and weakness that begin with microscopic changes in the muscle. As muscles
 5 degenerate over time, the person's muscle strength declines. In particular, muscular
   dystrophies caused by loss of dystrophin function that can be treated with a regimen
   including the subject ActRIIB polypeptides include Duchenne muscular dystrophy and
   Becker muscular dystrophy.
            Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) was first described by the French neurologist
 O Guillaume Benjamin Amand Duchenne in the 1860s and is one of the most frequent inherited
   diseases in males, affecting one in 3,500 boys. DMD is caused by mutations or deletions in
   the dystrophin gene that prevent formation of full-length dystrophin protein. Males are
   particularly at risk for dystrophin defects because they possess only a single copy of the
   dystrophin gene, which is located on the X chromosome. Dystrophin normally functions as a
25 critical component of a multiprotein complex that connects the plasma membrane
   (sarcolemma) of the muscle cell (fiber) with the actin cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix,
   thereby stabilizing the sarcolemma during fiber contractions. In the absence of functional
   dystrophin, the sarcolemma and eventually the entire muscle fiber are readily damaged
   during cycles of contraction and relaxation. Early in the course of DMD, muscle
30 compensates by regeneration, but eventually muscle progenitor cells cannot keep up with the
   ongoing damage, and healthy muscle is replaced by non-functional fibro-fatty tissue.
                                                   38

           Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) is named after the German doctor Peter Emil
   Becker, who first described this variant of DMD in the 1950s. BMD results from different
   mutations in the dystrophin gene. BMD patients have some dystrophin, but it is either
   insufficient in quantity or poor in quality. Having some dystrophin functionality protects the
 5 muscles of those with BMD from degenerating as badly or as quickly as those of people with
   DMD.
           Utrophin, an autosomal protein structurally similar to dystrophin, is broadly expressed
   with dystrophin in the sarcolemma during embryonic development. Utrophin expression in
   muscle normally declines by the time of birth and becomes restricted in mature fibers to
 0 neuromuscular junctions and muscle-tendon junctions. Compelling evidence suggests that
   utrophin could substitute for dystrophin and provide therapeutic benefits in muscular
   dystrophy patients if a method can be devised to increase utrophin levels along the
   sarcolemma, as in early development (Miura et al., 2006, Trends Mol Med 12:122-129). In
   an experimental proof of principle, transgenic expression of utrophin in muscle resulted in
 5 complete recovery of normal mechanical function and prevention of muscular dystrophy in
   an mdx mouse model (Tinsley et al., 1998, Nat Med 4:1441-1444).
           Recent researches demonstrate that blocking or eliminating function of GDF8 (an
   ActRIIB ligand) in vivo can effectively treat at least certain symptoms in DMD and BMD
   patients. Thus, the subject ActRIIB polypeptides may act as GDF8 inhibitors (antagonists),
 0 and constitute an alternative means of blocking the functions of GDF8 and/or ActRIIB in
   vivo in DMD and BMD patients. This approach is confirmed and supported by the data
   shown herein, whereby an ActRIIB-Fc protein was shown to induce broad sarcolemmal
   expression of utrophin as it increases muscle mass and strength in a mouse model of
   muscular dystrophy.
25
   7.      Pharmaceutical Compositions
           In certain embodiments, compounds (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides) of the present
   invention are formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. For example, an
   ActRIIB polypeptide can be administered alone or as a component of a pharmaceutical
30 formulation (therapeutic composition). The subject compounds may be formulated for
   administration in any convenient way for use in human or veterinary medicine.
                                                  39

             In certain embodiments, the therapeutic method of the invention includes
    administering the composition topically, systemically, or locally as an implant or device.
    When administered, the therapeutic composition for use in this invention is, of course, in a
    pyrogen-free, physiologically acceptable form. Further, the composition may desirably be
 5  encapsulated or injected in a viscous form for delivery to a target tissue site (e.g., bone,
    cartilage, muscle, fat or neurons), for example, a site having a tissue damage. Topical
    administration may be suitable for wound healing and tissue repair. Therapeutically useful
    agents other than the ActRIIB polypeptides which may also optionally be included in the
    composition as described above, may alternatively or additionally, be administered
 0  simultaneously or sequentially with the subject compounds (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides) in
    the methods of the invention.
             In certain embodiments, compositions of the present invention may include a matrix
    capable of delivering one or more therapeutic compounds (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides) to a
    target tissue site, providing a structure for the developing tissue and optimally capable of
 5  being resorbed into the body. For example, the matrix may provide slow release of the
    ActRIIB polypeptides. Such matrices may be formed of materials presently in use for other
    implanted medical applications.
             The choice of matrix material is based on biocompatibility, biodegradability,
    mechanical properties, cosmetic appearance and interface properties. The particular
 '0 application of the subject compositions will define the appropriate formulation. Potential
    matrices for the compositions may be biodegradable and chemically defined calcium sulfate,
    tricalciumphosphate, hydroxyapatite, polylactic acid and polyanhydrides. Other potential
    materials are biodegradable and biologically well defined, such as bone or dermal collagen.
    Further matrices are comprised of pure proteins or extracellular matrix components. Other
25  potential matrices are non-biodegradable and chemically defined, such as sintered
    hydroxyapatite, bioglass, aluminates, or other ceramics. Matrices may be comprised of
    combinations of any of the above mentioned types of material, such as polylactic acid and
    hydroxyapatite or collagen and tricalciumphosphate. The bioceramics may be altered in
    composition, such as in calcium-aluminate-phosphate and processing to alter pore size,
30  particle size, particle shape, and biodegradability.
             In certain embodiments, methods of the invention can be administered for orally, e.g.,
    in the form of capsules, cachets, pills, tablets, lozenges (using a flavored basis, usually
                                                      40

    sucrose and acacia or tragacanth), powders, granules, or as a solution or a suspension in an
    aqueous or non-aqueous liquid, or as an oil-in-water or water-in-oil liquid emulsion, or as an
    elixir or syrup, or as pastilles (using an inert base, such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and
    acacia) and/or as mouth washes and the like, each containing a predetermined amount of an
 5  agent as an active ingredient. An agent may also be administered as a bolus, electuary or
    paste.
            In solid dosage forms for oral administration (capsules, tablets, pills, dragees,
    powders, granules, and the like), one or more therapeutic compounds of the present invention
    may be mixed with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, such as sodium citrate
 0  or dicalcium phosphate, and/or any of the following: (1) fillers or extenders, such as starches,
    lactose, sucrose, glucose, mannitol, and/or silicic acid; (2) binders, such as, for example,
    carboxymethylcellulose, alginates, gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, sucrose, and/or acacia; (3)
    humectants, such as glycerol; (4) disintegrating agents, such as agar-agar, calcium carbonate,
    potato or tapioca starch, alginic acid, certain silicates, and sodium carbonate; (5) solution
 5  retarding agents, such as paraffin; (6) absorption accelerators, such as quaternary ammonium
    compounds; (7) wetting agents, such as, for example, cetyl alcohol and glycerol
    monostearate; (8) absorbents, such as kaolin and bentonite clay; (9) lubricants, such a talc,
    calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, solid polyethylene glycols, sodium lauryl sulfate, and
    mixtures thereof; and (10) coloring agents. In the case of capsules, tablets and pills, the
 '0 pharmaceutical compositions may also comprise buffering agents. Solid compositions of a
    similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard-filled gelatin capsules using
    such excipients as lactose or milk sugars, as well as high molecular weight polyethylene
    glycols and the like.
            Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable
25  emulsions, microemulsions, solutions, suspensions, syrups, and elixirs. In addition to the
    active ingredient, the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the
    art, such as water or other solvents, solubilizing agents and emulsifiers, such as ethyl alcohol,
    isopropyl alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol, benzyl benzoate, propylene
    glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol, oils (in particular, cottonseed, groundnut, corn, germ, olive,
30  castor, and sesame oils), glycerol, tetrahydrofuryl alcohol, polyethylene glycols and fatty acid
    esters of sorbitan, and mixtures thereof. Besides inert diluents, the oral compositions can also
    include adjuvants such as wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, sweetening,
    flavoring, coloring, perfuming, and preservative agents.
                                                      41

            Suspensions, in addition to the active compounds, may contain suspending agents
   such as ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols, polyoxyethylene sorbitol, and sorbitan esters,
   microcrystalline cellulose, aluminum metahydroxide, bentonite, agar-agar and tragacanth,
   and mixtures thereof.
 5          Certain compositions disclosed herein may be administered topically, either to skin or
   to mucosal membranes. The topical formulations may further include one or more of the
   wide variety of agents known to be effective as skin or stratum comeum penetration
   enhancers. Examples of these are 2-pyrrolidone, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone,
   dimethylacetamide, dimethylformamide, propylene glycol, methyl or isopropyl alcohol,
 0 dimethyl sulfoxide, and azone. Additional agents may further be included to make the
   formulation cosmetically acceptable. Examples of these are fats, waxes, oils, dyes,
   fragrances, preservatives, stabilizers, and surface active agents. Keratolytic agents such as
   those known in the art may also be included. Examples are salicylic acid and sulfur.
            Dosage forms for the topical or transdermal administration include powders, sprays,
 5 ointments, pastes, creams, lotions, gels, solutions, patches, and inhalants. The active
   compound may be mixed under sterile conditions with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier,
   and with any preservatives, buffers, or propellants which may be required. The ointments,
   pastes, creams and gels may contain, in addition to a subject compound of the invention (e.g.,
   an ActRIIB polypeptide), excipients, such as animal and vegetable fats, oils, waxes, paraffins,
 O starch, tragacanth, cellulose derivatives, polyethylene glycols, silicones, bentonites, silicic
   acid, talc and zinc oxide, or mixtures thereof.
            Powders and sprays can contain, in addition to a subject compound, excipients such as
   lactose, talc, silicic acid, aluminum hydroxide, calcium silicates, and polyamide powder, or
   mixtures of these substances. Sprays can additionally contain customary propellants, such as
25 chlorofluorohydrocarbons and volatile unsubstituted hydrocarbons, such as butane and
   propane.
            In certain embodiments, pharmaceutical compositions suitable for parenteral
   administration may comprise one or more ActRIIB polypeptides in combination with one or
   more pharmaceutically acceptable sterile isotonic aqueous or nonaqueous solutions,
30 dispersions, suspensions or emulsions, or sterile powders which may be reconstituted into
   sterile injectable solutions or dispersions just prior to use, which may contain antioxidants,
   buffers, bacteriostats, solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the
                                                    42

   intended recipient or suspending or thickening agents. Examples of suitable aqueous and
   nonaqueous carriers which may be employed in the pharmaceutical compositions of the
   invention include water, ethanol, polyols (such as glycerol, propylene glycol, polyethylene
   glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof, vegetable oils, such as olive oil, and
 5 injectable organic esters, such as ethyl oleate. Proper fluidity can be maintained, for
   example, by the use of coating materials, such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required
   particle size in the case of dispersions, and by the use of surfactants.
           The compositions of the invention may also contain adjuvants, such as preservatives,
   wetting agents, emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of
 0 microorganisms may be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal
   agents, for example, paraben, chlorobutanol, phenol sorbic acid, and the like. It may also be
   desirable to include isotonic agents, such as sugars, sodium chloride, and the like into the
   compositions. In addition, prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form may
   be brought about by the inclusion of agents which delay absorption, such as aluminum
 5 monostearate and gelatin.
           It is understood that the dosage regimen will be determined by the attending physician
   considering various factors which modify the action of the subject compounds of the
   invention (e.g., ActRIIB polypeptides). The various factors will depend upon the disease to
   be treated. In the case of muscle disorders, factors may include, but are not limited to,
 O amount of muscle mass desired to be formed, the muscles most affected by disease, the
   condition of the deteriorated muscle, the patient's age, sex, and diet, time of administration,
   and other clinical factors. The addition of other known growth factors to the final
   composition, may also affect the dosage. Progress can be monitored by periodic assessment
   of muscle growth and/or repair, for example, by strength testing, MRI assessment of muscle
25 size and analysis of muscle biopsies.
           In certain embodiments of the invention, one or more ActRIIB polypeptides can be
   administered, together (simultaneously) or at different times (sequentially or overlapping). In
   addition, ActRIIB polypeptides can be administered with another type of therapeutic agents,
   for example, a cartilage-inducing agent, a bone-inducing agent, a muscle-inducing agent, a
30 fat-reducing, or a neuron-inducing agent. The two types of compounds may be administered
   simultaneously or at different times. It is expected that the ActRIIB polypeptides of the
   invention may act in concert with or perhaps synergistically with another therapeutic agent.
                                                   43

            In a specific example, a variety of osteogenic, cartilage-inducing and bone-inducing
   factors have been described, particularly bisphosphonates. See e.g., European Patent
   Application Nos. 148,155 and 169,016. For example, other factors that can be combined
   with the subject ActRIIB polypeptides include various growth factors such as epidermal
 5 growth factor (EGF), platelet derived growth factor (PDGF), transforming growth factors
   (TGF-a and TGF-), and insulin-like growth factor (IGF).
            In certain embodiments, the present invention also provides gene therapy for the in
   vivo production of ActRIIB polypeptides. Such therapy would achieve its therapeutic effect
   by introduction of the ActRIIB polynucleotide sequences into cells or tissues having the
 0 disorders as listed above. Delivery of ActRIIB polynucleotide sequences can be achieved
   using a recombinant expression vector such as a chimeric virus or a colloidal dispersion
   system. Preferred for therapeutic delivery of ActRIIB polynucleotide sequences is the use of
   targeted liposomes.
            Various viral vectors which can be utilized for gene therapy as taught herein include
 5 adenovirus, herpes virus, vaccinia, or, preferably, an RNA virus such as a retrovirus.
   Preferably, the retroviral vector is a derivative of a murine or avian retrovirus. Examples of
   retroviral vectors in which a single foreign gene can be inserted include, but are not limited
   to: Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMuLV), Harvey murine sarcoma virus (HaMuSV),
   murine mammary tumor virus (MuMTV), and Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV). A number of
 0 additional retroviral vectors can incorporate multiple genes. All of these vectors can transfer
   or incorporate a gene for a selectable marker so that transduced cells can be identified and
   generated. Retroviral vectors can be made target-specific by attaching, for example, a sugar,
   a glycolipid, or a protein. Preferred targeting is accomplished by using an antibody. Those
   of skill in the art will recognize that specific polynucleotide sequences can be inserted into
25 the retroviral genome or attached to a viral envelope to allow target specific delivery of the
   retroviral vector containing the ActRIIB polynucleotide. In one preferred embodiment, the
   vector is targeted to bone, cartilage, muscle or neuron cells/tissues.
            Alternatively, tissue culture cells can be directly transfected with plasmids encoding
   the retroviral structural genes gag, pol and env, by conventional calcium phosphate
30 transfection. These cells are then transfected with the vector plasmid containing the genes of
   interest. The resulting cells release the retroviral vector into the culture medium.
                                                     44

             Another targeted delivery system for ActRIIB polynucleotides is a colloidal
    dispersion system. Colloidal dispersion systems include macromolecule complexes,
    nanocapsules, microspheres, beads, and lipid-based systems including oil-in-water emulsions,
    micelles, mixed micelles, and liposomes. The preferred colloidal system of this invention is a
 5  liposome. Liposomes are artificial membrane vesicles which are useful as delivery vehicles
    in vitro and in vivo. RNA, DNA and intact virions can be encapsulated within the aqueous
    interior and be delivered to cells in a biologically active form (see e.g., Fraley, et al., Trends
    Biochem. Sci., 6:77, 1981). Methods for efficient gene transfer using a liposome vehicle, are
    known in the art, see e.g., Mannino, et al., Biotechniques, 6:682, 1988. The composition of
 0  the liposome is usually a combination of phospholipids, usually in combination with steroids,
    especially cholesterol. Other phospholipids or other lipids may also be used. The physical
    characteristics of liposomes depend on pH, ionic strength, and the presence of divalent
    cations.
             Examples of lipids useful in liposome production include phosphatidyl compounds,
 5  such as phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylserine,
    phosphatidylethanolamine, sphingolipids, cerebrosides, and gangliosides. Illustrative
    phospholipids include egg phosphatidylcholine, dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, and
    distearoylphosphatidylcholine. The targeting of liposomes is also possible based on, for
    example, organ-specificity, cell-specificity, and organelle-specificity and is known in the art.
 10
    EXEMPLIFICATION
             The invention now being generally described, it will be more readily understood by
    reference to the following examples, which are included merely for purposes of illustration of
    certain embodiments and embodiments of the present invention, and are not intended to limit
25  the invention.
    Example 1. Generation of an ActRIIB-Fc fusion protein.
             Applicants constructed a soluble ActRIIb fusion protein that has the extracellular
    domain of human ActRIIb fused to a human or mouse Fc domain with a minimal linker (three
30  glycine amino acids) in between. The constructs are referred to as ActRIlb(20-134)-hFc and
    ActRIlb(20-134)-mFc, respectively.
                                                     45

             ActRIlb(20-134)-hFc is shown below as purified from CHO cell lines (SEQ ID NO:
    5)
    GRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCEGEQDKRLHCYASWRNSSGTIELVKK
    GCWLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCEGNFCNERFTHLPEAGGPEVTYEPPPT
 5  APTGGGTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVK
    FNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKAL
    PVPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQ
    PENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLS
    LSPGK
 0           The ActRIlb(20-134)-hFc and ActRIlb(20-134)-mFc proteins were expressed in CHO
    cell lines. Three different leader sequences were considered:
    (i) Honey bee mellitin (HBML): MKFLVNVALVFMVVYISYIYA (SEQ ID NO: 7)
    (ii) Tissue Plasminogen Activator (TPA): MDAMKRGLCCVLLLCGAVFVSP (SEQ ID
    NO: 8)
 5  (iii) Native: MGAAAKLAFAVFLISCSSGA (SEQ ID NO: 9).
             The selected form employs the TPA leader and has the following unprocessed amino
    acid sequence:
    MDAMKRGLCCVLLLCGAVFVSPGASGRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCE
    GEQDKRLHCYASWRNSSGTIELVKKGCWLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCE
 '0 GNFCNERFTHLPEAGGPEVTYEPPPTAPTGGGTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKD
    TLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSV
    LTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPVPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQ
    VSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQ
    GNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK
25           This polypeptide is encoded by the following nucleic acid sequence (SEQ ID NO:10):
               A TGGATGCAAT GAAGAGAGGG CTCTGCTGTG TGCTGCTGCT GTGTGGAGCA GTCTTCGTTT
               CGCCCGGCGC CTCTGGGCGT GGGGAGGCTG AGACACGGGA GTGCATCTAC TACAACGCCA
               ACTGGGAGCT GGAGCGCACC AACCAGAGCG GCCTGGAGCG CTGCGAAGGC GAGCAGGACA
               AGCGGCTGCA CTGCTACGCC TCCTGGCGCA ACAGCTCTGG CACCATCGAG CTCGTGAAGA
30             AGGGCTGCTG GCTAGATGAC TTCAACTGCT ACGATAGGCA GGAGTGTGTG GCCACTGAGG
               AGAACCCCCA GGTGTACTTC TGCTGCTGTG AAGGCAACTT CTGCAACGAG CGCTTCACTC
               ATTTGCCAGA GGCTGGGGGC CCGGAAGTCA CGTACGAGCC ACCCCCGACA GCCCCCACCG
               GTGGTGGAAC TCACACATGC CCACCGTGCC CAGCACCTGA ACTCCTGGGG GGACCGTCAG
                TCTTCCTCTT CCCCCCAAAA CCCAAGGACA CCCTCATGAT CTCCCGGACC CCTGAGGTCA
35             CATGCGTGGT GGTGGACGTG AGCCACGAAG ACCCTGAGGT CAAGTTCAAC TGGTACGTGG
                                                   46

               ACGGCGTGGA     GGTGCATAAT   GCCAAGACAA    AGCCGCGGGA    GGAGCAGTAC  AACAGCACGT
               ACCGTGTGGT     CAGCGTCCTC   ACCGTCCTGC    ACCAGGACTG    GCTGAATGGC  AAGGAGTACA
               AGTGCAAGGT     CTCCAACAAA   GCCCTCCCAG    TCCCCATCGA    GAAAACCATC  TCCAAAGCCA
               AAGGGCAGCC     CCGAGAACCA   CAGGTGTACA    CCCTGCCCCC    ATCCCGGGAG  GAGATGACCA
 5             AGAACCAGGT     CAGCCTGACC   TGCCTGGTCA    AAGGCTTCTA    TCCCAGCGAC  ATCGCCGTGG
               AGTGGGAGAG     CAATGGGCAG   CCGGAGAACA    ACTACAAGAC    CACGCCTCCC  GTGCTGGACT
               CCGACGGCTC     CTTCTTCCTC   TATAGCAAGC    TCACCGTGGA    CAAGAGCAGG  TGGCAGCAGG
               GGAACGTCTT     CTCATGCTCC   GTGATGCATG    AGGCTCTGCA    CAACCACTAC  ACGCAGAAGA
               GCCTCTCCCT     GTCTCCGGGT   AAATGA
 0
            N-terminal sequencing of the CHO-cell produced material revealed a major sequence
    of -GRGEAE (SEQ ID NO: 11). Notably, other constructs reported in the literature begin
    with an -SGR... sequence.
            Purification could be achieved by a series of column chromatography steps, including,
 5  for example, three or more of the following, in any order: protein A chromatography,   Q
    sepharose chromatography, phenylsepharose chromatography, size exclusion
    chromatography, and cation exchange chromatography. The purification could be completed
    with viral filtration and buffer exchange.
            ActRIlb-Fc fusion proteins were also expressed in HEK293 cells and COS cells.
 '0 Although material from all cell lines and reasonable culture conditions provided protein with
    muscle-building activity in vivo, variability in potency was observed perhaps relating to cell
    line selection and/or culture conditions.
    Example 2: Generation of ActRIIB-Fc Mutants
 5          Applicants generated a series of mutations in the extracellular domain of ActRIIB and
    produced these mutant proteins as soluble fusion proteins between extracellular ActRIIB and
    an Fc domain. The background ActRIIB-Fc fusion has the sequence (Fc portion
    underlined)(SEQ ID NO: 12):
    SGRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCEGEQDKRLHCYASWRNSSGTIELVK
30  KGCWLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCEGNFCNERFTHLPEAGGPEVTYEPPP
    TAPTGGGTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEV
    KFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKA
    LPVPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNG
    QPENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSL
35  SLSPGK
                                                    47

            Various mutations, including N- and C-terminal truncations, were introduced into the
    background ActRIIB-Fc protein. Based on the data presented in Example 1, it is expected
    that these constructs, if expressed with a TPA leader, will lack the N-terminal serine.
    Mutations were generated in ActRIIB extracellular domain by PCR mutagenesis. After PCR,
 5  fragments were purified through a Qiagen column, digested with SfoI and Agel and gel
    purified. These fragments were ligated into expression vector paid (see W02006/012627)
    such that upon ligation it created fusion chimera with human IgGl. Upon transformation into
    E. coli DH5 alpha, colonies were picked and DNAs were isolated. For murine constructs
    (mFc), a murine IgG2a was substituted for the human IgGI. All mutants were sequence
 0  verified.
            All of the mutants were produced in HEK293T cells by transient transfection. In
    summary, in a 500ml spinner, HEK293T cells were set up at 6x10 5 cells/ml in Freestyle
    (Invitrogen) media in 250ml volume and grown overnight. Next day, these cells were treated
    with DNA:PEI (1:1) complex at 0.5 ug/ml final DNA concentration. After 4 hrs, 250 ml
 5  media was added and cells were grown for 7 days. Conditioned media was harvested by
    spinning down the cells and concentrated.
            Mutants were purified using a variety of techniques, including, for example, protein A
    column and eluted with low pH (3.0) glycine buffer. After neutralization, these were
    dialyzed against PBS.
 0O         Mutants were also produced in CHO cells by similar methodology.
    Example 3: Generation of Truncated Variant ActRIIB(25-131)-hFc
            Applicants generated a truncated fusion protein, ActRIIB(25-131 )-hFc (Figures 7-8),
    which exhibits effects on muscle that are similar to those observed with ActRIIB(20-134)
25  hFc. ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc was generated using the same leader and methodology as
    described above with respect to ActRIIB(20-134)-hFc. The mature ActRIIB(25-13 1)-hFc
    protein purified after expression in CHO cells has the sequence shown below (SEQ ID NO:
    23):
               ETRECIYYNA NWELERTNQS GLERCEGEQD KRLHCYASWR NSSGTIELVK
30             KGCWLDDFNC YDRQECVATE ENPQVYFCCC EGNFCNERFT HLPEAGGPEV
               TYEPPPTGGG THTCPPCPAP ELLGGPSVFL FPPKPKDTLM ISRTPEVTCV
                                                   48

                  VVDVSHEDPE VKFNWYVDGV EVHNAKTKPR EEQYNSTYRV VSVLTVLHQD
                  WLNGKEYKCK VSNKALPAPI EKTISKAKGQ PREPQVYTLP PSREEMTKNQ
                  VSLTCLVKGF YPSDIAVEWE SNGQPENNYK TTPPVLDSDG SFFLYSKLTV
                  DKSRWQQGNV FSCSVMHEAL HNHYTQKSLS LSPGK
 5
   Example 4: Effect of ActRIIB-Fc on Muscle Mass and Strength in mdx Mice
              In order to determine the ability of ActRIIB(20-134)-Fc protein to increase muscle
   mass in a disease condition, applicants determined the ability of the ActRIIB-Fc protein to
   increase muscle mass in the mdx mouse model of muscular dystrophy.
 0            Adult mdx mice were treated twice/week with ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc protein (1, 3, or
   10mg/kg; intraperitoneal) or a PBS vehicle control. The force a mouse exerts when pulling a
   force transducer is measured to determine forelimb grip strength. The average force of five
   pulling trials was used for the comparison of grip strength between the cohorts. At the end of
   the study, femoris, gastrocnemius, pectoralis and diaphragm muscles were dissected and
 5 weighed. Grip strength measurements showed a significant increase also. The muscle mass
   results are summarized in the table, below.
   Tissue weights from vehicle- and ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc-treated mdx mice
                              Gastrocnemius          Femoris         Pectoralis
       Vehicle-treated                                                               Diaphragm
                                    (L+R)             (L+R)            (L+R)
     Average (grams) ± Std.    0.413 i 0.040      0.296 i 0.019    0.437 i 0.060    0.111 i 0.030
            deviation
     ActRHB(20-134)-mFc       Gastrocnemius          Femoris         Pectoralis      Diaphragm
           (10mg/kg)                (L+R)             (L+R)            (L+R)
     Average (grams) ± Std.     0.52 ± 0.050       0.39 ± 0.05     0.807 ± 0.21     0.149 ± 0.020
            deviation
         Ttest p-value             0.0006            0.0006            0.002             0.05
              As illustrated in the table, the ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc-treated groups exhibited
20 increased lean tissue mass in the mdx mice compared to the PBS-treated mice. ActRIIB-Fc
   treatment increased gastrocnemius size 25.9%, femoris size 31.8%, and pectoralis muscles by
   85.4% compared to the vehicle control group. Of possible clinical importance, we also found
   that the diaphragm weights of ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc-treated mice were increased 34.2%
                                                       49

    compared to the control cohort. These data demonstrate the efficacy of ActRIIB-Fc protein
    in a muscular dystrophy disease condition.
             Additionally, mdx mice treated with ActRIIB-Fc protein exhibit increased grip
    strength compared to the vehicle-treated controls. At 16-weeks, the 1, 3 and 10 mg/kg
 5  ActRIIB-Fc groups demonstrated a 31.4%, 32.3% and 64.4% increase in grip strength,
    respectively, compared to the vehicle control group. The improved grip strength performance
    of the ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc-treated groups supports the idea that the increased muscle found
    in the treatment groups is physiologically relevant. Mdx mice are susceptible to contractile
    induced injury and undergo significantly more cycles of degeneration and regeneration than
 0  their wild-type counterparts. Despite these muscle phenotypes, ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc
    treatment increases grip strength in the mdx mice.
             In Duchenne's Muscular Dystrophy, disease onset occurs early in childhood, often as
    early as age five. Accordingly, the data presented above with respect to adult mice do not
    necessarily reflect the effects an ActRIIB molecule would have in children with DMD. To
 5  address this, a study was conducted with juvenile mdx mice.
             ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc treatment significantly increases body weight in juvenile (four
    week old) C57BL/1O and mdx mice. Body composition analysis using in vivo NMR
    spectroscopy revealed increased lean tissue mass accompanied the higher body weights.
    C57BL/1O mice treated with ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc gained 35.2% lean tissue mass and the
 .0 treated mdx group gained 48.3% more lean tissue mass than their respective control cohorts.
    Further, the effect of ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc treatment on strength was assessed. Vehicle
    treated mdx mice grip strength scores were 15.7% lower than the vehicle C57BL/1O cohort
    thereby illustrating the muscle weakness associated with dystrophin deficiency. In contrast,
    mdx mice treated with ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc improved their grip strength compared to the
25  mdx vehicle group, and attained grip strength measurements which surpassed C57BL/10
    vehicle mice and reached the level of the treated C57BL/1O grip strength scores (vehicle mdx:
    0.140 ± 0.01 KgF; treated mdx: 0.199 ± 0.02 KgF; vehicle C57BL/10: 0.166 ± 0.03; 0.205
    0.02 KgF). Remarkably, the treatment restored the juvenile mdx mice back to wild type
    levels of grip strength. Therefore, the ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc molecule is likely to have
30  important clinical applications in Duchenne muscular dystrophy, particularly in juvenile
    patients at an age close to the onset of the disease.
                                                     50

   Example 5: Effect of ActRIIB-Fc on Sarcolemmal Expression of Utrophin in mdx Mice
           The most common types of muscular dystrophy are caused by partial or complete loss
   of functional dystrophin protein, leading to fragility of the sarcolemma (muscle cell
   membrane), muscle weakness, and eventual muscle necrosis. Utrophin is a structurally
 5 similar protein, albeit with a highly restricted distribution in mature muscle fibers under
   normal conditions. Compelling evidence suggests that utrophin could substitute for
   dystrophin and provide therapeutic benefits in many muscular dystrophy patients if a method
   can be devised to increase utrophin levels along the entire sarcolemma of muscle fibers, as is
   the case during early development (Miura et al., 2006, Trends Mol Med 12:122-129).
 0         Therefore, Applicants investigated the ability of ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc to increase
   utrophin levels throughout the sarcolemma of muscle fibers in an mdx5 '' mouse model, in
   which a point mutation in exon 10 of the dystrophin gene creates a premature stop codon and
   dysfunctional dystrophin protein. Beginning at 4-6 months of age, mdx5 '' mice were treated
   with ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc, 10 mg/kg, s.c., or vehicle (Tris-buffered saline) twice per week
 5 for 20 weeks. Upon termination of dosing, the pectoralis major and extensor digitorum
   longus (EDL) muscles were removed and frozen for later analysis.
           Effects of ActRIIB-Fc on utrophin expression in muscle were investigated by Western
   blot analysis and immunohistochemistry. In preparation for the former, pectoralis major
   muscles were homogenized mechanically with a hand-held tissue homogenizer in the
 0 presence of protease and phosphatase inhibitors. Protein samples were run on 4-12%
   acrylamide NuPAGE@ Novex@ Tris mini gel (Invitrogen) and transferred onto Immobilon@
   FL polyvinylidene fluoride membrane (Millipore). Equal protein loading among lanes and
   uniform protein transfer across membranes were confirmed with Ponceau stain prior to
   immunodetection. Membrane-bound utrophin was detected with a murine monoclonal
25 antibody directed against recombinant human utrophin (MANCHO3 clone 8A4, diluted
   1:200; Developmental Studies Hybridoma Bank, University of Iowa). This antibody has
   been shown to recognize mouse utrophin, as well as human, dog, and Xenopus homologs.
   The secondary antibody was a rabbit anti-mouse antibody conjugated to horseradish
   peroxidase (diluted 1:2000). Densitometry was performed with a Chemi Genius Bioimaging
30 System (Syngene), and utrophin levels were normalized to GAPDH (glyceraldehyde 3
   phosphate dehydrogenase) level in each sample to control for nonuniform processing. For
   immunohistochemical analysis, utrophin was visualized on acetone-fixed transverse sections
                                                    51

    (14 pm thickness) of EDL muscle fibers with a murine primary antibody directed against the
    C-terminus of human utrophin (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, catalog no. sc-81556) and a goat
    anti-mouse secondary antibody labeled with Alexa Fluor 488 (Invitrogen, catalog no.
    A21121).
 5          These complementary approaches yielded strong evidence that ActRIIB-Fc induces
    sarcolemmal expression of utrophin in mdx mice. As assessed by Western blot, chronic
    treatment with ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc in middle-aged mdx mice increased utrophin protein
    levels by more than 80% compared to controls when averaged over the entire pectoralis
    muscle (Figure 9). Moreover, immunohistochemical analysis of EDL muscle fibers
 0  confirmed that the increase in utrophin expression was localized to the sarcolemma. As
    shown in Figures 10-11, utrophin was barely detectable in most sarcolemmal segments of
    vehicle-treated mdx mice, as expected for mature muscle fibers of mdx adults. Compared to
    controls, there was a marked increase in sarcolemmal utophin levels in age-matched mdx
    mice treated with ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc, with utrophin widely distributed along the
 5  sarcolemma of individual fibers (Figures 10-11). These results demonstrate that
    ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc treatment can unexpectedly induce a broad sarcolemmal distribution
    of utrophin in muscle fibers in a mouse model of muscular dystrophy. This capability to
    induce utrophin, and potentially compensate for dystrophin deficiency, indicates that
    ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc treatment may ameliorate sarcolemmal instability and contraction
 '0 related cellular damage as it increases muscle size and strength. Therefore, in addition to
    providing patients with increased muscle mass and strength, treatment with antagonists of
    ActRIIB signaling may create muscle fibers that are more resistant to damage and
    degeneration that is typical of DMD and BMD.
25  Example 6: Effect of ActRIIB-Fc on Sarcolemmal Integrity and Force Drop with
    Eccentric Contractions in mdx Mice
            Applicants will treat mdxv mice with ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc or vehicle as described
    above to determine whether utrophin-inducing properties of ActRIIB-Fc protect against
    sarcolemmal instability and contraction-related muscle damage in a mouse model of
30  muscular dystrophy. In addition, wildtype mice serving as controls will be treated with
    ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc or vehicle. A tracer assay with Evan's blue dye will be used to assess
    use-dependent sarcolemmal permeability (as an indicator of membrane integrity) by detecting
                                                   52

    infiltration of plasma serum albumin into muscle fibers. Mice in each group will be exercised
    regularly on a treadmill and then injected IP with sterilized Evan's blue dye (50 pl of a 10
    mg/ml buffered solution per 10 g body weight) at the end of dosing. Muscles will be excised
    twenty-four hours later and immediately frozen in chilled isopentane. Transverse sections
 5  will be prepared with a cryostat and processed for microscopic visualization of Evan's blue
    dye infiltration in individual fibers. Immunohistochemical staining for a sarcolemmal protein
    (such as laminin) may be used to confirm or reveal sarcolemmal boundaries, and the
    percentage of total fibers that are infiltrated by serum albumin (Evan's blue dye) may be
    quantified. Applicants expect that treatment with ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc will ameliorate or
 0  prevent infiltration of Evan's blue dye into muscle fibers of excercised mdx'' mice, as an
    indication of improved sarcolemmal integrity.
             In the mdx mouse, skeletal muscles (particularly fast-twitch muscles) display an
    excessive drop in maximal tetanic force after a series of eccentric contractions, during which
    muscle fibers lengthen as they exert force (contract). This excessive drop in force has been
 5  attributed to contraction-dependent fiber injury stemming from disruption of a dystrophin
    deficient sarcolemma (Blaauw et al, 2008, Hum Mol Genet 17:3686-3696). Therefore,
    additional mdx mice and wildtype controls will be studied to determine whether ActRIIB-Fc
    can, through its utrophin-inducing capability, provide resistance to fiber damage mediated by
    eccentric contractions. In this experiment, mdx5 '' mice (or wildtype controls) will be
 '0 exercised on a treadmill at regular intervals and treated with ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc or vehicle
    as described above. At the cessation of dosing, muscles containing primarily fast-twitch
    fibers (such as the EDL) will be excised and tested according to an ex vivo protocol similar to
    that of Krag et al, (2004, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 101:13856-13860). In brief, muscles will
    be weighed and attached to both a micrometer and a force transducer within an organ bath
25  containing oxygenated Ringer's solution. Stimulation will be performed with field electrodes
    connected to a stimulator unit. The force drop associated with eccentric contractions will be
    calculated using the difference of isometric force generation during the first and twentieth
    tetanus of a standard protocol. At the end of physiological testing, muscles will be quick
    frozen in chilled isopentane for later histological analysis. Applicants expect that treatment
30  with ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc will reduce the force drop associated with eccentric contractions,
    as an indication of reduced sarcolemmal fragility.
                                                      53

    Example 7: Effect of ActRIIB-Fc on Exercise Induced Muscle Damage in mdx Mice
            Applicants investigated the ability of ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc to blunt or reverse
                                                    5cv
    exercise induced muscle damage in an mdx            mouse model. Five week old mdx mice were
    divided into four groups (N=10 for each group). The first group was given no intervention,
 5  sacrificed after four weeks and assessed for serum creatine kinase levels. The second group
    was given treadmill exercise and sacrificed after four weeks. The third group was given
    treadmill exercise for eight weeks, with vehicle treatment (TBS) given from week four
    through week eight. The fourth group was given treadmill exercise for eight weeks, with
    ActRIIB(20-134)-mFc treatment (10mg/kg, twice weekly) given from week four through
 0  eight.
             Serum creatine kinase levels are shown for each group in Figure 12. ActRIIB-Fc
    treatment completely prevented exercise induced damage (as measured by serum creatine
    kinase levels) accruing after week four, and moreover, reversed the damage occurring prior to
    week four (compare group 2 versus group 4). Accordingly, ActRIIB-Fc prevents and
 5  reverses damage to muscle fibers in a mouse model of Duchenne's muscular dystrophy,
    consistent with the other findings herein with respect to increased utrophin levels.
    INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
 10         All publications and patents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by reference in
    their entirety as if each individual publication or patent was specifically and individually
    indicated to be incorporated by reference.
            While specific embodiments of the subject matter have been discussed, the above
    specification is illustrative and not restrictive. Many variations will become apparent to those
25  skilled in the art upon review of this specification and the claims below. The full scope of the
    invention should be determined by reference to the claims, along with their full scope of
    equivalents, and the specification, along with such variations.
                                                        54

   We Claim:
      1. A method for increasing sarcolemmal utrophin in a patient in need thereof, the
             method comprising administering an effective amount of a compound selected
             from the group consisting of:
 5           a. a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 90% identical
                 to the sequence of amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID NO: 2; and
             b. a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid that hybridizes under stringent
                 hybridization conditions to the nucleic acid of SEQ ID NO: 3.
      2. The method of claim 1, wherein the polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising a
 0           portion heterologous to ActRIIB.
      3.  The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the polypeptide is a dimer.
      4. The method of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the polypeptide is fused to a constant
             domain of an immunoglobulin.
      5. The method of any one of claims 1-4, wherein the polypeptide is fused to an Fc
 5           portion of an immunoglobulin.
      6. The method of claim 5, wherein the immunoglobulin is a human IgG1.
      7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the polypeptide comprises the
             sequence of SEQ ID NO:5 or 23.
      8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the patient has Duchenne muscular
20           dystrophy.
      9. The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the patient has Becker muscular
             dystrophy.
      10. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
             acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to the sequence of amino acids 29-109
25           of SEQ ID NO: 2.
      11. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
             acid sequence that is at least 97% identical to the sequence of amino acids 29-109
             of SEQ ID NO: 2.
                                                 55

    12. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
           acid sequence that is at least 99% identical to the sequence of amino acids 29-109
           of SEQ ID NO: 2.
    13. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
 5         acid sequence that is at least 90% identical to the sequence of amino acids 25-131
           of SEQ ID NO: 2.
    14. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
           acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to the sequence of amino acids 25-131
           of SEQ ID NO: 2.
 0  15. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
           acid sequence that is at least 97% identical to the sequence of amino acids 25-131
           of SEQ ID NO: 2.
    16. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
           acid sequence that is at least 99% identical to the sequence of amino acids 25-131
 5         of SEQ ID NO: 2.
    17. The method of any one of claims 1-16, wherein administration of the compound
           increases sarcolemmal strength of muscle fibers in the treated patient.
    18. The method of claim 17, wherein the utrophin expression is increased in skeletal or
           cardiac muscle.
 10 19. A method for increasing sarcolemmal utrophin in a patient in need thereof, the
           method comprising administering an effective amount of a compound selected
           from the group consisting of:
           a. an antagonist of ActRIIB;
           b. an antagonist of myostatin;
25         c.  an antagonist of activin A; and
           d. an antagonist of activin B.
    20. The method of claim 19, wherein the compound is an antagonist of ActRIIB.
                                               56

    21. The method of claim 20, wherein the antagonist of ActRIIB is selected from the group
           consisting of: an antibody that binds to ActRIIB and a nucleic acid that hybridizes
           to a nucleic acid encoding ActRIIB and inhibits ActRIIB production.
    22. The method of claim 19, wherein the compound is an antagonist of myostatin.
 5  23. The method of claim 22, wherein the antagonist of myostatin is selected from the
           group consisting of: an antibody that binds to myostatin, a nucleic acid that
           hybridizes to a nucleic acid encoding myostatin and inhibits myostatin production,
           and a polypeptide comprising a myostatin propeptide or variant thereof.
    24. The method of claim 19, wherein the compound is an antagonist of activin A.
 0  25. The method of claim 24, wherein the antagonist of activin A is selected from the
           group consisting of: an antibody that binds to activin A and a nucleic acid that
           hybridizes to a nucleic acid encoding activin A and inhibits activin A production.
    26. The method of claim 19, wherein the compound is an antagonist of activin B.
    27. The method of claim 26, wherein the antagonist of activin B is selected from the
 5         group consisting of: an antibody that binds to activin B, and a nucleic acid that
           hybridizes to a nucleic acid encoding activin B and inhibits activin B production.
    28. The method of any of claims 1 to 27, wherein in the patient has an elevated marker for
           muscle degeneration.
    29. The method of claim 28, wherein the patient has a level of a marker for muscle
 10        degeneration that is elevated relative to the norm for patients with the same
           disease state.
    30. The method of claim 28 or 29, wherein the patient has elevated serum CK-MM levels.
    31. The method of claim 28 or 29, wherein the patient has serum CK-MM levels that are
           elevated relative to the norm for patients with the same disease state.
25  32. The method of any of claims I to 31, wherein the method further comprises
           evaluating a marker for muscle degeneration and selecting a dose level or
           frequency based on the level of the marker for muscle degeneration.
    33. The method of claim 32, wherein the marker for muscle degeneration is serum CK
           MM.
                                               57

   34. A method for treating a DMD or BMD patient that has an elevated marker for muscle
          degeneration, the method comprising administering to the patient an effective
          amount of a compound selected from the group consisting of:
          a. a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence that is at least 90% identical
 5            to the sequence of amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID NO: 2; and
          b. a polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid that hybridizes under stringent
              hybridization conditions to the nucleic acid of SEQ ID NO: 3.
   35. The method of claim 34, wherein the marker for muscle degeneration is serum CK
          MM.
 0 36. The method of claim 34 or 35, wherein the polypeptide is a fusion protein comprising
          a portion heterologous to ActRIIB.
   37. The method of any one of claims 34-36, wherein the polypeptide is a dimer.
   38. The method of any one of claims 34-37, wherein the polypeptide is fused to a constant
          domain of an immunoglobulin.
 5 39. The method of claim 38, wherein the polypeptide is fused to an Fc portion of an
          immunoglobulin.
   40. The method of claim 39, wherein the immunoglobulin is a human IgG1.
   41. The method of any one of claims 34-40, wherein the polypeptide comprises the
          sequence of SEQ ID NO:5 or 23.
20 42. The method of any one of claims 34-40, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
          acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to the sequence of amino acids 29-109
          of SEQ ID NO: 2.
   43. The method of any one of claims 34-40, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
          acid sequence that is at least 97% identical to the sequence of amino acids 29-109
25        of SEQ ID NO: 2.
   44. The method of any one of claims 34-40, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
          acid sequence that is at least 99% identical to the sequence of amino acids 29-109
          of SEQ ID NO: 2.
                                              58

    45. The method of any one of claims 34-40, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
           acid sequence that is at least 90% identical to the sequence of amino acids 25-131
           of SEQ ID NO: 2.
    46. The method of any one of claims 34-40, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
 5         acid sequence that is at least 95% identical to the sequence of amino acids 25-131
           of SEQ ID NO: 2.
    47. The method of any one of claims 34-40, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
           acid sequence that is at least 97% identical to the sequence of amino acids 25-131
           of SEQ ID NO: 2.
 0  48. The method of any one of claims 34-40, wherein the polypeptide comprises an amino
           acid sequence that is at least 99% identical to the sequence of amino acids 25-131
           of SEQ ID NO: 2.
    49. The method of any one of claims 34-48, wherein administration of the compound
           increases sarcolemmal strength of muscle fibers in the treated patient.
 5  50. The method of any one of claims 34-49, wherein the utrophin expression is increased
           in skeletal or cardiac muscle.
    51. The method of any one of claims 34-50, wherein the method further comprises
           evaluating a marker for muscle degeneration and selecting a dose level or
           frequency based on the level of the marker for muscle degeneration.
 10 52. The method of claim 51, wherein the marker for muscle degeneration is serum CK
           MM.
25
                                               59

<removed-date>   SGRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCEGEQDKRLHCYASWRNSSGTIELVKKGC
              WLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCEGNFCNERFTHLPEAGGPEVTYEPPPTAPT
<removed-apn>                              FIGURE 1
                                          1/13

<removed-date>
              MTAPWVALALLWGSLWPGSGRGEAETRECIYYNANWELERTNQSGLERCEGEQDKRLHC
              YASWRNSSGTIELVKKGCWLDDFNCYDRQECVATEENPQVYFCCCEGNFCNERFTHLPE
              AGGPEVTYEPPPTAPTLLTVLAYSLLPIGGLSLIVLLAFWMYRHRKPPYGHVDIHEDPG
<removed-apn>
              PPPPSPLVGLKPLQLLEIKARGRFGCVWKAQLMNDFVAVKIFPLQDKQSWQSEREIFST
              PGMKHENLLQFIAAEKRGSNLEVELWLITAFHDKGSLTDYLKGNIITWNELCHVAETMS
              RGLSYLHEDVPWCRGEGHKPSIAHRDFKSKNVLLKSDLTAVLADFGLAVRFEPGKPPGD
              THGQVGTRRYMAPEVLEGAINFQRDAFLRIDMYAMGLVLWELVSRCKAADGPVDEYMLP
              FEEEIGQHPSLEELQEVVVHKKMRPTIKDHWLKHPGLAQLCVTIEECWDHDAEARLSAG
              CVEERVSLIRRSVNGTTSDCLVSLVTSVTNVDLPPKESSI
                                        FIGURE 2
                                          2/13

<removed-date>
              tctgggcgtggggaggctgagacacgggagtgcatctactacaacgccaactgggagctggagcgcaccaa
              ccagagcggcctggagcgctgcgaaggcgagcaggacaagcggctgcactgctacgcctcctggcgcaaca
              gctctggcaccatcgagctcgtgaagaagggctgctggctagatgacttcaactgctacgataggcaggag
              tgtgtggccactgaggagaacccccaggtgtacttctgctgctgtgaaggcaacttctgcaacgagcgctt
              cactcatttgccagaggctgggggcccggaagtcacgtacgagccacccccgacagcccccacc
<removed-apn>
                                             FIGURE 3
                                                3/13

<removed-date>
              atgacggcgccctgggtggccctcgccctcctctggggatcgctgtggcccggctctgggcgtggggaggc
              tgagacacgggagtgcatctactacaacgccaactgggagctggagcgcaccaaccagagcggcctggagc
              gctgcgaaggcgagcaggacaagcggctgcactgctacgcctcctggcgcaacagctctggcaccatcgag
              ctcgtgaagaagggctgctggctagatgacttcaactgctacgataggcaggagtgtgtggccactgagga
              gaacccccaggtgtacttctgctgctgtgaaggcaacttctgcaacgagcgcttcactcatttgccagagg
              ctgggggcccggaagtcacgtacgagccacccccgacagcccccaccctgctcacggtgctggcctactca
<removed-apn>
              ctgctgcccatcgggggcctttccctcatcgtcctgctggccttttggatgtaccggcatcgcaagccccc
              ctacggtcatgtggacatccatgaggaccctgggcctccaccaccatcccctctggtgggcctgaagccac
              tgcagctgctggagatcaaggctcgggggcgctttggctgtgtctggaaggcccagctcatgaatgacttt
              gtagctgtcaagatcttcccactccaggacaagcagtcgtggcagagtgaacgggagatcttcagcacacc
              tggcatgaagcacgagaacctgctacagttcattgctgccgagaagcgaggctccaacctcgaagtagagc
              tgtggctcatcacggccttccatgacaagggctccctcacggattacctcaaggggaacatcatcacatgg
              aacgaactgtgtcatgtagcagagacgatgtcacgaggcctctcatacctgcatgaggatgtgccctggtg
              ccgtggcgagggccacaagccgtctattgcccacagggactttaaaagtaagaatgtattgctgaagagcg
              acctcacagccgtgctggctgactttggcttggctgttcgatttgagccagggaaacctccaggggacacc
              cacggacaggtaggcacgagacggtacatggctcctgaggtgctcgagggagccatcaacttccagagaga
              tgccttcctgcgcattgacatgtatgccatggggttggtgctgtgggagcttgtgtctcgctgcaaggctg
              cagacggacccgtggatgagtacatgctgccctttgaggaagagattggccagcacccttcgttggaggag
              ctgcaggaggtggtggtgcacaagaagatgaggcccaccattaaagatcactggttgaaacacccgggcct
              ggcccagctttgtgtgaccatcgaggagtgctgggaccatgatgcagaggctcgcttgtccgcgggctgtg
              tggaggagcgggtgtccctgattcggaggtcggtcaacggcactacctcggactgtctcgtttccctggtg
              acctctgtcaccaatgtggacctgccccctaaagagtcaagcatctaa
                                         FIGURE 4
                                                4/13

<removed-date>
              ActRIIa   ILGRSETQEC LFFNANWEKD RTNQTGVEPC YGDKDKRRHC FATWKNISGS
<removed-apn>
              ActRIIb   GRGEAETREC IYYNANWELE RTNQSGLERC EGEQDKRLHC YASWRNSSGT
                        IEIVKQGCWL DDINCYDRTD CVEKKDSPEV YFCCCEGNMC NEKFSYFPEM
                        IELVKKGCWL DDFNCYDRQE CVATEENPQV YFCCCEGNFC NERFTHLPEA
                        EVTQPTSNPV TPKPPT
                        GGPEVTYEPP PTAPT
                                       FIGURE 5
                                            5/13

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
6/13
       FIGURE 6

<removed-date>
                1   MDAMKRGLCC VLLLCGAVFV SPGAAETREC IYYNANWELE RTNQSGLERC
               51   EGEQDKRLHC YASWRNSSGT IELVKKGCWL DDFNCYDRQE CVATEENPQV
              101   YFCCCEGNFC NERFTHLPEA GGPEVTYEPP PTGGGTHTCP PCPAPELLGG
              151   PSVFLFPPKP KDTLMISRTP EVTCVVVDVS HEDPEVKFNW YVDGVEVHNA
              201   KTKPREEQYN STYRVVSVLT VLHQDWLNGK EYKCKVSNKA LPAPIEKTIS
<removed-apn>
              251   KAKGQPREPQ VYTLPPSREE MTKNQVSLTC LVKGFYPSDI AVEWESNGQP
              301   ENNYKTTPPV LDSDGSFFLY SKLTVDKSRW QQGNVFSCSV MHEALHNHYT
              351   QKSLSLSPGK
                                     FIGURE 7
                                        7/13

<removed-date>
               1    ATGGATGCAA TGAAGAGAGG GCTCTGCTGT GTGCTGCTGC TGTGTGGAGC
                    TACCTACGTT ACTTCTCTCC CGAGACGACA CACGACGACG ACACACCTCG
                                             A E T     R E C     I Y Y
              51    AGTCTTCGTT TCGCCCGGCG CCGCTGAGAC ACGGGAGTGC ATCTACTACA
                    TCAGAAGCAA AGCGGGCCGC GGCGACTCTG TGCCCTCACG TAGATGATGT
<removed-apn>
                    N A N W      E L E     R T N     Q S G L      E R C
              101   ACGCCAACTG GGAGCTGGAG CGCACCAACC AGAGCGGCCT GGAGCGCTGC
                    TGCGGTTGAC CCTCGACCTC GCGTGGTTGG TCTCGCCGGA CCTCGCGACG
                     E G E     Q D K R      L H C     Y A S     W R N S
              151   GAAGGCGAGC AGGACAAGCG GCTGCACTGC TACGCCTCCT GGCGCAACAG
                    CTTCCGCTCG TCCTGTTCGC CGACGTGACG ATGCGGAGGA CCGCGTTGTC
                      S G T     I E L     V K K G      C W L     D D F
              201   CTCTGGCACC ATCGAGCTCG TGAAGAAGGG CTGCTGGCTA GATGACTTCA
                    GAGACCGTGG TAGCTCGAGC ACTTCTTCCC GACGACCGAT CTACTGAAGT
                    N C Y D      R Q E     C V A     T E E N      P Q V
              251   ACTGCTACGA TAGGCAGGAG TGTGTGGCCA CTGAGGAGAA CCCCCAGGTG
                    TGACGATGCT ATCCGTCCTC ACACACCGGT GACTCCTCTT GGGGGTCCAC
                     Y F C     C C E G      N F C     N E R     F T H L
              301   TACTTCTGCT GCTGTGAAGG CAACTTCTGC AACGAGCGCT TCACTCATTT
                    ATGAAGACGA CGACACTTCC GTTGAAGACG TTGCTCGCGA AGTGAGTAAA
                      P E A     G G P     E V T Y      E P P     P T
              351   GCCAGAGGCT GGGGGCCCGG AAGTCACGTA CGAGCCACCC CCGACAGGTG
                    CGGTCTCCGA CCCCCGGGCC TTCAGTGCAT GCTCGGTGGG GGCTGTCCAC
              401   GTGGAACTCA CACATGCCCA CCGTGCCCAG CACCTGAACT CCTGGGGGGA
                    CACCTTGAGT GTGTACGGGT GGCACGGGTC GTGGACTTGA GGACCCCCCT
              451   CCGTCAGTCT TCCTCTTCCC CCCAAAACCC AAGGACACCC TCATGATCTC
                    GGCAGTCAGA AGGAGAAGGG GGGTTTTGGG TTCCTGTGGG AGTACTAGAG
              501   CCGGACCCCT GAGGTCACAT GCGTGGTGGT GGACGTGAGC CACGAAGACC
                    GGCCTGGGGA CTCCAGTGTA CGCACCACCA CCTGCACTCG GTGCTTCTGG
              551   CTGAGGTCAA GTTCAACTGG TACGTGGACG GCGTGGAGGT GCATAATGCC
                    GACTCCAGTT CAAGTTGACC ATGCACCTGC CGCACCTCCA CGTATTACGG
              601   AAGACAAAGC CGCGGGAGGA GCAGTACAAC AGCACGTACC GTGTGGTCAG
                    TTCTGTTTCG GCGCCCTCCT CGTCATGTTG TCGTGCATGG CACACCAGTC
              651   CGTCCTCACC GTCCTGCACC AGGACTGGCT GAATGGCAAG GAGTACAAGT
                    GCAGGAGTGG CAGGACGTGG TCCTGACCGA CTTACCGTTC CTCATGTTCA
              701   GCAAGGTCTC CAACAAAGCC CTCCCAGCCC CCATCGAGAA AACCATCTCC
                    CGTTCCAGAG GTTGTTTCGG GAGGGTCGGG GGTAGCTCTT TTGGTAGAGG
                                       FIGURE 8
                                          8/13

<removed-date>
              751    AAAGCCAAAG GGCAGCCCCG AGAACCACAG GTGTACACCC TGCCCCCATC
                     TTTCGGTTTC CCGTCGGGGC TCTTGGTGTC CACATGTGGG ACGGGGGTAG
              801    CCGGGAGGAG ATGACCAAGA ACCAGGTCAG CCTGACCTGC CTGGTCAAAG
                     GGCCCTCCTC TACTGGTTCT TGGTCCAGTC GGACTGGACG GACCAGTTTC
              851    GCTTCTATCC CAGCGACATC GCCGTGGAGT GGGAGAGCAA TGGGCAGCCG
                     CGAAGATAGG GTCGCTGTAG CGGCACCTCA CCCTCTCGTT ACCCGTCGGC
<removed-apn>
              901    GAGAACAACT ACAAGACCAC GCCTCCCGTG CTGGACTCCG ACGGCTCCTT
                     CTCTTGTTGA TGTTCTGGTG CGGAGGGCAC GACCTGAGGC TGCCGAGGAA
              951    CTTCCTCTAT AGCAAGCTCA CCGTGGACAA GAGCAGGTGG CAGCAGGGGA
                     GAAGGAGATA TCGTTCGAGT GGCACCTGTT CTCGTCCACC GTCGTCCCCT
              1001   ACGTCTTCTC ATGCTCCGTG ATGCATGAGG CTCTGCACAA CCACTACACG
                     TGCAGAAGAG TACGAGGCAC TACGTACTCC GAGACGTGTT GGTGATGTGC
              1051   CAGAAGAGCC TCTCCCTGTC CCCGGGTAAA TGA
                     GTCTTCTCGG AGAGGGACAG GGGCCCATTT ACT
                                     FIGURE 8 CONT
                                           9/13

<removed-date>
              A
                                                 mdx + Vehicle               mdx + ActRIIB-mFc
                                                                                                 Utrophin
<removed-apn>    B                           0.18
                                          0.16                                    *
                  Utrophin / GAPDH (RU)
                                          0.14
                                          0.12
                                          0.10
                                          0.08
                                          0.06
                                          0.04
                                          0.02
                                          0.00
                                                         mdx + Vehicle   mdx + ActRIIB-mFc
                                                                  FIGURE 9
                                                                     10/13

<removed-date>
              A
              mdx +
              Vehicle
<removed-apn>
              B
              mdx +
              ActRIIB-mFc
                            FIGURE 10
                              11/13

<removed-date>
              A
              mdx +
              Vehicle
<removed-apn>
              B
              mdx +
              ActRIIB-mFc
                            FIGURE 11
                              12/13

<removed-date>
               A
                                                                  0           4 wk                 8 wk
<removed-apn>                                    5-wk-old mdx mice
                                                                                  Naive
                                                                                 Run 4 wk
                                                                                      Vehicle             Run 8 wk total
                                                                                                          Vehicle final 4 wk
                                                                                     ActRIIB-mFc
                                                                                                          Run 8 wk total
                                                                                                          ActRIIB-mFc final 4 wk
              B
                                      45000
                                      40000                                                                            * = p < 0.05
              Serum Creatine Kinase
                                                                                                                       compared to all
                                      35000                                                                            other groups
                                      30000
                                      25000
                                      20000
                                      15000
                                      10000
                                       5000
                                                                                                                 *
                                          0
                                                                      Naive     Run 4 wk        Run 8 wk + Run 8 wk +
                                                                                                 Vehicle   ActRIIB-mFc
                                                                                     FIGURE 12
                                                                                        13/13

