                                          ABSTRACT
        A shaving blade unit with a housing having a bottom surface and a top surface defining a
pair of elongated spaced apart apertures extending from the top surface to the bottom surface. At
least one blade is mounted to the housing. The blade has a blade edge extending generally
parallel to the pair of apertures. A solid polymeric lubrication member having an upper skin
contact surface and an opposing base. A pair protrusions extend from the base. Each protrusion
has an enlarged distal end. The enlarged distal ends of the protrusions each have a dimension
greater than a dimension of the corresponding aperture whereby inserting the protrusion into the
corresponding aperture deflects a front wall of the housing and each of the enlarged distal ends
engage the bottom surface of the housing.     The solid polymeric lubrication member and the
enlarged distal ends are molded from a water soluble polymer.

                                                   1
                  SHAVING CARTRIDGES HAVING LUBRICATION MEMBERS
          The present application is a divisional application from Australian Patent Application
  2013379786 filed 16 August 2013, the entire contents of which are taken to be incorporated
  herein by reference.
                                        FIELD OF THE INVENTION
          The present invention relates to shaving razors and more particularly to shaving razor
  cartridges having a housing and a lubrication member secured to the housing.
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
          In general, shaving razors of the wet shave type include a cartridge or blade unit with at
  least one blade with a cutting edge, which is moved across the surface of the skin being shaved
  by means of a handle to which the cartridge is attached.          The cartridge may be mounted
  detachably on the handle to enable the cartridge to be replaced by a fresh cartridge when the
  blade sharpness has diminished to an unsatisfactory level, or it may be attached permanently to
  the handle with the intention that the entire razor be discarded when the blade or blades have
  become dulled. Razor cartridges usually include a guard which contacts the skin in front of the
  blade(s) and a cap for contacting the skin behind the blade(s) during shaving. The cap and guard
  aid in establishing the so-called "shaving geometry", i.e., the parameters which determine the
  blade orientation and position relative to the skin during shaving, which in turn have a strong
  influence on the shaving performance and efficacy of the razor.       The guard may be generally
  rigid, for example formed integrally with a frame or platform structure which provides a support
  for the blades.
          In the use of shaving razors of the wet shave type, factors such as frictional drag of the
  razor across the skin, force needed to sever hairs, and irritation or pre-existing skin damage can
  create a degree of shaving discomfort.     Shaving aids, e.g., a lubricant, whisker softener, razor
  cleanser, medicinal agent, cosmetic agent or combination thereof, have been incorporated into
  razors, for example by incorporating a shaving aid into one or more extruded or molded
  polymeric components of the razor. Such shaving aid composites may be mounted on the cap or
  guard structures of the razor cartridge.    Upon exposure to water, water-soluble shaving aid
> leaches from the composite onto the skin and the composite tends to swell.
          The shaving aid composites must be positively secured for effective dispensing
  throughout the useful shaving life of the razor.       Forces during shaving may contribute to

                                                 2
loosening of the shaving aid components from the cartridge. In addition, consumers may store
the wet shaving cartridge on bathroom tub or countertop after shaving. Accordingly, the wet
shaving aid components may become stuck to the bathroom tub or countertops. The consumer
may then damage the shaving aid or the cartridge when attempting to remove the cartridge from
the countertop or bathroom tub. Numerous extruded or molded shaving aid components have
been developed which are secured to the shaving razor cartridge with adhesives.               These
arrangements have been unsatisfactory for certain applications. Adhesives are typically a poor
choice for several reasons.       Adhesives are difficult to work with from a manufacturing
perspective and are also susceptible to changes in heat and humidity.
         In certain countries, shaving razors are exposed to constant high levels of heat and
humidity during shipment and storage. These levels of heat and humidity can adversely affect
the adhesive properties such that the lubrication component is no longer secured. Various press
fit type designs have also been developed to secure the shaving aid component to the cartridge of
the shaving razor. The various press-fit type designs have also proven to be ineffective in certain
applications. Press-fit designs rely on a significant amount of force to be applied to the shaving
aid composite in order to properly secure the shaving aid composite within the housing, which
may cause the shaving aid composite to break or fracture.          These designs are also not very
effective because they do not accommodate for changing forces resulting from the shaving aid
composite swelling and expanding. These cartridge designs also rely on an increased surface
contact area with the shaving aid composite to better secure the shaving aid composite to the
cartridge, which limits the cartridge design, such as the size of the cartridge and the placement of
the blade(s).
         What is needed, then, is a wet shaving razor cartridge having lubrication member that is
secured to the cartridge that accounts for water absorption and swelling without negatively
impacting shaving performance or the securement of the lubrication member to the housing. It
may also be desirable to provide a manufacturing method for assembling a lubrication member
that accounts for tolerance variations without negatively impacting shaving performance. The
wet shaving razor cartridge assembly, is preferably simpler, cost-effective, reliable, durable,
easier and/or faster to manufacture, and easier and/or faster to assemble with more precision.
                                    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         In one aspect, the invention features, in general, a shaving blade unit with a housing
having a bottom surface and a top surface defining a pair of elongated spaced apart apertures

                                                   3
extending from the top surface to the bottom surface. At least one blade is mounted to the
housing. The blade has a blade edge extending generally parallel to the pair of apertures. A solid
polymeric lubrication member having an upper skin contact surface and an opposing base. A pair
protrusions extend from the base. Each protrusion has an enlarged distal end. The enlarged distal
ends of the protrusions each have a dimension greater than a dimension of the corresponding
aperture whereby inserting the protrusion into the corresponding aperture deflects a front wall of
the housing and each of the enlarged distal ends engage the bottom surface of the housing. The
enlarged distal ends of the protrusions are molded from a water soluble polymer. If, desired,
particular embodiments may optionally include the solid polymeric lubrication positioned within
a pocket defined by the front wall and a pair of internal sidewalls of the housing. Particular
embodiments may also optionally include the pocket further defined by an elastomeric member
positioned in front of the at least one blade.
        In another aspect, the invention features, in general, a shaving blade unit with a housing
having a bottom surface and a top surface. At least one blade is mounted to the housing. A solid
polymeric lubrication member composed of a water soluble polymer is positioned in front of the
blades. The solid polymeric lubrication member has an upper skin contacting surface.                An
elastomeric member having a plurality of fins is positioned between the at least one blade and the
solid polymeric lubrication member. The upper skin contacting surface of the solid polymeric
lubrication member has an elongated portion in front of the fins and a pair of lateral ends that
extend from the elongated portion toward the at least one blade.               If, desired, particular
embodiments may optionally include the fins positioned between the pair of lateral ends of the
solid polymeric lubrication member. Particular embodiments may also optionally include a pair
of clips securing the at least one blade to the housing such that the pair of lateral ends of the solid
polymeric lubrication member are immediately adjacent to the clip. The clips may be axially
aligned with the pair of lateral ends of the solid polymeric lubrication member.
                               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        While the specification concludes with claims particularly pointing out and distinctly
claiming the subject matter that is regarded as the present invention, it is believed that the
invention will be more fully understood from the following description taken in conjunction with
the accompanying drawings.
        Figure 1 is top view of one possible embodiment of a shaving blade unit.
        Figure 2 is an assembly perspective view of the shaving blade unit of Figure 1.

                                                   4
         Figure 3 is a cross section view of the shaving blade unit, taken generally along the line 3
3 of Figure 1.
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
         Referring to Fig. 1, one possible embodiment of the present disclosure is shown
illustrating a shaving blade unit 10. In certain embodiments, the shaving blade unit 10 may be
detached and removed from a handle (not shown). The shaving blade unit 10 may be fixedly or
pivotably mounted to the handle depending on the overall desired cost and performance.            The
shaving blade unit 10 may also include an interconnect member 16 to which the shaving blade
unit 10 is pivotably mounted about a pivot axis. The shaving blade unit 10 may include a
housing 18 that carries one more blades 20, a guard 22, a cap 24, and a solid polymeric
lubrication member 25. The one or more blades 20 may be positioned between the guard 22 and
the cap 24. Each blade 20 may have a blade edge 21 extending parallel to the cap 24 and the
guard 22. The guard 22 and the cap 24 may define a shaving plane. In certain embodiments, an
elastomeric member 30 may be mounted to the housing 18 between the guard 22 and the solid
polymeric lubrication member 25 (i.e., in front of the guard 22 and behind the solid polymeric
lubrication member 25). The guard 22 may be segmented, as shown, or may be a continuous bar.
         The solid polymeric lubrication member 25 may be injection molded from a combination
of one or more water-soluble polymers (e.g., polyethylene oxides generally known as POLYOX
(available from Dow Chemical)) and a non water soluble polymer (e.g., high impact
polystyrene). The delivery of lubrication in the form of an injection molded lubricating element
has typically involved a three material molded frame in which the lubrication element is molded
onto a substrate base (e.g., the Venus Embrace® sold by the Gillette Company). This design and
method involves maintaining geometry of the frame as multiple injection molded materials cool
at different rates, which causes warping. A single molded lubrication bar (i.e., a unitary member)
being assembled into a pre-molded housing provides numerous advantages. For example, this
approach allows each element to be optimally controlled during injection molding therefore
enabling more consistent geometry which is important for a close, comfortable shave. Injection
molding of the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 also allows for a greater variety of shapes
(e.g., compared to extruded lubrication bars) and different surface textures to be added.
However, the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 must be strongly secured to the housing 18
because swelling of the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 during shaving may cause the
solid polymeric lubrication member 25 to separate from the housing 18.

                                                 5
         The shape of the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 may have a generally low profile
to facilitate mounting to the housing 18, thus enabling the housing 18 to also have a low profile.
The solid polymeric lubrication member 25 may have an upper skin contacting surface 40 and an
opposing bottom surface (not shown).        The upper skin contacting surface 40 may have a
generally U-shaped profile to provide improved glide and a more comfortable feel against the
skin of the user (e.g., compared to an extruded lubrication strip). The upper skin contacting
surface 40 may have an elongated portion 44 in front of the elastomeric member 30.           The
elongated portion 44 may extend parallel to the at least one blade 20. A pair of lateral ends 46,
48 may extend from the elongated portion 44 toward the at least one blade 20. The pair of lateral
end 46,48 may extend transverse to the at least one blade 20 and/or the elongated portion 44 of
the upper skin contacting surface 40. In certain embodiments, upper skin contacting surface 40
may be smooth. However, other embodiments might include the use text, texture, pattern, lines,
icons, or channels to promote a particular aesthetic or functional benefit, for example, skin
stretching of tactile feel on the skin.
         The one or more blades 20 may be mounted within the housing 18 and secured with one
or more clips 26. The clips 26 may be parallel to each other and may extend into the housing to
secure the blades to the housing. Other assembly methods known to those skilled in the art may
also be used to secure the one or more blades 20 to the housing 18 including, but not limited to
wire wrapping, cold forming, hot staking, insert molding, and adhesives. The combination of the
solid polymeric lubrication member 25 and the clips 26 may improve the glide of the shaving
blade unit 10 against the skin during a shaving stroke.      The lateral ends 46, 48 of the solid
polymeric lubrication member 25 may be positioned directly in front of (e.g., immediately
adjacent) the clips 26. Accordingly, glide may be enhanced because lubricants released from the
solid polymeric lubrication member 25 may be deposited directly onto the metallic clips 26
during a shaving stroke. The respective clips 26 may be spaced apart from the lateral ends 46, 48
during assembly to allow the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 to absorb water and swell
during use. As the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 swells, the lateral ends may contact the
clips 26. The clips 26 may be axially aligned with the lateral ends to improve the amount of
lubrication deposited onto the clips 26.
         In certain embodiments, the elastomeric member 30 having a plurality of fins 32 between
the at least one blade and the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 to stretch the skin for
proving a closer shave. The fins 32 may extend generally parallel to the at least one blade 20
and/or the elongated portion 44 of the upper skin contacting surface 40 on the solid polymeric

                                                 6
lubrication member 25. The elastomeric member 30 may be positioned between the lateral ends
lateral end 46,48 to provide a sufficient amount of glide (e.g., lubrication) and skin stretching.
For example, the shaving blade unit 10 may provide more glide toward the sides of the housing
18 and increased skin stretch in front of the blades 20 (i.e., toward the middle of the housing 18)
while still providing lubrication in front of the blades 20.      Accordingly, the consumer may
experience increased comfort from the lubrication without sacrificing the close shave achieved
by sufficient skin stretching in front of the blades 20. In certain embodiments, the elastomeric
member 30 may directly contact the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 (e.g., during
assembly or during a shaving stroke as the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 absorbs water
and swells). The close spacing of the elastomeric member 30 and the solid polymeric lubrication
member 25 may facilitate more lubricants to be deposited onto the elastomeric member 30. In
certain embodiments, an elongated gap 34 may be positioned between the guard 22 and the
elastomeric member 30 (e.g., one of the fins 32).
        In certain embodiments, the housing 18 may be molded from NorylTM (a blend of
polyphenylene oxide (PPO) and polystyrene developed by General Electric Plastics, now SABIC
Innovative Plastics). The housing 18 may be molded from other semi-rigid polymers having a
Shore A hardness of about 50, 60, or 70 to about 90, 110, or 120.             The solid polymeric
lubrication member 25 may be a separate molded component that is mounted to the housing 18.
The solid polymeric lubrication member 25 may be molded from a lubricious shaving aid
composite that has one or more water-leachable shaving aid materials to provide increased
comfort during shaving. The shaving aid composite may include one or more skin lubricating
water-soluble polymers such as, polyethylene oxide, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, polyacrylamide,
hydroxypropyl cellulose, polyvinyl imidazoline, and polyhydroxyethylmethacrylate.             Other
water-soluble polymers may include the polyethylene oxides generally known as POLYOX
(available from Dow Chemical) or ALKOX (available from Meisei Chemical Works, Kyota,
Japan). These polyethylene oxides may have molecular weights of about 100,000 to 6 million,
for example, about 300,000 to 5 million. The polyethylene oxide may comprises a blend of about
40 to 80% of polyethylene oxide having an average molecular weight of about 5 million (e.g.,
POLYOX COAGULANT) and about 60 to 20% of polyethylene oxide having an average
molecular weight of about 300,000 (e.g., POLYOX WSR-N-750). The polyethylene oxide blend
may also contain up to about 10% by weight of a low molecular weight (i.e., MW<10,000)
polyethylene glycol such as PEG-100.

                                                 7
         The shaving aid composite may also optionally include an inclusion complex of a skin
soothing agent with a cylcodextrin, low molecular weight water-soluble release enhancing agents
such as polyethylene glycol (e.g., 1-10% by weight), water-swellable release enhancing agents
such as cross-linked polyacrylics (e.g., 2-7% by weight), colorants, antioxidants, preservatives,
microbicidal agents, beard softeners, astringents, depilatories, medicinal agents, conditioning
agents, moisturizers, cooling agents, etc.
         Referring to Fig. 2, a perspective assembly view of the shaving blade unit 10 is shown
illustrating the assembly of the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 to the housing 18. The
solid polymeric lubrication member 25 may include a base 50 having a bottom surface 52. The
bottom surface 52 of the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 (e.g., the base 50) may have at
least one protrusion 54, 56 having a length "L1". In certain embodiments, the solid polymeric
lubrication member 25 may have two spaced apart protrusions 54, 56. The length of one or more
of the protrusions 54, 56 may be greater than the distance "dl" from the respective protrusion 56
to a lateral edge 57 of the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 to improve securement to the
housing 18. The protrusions 54, 56 may be spaced apart by a distance "d2" that is less than the
length "Li" of at least one of the protrusions. The protrusions 54, 56 may each have an enlarged
distal end 58, 59 to secure the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 to the housing 18.        The
length of the enlarged distal ends 58, 59 may correspond to the overall length LI of the
corresponding protrusion 54, 56. The enlarged distal ends 58, 59 may each have a width "wl"
(measured in a direction transverse to the blades) that is less than the length Li. For example, wl
may be about 0.75mm, 0.85mm, or 1.0mm to about 1.1mm, 1.2mm, or 1.3mm. The dimensions
and spacing of the protrusions 54, 56 and the enlarged distal ends 58, 59 may help prevent the
solid polymeric lubrication member 25 from separating from the housing 18 as the solid
polymeric lubrication member 25 absorbs water and swells.           For example, the absorption of
water may cause the lateral end 57 to peel away from the housing.
         The housing 18 may have a top surface 60 that defines a pocket 62 The top surface 60 of
the housing 18 may also define least one aperture 64, 66 positioned within the pocket 62 between
a front wall 68 of the housing 18 and the elastomeric member 30. For example, the top surface
60 may define two spaced apart apertures 64, 66 that extend parallel to the fins 32 and/or the at
least one blade 20 and are positioned in front of the elastomeric member 30. The apertures 64,
66 may extend from the top surface 60 to a bottom surface of the housing (not shown). As will
be explained in greater detail below, the apertures 64, 66 may be dimensioned to receive one of
the corresponding protrusions 54, 56. The apertures 64, 66 may each have a length "L2" (i.e.,

                                                  8
measured parallel to the blade(s) 20) that is greater than its width "w2". For example, L2 may be
about 10mm, 11mm or 12mm to about 13mm, 14mm or 15mm. In certain embodiments, w2 may
be about 0.75mm, 0.85mm, or 1.0mm to about 1.1mm, 1.2mm, or 1.3mm. The apertures 64, 66
and/or the enlarged distal ends 58, 59 may have a length to width ratio that is greater that 2:1 to
improve the security of the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 to the housing 18. In certain
embodiments, L2 may be greater than the length of the respective protrusions 54, 56 and/or the
respective enlarged distal ends 58, 59 by about 15% to about 40%. The relationship between the
length of the apertures 64,66 and the length of the enlarged distal ends 58, 59 can impact
alignment during assembly and the amount of force required to deflect the front wall 68 of the
housing, which may influence high speed assembly. For example, if the length of the enlarged
distal ends 58, 59 are too similar to the length of the respective apertures 64, 66, the enlarged
distal ends 58, 59 may not align properly within the aperture 64,66 or the assembly force may be
too great, thus damaging the enlarged distal ends 58, 59. The apertures 64, 66 may be spaced
apart by a distance "d3" to improve rigidity of the housing 18 and prevent the solid polymeric
lubrication member 25 from distorting the housing 18 as the solid polymeric lubrication member
25 swells. For example, a single elongated slot may cause the housing 18 to be too flexible and
the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 may become disengage during use.
        Now with additional reference to Fig. 3, the attachment of the solid polymeric lubrication
member 25 to the housing 18 will be explained in greater detail. Fig. 3 illustrates a cross section
view of the shaving blade unit 10, taken generally along the line 3-3 of Fig. 1. The solid
polymeric lubrication member 25 may be attached to the housing 18 such that the base 50 of the
solid polymeric lubrication member 25 is generally disposed within the pocket 62. The shape of
the pocket 62 may generally correspond to the shape of the solid polymeric lubrication member
25. For example, a pair of sidewalls 70, 72 and the front wall 68 of the housing 18 and the
elastomeric member 30 (e.g., a front wall 68 or the fins 32 of the elastomeric member 30) may
surround the solid polymeric lubrication member 25.           According, the housing 18 may help
contain the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 as the solid polymeric lubrication member 25
absorbs water and swells during shaving.
        The solid polymeric lubrication member 25 may be pressed into the pocket 62. One or
more of the protrusions 54,56 may be pressed into one or more of the corresponding apertures 64,
66 of the housing 18 with corresponding angles of the enlarged distal end(s) 58, 59 of the
protrusion(s) 54, 56 and the aperture(s) 64, 66 of the housing 18 facilitating the front wall 68 of
the housing to deform. The front wall 68 of the housing 18 may also be flexible to allow for

                                                 9
some expansion caused by the absorption of water and swelling of the solid polymeric lubrication
member. The enlarge distal end(s) 58, 59 may pass through the corresponding aperture 64,66
and engage a bottom surface 76 of the housing 18 to secure the solid polymeric lubrication
member 25 in place such that the bottom surface 52 of the solid polymeric lubrication member 25
maintains contact with a flat seat surface 74 of the housing 18.    The enlarged distal ends 58, 59
are exposed to water because they engage the bottom surface 76 of the housing 18. The solid
polymeric lubrication member 25 and the enlarged distal ends 58, 59 are molded from a water
soluble polymer, as previously described. Accordingly, the enlarged distal ends absorb more
water and swell to increase the force required to remove the solid polymeric lubrication member
25 from the housing 18. As shown in Fig. 3, the solid polymeric lubrication member 25 may
have a forward leading edge with a gradual slope.         A gradual slop may be an advantage
compared to typical straight lubrication bars because it may facilitate skin flow over the solid
polymeric lubrication member 25 while simultaneously reducing skin drag.
        The dimensions and values disclosed herein are not to be understood as being strictly
limited to the exact numerical values recited. Instead, unless otherwise specified, each such
dimension is intended to mean both the recited value and a functionally equivalent range
surrounding that value. For example, a dimension disclosed as "40 mm" is intended to mean
"about 40 mm".
        Every document cited herein, including any cross referenced or related patent or
application and any patent application or patent to which this application claims priority or
benefit thereof, is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety unless expressly
excluded or otherwise limited. The citation of any document is not an admission that it is prior
art with respect to any invention disclosed or claimed herein or that it alone, or in any
combination with any other reference or references, teaches, suggests or discloses any such
invention.   Further, to the extent that any meaning or definition of a term in this document
conflicts with any meaning or definition of the same term in a document incorporated by
reference, the meaning or definition assigned to that term in this document shall govern.
        While particular embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and
described, it would be obvious to those skilled in the art that various other changes and
modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is
therefore intended to cover in the appended claims all such changes and modifications that are
within the scope of this invention.

                                                   10
                                               CLAIMS
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
       1.  A shaving blade unit comprising:
      a housing (18) having a bottom surface (52) and a top surface (60) defining a pair of
elongated spaced apart apertures (64,66) extending from the top surface to the bottom surface;
      at least one blade (20) mounted to the housing, the blade having a blade edge (21)
extending generally parallel to the pair of apertures;
      a solid polymeric lubrication member (25) having an upper skin contact surface (40) and an
opposing base (50);
      a pair protrusions (54,56) extending from the base, each protrusion having an enlarged
distal end (58, 59), the enlarged distal ends of the protrusions each having a dimension greater
than a dimension of the corresponding aperture wherein inserting the protrusion into the
corresponding aperture deflects a front wall (68) of the housing and each of the enlarged distal
ends engage the bottom surface (52) of the housing and the solid polymeric lubrication member
and the enlarged distal ends are molded from a water soluble polymer.
      2.   The shaving blade unit of claim 1 wherein the solid polymeric lubrication is positioned
within a pocket (62) defined by the front wall and a pair of internal sidewalls (70,72) of the
housing.
      3.   The shaving blade unit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
pocket is further defined by an elastomeric member (30) positioned in front of the at least one
blade.
      4.   The shaving blade unit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein each
protrusion has a length that is greater than a distance measured from one of the protrusions to a
corresponding lateral edge (57) of the solid polymeric lubrication member.
      5.   The shaving blade unit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein each
protrusion has a length that is greater than a distance between the protrusions.

                                                 11
       6.  The shaving blade unit according to any one of the preceding claims further
comprising an elastomeric member having a plurality of fins (32) between the at least one blade
and the solid polymeric lubrication member.
       7.  The shaving blade unit of claim 6 wherein solid polymeric lubrication member has an
elongated portion in front of the fins and a pair of lateral ends that extend from the elongated
portion toward the at least one blade.
       8.  The shaving blade unit of claim 7 wherein the fins are positioned between the pair of
lateral ends of the solid polymeric lubrication member.
       9.  The shaving blade unit according to any one of the preceding claims further
comprising a clip (26) securing the at least one blade to the housing wherein at least one of the
lateral ends of the solid polymeric lubrication member is axially aligned with the clip.
       10. The shaving blade unit according to any one of the preceding claims further
comprising a pair of metal clips (26) securing the at least one blade to the housing wherein the
pair of lateral ends of the solid polymeric lubrication member are axially aligned with the
respective clips.
       11. The shaving blade unit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
elastomeric member has a plurality of fins between the at least one blade and the solid polymeric
lubrication member, wherein an upper skin contact surface            (40) of the solid polymeric
lubrication member has an elongated portion (44) in front of the fins and a pair of lateral ends
(46,48) that extend from the elongated portion toward the at least one blade.
       12. The shaving blade unit of claim 11 wherein the fins are positioned between the pair of
lateral ends of the solid polymeric lubrication member.
       13. The shaving blade unit of claim 11 or 12 further comprising a pair of clips securing the
at least one blade to the housing wherein the pair of lateral ends of the solid polymeric
lubrication member are immediately adjacent to the clip.

                                                  12
       14. The shaving blade unit of claim 13 wherein the clips are axially aligned with the pair
of lateral ends of the solid polymeric lubrication member.
       15. The shaving blade unit according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the guard
is spaced apart from the solid polymeric lubrication member defining an elongated gap (34).

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
