                                       ABSTRACT
          The invention provides methods for identifying immunobinders, such as scFv
  antibodies, capable of specifically binding to cell surface antigens, and compositions
5 identified according to said methods.

                                                1
                  METHODS FOR IDENTIFYING IMMUNOBINDERS
                             OF CELL-SURFACE ANTIGENS
           The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
 5 application number <removed-apn>, which is in turn a divisional application from
   Australian patent application number 2013203478, which is in turn a divisional
   application from Australian patent application number 2010217120,                the entire
   disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
10 Background Information
           Immunobinders, including antibodies, their conjugates and derivatives are
   hugely commercially important as therapeutic and diagnostic agents.             Traditional
   methods for antibody preparation or screening usually utilize soluble antigens.
   However, for certain membrane-bound protein antigens, the conformational epitopes
15 on the antigens are altered if the antigens are solubilized from the membrane,
   resulting in the failure of antibody preparation or screening. In addition, one major
   problem in immunoblotting and affinity chromatography methods is that antibodies
   with a moderate affinity for the antigen will be selected. This allows the inclusion of
   many cross-reactive or sticky antibodies, causing burdens in the sequential screening
20 procedures. Although cells expressing membrane-bound antigens have been used
   directly for antibody preparation, an efficient screening method capable of detecting
   and enriching high affinity antibodies against cell-surface antigens is still lacking.
   Summary of the Invention
25         The invention provides methods for identifying immunobinders, such as scFv
   antibodies, capable of specifically binding to cell surface antigens. The methods of
   the invention generally comprise contacting labeled antigen-expressing cells with
   labeled immunobinder-expressing cells and isolating immunobinder-expressing cells
   that bind to the antigen-expressing cells using a cell sorter. These methods are
30 particularly useful for the rapid and efficient identification of immunobinders against
   conformational epitopes present in integral membrane proteins, such as GPCRs. The
   invention also provides isolated immunobinders and immunobinder-encoding nucleic
   acids identified using the methods of the invention.

                                                 2
            In one    aspect   the   invention provides     a method      for identifying  an
   immunobinder that specifically binds to a cell surface antigen of interest. The method
   comprises: providing a plurality of immunobinder-expressing cells operably linked a
   first sortable label; providing a plurality of antigen-expressing cells operably linked to
 5 a second sortable label, wherein the antigen of interest is displayed at the surface of
   the antigen expressing cell; contacting the antigen-expressing cells with the
   immunobinder-expressing cells; and separating from the plurality of immunobinder
   expressing cells, one or more immunobinder-expressing cells that can specifically
   bind to the antigen-expressing cells using a cell sorter (e.g., a fluorescence activated
10 cell sorter), wherein the presence of the first and second sortable label in a single
   cellular complex (e.g., a complex formed between an antigen and a B-cell receptor) is
   indicative of the binding of an immunobinder-expressing cell to an antigen-expressing
   cell, thereby identifying an immunobinder that binds to a antigen of interest.
            In some embodiments, the separated immunobinder-expressing cells are
15 clonally isolated.     In some embodiments, the immunobinder-expressing cells are
   subjected to clonal expansion. In other embodiments, the immunobinder-encoding
   nucleic acid sequence is isolated from immunobinder-expressing cells. Suitable
   methods for isolation of the immunobinder-encoding nucleic acid sequence include
   PCR, e.g., single-cell PCR. The immunobinder-encoding nucleic acid sequence can
20 be isolated after the cells are clonally isolated and/or after clonal expansion.
            In some embodiments, immunobinder-expressing cells isolated using the
   methods of the invention are subjected to a cell-based assays in order to functionally
   characterize the immunobinder. Suitable cell-based assays include CELISA.
            In some embodiments, the immunobinder is an antibody.             Such antibodies
25 include, mouse, rabbit, rabbitized, chicken, camel, camelized, human, humanized and
   chimeric antibodies. Suitable antibody formats include, without limitation, Fab, Dab,
   Nanobody and scFv.
            In some embodiments, the antigen of interest is expressed from an exogenous
   gene.     In other embodiments, the antigen of interest is a genetically engineered
30 antigen.     In other embodiments, the antigen of interest is an integral membrane
   protein.    Suitable integral membrane proteins include, without limitation, GPCRs
   (e.g., CXCR2) or ion channels.

                                                3
            In some embodiments, the first or second sortable label is a fluorescent label.
   Suitable    fluorescent  labels    include,  without  limitation,  fluorescent  proteins,
   antibody/fluor conjugates and fluorescent cellular labels.
            In some embodiments, the antigen-expressing cells are yeast or mammalian
 5 cells (e.g., human cells). In some embodiments, the antigen-expressing cells express
   an exogenous antigen.         In some embodiments the antigen-expressing cells are
   transfected with an expression vector.
            In some embodiments, the immunobinder-expressing            cells are yeast or
   mammalian cells. Suitable mammalian cells include, without limitation, B-cells, e.g.,
10 rabbit B-cells.    In some embodiments the B-cells are isolated from an immunized
   animal, e.g., an animal immunized by DNA vaccination. In some embodiments, the
   immunobinder-expressing        cells comprise an immunobinder expressed from an
   expression vector.
            In another aspect, the invention provides an isolated nucleic acid molecule
15 encoding an immunobinder identified by the methods of the invention.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a method of producing an
   immunobinder capable of binding to an antigen of interest, comprising introducing an
   immunobinder-encoding nucleic acid sequence identified by the methods of the
   invention into an expression environment such that the encoded immunobinder is
20 produced.
            In another aspect, the invention provides an immunobinder produced by the
   methods of the invention.
            In another aspect, the invention also provides a method for identifying a B-cell
   clone that specifically binds to a cell surface antigen of interest comprising:
25 immunizing an animal with DNA encoding a cell surface antigen; isolating B-cells
   from the immunized animal; labeling the B-cells with a first sortable label; providing
   a plurality of antigen-expressing cells operably linked to a second sortable label,
   wherein the antigen of interest is displayed at the surface of the antigen expressing
   cell; contacting the antigen-expressing cells with the B-cells; and separating from the
30 plurality of B-cells, one or more B-cells that can specifically bind to the antigen
   expressing cells using a cell sorter, wherein the presence of the first and second
   sortable label in a single cellular complex is indicative of the binding of an B-cell to
   an antigen-expressing cell, thereby identifying a B-cell clone that binds to a antigen of
   interest.

                                                4
   Brief Description of the Figures
            Figure 1 schematically shows a B-cell 1 labeled with a fluorescent antibody 2
   interacting with a target-expressing cell stained with an intracellular dye 3. (4: target
 5 of choice/antigen; 5: B cell receptor (BCR)).
            Figure 2: the FACS selection process of rabbit B cells binding to ESBA903
   soluble target. Fig. 2A: Lymphocytes were gated according to forward and side
   scatter. Fig. 2B: Among them, IgG+ IgM- cells (probably memory B cells) were
   selected (shown circled). Fig. 2C: Cells double-stained with ESBA903-PE and
10 ESBA903-PerCP (shown circled) were expected to encode high affinity IgGs against
   ESBA903. Cells showing the brightest fluorescence (uncircled) were sorted in 96-well
   plates.
            Figure 3: Beads coated with anti-TNFalpha antibodies (PE labeled) bind to
   TNFalpha-transfected CHO cells (upper panel). Control beads coated anti-CD19
15 antibodies (APC labeled) did not bind TNFalpha transfected CHO cells (middle
   panel). Beads coated with anti-TNFalpha antibodies (PE labeled) did not bind to
   wildtype (wt) CHO cells (lower panel). Dot plots on the left show forward and side
   scatters, which indicate respectively the size and the granularity of the events. The
   single beads (~3um) population was gated in P2. CHO cells eventually bound to
20 beads (~30 um) were gated in Pl. Dot plots in the middle show the P1 events (CHO
   cells) in respect to their PE or APC staining. Thus, cells interacting with anti
   TNFalpha beads would appear in P3 gate, and cells interacting with the anti-CD19
   beads would appear in P4 gate. On the right, statistics for each sample are detailed.
            Figure 4: Beads coated with anti-TNFalpha-PE and beads coated with anti
25 CD19-APC were mixed together with TNFalpha-transfected CHO cells. CHO cells
   were gated (P1), and among them cells binding to either anti-TNFalphaPE coated
   beads or anti-CD19-APC coated beads are shown in gates P3 and P4, respectively.
   Unbound beads are visible in gate P2.
            Figure 5a: FACS analysis of the 3 different CHO-TNFa - memory B cells
30 suspensions. Top left: dot plot showing cell suspension forward and side scatter. The
   living cells, comprising a large population of transgenic CHO cells and a small
   population of memory B cells, were gated. Down left: dot plot showing APC and
   FITC fluorescence. Here, the memory B cells (IgG+/IgM-) were gated. These two dot
   plots were identical for all three samples; therefore, they are shown only once.

                                                5
            Figure 5 b: histograms and population hierarchy of the 3 samples: top: CHO
   TNFa cells + ESBA105 + memory B cells of ESBA105 immunized rabbit; middle:
   CHO-TNFa cells + ESBA105 + memory B cells of non- immunized rabbit; down:
   CHO-TNFa cells + memory B cells of ESBA105 immunized rabbit. On the
 5 histograms, memory B cells binding to CHO cells were gated.
            Figure 6: FACS       analysis of the suspension consisting of immunized
   lymphocytes mixed with TNFa transgenic CHO cells "coated" with ESBA105. Figure
   6a: dot plot showing cell suspension forward and side scatter. The living cells,
   comprising a large population of transgenic CHO cells and a small population of
10 lymphocytes, were gated. Figure 6b: dot plot showing APC and FITC fluorescence.
   Here, the memory B cells (IgG+/IgM-) were gated. Figure 6c: histogram showing
   calcein fluorescence of gated memory B cells. Gated population was sorted (memory
   B cells binding to CHO- TNFa-ESBA105 complex).
            Figure 7: Bright field microscopy pictures of beads coated with anti-TNFU
15 IgG which interact with CHO-TNFa (B220) transgenic cells.
            Figure 8: Bright field microscopy pictures (left column) and fluorescence
   microscopy pictures (right column) of CHO-TNFalpha/ESBA105 cells (big cells)
   bound to B cells, which have anti-ESBA105 antibodies on the surface (smaller cells).
20 Detailed Description
            The invention provides methods for identifying immunobinders, such as scFv
   antibodies, capable of specifically binding to cell surface antigens. The methods of
   the invention generally comprise contacting labeled antigen-expressing cells with
   labeled immunobinder-expressing cells and isolating immunobinder-expressing cells
25 that bind to the antigen-expressing cells using a cell sorter.        These methods are
   particularly useful for the rapid and efficient identification of immunobinders against
   conformational epitopes present in integral membrane proteins, such as GPCRs. The
   invention also provides isolated immunobinders and immunobinder-encoding nucleic
   acids identified using the methods of the invention.
30          In one    aspect   the  invention provides     a method     for identifying    an
   immunobinder that specifically binds to a cell surface antigen of interest. The method
   comprises: providing a plurality of immunobinder-expressing cells operably linked to
   a first sortable label; providing aplurality of antigen-expressing cells operably linked
   to a second sortable label, wherein the antigen of interest is displayed at the surface of

                                               6
   the antigen expressing cell;      contacting the antigen-expressing      cells with the
   immunobinder-expressing cells; and separating from the plurality of immunobinder
   expressing cells, one or more immunobinder-expressing cells that can specifically
   bind to the antigen-expressing cells using a cell sorter (e.g., a fluorescence activated
 5 cell sorter), wherein the presence of the first and second sortable label in a single
   cellular complex (e.g., a complex formed between an antigen and a B-cell receptor) is
   indicative of the binding of an immunobinder-expressing cell to an antigen-expressing
   cell, thereby identifying an immunobinder that binds to an antigen of interest.
            In some embodiments, the separated immunobinder-expressing             cells are
10 clonally isolated.
            In certain embodiments, the clonally isolated immunobinder-expressing cells
   are subjected to clonal expansion using methods well-known to those of skill in the
   art.
            In other embodiments, the immunobinder-encoding nucleic acid sequence is
15 isolated from immunobinder-expressing cells. Isolation of the nucleic acid sequence
   can occur after clonal isolation or after clonal expansion. Suitable methods for
   isolation of the immunobinder-encoding nucleic acid sequence include PCR, e.g.,
   single-cell PCR.
            In some embodiments, immunobinder-expressing cells isolated using the
20 methods of the invention are subject to a cell-based assays in order to functionally
   characterize the immunobinder. Suitable cell-based assays include CELISA.
            In some embodiments, the immunobinder is an antibody.           Such antibodies
   include, mouse, rabbit, rabbitized, chicken, camel, camelized, human, humanized and
   chimeric antibodies. Suitable antibody formats include, without limitation, Fab, Dab,
25 Nanobody and scFv.
            In some embodiments, the antigen of interest is expressed from an exogenous
   gene.     In other embodiments, the antigen of interest is a genetically engineered
   antigen.    In other embodiments, the antigen of interest is an integral membrane
   protein. Suitable integral membrane proteins include, without limitation, G protein
30 coupled receptors (GPCRs, such as CXCR2) or ion channels.
            In some embodiments, the first or second sortable label is a fluorescent label.
   Suitable    fluorescent  labels  include,  without   limitation,   fluorescent  proteins,
   antibody/fluor conjugates and fluorescent cellular labels.

                                                7
            In some embodiments, the antigen-expressing cells are yeast or mammalian
   cells (e.g., human cells). In some embodiments, the antigen-expressing cells express
   an exogenous antigen.         In some embodiments the antigen-expressing cells are
   transfected with an expression vector.
 5          In some embodiments, the immunobinder-expressing cells are yeast or
   mammalian cells. Suitable mammalian cells include, without limitation, B-cells, e.g.,
   rabbit B-cells. In some embodiments the B-cells are isolated from an immunized
   animal, e.g., an animal immunized by DNA vaccination. In some embodiments, the
   immunobinder-expressing        cells comprise an immunobinder expressed from an
10 expression vector.
            In another aspect, the invention provides an isolated nucleic acid molecule
   encoding an immunobinder identified by the methods of the invention.
            In another aspect, the invention provides a method of producing an
   immunobinder capable of binding to an antigen of interest, comprising introducing an
15 immunobinder-encoding nucleic acid sequence identified by the methods of the
   invention into an expression environment such that the encoded immunobinder is
   produced.
            In another aspect, the invention provides an immunobinder produced by the
   methods of the invention.
20          In another aspect, the invention also provides a method for identifying a B-cell
   clone that specifically binds to a cell surface antigen of interest comprising:
   immunizing an animal with DNA encoding a cell surface antigen; isolating B-cells
   from the immunized animal; labeling the B-cells with a first sortable label; providing
   a plurality of antigen-expressing cells operably linked to a second sortable label,
25 wherein the antigen of interest is displayed at the surface of the antigen expressing
   cell; contacting the antigen-expressing cells with the B-cells; and separating from the
   plurality of B-cells, one or more B-cells that can specifically bind to the antigen
   expressing cells using a cell sorter, wherein the presence of the first and second
   sortable label in a single cellular complex is indicative of the binding of an B-cell to
30 an antigen-expressing cell, thereby identifying a B-cell clone that binds to a antigen of
   interest.
   Definitions

                                                8
           In order that the present invention may be more readily understood, certain
   terms will be defined as follows. Additional definitions are set forth throughout the
   detailed description.
           The term "antibody" refers to whole antibodies and any antigen binding
 5 fragment     (i.e., "antigen-binding   portion,"  "antigen    binding   polypeptide,"  or
   "immunobinder") or single chain thereof         An "antibody" refers to a glycoprotein
   comprising at least two heavy (H) chains and two light (L) chains inter-connected by
   disulfide bonds, or an antigen binding portion thereof. Each heavy chain is comprised
   of a heavy chain variable region (abbreviated herein as VH) and a heavy chain
10 constant region.     The heavy chain constant region is comprised of three domains,
   CH1, CH2 and CH3. Each light chain is comprised of a light chain variable region
   (abbreviated herein as VL) and a light chain constant region. The light chain constant
   region is comprised of one domain, CL.         The VH and VL regions can be further
   subdivided into regions of hypervariability, termed complementarity determining
15 regions (CDR), interspersed with regions that are more conserved, termed framework
   regions (FR). Each VH and VL is composed of three CDRs and four FRs, arranged
   from amino-terminus to carboxy-terminus in the following order: FRI, CDR1, FR2,
   CDR2, FR3, CDR3, FR4. The variable regions of the heavy and light chains contain
   a binding domain that interacts with an antigen.           The constant regions of the
20 antibodies may mediate the binding of the immunoglobulin to host tissues or factors,
   including various cells of the immune system (e.g., effector cells) and the first
   component (Clq) of the classical complement system.
           The term "chimeric antibody" refers to an antibody molecule in which (a) the
   constant region, or a portion thereof, is altered, replaced or exchanged so that the
25 antigen binding site (variable region) is linked to a constant region of a different or
   altered class, effector function and/or species, or an entirely different molecule which
   confers new properties to the chimeric antibody, e.g., an enzyme, toxin, hormone,
   growth factor, drug, etc.; or (b) the variable region, or a portion thereof, is altered,
   replaced or exchanged with a variable region having a different or altered antigen
30 specificity.
           The term "antigen-binding portion" of an antibody (or simply "antibody
   portion") refers to one or more fragments of an antibody that retain the ability to
   specifically bind to an antigen (e.g., TNF). It has been shown that the antigen-binding
   function of an antibody can be performed by fragments of a full-length antibody.

                                               9
   Examples of binding fragments encompassed within the term "antigen-binding
   portion" of an antibody include (i) a Fab fragment, a monovalent fragment consisting
   of the VL, VH, CL and CHI domains; (ii) a F(ab')2 fragment, a bivalent fragment
   comprising two Fab fragments linked by a disulfide bridge at the hinge region; (iii) a
 5 Fd fragment consisting of the VH and CHI domains; (iv) a Fv fragment consisting of
   the VL and VH domains of a single arm of an antibody, (v) a single domain such as a
   dAb fragment (Ward et al., (1989) Nature 341:544-546), which consists of a VH
   domain; and (vi) an isolated complementarity determining region (CDR) or (vii) a
   combination of two or more isolated CDRs which may optionally be joined by a
10 synthetic linker. Furthermore, although the two domains of the Fv fragment, VL and
   VH, are coded for by separate genes, they can be joined, using recombinant methods,
   by a synthetic linker that enables them to be made as a single protein chain in which
   the VL and VH regions pair to form monovalent molecules (known as single chain Fv
   (scFv); see e.g., Bird et al. (1988) Science 242:423-426; and Huston et al. (1988)
15 Proc. Nati. Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-5883).        Such single chain antibodies are also
   intended to be encompassed within the term "antigen-binding portion" of an antibody.
   These antibody fragments are obtained using conventional techniques known to those
   with skill in the art, and the fragments are screened for utility in the same manner as
   are intact antibodies.    Antigen-binding portions can be produced by recombinant
20 DNA techniques, or by enzymatic or chemical cleavage of intact immunoglobulins.
   Antibodies can be of different isotype, for example, an IgG (e.g., an IgGI, IgG2,
   IgG3, or IgG4 subtype), IgA1, IgA2, IgD, IgE, or IgM antibody.
           The term "immunobinder" refers to a molecule that contains all or a part of the
   antigen binding site of an antibody, e.g., all or part of the heavy and/or light chain
25 variable domain, such that the immunobinder specifically recognizes a target antigen.
   Non-limiting examples        of immunobinders     include  full-length immunoglobulin
   molecules and scFvs, as well as antibody fragments, including but not limited to (i) a
   Fab fragment, a monovalent fragment consisting of the VL, VH, CL and CH1
   domains; (ii) a F(ab')2 fragment, a bivalent fragment comprising two Fab fragments
30 linked by a disulfide bridge at the hinge region; (iii) a Fab' fragment, which is
   essentially   a  Fab    with   part of the    hinge   region   (see,  FUNDAMENTAL
   IMMUNOLOGY (Paul ed., 3.sup.rd ed. 1993); (iv) a Fd fragment consisting of the
   VH and CH1 domains; (v) a Fv fragment consisting of the VL and VH domains of a
   single arm of an antibody, (vi) a single domain antibody such as a Dab fragment

                                                10
   (Ward et al., (1989) Nature 341:544-546), which consists of a VH or VL domain, a
   Camelid (see Hamers-Casterman, et al., Nature 363:446-448 (1993), and Dumoulin, et
   al., Protein Science 11:500-515 (2002)) or a Shark antibody (e.g., shark Ig-NARs
   Nanobodies@; and (vii) a nanobody, a heavy chain variable region containing a single
 5 variable domain and two constant domains.
           As used herein, the term "functional property" is a property of a polypeptide
   (e.g., an immunobinder) for which an improvement (e.g., relative to a conventional
   polypeptide) is desirable and/or advantageous to one of skill in the art, e.g., in order to
   improve the manufacturing properties or therapeutic efficacy of the polypeptide. In
10 one embodiment, the functional property is improved stability (e.g., thermal stability).
   In another embodiment, the functional property is improved solubility (e.g., under
   cellular conditions).   In yet another embodiment, the functional property is non
   aggregation. In still another embodiment, the functional property is an improvement
   in expression (e.g., in a prokaryotic cell). In yet another embodiment the functional
15 property is an improvement in refolding yield following an inclusion body
   purification process.    In certain embodiments, the functional property is not an
   improvement in antigen binding affinity.
           The term "frameworks" refers to the art recognized portions of an antibody
   variable region that exist between the more divergent CDR regions. Such framework
20 regions are typically referred to as frameworks 1 through 4 (FRI, FR2, FR3, and FR4)
   and provide a scaffold for holding, in three-dimensional space, the three CDRs found
   in a heavy or light chain antibody variable region, such that the CDRs can form an
   antigen-binding surface. Such frameworks can also be referred to as scaffolds as they
   provide support for the presentation of the more divergent CDRs. Other CDRs and
25 frameworks    of the immunoglobulin superfamily, such as ankyrin repeats and
   fibronectin, can be used as antigen binding molecules (see also, for example, U.S.
   Patent Nos. 6,300,064, 6,815,540 and U.S. Pub. No. 20040132028).
           The term "epitope" or "antigenic determinant" refers to a site on an antigen to
   which an immunoglobulin or antibody specifically binds.           An epitope typically
30 includes at least 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 or 15 amino acids in a unique
   spatial conformation. See, e.g., Epitope Mapping Protocols in Methods in Molecular
   Biology, Vol. 66, G. E. Morris, Ed. (1996).
           The terms "specific binding", "selective binding", "selectively binds", and
   "specifically binds" refer to antibody binding to an epitope on a predetermined

                                               11
   antigen. Typically, the antibody binds with an affinity (KD) of approximately less
   than 10-7 M, such as approximately less than 10-8 M, 10-9 M or 1010 M or even lower.
           The term "KD," refers to the dissociation equilibrium constant of a particular
   antibody-antigen interaction.    Typically, the antibodies of the invention bind to an
 5 antigen with a dissociation equilibrium constant (KD) of less than approximately 10-7
   M, such as less than approximately 10-8 M, 10-9 M or        10   M or even lower, for
   example, as determined using surface plasmon resonance (SPR) technology in a
   BIACORE instrument.
           As used herein, "identity" refers to the sequence matching between two
10 polypeptides, molecules or between two nucleic acids. When a position in both of the
   two compared sequences is occupied by the same base or amino acid monomer
   subunit (for instance, if a position in each of the two DNA molecules is occupied by
   adenine, or a position in each of two polypeptides is occupied by a lysine), then the
   respective molecules are identical at that position. The "percentage identity" between
15 two sequences is a function of the number of matching positions shared by the two
   sequences divided by the number of positions compared x 100. For instance, if 6 of
   10 of the positions in two sequences are matched, then the two sequences have 60%
   identity.  By way of example, the DNA sequences CTGACT and CAGGTT share
   50% identity (3 of the 6 total positions are matched).     Generally, a comparison is
20 made when two sequences are aligned to give maximum identity. Such alignment can
   be provided using, for instance, the method of Needleman et al. (1970) J. Mol. Biol.
   48: 443-453, implemented conveniently by computer programs such as the Align
   program (DNAstar, Inc.).      The percent identity between two amino acid sequences
   can also be determined using the algorithm of E. Meyers and W. Miller (Comput.
25 Appl. Biosci., 4:11-17 (1988)) which has been incorporated into the ALIGN program
   (version 2.0), using a PAM120 weight residue table, a gap length penalty of 12 and a
   gap penalty of 4. In addition, the percent identity between two amino acid sequences
   can be determined using the Needleman and Wunsch (J. Mol. Biol. 48:444-453
   (1970)) algorithm which has been incorporated into the GAP program in the GCG
30 software package (available at www.gcg.com), using either a Blossum 62 matrix or a
   PAM250 matrix, and a gap weight of 16, 14, 12, 10, 8, 6, or 4 and a length weight of
   1,2,3,4,5,or 6.
           "Similar" sequences are those which, when aligned, share identical and similar
   amino acid residues, where similar residues are conservative substitutions for

                                               12
   corresponding amino acid residues in an aligned reference sequence. In this regard, a
   "conservative substitution" of a residue in a reference sequence is a substitution by a
   residue that is physically or functionally similar to the corresponding reference
   residue, e.g., that has a similar size, shape, electric charge, chemical properties,
 5 including the ability to form covalent or hydrogen bonds, or the like.           Thus, a
   "conservative substitution modified" sequence is one that differs from a reference
   sequence or a wild-type sequence in that one or more conservative substitutions are
   present.   The "percentage similarity" between two sequences is a function of the
   number of positions that contain matching residues or conservative substitutions
10 shared by the two sequences divided by the number of positions compared x 100. For
   instance, if 6 of 10 of the positions in two sequences are matched and 2 of 10
   positions contain conservative substitutions, then the two sequences have 80%
   positive similarity.
           As used herein, the term "conservative sequence modifications" is intended to
15 refer to amino acid modifications that do not negatively affect or alter the binding
   characteristics of the antibody containing the amino acid sequence. Such conservative
   sequence modifications include nucleotide and amino acid substitutions, additions and
   deletions.   For example, modifications can be introduced by standard techniques
   known in the art, such as site-directed mutagenesis and PCR-mediated mutagenesis.
20 Conservative amino acid substitutions include ones in which the amino acid residue is
   replaced with an amino acid residue having a similar side chain. Families of amino
   acid residues having similar side chains have been defined in the art. These families
   include amino acids with basic side chains (e.g., lysine, arginine, histidine), acidic
   side chains (e.g., aspartic acid, glutamic acid), uncharged polar side chains (e.g.,
25 glycine, asparagine, glutamine, serine, threonine, tyrosine, cysteine, tryptophan),
   nonpolar side chains (e.g., alanine, valine, leucine, isoleucine, proline, phenylalanine,
   methionine), beta-branched side chains (e.g., threonine, valine, isoleucine) and
   aromatic side chains (e.g., tyrosine, phenylalanine, tryptophan, histidine). Thus, a
   predicted nonessential amino acid residue may be replaced with another amino acid
30 residue from the same side chain family. Methods of identifying nucleotide and
   amino acid conservative substitutions which do not eliminate antigen binding are
   well-known in the art (see, e.g., Brummell et al., Biochem. 32:1180-1187 (1993);
   Kobayashi et al. Protein Eng. 12(10):879-884 (1999); and Burks et al. Proc. Natl.
   Acad. Sci. USA 94:412-417 (1997)).

                                                 13
             "Amino acid consensus sequence" as used herein refers to an amino acid
   sequence that can be generated using a matrix of at least two, and preferably more,
   aligned amino acid sequences, and allowing for gaps in the alignment, such that it is
   possible to determine the most frequent amino acid residue at each position. The
 5 consensus sequence is that sequence which comprises the amino acids which are most
   frequently represented at each position. In the event that two or more amino acids are
   equally represented at a single position, the consensus sequence includes both or all of
   those amino acids.
             The amino acid sequence of a protein can be analyzed at various levels. For
10 example, conservation or variability can be exhibited at the single residue level,
   multiple residue level, multiple residue with gaps, etc.           Residues can exhibit
   conservation of the identical residue or can be conserved at the class level. Examples
   of amino acid classes include polar but uncharged R groups (Serine, Threonine,
   Asparagine and Glutamine); positively charged R groups (Lysine, Arginine, and
15 Histidine); negatively      charged R groups (Glutamic acid and Aspartic           acid);
   hydrophobic R groups (Alanine, Isoleucine, Leucine, Methionine, Phenylalanine,
   Tryptophan, Valine and Tyrosine); and special amino acids (Cysteine, Glycine and
   Proline). Other classes are known to one of skill in the art and may be defined using
   structural determinations or other data to assess substitutability.     In that sense, a
20 substitutable amino acid can refer to any amino acid which can be substituted and
   maintain functional conservation at that position.
             It will be recognized, however, that amino acids of the same class may vary in
   degree by their biophysical properties. For example, it will be recognized that certain
   hydrophobic R groups (e.g., Alanine,) are more hydrophilic              (i.e., of higher
25 hydrophilicity or lower hydrophobicity) than other hydrophobic R groups (e.g., Valine
   or Leucine).      Relative hydrophilicity or hydrophobicity can be determined using art
   recognized methods (see, e.g., Rose et al., Science, 229: 834-838 (1985) and Comette
   et al., J. Mol. Biol., 195: 659-685 (1987)).
             As used herein, when one amino acid sequence (e.g., a first VH or VL
30 sequence) is aligned with one or more additional amino acid sequences (e.g., one or
   more VH or VL sequences in a database), an amino acid position in one sequence
   (e.g., the first VH or VL sequence) can be compared to a "corresponding position" in
   the one or more additional amino acid sequences. As used herein, the "corresponding
   position" represents the equivalent position in the sequence(s) being compared when

                                               14
   the sequences are optimally aligned, i.e., when the sequences are aligned to achieve
   the highest percent identity or percent similarity.
           The term "nucleic acid molecule," refers to DNA molecules and RNA
   molecules. A nucleic acid molecule may be single-stranded or double-stranded, but
 5 preferably is double-stranded DNA. A nucleic acid is "operably linked" when it is
   placed into a functional relationship with another nucleic acid sequence. For instance,
   a promoter or enhancer is operably linked to a coding sequence if it affects the
   transcription of the sequence.
           The term "vector," refers to a nucleic acid molecule capable of transporting
10 another nucleic acid to which it has been linked. One type of vector is a "plasmid,"
   which refers to a circular double stranded DNA loop into which additional DNA
   segments may be ligated. Another type of vector is a viral vector, wherein additional
   DNA segments may be ligated into the viral genome. Certain vectors are capable of
   autonomous replication in a host cell into which they are introduced (e.g., bacterial
15 vectors having a bacterial origin of replication and episomal mammalian vectors).
   Other vectors (e.g., non-episomal mammalian vectors) can be integrated into the
   genome of a host cell upon introduction into the host cell, and thereby are replicated
   along with the host genome.
           The term "host cell" refers to a cell into which an expression vector has been
20 introduced.    Host cells can include bacterial, microbial, plant or animal cells.
   Bacteria, which are susceptible to transformation, include members of the
   enterobacteriaceae, such as strains of Escherichia coli or Salmonella; Bacillaceae,
   such as Bacillus subtilis; Pneumococcus; Streptococcus, and Haemophilus influenzae.
   Suitable microbes include Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Pichia pastoris.        Suitable
25 animal host cell lines include CHO (Chinese Hamster Ovary lines) and NSO cells.
           The terms "treat," "treating," and "treatment," refer to therapeutic or
   preventative measures described herein.          The methods of "treatment" employ
   administration to a subject, in need of such treatment, an antibody of the present
   invention, for example, a subject having a GPCR-mediated disorder or a subject who
30 ultimately may acquire such a disorder, in order to prevent, cure, delay, reduce the
   severity of, or ameliorate one or more symptoms of the disorder or recurring disorder,
   or in order to prolong the survival of a subject beyond that expected in the absence of
   such treatment.

                                                15
           The term "effective dose" or "effective dosage" refers to an amount sufficient
   to achieve or at least partially achieve the desired effect.    The term "therapeutically
   effective dose" is defined as an amount sufficient to cure or at least partially arrest the
   disease and its complications in a patient already suffering from the disease. Amounts
 5 effective for this use will depend upon the severity of the disorder being treated and
   the general state of the patient's own immune system.
           The term "subject" refers to any human or non-human animal. For example,
   the methods and compositions of the present invention can be used to treat a subject
   with a GPCR-mediated disorder.
10         The term "rabbit" as used herein refers to an animal belonging to the family of
   the leporidae.
           The term "cell sorter" refers to any means for separating cells based upon the
   presence of a detectable "sortable" label.     Such means include, without limitation, a
   fluorescence activation cell sorter. Any cellular labels can be used as sortable labels
15 including, without limitation, fluorescent proteins, e.g. Green fluorescent protein,
   antibody/fluor conjugates and fluorescent cellular labels, e.g., fluorescent calcium
   ionophores
           The term "cellular complex" refers to a one or more antigen-expressing cells
   bound to one or more immunobinder-expressing              cells, wherein the binding is
20 mediated by the antigen on the surface of the antigen-expressing cell.            In some
   embodiments, the binding of an antigen-expressing cell to an immunobinder
   expressing cell consists of a direct interaction between the antigen on the surface of
   the   antigen-expressing    cell   and  the   immunobinder      on the    surface  of the
   immunobinder-expressing cell.
25         The term "clonally isolating" refers to any means for the isolation of
   individual cell clones from a cell population.          Suitable means include, without
   limitation, the limiting dilution and transfer of cells to multiwell plates such that each
   well contains no more than a single cell.
           The term "obtaining the immunobinder-encoding nucleic acid sequence"
30 refers to any means for obtaining the nucleic acid sequence of an immunobinder
   expressed by an immunobinder-expressing cell.           Suitable means include, without
   limitation, nucleic acid isolation, PCR amplification and DNA sequencing of the
   immunobinder-encoding nucleic acid sequence from the immunobinder-expressing

                                                16
   cell.   In some embodiments, immunobinder-encoding nucleic acid sequences are
   amplified by PCR from single cells, i.e. "single cell PCR".
            The term "exogenous antigen" refers to an antigen not normally expressed in a
   particular host cell.   For example, an exogenous antigen can be from a different
 5 kingdom, phylum class, order, genus or species from the host cell, e.g., a human
   antigen expressed in a yeast cell. Additionally or alternatively, an exogenous antigen
   can be from the same species but inappropriately expressed in that host cell, e.g, a
   lung specific antigen expressed in a brain cell. "Exogenous antigen" also refers to
   mutant an antigen not normally found in a normal cell, e.g., a cancer specific mutant
10 antigen expressed in a lung cell.
            The term "genetically engineered antigen" refers to any antigen that has been
   produced by recombination DNA techniques and includes antigens that are chimeras
   or contain point mutation, deletions and/or insertions. Unless otherwise defined, all
   technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly
15 understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.
   Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be
   used in the practice or testing of the present invention, suitable methods and materials
   are described below.       In case of conflict, the present specification, including
   definitions, will control.    In addition, the materials, methods, and examples are
20 illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.
            Various aspects of the invention are described in further detail in the following
   subsections. It is understood that the various embodiments, preferences and ranges
   may be combined at will. Further, depending of the specific embodiment, selected
   definitions, embodiments or ranges may not apply.
25          The present invention provides a screening method using FACS to identify
   and separate immunobinder-expressing cells in adherence with cells expressing
   corresponding antigen. In particular embodiments, the immunobinder is an antibody.
   Antigen expression
30          The target antigen for antibody preparation can be any protein, peptide,
   nucleotide, carbohydrate, lipid, and other molecules that are soluble or expressed on a
   cell surface or integrated in the plasma membrane.           Antigens can be native or
   synthetic. Preferably, a target antigen is a protein or peptide. Non-limiting examples
   of a target antigen include CXCR1, CXCR2, CXCR3, CXCR4, CXCR6, CCR1,

                                               17
   CCR2, CCR3, CCR4, CCR5, CCR6, CCR8, CFTR, CIC-1, CIC-2, CIC-4, CIC-5,
   CIC-7, CIC-Ka, CIC-Kb, Bestrophins, TMEM16A, GABA receptor, glycin receptor,
   ABC transporters,      NAV1.1,    NAV1.2,     NAV1.3,    NAV1.4,    NAV1.5,   NAV1.6,
   NAV1.7, NAV1.8,        NAV1.9, sphingosin- 1-phosphate receptor (SiPlR), NMDA
 5 channel etc. In one embodiment, the target antigen is a transmembrane protein. In
   another embodiment, the target antigen is a multispan transmembrane protein, for
   example, G protein coupled receptors (GPCRs), ion channels, etc.
           The family of GPCRs has at least 250 members (Strader et al. FASEB J.,
   9:745-754, 1995; Strader et al. Annu. Rev. Biochem., 63:101-32, 1994). It has been
10 estimated that one percent of human genes may encode GPCRs. GPCRs bind to a
   wide-variety    of ligands ranging from photons,         small biogenic    amines (i.e.,
   epinephrine and histamine), peptides (i.e., IL-8), to large glycoprotein hormones (i.e.,
   parathyroid hormone). Upon ligand binding, GPCRs regulate intracellular signaling
   pathways     by   activating   guanine   nucleotide-binding    proteins   (G  proteins).
15 Interestingly, GPCRs have functional homologues in human cytomegalovirus and
   herpesvirus, suggesting that GPCRs may have been acquired during evolution for
   viral pathogenesis (Strader et al., FASEB J., 9:745-754, 1995; Arvanitakis et al.
   Nature, 385:347-350, 1997; Murphy, Annu. Rev. Immunol. 12:593-633, 1994).
           The characteristic feature of most GPCRs which have been known up to now
20 is that seven clusters of hydrophobic amino acid residues are located in the primary
   structure and pass through (span) the cell membrane at each region thereof. The
   domains are believed to represent transmembrane alpha-helices connected by three
   intracellular loops, three extracellular loops, and amino- and carboxyl-terminal
   domains (K. Palczewski et al., Science 289, 739-45 (2000)). Most GPCRs have single
25 conserved cysteine residues in each of the first two extracellular loops which form
   disulfide bonds that are believed to stabilize functional protein structure. The 7
   transmembrane regions are designated as TM1, TM2, TM3, TM4, TM5, TM6, and
   TM7. It is well known that these structures detailed above are common among G
   protein coupled receptor proteins and that the amino acid sequences corresponding to
30 the area where the protein passes through the membrane (membrane-spanning region
   or transmembrane region) and the amino acid sequences near the membrane-spanning
   region are often highly conserved among the receptors. Thus, due to the high degree
   of homology in GPCRs, the identification of novel GPCRs, as well as identification of
   both the intracellular and the extracellular portions of such novel members, is readily

                                                18
   accomplished by those of skill in the art. By way of example, the book of Watson and
   Arkinstall (1994), incorporated herein by reference, provides the sequences of over 50
   GPCRs. The book further describes, for each sequence, the precise residues
   comprising each of the transmembrane domains.
 5         The binding sites for small ligands of G-protein coupled receptors are believed
   to comprise a hydrophilic socket located near the extracellular surface and formed by
   several G-protein coupled receptors transmembrane domains, which socket is
   surrounded by hydrophobic residues of the G-protein coupled receptors. The
   hydrophilic side of each G-protein coupled receptor transmembrane helix is
10 postulated to face inward and form the polar ligand binding site. TM3 has been
   implicated in several G-protein coupled receptors as having a ligand binding site, such
   as including the TM3 aspartate residue. Additionally, TM5 serines, a TM6 asparagine
   and TM6 or TM7 phenylalanines or tyrosines are also implicated in ligand binding.
   The ligand binding site for peptide hormones receptors and receptors with other larger
15 ligands such as glycoproteins (LH, FSH, hCG, TSH), and the Ca2+/glutamate/GABA
   classes of receptors likely residue in the extracellular domains and loops.
           A key event for the switch from inactive to active receptor is ligand-induced
   conformational changes of transmembrane helices 3 (TM3) and 6 (TM6) of the
   GPCRs that have 7 transmembrane spanning helices (U. Gether, and B. K. Kolbilka,
20 J. Biol. Chem. 273, 17979-17982 (1998)). These helical movements in turn alter the
   conformation of the intracellular loops of the receptor to promote activation of
   associated heterotrimeric G proteins. Mutagenesis studies (S. Cotecchia, J. Ostrowski,
   M. A. Kjelsberg, M. G. Caron and R. J. Lefkowitz, J. Biol. Chem. 267, 1633-1639
   (1992); E. Kostenis, B. R. Conklin and J. Wess, Biochemistry 36, 1487-1495 (1997);
25 M. A. Kjelsberg, S. Coteechia, J. Ostrowski, M. G. Caron, and R. J. Lefkowitz, J.
   Biol. Chem. 267, 1430-1433 (1992)) demonstrated that the third intracellular loop (i3)
   mediates a large part of the coupling between receptor and G protein. 13 loops
   expressed as minigenes have also been shown to directly compete with adrenergic
   receptors for Gq binding (L. M. Luttrell, J. Ostrowski, S. Cotecchia, H. Kendal and R.
30 J. Lefkowitz, Science 259, 1453-1457 (1993)), or can activate G proteins as soluble
   peptides in cell-free conditions (T. Okamoto et al., Cell 67, 723-730 (1991)).
           The antigen of interest can be of endogenous source in the target cell
   (sometimes also referred to as antigen-expressing cell).       Alternatively, exogenous
   molecules can be introduced into cells to express the antigen. The introduction of the

                                                 19
   antigen into cells can be practiced by any method known to a person with ordinary
   skills in the art.   In one embodiment, a polynucleotide encoding the antigen as a
   polypeptide can be inserted in vitro into a vector, which can further be introduced into
   target cells for expression. The polynucleotide can contain the cDNA sequence, DNA
 5 sequence, or other sequences known in the art, of the target antigen. The vector can
   be plasmid, cosmid, liposome, or other natural or artificial vectors known in the art.
   The introduction can be a process of transfection, transformation, infection, direct
   micro-injection of materials, biolistic particle delivery, electroporation, or other
   methods known in the art. The target cell expressing the antigen can be any cells
10 known in the art, including, for example, cells directly taken from animals, e.g.,
   cancer cells, non-cancer cells, primary cells, etc., or cells with molecular engineering,
   e.g., culture cells (e.g., Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells, HEK293cells, etc.),
   immortalized cells, transfected/infected cells, T cells, etc. Alternatively, the target
   cell can come from non-animal sources, e.g., bacterial, insect, etc.               In one
15 embodiment, the cells expressing the target antigen are yeast cells, preferably yeast
   spheroblasts. Alternatively, the target "cell" can be an artificial cell-like body or
   structure, e.g., liposome, single-layer membrane body, etc.         The expression of the
   antigen in the target cell or cell-like bodies can be transient, i.e., the expression will
   attenuate or stop after a comparatively short period of time (e.g., from minutes to
20 several days), or stable, i.e., the expression will sustain at a comparatively stable level
   for a comparatively long time (e.g., after several days or several generations of cells).
   In one preferable embodiment, the antigen is expressed on the extracellular surface of
   the plasma membrane of the target cell.          In another preferable embodiment, the
   antigen is an integral or multispan membrane antigen. To get to its location on the
25 plasma membrane, the antigen can be expressed directly on these locations, or can be
   translocated to these locations after their expression in the cytoplasm of the target cell.
   This translocation can be a natural process of the target cell or an engineered process
   by, for example, attaching a signal/tag molecule (e.g., Golgi sorting signals,
   antibodies to certain membrane-bound molecules, etc.), anchoring graft (e.g., a
30 glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor), or chemical crosslink to the antigen,
   mutating the antigen, or other methods known in the art, before or after the antigen
   expression, which leads to its translocation.
   Immunobinder-expressing cells and Immunization

                                               20
           In one embodiment, the immunobinder-expressing cells to be selected by the
   method described herein are mammalian B cells, preferably rabbit B-cells.
           In a preferred embodiment, the B cells originate from an animal that was
   immunized with the target of interest.       The immunization of the animal can be
 5 practiced by any method known to a person with ordinary skills in the art. Typically,
   the B-cells are isolated from lymphatic organs of an immunized animal (such as
   spleen or lymph nodes).
    In one preferred embodiment, the immunization of antigen of the interest is done by
   DNA immunization/vaccination. Alternatively, cells expressing the target antigen are
10 injected into animals (e.g., rabbit, rat, mouse, hamster, sheep, goat, chicken, etc.) for
   the immunization. The preferred animal for this immunization step is a rabbit. DNA
   immunization/vaccination induces a rapid immune response and allows for native
   expression, and usually only native expression, of target antigens. Because it does not
   involve the expression and handling of recombinant proteins, this process is more
15 efficient and cost-effective than traditional immunization with recombinant proteins.
   In addition, more importantly, the in vivo expressed antigen possesses the same
   secondary structures and may even possess the same post-translational modifications
   as the target protein in its natural context, which improves the correctness of
   recognition by the prepared antibodies against the target antigen. An exemplary DNA
20 immunization is illustrated in a Canadian patent application CA2350078 and in
   W004/087216. Specifically, the DNA encoding the polypeptide as the target antigen
   is introduced directly into an animal through a gene gun method, resulting in
   expression of a polypeptide in the animal, which expression causes the formation of
   antibodies against the polypeptide. In order to achieve a more vigorous antibody
25 formation,    so-called genetic    adjuvants   are applied simultaneously with the
   polypeptide-encoding DNA.        These genetic adjuvants are plasmids which express
   cytokines (e.g., GM-CSF, IL-4 and IL-10) and which stimulate the humoral immune
   response in the laboratory animals.     In one preferred embodiment, the antibody to
   the target antigen is expressed on the cell surface of B cells as a B cell receptor
30 (BCR). In another preferred embodiment, the antibody-expressing cell is a memory B
   cell, characterized and distinguishable from regular B cells by the absence of any IgM
   on its surface.
           In one embodiment, the immunobinder-expressing cells are yeast cells and the
   immunobinders are preferably antibody fragments, more preferably scFv.

                                                21
   Screening using Fluorescent-activated cell sorting (FACS)
            After the immunization step, the membrane-bound antibody on B cells that
   specifically binds to the target antigen need to be separated from other cells
 5 expressing non-specific antibodies.        In one preferred embodiment, through the
   antigen-antibody binding, B cells expressing the specific antibody on its plasma
   membrane is adhered to the target cells expressing the antigen.            In another one
   preferred embodiment, other or more interactions (e.g., same or different antigen
   antibody interactions, chemical crosslinks, ligand-receptor interactions, etc.) may
10 occur between B cells and target cells.        The B cells can be in a pool of B cells
   expressing different antibodies, or in combination with other immune cells, collected
   directly from the immunized animal, from a pool of immunized/non-immunized
   animals, or from in vitro engineering processes, for example, a library of B cells
   expressing different antibodies by V(D)J genetic recombination technique.
15          The separation of the B cells expressing antibodies specific to the target
   antigen can be done in any method known in the art.           These include, but are not
   limited to, panning on antigen, limited dilution, affinity purification, or other methods
   utilizing the characteristics of the expressed antibodies or the antibody-producing B
   cells.
20          In one preferred embodiment, the antigen-expressing cells are labeled with a
   tag useful for future detection and/or isolation of the adhered B cells. The tag can be
   a    crosslinker,   antigen/antibody,   small    molecules   (e.g.,  glutathione   (GSH),
   biotin/avidin, etc.), magnetic particles, fluorescence tag, etc.        In one preferred
   embodiment,       the   antigen-expressing    cells  are  labeled   with    a  fluorescent
25 protein/peptide.     In another embodiment, the antibody-producing B cells are also
   labeled with a tag, preferably, a different fluorescent protein/peptide. In yet another
   embodiment, the B cells in adherence to the antigen-expressing cells can be detected
   by the emission of fluorescence from the fluorescent protein/peptide labeled on B
   cells.   In still another embodiment, the B cell and the antigen-expressing cell in
30 adherence can be detected by the emission of fluorescence from two different
   fluorescent protein/peptide labeled on them. In one preferred embodiment, B cells
   expressing antibodies specific to the target antigen can be detected and further
   separated from other antibody-producing B cells by the emission of both fluorescence
   from fluorescent proteins/peptides labeled on them and on adhered APCs. Preferably,

                                               22
   this detection and separation can be performed by fluorescence-activated cell sorting
   (FACS) technique.
           The acronym FACS is trademarked and owned by Becton Dickinson (Franklin
   Lakes, NJ).     As used herein, the term FACS shall represent any form of flow
 5 cytometry based cell sorting.
           Fluorescence-activated cell sorting is a specialized type of flow cytometry. It
   provides a method for sorting a heterogeneous mixture of biological cells into two or
   more containers, one cell at a time, based upon the specific light scattering and
   fluorescent characteristics of each cell.     It is a useful scientific instrument as it
10 provides fast, objective and quantitative recording of fluorescent signals from
   individual cells as well as physical separation of cells of particular interest.
           In a typical FACS system, the cell suspension is entrained in the center of a
   narrow, rapidly flowing stream of liquid. The flow is arranged so that there is a large
   separation between cells relative to their diameter. A vibrating mechanism causes the
15 stream of cells to break into individual droplets. The system is adjusted so that there
   is a low probability of more than one cell being in a droplet. Just before the stream
   breaks into droplets the flow passes through a fluorescence measuring station where
   the fluorescent character of interest of each cell is measured. An electrical charging
   ring is placed just at the point where the stream breaks into droplets.         A charge is
20 placed on the ring based on the immediately prior fluorescence intensity measurement
   and the opposite charge is trapped on the droplet as it breaks from the stream. The
   charged droplets then fall through an electrostatic deflection system that diverts
   droplets into containers based upon their charge.        In some systems the charge is
   applied directly to the stream and the droplet breaking off retains charge of the same
25 sign as the stream. The stream is then returned to neutral after the droplet breaks off.
           The fluorescent labels for FACS technique depend on the lamp or laser used to
   excite the fluorochromes and on the detectors available.            The most commonly
   available lasers on single laser machines are blue argon lasers (488 nm). Fluorescent
   labels workable for this kind of lasers include, but not limited to, 1) for green
30 fluorescence (usually labelled FLI): FITC, Alexa Fluor 488, GFP, CFSE, CFDA-SE,
   and DyLight 488; 2) for orange fluorescence (usually FL2): PE, and PI; 3) for red
   fluorescence (usually FL3): PerCP, PE-Alexa Fluor 700, PE-Cy5 (TRI-COLOR), and
   PE-Cy5.5; and 4) for infra-red fluorescence (usually FL4; in some FACS machines):
   PE-Alexa Fluor 750, and PE-Cy7. Other lasers and their corresponding fluorescent

                                               23
   labels include, but are not limited to, 1) red diode lasers (635 nm): Allophycocyanin
   (APC), APC-Cy7, Alexa Fluor 700, Cy5, and Draq-5; and 2) violet lasers (405 nm):
   Pacific Orange, Amine Aqua, Pacific Blue, 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI),
   and Alexa Fluor 405.
 5          In a preferred embodiment, B cells are stained with labeled anti-IgG and anti
   IgM antibodies and the memory B cells only being positively stained with the anti
   IgG antibodies but not with the anti-IgM antibodies are preferentially selected. IgG
   have generally a higher affinity than IgM; positive B-cells expressing IgG but not IgM
   on their surface (which is characteristic for memory B-cells) are thereby selected. For
10 said purpose, multicolor staining is preferably used, where antibodies specific for IgG
   and IgM are differentially labeled, e.g. with APC and FITC, respectively. Preferably,
   the target antigen and/or the target cell expressing the target antigen are also labeled.
   In one embodiment, the target antigen is stained indirectly by staining the cell that
   expresses the target antigen with an intracellular fluorescent dye.
15          The present invention provides a method using FACS to screen B cells pools,
   in which B cells may adhere to cells expressing target antigens, to identify and further
   isolate B cells producing antibodies specifically binding to the target antigen of
   interest. Preferably, the B cells are labeled with a fluorescent label and the cells
   expressing the target antigen are separately labeled with a different fluorescent label.
20 These labels can be either intracellular, extracellular, or integrated in the plasma
   membrane.      After the immunization and production of antibodies, all B cells are
   pooled together and run through a FACS system. Only those B cells producing
   antibodies specific to the target antigen will adhere to the antigen-expressing cells.
   Their adherence shortens the distance between these two cells in the flow, compared
25 to the large separation between other individual cells, leading to a "bi-color event"
   detectable during their concurrent passing through the scanning laser beam. Thus, the
   B cells producing antibodies of interest can be identified and then sorted into a
   different collection tube from other non-specific B cells.
            In another preferred embodiment, if the interaction between the B cell and the
30 corresponding antigen-expressing cell leads to certain modification of cellular
   characteristics, e.g., depolarization, fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET),
   etc., more fluorescent labels can be added to the cell capable of such modification.
   Thus, B cells and antigen-expressing cells in contact will give out a "tri-color" event
   or an event containing even more than three colors at the same time.

                                                24
            Alternatively, the identification and sorting of B cells in adherence does not
   require the existence of its fluorescent label.       In one embodiment, the cell-cell
   interaction leads to functional changes in either cell. In another embodiment, these
   functional changes can be used to identify and further separate B cells producing
 5 antibodies specifically binding to the target antigen.        For example, the cell-cell
   interaction may functionally block or activate receptor signaling in either cell, leading
   to cellular changes, e.g., the Ca2+ efflux changes, etc., detectable by the FACS system.
   Thus, by monitoring these detectable functional changes, B cells of interest can also
   be identified and separated. One particular embodiment of functionally blocking or
10 activating receptor signaling includes incubating B-cells       with       cells      that
   functionally express a GPCR (G protein-coupled receptor). An agonist that signals
   through a GPCR can be added to the mixture to induce GPDR mediated Ca2+ efflux
   from the endoplasmatic reticulum. In case an antibody presented on a B-cell would
   functionally block agonist signaling, Ca2+ efflux would consequently also be blocked
15 by this cell-cell interaction. Ca2+ efflux can e.g. be quantitatively measured by flow
   cytometry. Therefore, only B-cell/target cell conglomerates that either show increase
   or decrease in Ca2+ efflux would be sorted.
   Affinity assays to antibodies produced by the isolated B cells
20          In certain embodiments, B-cells are cultivated under suitable conditions so
   that antibodies are secreted into the culture medium. The produced antibodies are, for
   example, monoclonal antibodies. The cultivation may involve the use of a helper cell
   line, such as a thymoma helper cell line (e.g. EL4-B5, see Zubler et al, 1985, J.
   Immunol., 134(6): 3662-3668).
25          Optionally, additional affinity assays can be performed before further
   processing to evaluate the selectivity and the ability to compete with the ligand of
   antibodies produced by the isolated B cells.    These assays include, but are not limited
   to, cell-based assays (e.g., cell ELISA (CELISA), which is a modified ELISA process
   in which entire cells are used for coating). As discussed in CA2350078, CELISA can
30 be conducted as described below in Examples. The validation step is performed to test
   the generated antibodies for specific binding to the target, e.g. for excluding
   antibodies which are directed against a protein being expressed on the cell surface
   other than the target protein.

                                               25
           Alternatively, the identified and isolated B cells of interest can be directly
   examined for antibody affinity and the B cells can be separated from adhered antigen
   expressing cells before the processing
 5 Furtherprocessing of isolated B cells for antibody production
           The identified and isolated B cells, optionally tested by affinity assay (e.g.,
   CELISA), can be further processed to produce immunobinders of interest. Traditional
   hybridoma technique, for example, can be used.        This may involve steps such as
   purifying the immunobinders, elucidating their amino acid sequence and/or nucleic
10 acid sequence.
           Alternatively, characterization of the binders is performed in their scFv
   format.   For this approach CDR sequences of binders expressed on sorted B-cells
   would be retrieved by RT-PCR from either the cultured sorted cells or from single
   cells directly. Combination of two pools of partially overlapping oligonucleotides in
15 which one oligonucleotide pool is coding for the CDRs and a second pool encodes the
   framework regions of a suitable scFv scaffold would allow for generation of a
   humanized scFv in a one-step PCR procedure.             HT sequencing, cloning and
   production would allow to perform clone selection based on the performance of the
   purified humanized scFv, instead of characterizing secreted IgG in the cell culture
20 supernatant. A scFv scaffold suitable to accept CDRs from any rabbit antibody has
   been identified and characterized ("rabbitized" human FW or rabbit acceptor RabTor;
   see W009/155726, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety). The
   proof of concept for a variety of CDRs that in some cases even contain the rabbit
   specific inter-CDR disulfide bonds has been shown.
25         A general description of making rabbitized antibody is described below.
   Grafting of immunobinders
           The antigen binding regions or CDRs of immunobinders identified using the
   methods of the invention can be grafted into acceptor antibody frameworks.       Such
30 grafting can, for example, reduce the immunogenicity of the immunobinder or
   improve its functional properties, e.g., improve thermodynamic stability.
           General methods for grafting CDRs into human acceptor frameworks have
   been disclosed by Winter in US Patent No. 5,225,539, which is hereby incorporated
   by reference in its entirety.

                                                 26
            Specific strategies for grafting CDRs from rabbit monoclonal antibodies are
   disclosed in US Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61/075,697, and 61/155,041,
   which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.       These strategies are
   related to that of Winter but diverge in that the acceptor antibody frameworks are
 5 particularly suitable as universal acceptor for all human or non-human donor
   antibodies. In particular, the human single-chain framework FW1.4 (a combination of
   SEQ ID NO: 1 (named a43 in WO03/097697) and SEQ ID NO: 2 (named K127 in
   W003/097697)) has been shown to be highly compatible with the antigen-binding
   sites of rabbit antibodies.      Therefore, the FW1.4 represents a suitable scaffold to
10 construct stable humanized scFv antibody fragments derived from grafting of rabbit
   loops.
            Moreover, it was found that FW1.4 could be optimized by substituting 5 or 6
   residue positions in the heavy chain of FW1.4 and/or by substituting 1 position in the
   light chain of FW1.4. Thereby, it was surprisingly found that loop conformation of a
15 large variety of rabbit CDRs in the VH could be fully maintained, largely independent
   of the sequence of the donor framework. Said 5 or 6 residues in the heavy chain as
   well as the 1 position in the light chain of FW1.4 are conserved in rabbit antibodies.
   The consensus residue for the 5 or 6 positions in the heavy chain, as well as the one
   position in the light chain, was deduced from the rabbit repertoire and introduced into
20 the sequence of the human acceptor framework. As a result, the modified framework
   1.4 (referred to therein as rFW1.4) is compatible with virtually any rabbit CDR.
   Contrary to the rabbit wild type single chains, rFW1.4 containing different rabbit
   CDRs is well expressed and almost fully retains the affinity of the original donor
   rabbit antibodies.
25          Accordingly, exemplary immunobinder acceptor frameworks comprise
            (i) a variable heavy chain framework having at least 70% identity, preferably
   at least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, more preferably at least 95% identity, to SEQ ID No.
   1; and/or
            (ii) a variable light chain framework having at least 70% identity, preferably at
30 least 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, more preferably at least 95% identity, to SEQ ID No. 2.
            In a preferred embodiment, the variable light chain comprises Threonine (T) at
   position 87 (AHo numbering).
            In a preferred embodiment, said immunobinder acceptor framework comprises

                                               27
           (i) a variable heavy chain framework selected from the group consisting of
   SEQ ID No. 1, SEQ ID No. 4 and SEQ ID No. 6; and/or
           (ii) a variable light chain framework of SEQ ID No. 2 or SEQ ID No. 9.
           In a preferred embodiment, the variable heavy chain framework is linked to a
 5 variable light chain framework via a linker. The linker may be any suitable linker, for
   example a linker comprising 1 to 4 repeats of the sequence GGGGS (SEQ ID No. 10),
   preferably a (GGGGS) 4 peptide (SEQ ID No. 8), or a linker as disclosed in Alfthan et
   al. (1995) Protein Eng. 8:725-73 1.
           In a most preferred embodiment, the immunobinder acceptor framework is a
10 sequence having at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, more preferably at least 95%
   identity, to SEQ ID. No. 3. More preferably, the immunobinder acceptor framework
   comprises or is SEQ ID. No. 3.
           In another preferred embodiment, the immunobinder acceptor framework is a
   sequence having at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90% more preferably at least 95%
15 identity, to SEQ ID No. 5. More preferably, the immunobinder acceptor framework
   comprises or is SEQ ID No. 5.
           In another preferred embodiment, the immunobinder acceptor framework is a
   sequence having at least 70%, 75%, 80%, 85%, 90%, more preferably at least 95%
   identity, to SEQ ID No. 7. More preferably, the immunobinder acceptor framework
20 comprises or is SEQ ID No. 7.
           Furthermore, an exemplary variable heavy chain framework of SEQ ID No. 1
   may be employed, further comprising one or more amino acid residues that generally
   support conformation of CDRs derived from a rabbit immunobinder. In particular,
   said residues are present at one or more amino acid positions selected from the group
25 consisting of 24H, 25H, 56H, 82H, 84H, 89H and 108H (AHo numbering). These
   positions are proven to affect CDR conformation and are therefore contemplated for
   mutation to accommodate donor CDRs. Preferably, said one or more residues are
   selected from the group consisting of: Threonine (T) at position 24, Valine (V) at
   position 25 Glycine or Alanine (G/A) at position 56, Lysine (K) at position 82,
30 Threonine (T) at position 84, Valine (V) at position 89 and Arginine (R) at position
   108 (AHo numbering).
           In a preferred embodiment, said variable heavy chain framework is or
   comprises SEQ ID No. 4 or SEQ ID No. 6. Both variable heavy chain frameworks
   may for example be combined with any suitable light chain framework.

                                            28
           The sequences disclosed above are the following (X residues are CDR
   insertion sites):
           SEQ ID NO.1: variable heavy chain framework of FW1.4 (a43)
 5         EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAAS(X)n=1. 5o                     WVRQAPGKGLEWVS
   (X)=.  50    RFTISRDNSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCAK(X)n=1. 5 o                 WGQGTL
   VTVSS
           SEQ ID NO. 2: variable light chain framework of FW1.4 (K127)
10         EIVMTQSPSTLSASVGDRVIITC(X)= 1-50 WYQQKPGKAPKLLIY(X)n= 15. o
   GVPSRFSGSGSGAEFTLTISSLQPDDFATYYC(X)= 15. oFGQGTKLT VLG
           SEQ ID NO. 3: framework of FW1.4
           EIVMTQSPSTLSASVGDRVIITC(X)n=1. 5 o WYQQKPGKAPKLLIY(X)n=1. 5 o
15 GVPSRFSGSGSGAEFTLTISSLQPDDFATYYC(X)=                  1.5 o         FGQGTKLTVLG
   GGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGS                EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCAAS(X)=                  .o
                                                                                     15
   WVRQAPGKGLEWVS(X)n=1. 5 o                   RFTISRDNSKNTLYLQMNSLRAEDTA
   VYYCAK(X)n=1. 5 o WGQGTLVTVSS
20         SEQ ID NO. 4: variable heavy chain framework of rFW1.4
           EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCTAS(X).=1. 5 o
   WVRQAPGKGLEWVG(X)n= 1.5 o
   RFTISRDTSKNTVYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCAR(X)=                       15 o WGQGTLV TVSS
25         SEQ ID NO. 5: framework of rFW1.4
           EIVMTQSPSTLSASVGDRVIITC(X)n=1. 5 o WYQQKPGKAPKLLIY(X)n=1. 5 o
   GVPSRFSGSGSGTEFTLTISSLQPDDFATYYC(X)=                 1.5o           FGQGTKLTVLG
   GGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGSEVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCTAS(X)=                            15 o
   WVRQAPGKGLEWVG(X)=1. 5so                              RFTISRDTSKNTVYLQMNS
30 LRAEDTAVYYCAR(X)n=1. 5 o WGQGTLVTVSS
           SEQ ID NO. 6: variable heavy chain framework of rFW1.4(V2)
   EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCTVS(X)n=1. 5 o               WVRQAPGKGLEWVG(X)= 1.5o
   RFTISKDTSKNTVYLQMNSLRAEDTAVYYCAR(X)n=1 5 o WGQGTLVTVSS

                                              29
            SEQ ID NO. 7: framework of rFW1.4(V2)
            EIVMTQSPSTLSASVGDRVIITC(X),=1. 5 o WYQQKPGKAPKLLIY(X)=1.o
   GVPSRFSGSGSGTEFTLTISSLQPDDFATYYC(X)=                     1-50         FGQGTKLTVLG
 5 GGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGS                   EVQLVESGGGLVQPGGSLRLSCTVS(X)n=1 5 o
   WVRQAPGKGLEWVG(X)n=1. 5o                              RFTISKDTSKNTVYLQMNSLR
   AEDTAVYYCAR(X)= 1 5 o WGQGTLVTVSS
            SEQ ID NO. 8: linker
10          GGGGSGGGGSGGGGSGGGGS
            SEQ ID NO. 9: substituted variable light chain framework of FW1.4
   EIVMTQSPSTLSASVGDRVIITC(X),= 1.5 0                     WYQQKPGKAPKLLIY(X)= 1.50
   GVPSRFSGSGSGTEFTLTISSLQPDDFATYYC(X)n= 1.5 oFGQGTKLTVLG
15
            Thus, unlike the general method of Winter, the framework sequence used for
   the humanization methods of the invention is not necessarily the framework sequence
   which exhibits the greatest sequence similarity to the sequence of the non-human
   (e.g., rabbit) antibody from which the donor CDRs are derived.              In addition,
20 framework residue grafting from the donor sequence to support CDR conformation is
   not required.
            The acceptor antibody frameworks can also comprise one or more of the
   stability enhancing mutations described in U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
   61/075,692, which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.       Exemplary
25 solubility enhancing substitutions in the heavy chain framework are found at positions
   12, 103 and 144 (AHo numbering). More preferably, the heavy chain framework
   comprises (a) Serine (S) at position 12; (b) Serine (S) or Threonine (T) at position 103
   and/or (c) Serine (S) or Threonine (T) at position 144. Moreover, stability enhancing
   amino acids may be present at one or more positions 1, 3, 4, 10, 47, 57, 91 and 103 of
30 the variable light chain framework (AHo numbering). More preferably, the variable
   light chain framework comprises glutamic acid (E) at position 1, valine (V) at position
   3, leucine (L) at position 4, Serine (S) at position 10; Arginine (R) at position 47,

                                              30
   Serine (S) at position 57, phenylalanine (F) at position 91 and/or Valine (V) at
   position 103.
                                        EXAMPLES
 5         Throughout the examples, the following materials and methods were used
   unless otherwise stated.
   Materialsand Methods
           In general, the practice of the present invention employs, unless otherwise
10 indicated, conventional techniques of chemistry, molecular biology, recombinant
   DNA technology, immunology (especially, e.g., antibody technology), and standard
   techniques    of polypeptide preparation.  See, e.g., Sambrook, Fritsch and Maniatis,
   Molecular Cloning:      Cold   Spring Harbor Laboratory       Press (1989);    Antibody
   Engineering Protocols (Methods in Molecular Biology), 510, Paul, S., Humana Pr
15 (1996); Antibody Engineering: A Practical Approach (Practical Approach Series,
   169), McCafferty, Ed., Irl Pr (1996); Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Harlow et al.,
   C.S.H.L. Press, Pub. (1999); and Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, eds.
   Ausubel et al., John Wiley & Sons (1992).
20 Cell ELISA (CELISA)
           The following example describes the use of CELISA to analyze cells
   expressing CXCR2:
           CHO cells expressing CXCR2 can be seeded at a density of 50,000 cells/well
   in 96-well half area plates. After overnight incubation at 37'C, cells can be fixed with
25 1% formaldehyde in PBS for 30 minutes at room temperature. Cell layers can be
   washed three times and non specific binding sites can be blocked with cell culture
   medium for one hour at room temperature. Next, after three washing steps, the
   supernatants can be diluted 1:1 in culture medium and added to the wells. In three
   control wells, a commercial rabbit anti-CXCR2 antibody can be spiked in supernatant.
30 Supernatants can then be incubated on the cell layers for one and a half hours at room
   temperature. Finally, rabbit IgGs are detected with a goat anti-rabbit IgG Fc antibody
   coupled to HRP. Upon addition of a peroxidase substrate (Blue POD substrate from
   Roche), a colorimetric reaction would develop which could be stopped after 25
   minutes with IM HCl. Absorbance can be measured at 450 nm.

                                                 31
   Example 1
   B cell screening system using soluble antigens
            A   FACS     (fluorescence-activated    cell   sorting)-based    screening   system
 5 described in this invention is exemplified here capable of selecting B cells that bind to
   a target of interest, specifically, a soluble protein, via their B cell receptors (BCR). In
   this Example, the target was the single-chain anti-VEGF antibody ESBA903 labeled
   with a fluorescent dye (PE and PerCP). Lymphocyte suspension was prepared from
   the spleen of rabbits immunized with the recombinant target.                Cells were then
10 incubated with PE and PerCP labeled scFv as well as with antibodies specific for IgG
   (APC-labeled) or IgM (FITC labeled).          ESBA903-positive B-cells that express IgG
   but not IgM on their surface were sorted and selected in 96-well plates (Figure 2). As
   shown in panel A of Figure 2, lymphocytes were gated according to forward and side
   scatter.   Among them, IgG+ IgM- cells (probably memory B cells) were selected
15 (panel B). Cells double-stained with scFv-PE and scFv-PerCP were expected to
   encode high affinity IgGs against the scFv (panel C). Cells showing the brightest
   fluorescence were sorted in 96-well plates with sorting statistics listed in panel D. By
   means of a thymoma helper cell line (EL4-B5: see Zubler et al, 1985, J. Immunol.
   134(6):3662-3668), selected B cells proliferated, differentiated into plasma cells and
20 then secreted antibodies. The affinity of these IgG molecules for the target protein
   was verified by ELISA and Biacore measurements. Kinetic parameters are depicted
   in Table 1 for seven selected clones. These clones, from a pool of ~200 sorted cells,
   show high binding affinities in the low nanomolar to picomolar range.                Finally,
   mRNAs for secreted IgG molecules were isolated from 6 clones of interest and the
25 CDRs were grafted on ESBATech single-chain framework RabTor, also termed
   Framework rFW1.4.
   Table 1: Kinetic values for 7 B cell culture supernatants
   B-cell clone            ka [Ms']                   kd [s']                    KD [M]
         SG2               2.91E+06                  2.95E-04                   1.01E-10
        SE11               3.63E+05                  3.81E-04                   1.05E-09
        2E-03              8.34E+05                  3.53E-04                   4.23E-10
        9E-03              8.66E+05                  6.47E-04                   7.47E-10

                                                32
       7D-03                3.97E+05                 3.04E-04           7.65E-10
       12B-02               1.08E+06                 1.10E-04           1.01E-10
       11G-02               5.48E+05                 1.52E-04           2.78E-10
   Table la: Sorting statistics for figure 2.
   Population                                   #Events        %Parent      %Total
   All Events                                   100,000         ####         100.0
      Lymphocytes                                86,585          86.6         86.6
        Single Lymphocytes 1                     86,013          99.3         86.0
          Single Lymphocytes 2                   85,523          99.4         85.5
           Memory B cells?                        5,450           6.4          5.4
              Sorted Cells                          16            0.3          0.0
              903-binding cells                    160            2.9          0.2
   Selected literature:
 5 Zuber et al. Mutant EL-4 thymoma cells polyclonally activate murine and human B
   cells via direct cell interaction. J Immunol. 1985;134(6):3662-3668.
   Transmembrane targets
           The screening system described above works efficiently when the target is
10 soluble, and when recombinant protein is available. However, some targets of interest
   are multispan transmembrane proteins (e.g., GPCRs and ion channels). Traditional
   immunization with recombinant protein is in these cases inadvisable or impossible.
   Further, FACS selection of B cells cannot be performed based on binding of purified,
   labeled proteins if the antigen is an integral membrane protein. In order to address
15 these issues the following improvements of the above mentioned procedure were
   implemented.
           1)       Immunization with DNA instead of recombinant protein:
           DNA vaccination induces a rapid immune response against native antigen.
   Since no recombinant protein is needed, this technology is on one hand very cost
20 effective, on the other hand, and more importantly, this method allows for native
   expression of integral membrane complexes and/or multispan membrane proteins.

                                               33
           2)      FACS selection of B-cells that bind to cells that express an integral
   membrane target protein:
           Flow cytometry normally measures the fluorescence emitted by single cells
   when they cross a laser beam. However, some researchers have already used
 5 cytometers to investigate cell-cell interactions, for example adhesion mediated by
   cadherins (Panorchan et al, 2006, J. Cell Science, 119, 66-74; Leong et Hibma, 2005,
   J. Immunol. Methods, 302, 116-124) or integrins (Gawaz et al, 1991, J. Clin. Invest,
   88, 1128-1134).    However, such studies did not demonstrate whether such cell-cell
   interactions will remain intact during the physical step of cell sorting. Furthermore, it
10 has never been shown that the binding of a B cell receptor to its target being present
   on the surface of another cell will be strong enough to allow such physical sorting.
           In order to select for B-cells that bind to transmembrane targets, cells (for
   example, CHO or HEK293 cells) can be transiently or preferentially stably transfected
   with the target of choice, or cells that naturally express the target of choice can be
15 used. Such target cells are stained with an intracellular fluorescent dye (for example
   calcein) and incubated with the memory B lymphocytes of an immunized rabbit. B
   lymphocytes are stained with fluorescent antibodies binding to cell surface specific
   markers. Thus, selection of bi-color "events" consisting in two cells adhering to each
   other through BCR-target interactions (see Figure 1) can be achieved.
20         The further processing of these B cells is performed as described above, which
   leads to the production of monoclonal antibodies, for example in the IgG or scFv
   format. To estimate the affinity of these antibodies for the target, CELISA (ELISA,
   where coating step is performed with entire cells) is being performed. With this
   method, the selectivity and the ability of antibodies to compete with the ligand can be
25 evaluated. Finally, the CDRs of clones of interest will be cloned into our rabbitized
   framework (RabTor) by gene synthesis with the oligo extension method.
           A read-out for B-cell sorting is not necessarily limited to cell-cell interaction,
   but can also be used to select for the ability of this interaction to functionally
   block/activate receptor signaling. For example, B-cells can be incubated with cells
30 that functionally express a GPCR. An agonist that signals through a GPCR can be
   added to the mixture to induce GPCR mediated Ca2+ efflux from the endoplasmic
   reticulum. In case an antibody presented on a B-cell functionally blocks agonist
   signaling, Ca2+ efflux would consequently also be blocked by this cell-cell
   interaction. Ca2+ efflux can be quantitatively measured by flow-cytometry. Therefore

                                         34
only B-cell/target cell conglomerates that show no Ca2+ efflux would be sorted.

                                              35
   Example 2
   Detection of the interaction between beads coated with anti-TNFa antibody and
   CHO cells expressing membrane-bound TNFa
           Before a B cell screening against a transmembrane protein is initiated, it has to
 5 be demonstrated that cell-cell interactions (and especially interactions between BCR
   and transmembrane protein on target cell) can be positively selected with a FACS. To
   determine whether the high pressure in the flow-cytometry stream breaks non
   covalent binding between two cells, the following experiment was performed.
           CHO cells stably transfected with membrane-bound TNFc (B-220 cells)
10 (containing a mutant membrane-bound TNFa that contains a point mutation in the
   TACE cleavage site that prevents cleavage and shedding of TNFc ligand; see, for
   example, Scallon et al. J Pharmacol Exp Ther 2002; 301:418-26) were incubated with
   beads coated with a PE-labeled anti-TNFa antibody. In this set-up the beads mimic
   memory B cells. As negative controls, non-transfected CHO cells were used, as well
15 as beads coated with an APC-labeled unrelated antibody (anti-CD19). After 2 hours
   incubation at 4'C with agitation, the cell-bead suspension was analyzed by FACS
   (using a 130 um nozzle). Figure 3 shows that a specific binding between anti-TNFa
    DObeads and TNFc-transfected CHO cells was clearly detectable with FACS. Indeed,
   in this sample (upper panel) about two thirds of the beads were bound to cells (585
20 bound against 267 unbound). In contrast, in the control samples (middle and lower
   panels), almost no bead bound to CHO cells. Further, both bead populations (anti
   TNFa-PE and anti-CD19-APC) were mixed together with TNFa-transfected CHO
   cells. Figure 4 shows that about half of the anti-TNFc beads bound to CHO cells,
   whereas the vast majority of the anti-CD19 beads stayed unbound. The percentage of
25 beads binding to the cell in each sample is detailed in Table 2.             Thus, the
   demonstration is made that the specific selection of single B cells that bind to an
   integral membrane target protein through their B cell receptor was possible using
   flow-cytometry.
30

                                               36
   Table 2: Percentage of beads bound to CHO cells in each sample
                    Cells                        mAb on beads              % bound beads
   Sample 1         CHO-TNFa D(B220)              anti-TNFa.                    68.0
   Sample 2         CHO-TNFca I(B220)             anti-CD19                      0.9
   Sample 3         CHO wt                        anti-TNFa                      1.5
                                                  anti-TNFa                     47.0
   Sample 4         CHO-TNFa L(B220)              anti-CD19                      0.4
   Table 2a: Sorting statistics for upper panel of figure 3; binding of beads coated with
   anti-TNFa antibodies to TNFc-transfected CHO cells
   Population                                  #Events          %Parent          %Total
   All Events                                   10,000            ####            100.0
         P1                                     9,692              96.9            96.9
              P3                                  585               6.0             5.9
              P4                                    1               0.0             0.0
         P2                                       267               2.7             2.7
 5
   Table 2b: Sorting statistics for middle panel of figure 3; no binding of beads coated
   with anti-CD 19 antibodies to TNFa-transfected CHO cells
   Population                                  #Events          %Parent          %Total
   All Events                                   10,000            ####            100.0
         P1                                     9,399              94.0            94.0
              P3                                    3               0.0             0.0
              P4                                   6                0.1             0.1
         P2                                       558               5.6             5.6
   Table 2c: Sorting statistics for lower panel of figure 3; no binding of beads coated
10 with anti-TNFa antibodies to CHO wildtype cells
   Population                                  #Events          %Parent          %Total
   All Events                                   10,000            ####            100.0
         P1                                     9,001              90.0            90.0
              P3                                   13               0.1             0.1

                                              37
              P4                                  7              0.1              0.1
         P2                                      811             0.1              0.1
   Table 2d: Sorting statistics for figure 4
   Population                                 #Events         %Parent           %Total
   All Events                                  10,000           ####             100.0
         P1                                     9,096           91.0             91.0
              P3                                 401             4.4              4.0
              P4                                  2              0.0              0.0
         P2                                      856             8.6              8.6
   Example 3
 5 Detection of the interaction between B cell isolated from an anti-TNFa antibody
   immunized rabbit and CHO cells expressing membrane-bound TNFa which
   were saturated with anti-TNFa antibody
           For the experiment depicted in Figure 5, lymphocytes were isolated either
   from an anti-TNFa antibody (ESBA105, produced in-house) immunized rabbit spleen
10 or from a non-immunized rabbit spleen. They were stained with anti-rabbit IgG-APC
   and anti-rabbit IgM-FITC (AbD serotec) and subsequently pre-sorted in order to
   obtain pure populations of memory B cells (IgG+/IgM-).              In parallel, TNFa
   expressing CHO cells (donated by Dr. P Scheurich, Univ. of Stuttgart) were loaded
   with 1 ug/mL calcein-red (Invitrogen), a cytoplasmic dye that fluorescently stains
15 living cells. These cells were then washed once and incubated with (or without, for
   the negative control) 100 ug/mL of ESBA105, and finally washed again 3x with PBS.
   Memory B cells were finally mixed at a ratio of about 1:10 with the CHO cells and
   incubated during 2 hours at 4'C on a rotating plate (concentration: 3* 107 cells/mL).
   The following samples were prepared:
20         1) CHO-TNFa cells + ESBA105 + memory B cells of ESBA105 immunized
           rabbit
           2) CHO-TNFa cells + ESBA105 + memory B cells of non- immunized rabbit
           3) CHO-TNFa cells + memory B cells of ESBA105 immunized rabbit
           After 2 hours incubation, the 3 samples were measured by FACS, using the 70
25 um nozzle. According to the population hierarchy shown in Table 3a, 5% of

                                               38
   ESBA105 immunized cells bind to "ESBA 105-coated" TNFa transgenic CHO cells.
   In comparison, only 0.5% non-immunized B cell bind to these"ESBA105-coated"
   TNFa transgenic CHO cells (Table 3b), and 0.6% of immunized B cells bind in
   absence of ESBA105 on CHO cell surface (Table 3c). These results give a show that a
 5 specific interaction between a BCR (B cell receptor) and a transmembrane target can
   be detected by FACS.
   Table 3a: Sorting statistics for upper panel of figure 5b
   Population                                  #Events        %Parent      %Total
   All Events                                   50,000         ####         100.0
      Living cells                              43,828         87.7          87.7
         B cells                                 5,162          11.8         10.3
             B cells sticking to CHO              78            1.5          0.2
10 Table 3b: Sorting statistics for middle panel of figure 5b
   Population                                  #Events        %Parent      %Total
   All Events                                   50,000         ####         100.0
      Living cells                              43,834         87.7          87.7
         B cells                                 4,290          9.8           8.6
             B cells sticking to CHO              23            0.5          0.0
   Table 3c: Sorting statistics for lower panel of figure 5b
   Population                                  #Events        %Parent      %Total
   All Events                                   50,000         ####         100.0
      Living cells                              42,982         86,0          86.0
         B cells                                10,150         23.6         20.3
             B cells sticking to CHO              65            0.6          0.1
15

                                                39
   Example 4
   Detection of the interaction between B cell isolated from an ESBA105 immunized
   rabbit and CHO cells expressing membrane-bound TNFa which were saturated
   with ESBA105
 5         In a further experiment, no pre-sorting of memory B cells was made.           The
   entire lymphocyte population was incubated with the stained CHO- TNFa-ESBA105
   cells. Transgenic CHO cells were prepared as described above. However, in order to
   prevent their proliferation in B cell culture medium after the sort in 96-well plates, the
   cells were cell-cycle arrested by a mitomycin C (M4287-2MG) treatment before the
10 calcein staining. The lymphocytes of an ESBA105 immunized rabbit were mixed at a
   ratio of 3:1 with the stained CHO cells (concentration of the cell suspension: ~ 3-107
   cells/mL), and incubated during 2 hours at 4'C on a rotating plate. After this, the cell
   suspension was FACS analyzed and memory B cells binding to CHO- TNFa
   ESBA105 were sorted according to the gate depicted in Figure 6, with 1, 10 or 100
15 cells/well as shown in Table 3. Sorted cells represented 5.5% of the memory B cell
   population, respectively 0.2% of total events.
           Sorted cells were collected in 96-well plates and cultivated during 13 days at
   37'C with 5% CO 2 . After that, culture supernatants were collected and tested in direct
   ELISA to check for the presence of ESBA105 binding IgGs. ELISA results (Table 3)
20 show that ESBA105 specific antibodies could be detected in many wells, and also in
   wells where single B cells were sorted. The Biacore (GE Healthcare) analysis (Table
   4) of these supernatants confirmed that these antibodies indeed bound to ESBA105
   target.

                                                  <H
                                             (~
                                        (JJ
                                             ~    (j~   (JJ
                                             ~          m
   -~   00  C~ -~ C~  -~  C~         -
   UJ   k)  00 Ut 00  ~   C~                      0     Ci~
                                            -~    ~.    :3>
                                             0   '<
                                             ~.   0     ~
                      oc  ~                   <   O'T
   c~
   00
        -~
        -~
            c~
            -~
               -~
               UJ
                  c~
                  UJ  OC  UJ   00             o         -.
                  ~   0   ~                   0   -~    ~
                                                  U-I   0
-                                             0   ~.W
                                             ~          o
o   ~   ~   0  ~      ~   0   ~               (~  ~     o
-   U-i Ul  Ut Ut -~   -~  -~  -~    ~
-   -~  (~  UJ Ut \C  -~  C~   -~
   ~    0   ~                                 -~
                                             (~   ~-    ~
   -    ~   00 UJ ~'Q  -~ ~    -~
                                        0
   ~    00  00 -~ 4~  \C   4~  ~
                                                  ~
                                             0   -~     ~
                                  __          ~   0     -~
   o    o   ~                                ~<         ~
                                                  o     (~
        ~o  -~ ui c~           c~    -~
   -    OC  Ut Ul Ut  O~  (jJ  ~                  0
   o    o   ~  0  ~   0   ~                  -.   ~
                                                  ~     (JJ
   -    ~      ~  0   ~
-                                             -~
        ~                                     *   ~
   Ul   -~  O~ 00 OC  -   -~  -~     00
   ~O   -~  -  UJ     O~  -~  Ut              ~
o  0    ~   0  ~  0   0   ~
               ~  0   ~                      0
   ~    *OC ~  ~      ~                      ~    m     0
-   -
            C~
            -
               Ut
               00 ~
                  OC  Ut
                      -~
                          ~O
                          ~
                               ~             0    W
-   ~   0   ~  ~  0   ~   0   ~                     3~.
   ~    -   0  -
               *
                  ~
                                              ~
                                                  ~
                                                  Ut
                                                        Z
                                                        0
                                     -        -~
   OC   ~   OC OC C~  C~  Ut  C~
               ~  k)  \C  00   \C                       0
   o    o   0  0  ~
                                             ~    0     ~
-  0    ~                               -~
   *-
                                            q~
        ~   OC -  0       oc  ~         0
    OC  ~O  -  ~  0   Ul  O~         -           '~
W   0   -   Ul Ul -   0   ~             -.              -~
    o   o   0  0  0   0   0   0
                                             -.   UJ    0
-                                       0
                              *         0
~
    u~  u~  -  0  ~   ~   oc  0      ~            k)
(~  -   -   OC ~O Ul  (~  OC  ~         0
-   0   0   0  0  0   0   0   0
                                                 -~     (j~
                                                        0
                                                        0

    0      0       0                                      00
                                                                                    LD.
N)              0    0          LAJ                      N)
                   oo           0            Y                 0 -P.                7,
m         m        m            m           m            m       m                        0
+         +        +             +          +             +      +
0         0        0            0           0            0       0
          NY C)    LAJ                      NY C)        (.0J    N)
                                            UJ) L.     PN-)         Co0
              m   m             m           m            m       m0
                                                          +
0         0            0             0          0            0    0                  i    0
    U.))Y                                     0                  (.0
Inl       U.)N                                N          0       Ili                L/) *
                  In)Lr                     0                    0           -fi
N)l                (.0          U.)
                                I-a                              00
          0        0            0           0            0       0
                             N)          0               (.      CY                         0
          N)       Coj
                   U.              .o6
    w      n        n           Ili         -Pn
                                                         00
                                                                 In
                                                                  O~
                                                                            W
                                                                              x
                                                                                    D
                                                                                     0
    w      w                    N)          oo
                                                     CGo
No        o        Il           I-a         00
          *                                               00
OL)        n             n )                       LAJ           LAW3+<
                           -P              w-P     wLn(D(Dw
          1,       Co0          oo          Co                         a.-     _
                         In                 N)                   N)0
           0)      O)           Co0                               ~
                  In            InIn
                                InIn                     InU1CD
                                                                      0             3
                                    LAJ(    LAJufr
                                            Co                    4        ~        (D
          0        Co                                            p                  n
          In             UJ                              LAJ      Ili
                                                                                 -w
                                                                                          0

                                              42
   Example 5
   Screening of lymphocytes of rabbits immunized with CXCR2 (sorts 27/29)
           Three rabbits were immunized with a CXCR2 expression vector. After several
 5 intradermal applications of CXCR2-cDNA, serum was taken and tested on CXCR2
   transfected cells for presence of specific antibodies. Lymph node cells were then
   removed, frozen in five aliquots with each 1.6 X 107 cells and were stored in a liquid
   nitrogen tank.
           An aliquot was thawed and stained with antibodies specific for IgG (APC
10 labeled) or IgM (FITC labeled). In parallel, CXCR2-expressing CHO cells were
   treated with mitomycin C, in order to prevent further growth without killing the cells,
   and loaded with 1 ug/mL calcein-red. Both cell preparations were then mixed with a
   final cell concentration of 107 cells/ml, lymphocytes being twice as abundant as
   CXCR2-transfected CHO cells. After 2 hour incubation with gentle agitation at 4'C,
15 cell suspension was filtered through a 50-um filter and loaded on the FACS. Gating
   was performed as described in Figure 6. One "event" (Memory B cells bound to a
   CXCR2-transfected CHO cell) was sorted per well in a total of 10 x 96-well plates
   (900 events in total). Sorted events represented 3.1% of the memory B cell
   population, respectively 0.035% of total cell amount in the sample.
20         Selected lymphocytes were cultivated during 21 days in a 37'C incubator.
   Every 2-3 days, 100 uL of culture supernatant were collected from the wells and
   replaced by fresh medium. During this culture time, B cells proliferated, differentiated
   into plasma cells and secreted antibodies. In order to visualize which supernatants
   contained CXCR2 specific antibodies, a CELISA was performed. For this, CHO cells
25 expressing CXCR2 were seeded at a density of 50,000 cells/well in 96-well half area
   plates. After overnight incubation at 37'C, cells were fixed with 1% formaldehyde in
   PBS for 30 minutes at room temperature. Cell layers were then washed three times
   and non specific binding sites were blocked with cell culture medium during one hour
   at room temperature. Next, after three washing steps, the supernatants were diluted
30 1:1 in culture medium and added to the wells. In three control wells, a commercial
   rabbit anti-CXCR2 antibody was spiked in supernatant. Supernatants were incubated
   on the cell layers during one and a half hour at room temperature. Finally, rabbit IgGs
   were detected with a goat anti-rabbit IgG Fc antibody coupled to HRP. Upon addition
   of a peroxidase substrate (Blue POD substrate from Roche), a colorimetric reaction

                                              43
   developed which was stopped after 25 minutes with IM HCl. Absorbance was
   measured at 450 nm.
           This CELISA resulted in 1.8% of wells (16/900) displaying positive signals.
   All positives were confirmed in a second CELISA. Supernatants were also tested
 5 against other cell lines: CHO-KI (wild type) to reveal eventual unspecific binding
   clones, CHO-human CXCR1 and CHO-mouse CXCR2 to demonstrate cross-activity
   against close-related receptor or species counterpart. Finally, supernatants were tested
   in a direct ELISA for binding to a peptide consisting of the 48 CXCR2 N-terminal
   amino acids. Results are displayed in Table 5. All selected supernatants produced
10 strong OD 4 50 signals against human CXCR2 in CELISA. Some of them were also
   slightly positive in the control experiment with the CHO wild type cells, meaning that
   they might bind in an unspecific way. None of the clones was cross-reactive with
   human CXCR1 or mouse CXCR2. Finally, some clones, but not all of them, bound to
   the CXCR2 N-terminal peptide, indicating a probable alternative binding site on
15 CXCR2. Given the impossibility of immobilizing entire cells on a Biacore chip, it is
   currently impossible to quantitatively measure the affinity of selected antibodies for
   CXCR2 receptor. However, gathered data converge to indicate that antibodies specific
   to human CXCR2 were selected using the cell-cell interaction sorting system
   described above.
20

                      o        ~ ~             ~              ~           ~             ~           - o   o
                                       00
                        WW      W
                              WCW        W      W    W    W    W      NJWN               W    W
     u        u   Ou
                  p                          u         u          u        j          j                       -,
                            W
                           W~-O    C1    U1 ~    -O.      ~      1NJW                 OUO
                                                                                                              F-i
                                                                                                      0*
                                                                                                            0      >
                                                                                      j    oU          OT
                                                                                                        LU
            CCp C   C
                                                                                                              D.)
                            pC                                          00                                0
    W   rJ-D Ln   0      4-    00
                                --   j 0   n
                                           ri  Q00 w Q0 Q  4-   ri   Q0       -- jQ0-mw.Q
                            co4 - w      Q0Ln r-i0    r-i
                                                       0         w             w     0    m    4D.Q
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                 A<r
                        00~
-- jOLO0-1        00              1              0Q0JO               3WW        O    O        O         0
                                                                                                              nD     -P
                         ~ ~
                        I- NC             ~C     NN     ~   NN      ~    NJC    ~JC       CJN~        Z       a)N
                                                                                                                  0
                          P:.            ~ Jh                    W Uh     P~W PW- F_-JNNW

      0 0          000             0
                    W0       L 0 I-I-      ni~
                          w          4  N WW WN
NJ     o       wuNJowo               0 oo
o      Nj o     o    o    W   WWW
Mo    L 41       -      44    -4F-        0
o100NJ0Lo         o         ooo0
U,    p     ,pp
       -~0                   r-.0i
           0, M       ,
   o oU-             - ooP: -10o
   o       0   0         U1W         -
    o      UN-F0000WN.
0       F- -j   0J.       NJN.       N     0
wo         w -Uw            wL
0

                                                46
   EQUIVALENTS
           Numerous modifications and alternative embodiments of the present invention
   will be apparent to those skilled in the art in view of the foregoing description.
   Accordingly, this description is to be construed as illustrative only and is for the
 5 purpose of teaching those skilled in the art the best mode for carrying out the present
   invention. Details of the structure may vary substantially without departing from the
   spirit of the invention, and exclusive use of all modifications that come within the
   scope of the appended claims is reserved. It is intended that the present invention be
   limited only to the extent required by the appended claims and the applicable rules of
10 law.
           All literature and similar material cited in this application, including, patents,
   patent applications, articles, books, treatises, dissertations, web pages, figures and/or
   appendices, regardless of the format of such literature and similar materials, are
   expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety. In the event that one or more of
15 the incorporated literature and similar materials differs from or contradicts this
   application, including defined terms, term usage, described techniques, or the like,
   this application controls.

                                           47
                                         CLAIMS
   What is claimed is:
   1. A method for identifying an immunobinder that specifically binds to a cell
 5 surface antigen of interest comprising:
        (a) providing a plurality of immunobinder-expressing cells operably linked to
   a first sortable label;
        (b) providing a plurality of antigen-expressing cells operably linked to a
        second sortable label, wherein the antigen of interest is displayed at the surface
10      of the antigen expressing cell;
        (c) contacting the antigen -expressing cells with the immunobinder-expressing
   cells; and
        (d) separating from the plurality of immunobinder-expressing cells, one or
   more immunobinder-expressing cells that can specifically bind to the antigen
15 expressing cells using a cell sorter, wherein the presence of the first and second
   sortable label in a single cellular complex is indicative of the binding of an
   immunobinder-expressing cell to an antigen-expressing cell, thereby identifying
   an immunobinder that binds to a antigen of interest.
20 2. The      method    of claim    1, further   comprising     clonally  isolating    the
   immunobinder-expressing cells obtained in step (d), optionally followed by clonal
   expansion of the clonally isolated cells.
   3.   The method of claim 2, further comprising obtaining the immunobinder
25 encoding nucleic acid sequence from the isolated immunobinder-expressing cells.
   4. The method of claim 3, wherein the immunobinder-encoding nucleic acid
   sequence is obtained by PCR.
30 5. The method of claim 4, wherein the PCR, is single-cell PCR.
   6. The      method of claim      2,  further  comprising     subjecting  the    isolated
   immunobinder-expressing cells to a cell-based assay to functionally characterize
   the immunobinder.

                                        48
   7. The method of claim 6, wherein the cell-based assay is a CELISA.
   8.  The method of claim 1, wherein a cellular complex is formed between an
 5 antigen and a B-cell receptor.
   9. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the immunobinder is an
   antibody.
10 10. The method of claim 9, wherein the antibody is selected from the group
   consisting of a mouse, rabbit, chicken, camel, human, humanized and chimeric
   antibodies.
   11. The method of claim 9, wherein the antibody is selected from the group
15 consisting of full length immunoglobulin, Fab, Dab and Nanobody.
   12. The method of claim 9, wherein the antibody is a scFv.
   13. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the antigen of interest is
20 expressed from an exogenous gene.
   14. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the antigen of interest is a
   genetically engineered antigen.
25 15. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the antigen of interest is
   an integral membrane protein.
   16. The method of claim 15, wherein the integral membrane protein is a GPCR.
30 17. The method of claim 16, wherein the GPCR is selected from the group
   consisting of CXCR2, CXCR1, CXCR3, CXCR4, CXCR6, CCR1, CCR2, CCR3,
   CCR4, CCR5, CCR6, CCR8, CFTR, CIC-1, CIC-2, CIC-4, CIC-5, CIC-7, CIC
   Ka, CIC-Kb, Bestrophins, TMEM16A, GABA receptor, glycin receptor, ABC
   transporters, NAV1.1, NAV1.2, NAV1.3, NAV1.4, NAV1.5, NAV1.6, NAV1.7,

                                            49
   NAV 1.8, NAV 1.9, sphingosin- 1-phosphate receptor (SI P1 R) and NMDA
   channel.
   18. The method of claim 15, wherein the integral membrane protein is an ion
 5 channel.
   19 The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the first or second
   sortable label is a fluorescent label.
10 20. The method of claim 19, wherein the fluorescent label is selected from the
   group consisting of fluorescent protein, antibody/fluor conjugate and fluorescent
   cellular label.
   21. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the cell sorter is a
15 fluorescence activated cell sorter.
   22. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the antigen-expressing
   cells are yeast cells, yeast spheroblasts or mammalian cells.
20 23. The method of claim 22, wherein the antigen-expressing cells are human cells.
   24. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the antigen-expressing
   cells express an exogenous antigen.
25 25. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the antigen-expressing
   cells are transfected with an expression vector.
   26. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the immunobinder
   expressing cells are yeast or mammalian cells.
30
   27. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the immunobinder
   expressing cells are B-cells.
   28. The method of claim 27, wherein the B-cells are rabbit B-cells.

                                             50
   29. The method of any of claims 27 or 28, wherein the B-cells are isolated from an
   immunized animal.
 5 30. The method of claim 29, wherein the animal is immunized by DNA
   vaccination.
   31. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the immunobinder
   expressing cells comprise an immunobinder expressed from an expression vector.
10
   32. An isolated nucleic acid molecule encoding an immunobinder selected by the
   method of any of claims 1-31.
   33. A method of producing an immunobinder capable of binding to an antigen of
15 interest,  comprising    introducing    the   immunobinder-encoding     nucleic  acid
   sequence of claim 32 into an expression environment such that the encoded
   immunobinder is produced.
   34. An immunobinder produced by the method of claim 33.
20
   35. A method for identifying a B-cell clone that specifically binds to a cell surface
   antigen of interest comprising:
       (a) immunizing an animal with DNA encoding a cell surface antigen
       (b) isolating B-cells from the immunized animal
25     (c) labeling the B-cells with a first sortable label;
       (d) providing a plurality of antigen-expressing cells operably linked to a
   second sortable label, wherein the antigen of interest is displayed at the surface of
   the antigen expressing cell;
       (e) contacting the antigen-expressing cells with the B-cells; and,
30     (f) separating from the plurality of B-cells, one or more B-cells that can
   specifically bind to the antigen-expressing cells using a cell sorter, wherein the
   presence of the first and second sortable label in a single cellular complex is
   indicative of the binding of an B-cell to an antigen-expressing cell, thereby
   identifying a B-cell clone that binds to a antigen of interest.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                                                                                !
                                      !
                                      " #
                                      ! $!
                                 $ #
<removed-apn>
                                   !       ! %
                                 $ #             %
                                   !       ! %
                            &     #              #
                                      ! $!
                   $
                            &'()*( * +),-./*                 0
                            &
                                ,(.1.2.'3             )45)*2)
                            +',.'63) 7)'+8 27'.* 1,' )9/,: /1                      ; 0% <'% =
                            < $=00< =
                               > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                            '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                            <  =00<   =
                               > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                            '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                            <   =00<   =
                               > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                            '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
               %
               35 C'3            3*       )5 C'3        35   ),   38   38   38   )5 C'3   3* &,/    38   38
               ),      )5        ,B       )5     ),     8-   3'   3'   ), A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                          %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                          $
                                                                            &'B)

<removed-date>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                        ,@ C'3          ,B   3*       3'
              $                                                                                            "
              &,/   38        8-   38       )5     35   ,@ C'3    ), A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                        "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
<removed-apn>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                        ,B &7)          7,   3)       ),
                                                                                 %
               ,B   -@        -*   ),       8-     -*   7,   )5   8,   )5   3*   )(     -*       ),   )5       ,B
               %                                                                                               $
               3'   35        -@   7,       3' C'3      8,   8,   8-   3'   8- A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                            $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                           "                   "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                                ,@   38       3*
               38   7,        )5 C'3        7, C'3      ),   ),
                         &
                             ,(.1.2.'3           )45)*2)
                         +',.'63) 3.B7( 27'.* 1,' )9/,: /1                    ; 0% <D        =
                         < %=00< =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/   ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /, '6-)*(0
                         A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                         <" =00< "=
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/   ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /, '6-)*(0
                         A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                                                                       &'B)

<removed-date>
                         <   =00<   =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/   ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /, '6-)*(0
                         A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
               %
               35   3) C'3         )(       7,   3*   ), &,/    ),   7,   )5   ),   3'   ), C'3        38
               -@   ,B C'3         3)       3)   7,   8- A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
<removed-apn>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                          %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                          $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                    ,@   8,   3*   3*   8- &,/        38
              $                                                                                    "
               8-   3' &,/         8-       )5   )5   3)   8, A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                        "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                     38 C'3 &,/     ),   ,B &7)
                                                                              %
               ),   38        ),   38       ),   38   3'   35 &7)    7,   )5   7,   3)   ),   ),       )5
               %                                                                                       $
               3* &,/         -@   -@ &7)        3'   7,   8,   8,   8- A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                       $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                           "                   "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' &7)                        38   3*       38
               7,   8-        )5   7, C'3        )5   38
                         %"
                                                                     &'B)

<removed-date>
                      &
                          ,(.1.2.'3          )45)*2)
                      1,' )9/,: /1             ; 0%
                      < %=00< =
                         > '( 3)'-( /*) '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /1
                      '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
<removed-apn>
                      <" =00< "=
                         > '( 3)'-( /*) '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /1
                      '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                      <   =00<   =
                         > '( 3)'-( /*) '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /1
                      '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                      <   =00< $=
                         > '( 3)'-( /*) '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /1
                      '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                      < % =00<   =
                         > '( 3)'-( /*) '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /1
                      '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                      <%  =00<% =
                         > '( 3)'-( /*) '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /1
                      '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
               %
               35   3) C'3     )(       7,     3*     ), &,/   ),   7,   )5   ),   3'   ), C'3       38
               -@   ,B C'3     3)       3)     7,     8- A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                          %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                          $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                   ,@   8,   3*   3*   8- &,/       38
              $                                                                                  "
               8-   3' &,/     8-       )5     )5     3)   8, A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                    "
                                                                    &'B) %

<removed-date>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''            38 C'3 &,/     ),   ,B &7)
                                                                     %
<removed-apn>
               ),   38   ),   38   ),   38   3'   35 &7)    7,   )5   7,   3)   ),   ),   )5
               %                                                                          $
               3* &,/    -@   -@ &7)    3'   7,   8,   8,   8- A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                  $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                           "                   "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' &7)               38   3*   38
               7,   8-   )5   7, C'3    )5   38   38   38   38   38   ),   38   38   38   38
                                                                                          %
               ),   38   38   38   38   ),   38   38   38   38   ),   35 C'3    3*   )5 C'3
                                   %
               35   ),   38   38   38   )5 C'3    3* &,/    38   38   ),   )5   ,B   )5   ),
                              $                       $
               8-   3'   3'   ), A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                              "                   "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''        ,@ C'3    ,B   3*   3' &,/    38   8-   38   )5
               35   ,@ C'3    ), A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                              %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                           $                   $
                                                            &'B)

<removed-date>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                           "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                       ,B &7)    7,       3)       ),   ,B   -@   -*       ),       8-
               "                                                                                                     %
               -*   7,        )5       8,       )5     3*   )(   -*   ),       )5       ,B   3'   35   -@       7,       3'
                                            %                              %                                %
<removed-apn>
              C'3   8,        8,       8-       3'     8- A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                   %                              %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                      %                   %%                  %%
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                  %                   %                   %$
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                         ,@       38       3*   38   7,   )5 C'3         7,
              %$                  %                                                 %                                %"
              C'3   ),        ),
                         %
                         &
                             ,(.1.2.'3               )45)*2)
                         +',.'63) 7)'+8 27'.* 1,' )9/,: /1 , ; 0%
                         < $=00< =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                         <  =00<   =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                         <   =00<   =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
               %         %
               35 C'3         3*       )5 C'3          35   ),   38   38       38       )5 C'3    3* &,/        38       38
               ),   )5        ,B       )5       ),     8-   7,   3'   ), A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                                               &'B) $

<removed-date>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                          %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                          $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                     ,@ C'3    ,B   3*       3'
              $                                                                                   "
<removed-apn>
              &,/   38     8-   38       )5     35   ,@ C'3    38 A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                     "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                     ,B &7)    7,   3)       ),
                                                                              %
               ,B   -@     7,   ),       8-     -*   7, C'3    8,   )5   3*   )(   -*   ),   )5       ,B
               %                                                                                      $
               3'   35     -@   7,       3' C'3      8,   8,   8-   3'   ,B A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                         $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                           "                   "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                       ,@   38       3*
               38   7,     )5 C'3        7, C'3      ),   ),
                         %"
                         &
                           ,(.1.2.'3          )45)*2)
                         1,' )9/,: /1 , ; 0%
                         < %=00< =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                                                       &'B)

<removed-date>
                      <" =00< "=
                         > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                      '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                      <   =00<   =
                         > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                      '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
<removed-apn>
                      <   =00< $=
                         > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                      '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                      < % =00<   =
                         > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                      '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                      <%  =00<% =
                         > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                      '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
               %
               35   3) C'3   )(       7,   3*   ), &,/   ),   7,   )5   ),   3'   ), C'3       38
               -@   ,B C'3   3)       3)   7,   8- A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                          %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                          $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''             ,@   8,   3*   3*   8- &,/       38
              $                                                                            "
               8-   3' &,/   8-       )5   )5   3)   8, A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                  "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''              38 C'3 &,/     ),   ,B &7)
                                                                       %
                                                              &'B) "

<removed-date>
               ),   38   ),   38       ),   38   7,   35 &7)        7,   )5   7,   3)   ),       ),       )5
               %                                                                                          $
               3* &,/    -@   -@ &7)        3'   7,   8,   8,       8- A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                  $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                           "                   "
<removed-apn>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' &7)                       38       3*       38
               7,   8-   )5   7, C'3        )5   38   38   38       38   38   ),   38   38       38       38
                                                                                                          %
               ),   38   38   38       38   ),   38   38   38       38   ),   35 C'3    3*       )5 C'3
                                       %
               35   ),   38   38       38   )5 C'3    3* &,/        38   38   ),   )5   ,B       )5       ),
                              $                           $
               8-   7,   3'   ), A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                              "                   "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''            ,@ C'3    ,B       3*   3' &,/    38   8-       38       )5
               35   ,@ C'3    38 A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                              %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                           $                   $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                           "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''            ,B &7)    7,       3)   ),   ,B   -@   7,       ),       8-
               "                                                                                      %
               -*   7, C'3    8,       )5   3*   )(   -*   ),       )5   ,B   3'   35   -@       7,       3'
                                   %                            %                            %
                                                                    &'B)

<removed-date>
              C'3   8,        8,       8-   3'     ,B A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                   %                          %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                      %                   %%                  %%
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                  %                   %                   %$
<removed-apn>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                     ,@   38       3*   38   7,   )5 C'3     7,
              %$                  %                                         %                            %"
              C'3   ),        ),
                         $
                         &
                             ,(.1.2.'3           )45)*2)
                         +',.'63) 7)'+8 27'.* 1,' )9/,: /1 , ; 0%<C =
                         < $=00< =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                         <  =00< "=
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                         <   =00<   =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
               %         $
               35 C'3         3*       )5 C'3      35   ),   38   38   38       )5 C'3    3* &,/    38       38
               ),   )5        ,B       )5   ),     8-   7, C'3    ), A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                          %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                          $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                            ,@ C'3    ,B   3*       3'
              $                                                                                          "
                                                   &'B)

<removed-date>
              &,/   38       8-   38       )5     35   ,@ C'3    38 A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                       "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
<removed-apn>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                      ,B &7)    7,   3)   ),   8-
                                                                               %
               -@   7,       ),   8-       -*     7, C'3    8,   )5   3*   )(   -*   ),   )5   ,B   3'
               %                                                                                    $
               35   -@       7,   3' C'3          8,   8,   8-   3'   ,B A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                      $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                           "                   "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                        ,@   38   3*   38
               7,   )5 C'3        7, C'3          ),   ),
                         %"
                         &
                           ,(.1.2.'3            )45)*2)
                         1,' )9/,: /1 , ; 0%<C =
                         < %=00< =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                         <" =00< "=
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                         <   =00<   =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                                                       &'B)

<removed-date>
                         <   =00< $=
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                         < % =00<   =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
<removed-apn>
                         <%  =00<% =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
               %
               35   3) C'3         )(       7,   3*   ), &,/    ),   7,     )5   ),   3'   ), C'3        38
               -@   ,B C'3         3)       3)   7,   8- A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                          %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                          $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                    ,@     8,   3*   3*   8- &,/        38
              $                                                                                      "
               8-   3' &,/         8-       )5   )5   3)   8, A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                        "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                       38 C'3 &,/     ),   ,B &7)
                                                                                %
               ),   38        ),   38       ),   38   7,   35 &7)    7,     )5   7,   3)   ),   ),       )5
               %                                                                                         $
               3* &,/         -@   -@ &7)        3'   7,   8,   8,   8- A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                       $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                           "                   "
                                                                     &'B)

<removed-date>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' &7)                           38       3*       38
               7,   8-   )5       7, C'3        )5   38   38   38       38   38   ),   38   38       38       38
                                                                                                              %
<removed-apn>
               ),   38   38       38       38   ),   38   38   38       38   ),   35 C'3    3*       )5 C'3
                                           %
               35   ),   38       38       38   )5 C'3    3* &,/        38   38   ),   )5   ,B       )5       ),
                                  $                           $
               8-   7, C'3        ), A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                  "                   "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                ,@ C'3    ,B       3*   3' &,/    38   8-       38       )5
               35   ,@ C'3        38 A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                  %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                           $                   $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                           "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                ,B &7)    7,       3)   ),   8-   -@   7,       ),       8-
               "                                                                                          %
               -*   7, C'3        8,       )5   3*   )(   -*   ),       )5   ,B   3'   35   -@       7,       3'
                                       %                            %                            %
              C'3   8,   8,       8-       3'   ,B A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                              %                            %                   %
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                      %                   %%                  %%
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                  %                   %                   %$
                                                                    &'B)

<removed-date>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                  ,@   38       3*   38   7,   )5 C'3     7,
              %$                  %                                      %                            %"
              C'3   ),        ),
                         "
                         &
<removed-apn>
                             ,(.1.2.'3        )45)*2)
                         3.*:),
               %         "
               38   38        38   38    ),     38   38   38   38   ),       38   38   38   38   ),    38
               38   38        38   ),
                         &
                             ,(.1.2.'3        )45)*2)
                         -56-(.(5()? +',.'63) 3.B7( 27'.* 1,' )9/,: /1                       ; 0%
                         < %=00< =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                         <" =00< "=
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
                         <   =00<   =
                            > '( 3)'-(   '*? 5@ (/    ' .*/ '2.?- 2'* 6) @,)-)*( /,
                         '6-)*(0 A'' 2'* 6) '*8 *'(5,'338 /225,,.*B ' .*/ '2.?0
               %
               35   3) C'3         )(    7,     3*   ), &,/    ),   7,       )5   ),   3'   ), C'3     38
               -@   ,B C'3         3)    3)     7,   8- A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                          %                   %
                                                                    &'B)      %

<removed-date>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                                          $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                      ,@     8,   3*   3*   8- &,/        38
              $                                                                                        "
               8-   3' &,/         8-       )5     )5   3)   8, A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                        "
<removed-apn>
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''                         38 C'3 &,/     ),   ,B &7)
                                                                                  %
               ),   38        ),   38       ),     38   7,   35 &7)    7,     )5   7,   3)   ),   ),       )5
               %                                                                                           $
               3* &,/         -@   -@ &7)          3'   7,   8,   8,   8- A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                                       $
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
                           "                   "
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A''
              A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' A'' &7)                            38   3*       38
               7,   8-        )5   7, C'3          )5   38
                         &
                             ,(.1.2.'3           )45)*2)
                         3.*:),
               %
               38   38        38   38       ),
                                                                       &'B)

