         Abstract
  A method for receiving acknowledgement information in a wireless communication system, the
  method comprises transmitting configuration information for communicating with a secondary
  cell (SCell) on a primary cell (PCell), the PCell using a time division duplexing (TDD) and the
5 SCell using a frequency division duplexing (FDD), transmitting downlink control information
  comprising 4 bits of an HARQ process number on the SCell, transmitting downlink data
  scheduled by the downlink control information on the SCell, and receiving acknowledgement
  information for the downlink data on the PCell.

[Fig. 8]
      840
 TDu cell2      0        S        U         D        D         D        S        U       D       D
                                     870
                   852
      830                              1
 TD      111 0      1 S           U         D        D         D        S      11        D       D
                                                       -854
      820
 FDd'Ce112     D/U     D/U       0/U       D/U      0 ~U      0/U     D/U       D.U     D/U    D/U
                   860                                                       880 -874
                                                          864                                       884
 FD&        [
        111 0/U        D/U       0/U       D/U      D/U       0/U     D/U       D/U     D/U    D/U
        850 TTI#0      TTI#1    TTI#2     TTI#3    TTI#4     TTI#5   TTI#6     TTI#7   TTI#8  TTI#9
[Fig. 9]
                                                950     952     954   956     958
      920                                     1
  FD cell      D/    D/U      D/U    D/U     D/U     D/U     D/U    D/U    D/U     D/U   D/U   D/U   D/U
                91 T        1      1                         I           TI I
      910
  Tdificell     D      S       U       D       D      D       S      U       D      D      D    S     U
              TTIO Tl#1 Tl#2 Tl#3 Tl#4 TT1#5 TT1#6 TT1#7 TT1#8 TTl#9 TTl#1 0 TTl#I1 1TTl#I1 2
                                           940     942     944           946                        930
[Fig. 10]
                                                                                         1030
                                      1010
                                                      NOassuing absence of DAI field
                           YES           1020
             UEdecodes UL DCI format
          assuming presence of DAI field

                                                       i
                                  AGGREGATION OF FDD AND TDD CELLS
    Related Application
             The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
    2014244660, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
  5 Technical Field
             The present application relates generally to wireless communications and, more
    specifically, to an aggregation of a cell using Frequency Division Duplexing (FDD) and of a cell
    using Time Division Duplexing (TDD).
    Background
 .0          Wireless communication has been one of the most successful innovations in modem
    history. Recently, the number of subscribers to wireless communication services exceeded five
    billion and continues to grow quickly. The demand of wireless data traffic is rapidly increasing
    due to the growing popularity among consumers and businesses of smart phones and other mobile
    data devices, such as tablets, "note pad" computers, net books, and eBook readers. In order to
 .5 meet the high growth in mobile data traffic, improvements in radio interface efficiency and
    allocation of new spectrum is of paramount importance.
    Summary of the Invention
             This disclosure provides a system and method for transmitting control information
    associated with scheduling data in communication systems with aggregation of one or more TDD
20  cells with one or more FDD cells.
            In an embodiment        of the invention, there     is provided    a method for receiving
    acknowledgement information in a wireless communication system, the method comprising:
            transmitting configuration information for communicating with a secondary cell (SCell) on
    a primary cell (PCell), the PCell using a time division duplexing (TDD) and the SCell using a
25  frequency division duplexing (FDD);
            transmitting downlink control information comprising 4 bits of an HARQ process number
    on the SCell;
            transmitting downlink data scheduled by the downlink control information on the SCell;
            receiving acknowledgement information for the downlink data on the PCell.

                                                      z
    Brief Description of Drawings
             For a more complete understanding of the present invention and its advantages, reference
    is now made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings,
    in which like reference numerals represent like parts:
  5          FIGURE 1 illustrates an example wireless communication network according to this
    disclosure;
             FIGURE 2 illustrates an example user equipment (UE) according to this disclosure;
             FIGURE 3 illustrates an example eNodeB (eNB) according to this disclosure;
             FIGURE 4 illustrates an example structure of a DL Transmission Time Interval (TTI)
 .0 according to this disclosure;
             FIGURE 5 illustrates an example PUSCH transmission structure over a Transmission
    Time Interval (TTI) according to this disclosure;
             FIGURE 6 illustrates an example first PUCCH format structure for HARQ-ACK
    transmission in one slot of a Transmission Time Interval (TTI) according to this disclosure;
 .5          FIGURE 7 illustrates an example second PUCCH format structure in one slot of a
    Transmission Time Interval (TTI) according to this disclosure;
             FIGURE 8 illustrates an example determination of a HARQ-ACK payload for a FDD
    PCell and a TDD SCell using a first approach according to this disclosure;
             FIGURE 9 illustrates an example determination of a HARQ-ACK payload for a TDD
20  PCell and a FDD SCell using a first approach according to this disclosure;
             FIGURE 10 illustrates an example use of a DAI field in an UL DCI format depending on
    whether or not a respective UE operates in a single TDD cell or in CA with a FDD PCell and a
    TDD SCell according to a first approach in this disclosure;
             FIGURE 11 illustrates an example use of a DAI field in an UL DCI format depending on
25  whether or not a respective UE operates in a single TDD cell or in CA with a FDD PCell and a
    TDD SCell according to a second approach in this disclosure;
             FIGURE 12 illustrates an example interpretation for a DAI field in an UL DCI format
    depending on whether or not a respective UE operates in a single TDD cell or in CA with a FDD
    PCell and a TDD SCell according to a third approach in this disclosure;

             FIGURE 13 illustrates an example method for determining a size of a DL HARQ process
    number field in a DL DCI format depending on whether a PCell is an FDD cell or a TDD cell
    according to this disclosure;
             FIGURE 14 illustrates an example method for determining an existence of a DAI field in
  5 a DL DCI format depending on whether a PCell is an FDD cell or a TDD cell according to this
    disclosure;
             FIGURE 15 illustrates an example method for determining an existence of a DAI field in
    an UL DCI format depending on whether a PCell is an FDD cell or a TDD cell according to this
    disclosure;
 .0          FIGURE 16 illustrates an example method for determining whether a UE multiplexes
    available HARQ-ACK information in a PUSCH transmission in a FDD SCell according to this
    disclosure;
             FIGURE 17 illustrates an example method for determining a use of a DAI field in an UL
    DCI format scheduling a PUSCH transmission in an FDD SCell according to this disclosure;
 .5          FIGURE 18 illustrates an example method for determining a use of a DAI field in an UL
    DCI format scheduling a PUSCH transmission in a FDD SCell according to this disclosure;
             FIGURE 19 illustrates an example UE decoding operation in a TTI for a DL DCI format
    scheduling a PDSCH in a TDD cell when the TTI is an UL TTI in the TDD cell according to this
    disclosure;
20           FIGURE 20 illustrates an example allocation of decoding operations at a UE for PDCCHs
    transmitted in a first cell in a TTI depending on whether the UE monitors a DL DCI format for a
    TDD cell in the TTI according to this disclosure;
             FIGURE 21 illustrates an example allocation of decoding operations at a UE for PDCCHs
    transmitted in a first cell for scheduling in the first cell and in a TDD second cell according to this
25  disclosure;
             FIGURE 22 illustrates an example PDSCH scheduling for a TDD single-cell operation
    and for a cross-scheduled TDD SCell according to this disclosure;
             FIGURE 23 illustrates an example method for scheduling a PDSCH in a TTI in an FDD
    SCell by a DL DCI format transmitted in an earlier TTI in a TDD PCell and for generating
30  respective HARQ-ACK information bits according to this disclosure; and

             FIGURE 24 illustrates an example TDD UL-DL configuration with DL TTIs, one special
    TTI, and no UL TTIs according to this disclosure.
    Description of the preferred embodiment
             It may be advantageous to set forth definitions of certain words and phrases used
  5 throughout this patent document. The term "couple" and its derivatives refer to any direct or
    indirect communication between two or more elements, whether or not those elements are in
    physical contact with one another. The terms "transmit," "receive," and "communicate," as well
    as derivatives thereof, encompass both direct and indirect communication. The terms "include"
    and "comprise," as well as derivatives thereof, mean inclusion without limitation. The term "or" is
 .0 inclusive, meaning and/or. The phrase "associated with," as well as derivatives thereof, means to
    include, be included within, interconnect with, contain, be contained within, connect to or with,
    couple to or with, be communicable with, cooperate with, interleave, juxtapose, be proximate to,
    be bound to or with, have, have a property of, have a relationship to or with, or the like. The term
    "controller" means any device, system or part thereof that controls at least one operation. Such a
 .5 controller may be implemented in hardware or a combination of hardware and software and/or
    firmware. The functionality associated with any particular controller may be centralized or
    distributed, whether locally or remotely. The phrase "at least one of," when used with a list of
    items, means that different combinations of one or more of the listed items may be used, and only
    one item in the list may be needed. For example, "at least one of: A, B, and C" includes any of the
 !0 following combinations: A, B, C, A and B, A and C, B and C, and A and B and C.
             Moreover, various functions described below can be implemented or supported by one or
    more computer programs, each of which is formed from computer readable program code and
    embodied in a computer readable medium. The terms "application" and "program" refer to one or
    more computer programs, software components, sets of instructions, procedures, functions,
25  objects, classes, instances, related data, or a portion thereof adapted for implementation in a
    suitable computer readable program code. The phrase "computer readable program code" includes
    any type of computer code, including source code, object code, and executable code. The phrase
    "computer readable medium" includes any type of medium capable of being accessed by a
    computer, such as read only memory (ROM), random access memory (RAM), a hard disk drive, a
30  compact disc (CD), a digital video disc (DVD), or any other type of memory. A "non-transitory"
    computer readable medium excludes wired, wireless, optical, or other communication links that
    transport transitory electrical or other signals. A non-transitory computer readable medium
    includes media where data can be permanently stored and media where data can be stored and
    later overwritten, such as a rewritable optical disc or an erasable memory device.

             Definitions for other certain words and phrases are provided throughout this patent
    document. Those of ordinary skill in the art should understand that in many if not most instances,
    such definitions apply to prior as well as future uses of such defined words and phrases.
             FIGURES 1 through 24, discussed below, and the various embodiments used to describe
  5 the principles of the present disclosure in this patent document are by way of illustration only and
    should not be construed in any way to limit the scope of the disclosure. Those skilled in the art
    will understand that the principles of the present disclosure may be implemented in any suitably
    arranged wireless communication system.
             The following documents and standards descriptions are hereby incorporated into the
 .0 present disclosure as if fully set forth herein: 3GPP TS 36.211 vi 1.1.0, "E-UTRA, Physical
    channels and modulation" (REF 1); 3GPP TS 36.212 v11.1.0, "E-UTRA, Multiplexing and
    Channel coding" (REF 2); 3GPP TS 36.213 vi 1.1.0, "E-UTRA, Physical Layer Procedures" (REF
    3); and 3GPP TS 36.331 v11. 1.0, "E-UTRA, Radio Resource Control (RRC) Protocol
    Specification." (REF 4).
 .5          This disclosure relates to the aggregation of cells using Frequency Division Duplexing
    (FDD) and Time Division Duplexing (TDD) in wireless communication networks. A wireless
    communication network includes a DownLink (DL) that conveys signals from transmission points
    (such as base stations or eNodeBs) to user equipments (UEs). The wireless communication
    network also includes an UpLink (UL) that conveys signals from UEs to reception points such as
 )0 eNodeBs.
             FIGURE 1 illustrates an example wireless network 100 according to this disclosure. The
    embodiment of the wireless network 100 shown in FIGURE 1 is for illustration only. Other
    embodiments of the wireless network 100 could be used without departing from the scope of this
    disclosure.
25           As shown in FIGURE 1, the wireless network 100 includes an eNodeB (eNB) 101, an
    eNB 102, and an eNB 103. The eNB 101 communicates with the eNB 102 and the eNB 103. The
    eNB 101 also communicates with at least one Internet Protocol (IP) network 130, such as the
    Internet, a proprietary IP network, or other data network.
             Depending on the network type, other well-known terms may be used instead of
30  "eNodeB" or "eNB," such as "base station" or "access point." For the sake of convenience, the
    terms "eNodeB" and "eNB" are used in this patent document to refer to network infrastructure
    components that provide wireless access to remote terminals. Also, depending on the network
    type, other well-known terms may be used instead of "user equipment" or "UE," such as "mobile
    station," "subscriber station," "remote terminal," "wireless terminal," or "user device." For the
35  sake of convenience, the terms "user equipment" and "UE" are used in this patent document to

    refer to remote wireless equipment that wirelessly accesses an eNB, whether the UE is a mobile
    device (such as a mobile telephone or smartphone) or is normally considered a stationary device
    (such as a desktop computer or vending machine).
              The eNB 102 provides wireless broadband access to the network 130 for a first plurality
  5 of user equipments (UEs) within a coverage area 120 of the eNB 102. The first plurality of UEs
    includes a UE 111, which may be located in a small business (SB); a UE 112, which may be
    located in an enterprise (E); a UE 113, which may be located in a WiFi hotspot (HS); a UE 114,
    which may be located in a first residence (R); a UE 115, which may be located in a second
    residence (R); and a UE 116, which may be a mobile device (M) like a cell phone, a wireless
 .0 laptop, a wireless PDA, or the like. The eNB 103 provides wireless broadband access to the
    network 130 for a second plurality of UEs within a coverage area 125 of the eNB 103. The second
    plurality of UEs includes the UE 115 and the UE 116. In some embodiments, one or more of the
    eNBs 101-103 may communicate with each other and with the UEs 111-116 using 5G, LTE, LTE
    A, WiMAX, or other advanced wireless communication techniques.
 .5           Dotted lines show the approximate extents of the coverage areas 120 and 125, which are
    shown as approximately circular for the purposes of illustration and explanation only. It should be
    clearly understood that the coverage areas associated with eNBs, such as the coverage areas 120
    and 125, may have other shapes, including irregular shapes, depending upon the configuration of
    the eNBs and variations in the radio environment associated with natural and man-made
 )0 obstructions.
              As described in more detail below, various components of the network 100 (such as the
    eNBs 101-103 and/or the UEs 111-116) support aggregation of FDD cells and TDD cells by the
    network 100.
              Although FIGURE 1 illustrates one example of a wireless network 100, various changes
25  may be made to FIGURE 1. For example, the wireless network 100 could include any number of
    eNBs and any number of UEs in any suitable arrangement. Also, the eNB 101 could communicate
    directly with any number of UEs and provide those UEs with wireless broadband access to the
    network 130. Similarly, each eNB 102-103 could communicate directly with the network 130 and
    provide UEs with direct wireless broadband access to the network 130. Further, the eNB 101, 102,
30  and/or 103 could provide access to other or additional external networks, such as external
    telephone networks or other types of data networks.
              FIGURE 2 illustrates an example UE 114 according to this disclosure. The embodiment
    of the UE 114 shown in FIGURE 2 is for illustration only, and the other UEs in FIGURE 1 could
    have the same or similar configuration. However, UEs come in a wide variety of configurations,
35  and FIGURE 2 does not limit the scope of this disclosure to any particular implementation of a

    UE.
             As shown in FIGURE 2, the UE 114 includes an antenna 205, a radio frequency (RF)
    transceiver 210, transmit (TX) processing circuitry 215, a microphone 220, and receive (RX)
    processing circuitry 225. The UE 114 also includes a speaker 230, a main processor 240, an
  5 input/output (1/0) interface (IF) 245, a keypad 250, a display 255, and a memory 260. The
    memory 260 includes a basic operating system (OS) program 261 and one or more applications
    262.
             The RF transceiver 210 receives, from the antenna 205, an incoming RF signal
    transmitted by an eNB or another UE. The RF transceiver 210 down-converts the incoming RF
 .0 signal to generate an intermediate frequency (IF) or baseband signal. The IF or baseband signal is
    sent to the RX processing circuitry 225, which generates a processed baseband signal by filtering,
    decoding, and/or digitizing the baseband or IF signal. The RX processing circuitry 225 transmits
    the processed baseband signal to the speaker 230 (such as for voice data) or to the main processor
    240 for further processing (such as for web browsing data).
 .5          The TX processing circuitry 215 receives analog or digital voice data from the
    microphone 220 or other outgoing baseband data (such as web data, e-mail, or interactive video
    game data) from the main processor 240. The TX processing circuitry 215 encodes, multiplexes,
    and/or digitizes the outgoing baseband data to generate a processed baseband or IF signal. The RF
    transceiver 210 receives the outgoing processed baseband or IF signal from the TX processing
 )0 circuitry 215 and up-converts the baseband or IF signal to an RF signal that is transmitted via the
    antenna 205.
             The main processor 240 can include one or more processors or other processing devices
    and can execute the basic OS program 261 stored in the memory 260 in order to control the
    overall operation of the UE 114. For example, the main processor 240 could control the reception
25  of forward channel signals and the transmission of reverse channel signals by the RF transceiver
    210, the RX processing circuitry 225, and the TX processing circuitry 215 in accordance with
    well-known principles. In some embodiments, the main processor 240 includes at least one
    microprocessor or microcontroller.
             The main processor 240 is also capable of executing other processes and programs
30  resident in the memory 260 such as operations in support of communication with aggregation of
    FDD cells and TDD cells. The main processor 240 can move data into or out of the memory 260
    as required by an executing process. In some embodiments, the main processor 240 is configured
    to execute the applications 262 based on the OS program 261 or in response to signals received
    from eNBs, other UEs, or an operator. The main processor 240 is also coupled to the I/O interface
35  245, which provides the UE 114 with the ability to connect to other devices such as laptop

                                                       5
    computers and handheld computers. The I/O interface 245 is the communication path between
    these accessories and the main processor 240.
              The main processor 240 is also coupled to the keypad 250 and the display unit 255. The
    operator of the UE 114 can use the keypad 250 to enter data into the UE 114. The display 255
  5 may be a liquid crystal display or other display capable of rendering text and/or at least limited
    graphics, such as from web sites. The display 255 could also represent a touchscreen.
              The memory 260 is coupled to the main processor 240. Part of the memory 260 could
    include a random access memory (RAM), and another part of the memory 260 could include a
    Flash memory or other read-only memory (ROM).
 .0           As described in more detail below, the transmit and receive paths of the UE 114
    (implemented using the RF transceiver 210, TX processing circuitry 215, and/or RX processing
    circuitry 225) support communication with aggregation of FDD cells and TDD cells.
              Although FIGURE 2 illustrates one example of UE 114, various changes may be made to
    FIGURE 2. For example, various components in FIGURE 2 could be combined, further
 .5 subdivided, or omitted and additional components could be added according to particular needs.
    As a particular example, the main processor 240 could be divided into multiple processors, such
    as one or more central processing units (CPUs) and one or more graphics processing units (GPUs).
    Also, while FIGURE 2 illustrates the UE 114 configured as a mobile telephone or smartphone,
    UEs could be configured to operate as other types of mobile or stationary devices. In addition,
 )0 various components in FIGURE 2 could be replicated, such as when different RF components are
    used to communicate with the eNBs 10 1-103 and with other UEs.
              FIGURE 3 illustrates an example eNB 102 according to this disclosure. The embodiment
    of the eNB 102 shown in FIGURE 3 is for illustration only, and other eNBs of FIGURE 1 could
    have the same or similar configuration. However, eNBs come in a wide variety of configurations,
25  and FIGURE 3 does not limit the scope of this disclosure to any particular implementation of an
    eNB.
              As shown in FIGURE 3, the eNB 102 includes multiple antennas 305a-305n, multiple RF
    transceivers 3 1Oa-3 10n, transmit (TX) processing circuitry 315, and receive (RX) processing
    circuitry 320. The eNB 102 also includes a controller/processor 325, a memory 330, and a
30  backhaul or network interface 335.
              The RF transceivers 3 1Oa-3 1On receive, from the antennas 305a-305n, incoming RF
    signals, such as signals transmitted by UEs or other eNBs. The RF transceivers 3 1Oa-3 IOn down
    convert the incoming RF signals to generate IF or baseband signals. The IF or baseband signals
    are sent to the RX processing circuitry 320, which generates processed baseband signals by
35  filtering, decoding, and/or digitizing the baseband or IF signals. The RX processing circuitry 320

    transmits the processed baseband signals to the controller/ processor 325 for further processing.
             The TX processing circuitry 315 receives analog or digital data (such as voice data, web
    data, e-mail, or interactive video game data) from the controller/processor 325. The TX
    processing circuitry 315 encodes, multiplexes, and/or digitizes the outgoing baseband data to
  5 generate processed baseband or IF signals. The RF transceivers 3 10a-3 IOn receive the outgoing
    processed baseband or IF signals from the TX processing circuitry 315 and up-converts the
    baseband or IF signals to RF signals that are transmitted via the antennas 305a-305n.
             The controller/processor 325 can include one or more processors or other processing
    devices that control the overall operation of the eNB 102. For example, the controller/processor
 .0 325 could control the reception of forward channel signals and the transmission of reverse channel
    signals by the RF transceivers 31 Oa-3 1On, the RX processing circuitry 320, and the TX processing
    circuitry 315 in accordance with well-known principles. The controller/processor 325 could
    support additional functions as well, such as more advanced wireless communication functions.
    For instance, the controller/processor 325 could support beam forming or directional routing
 .5 operations in which outgoing signals from multiple antennas 305a-305n are weighted differently
    to effectively steer the outgoing signals in a desired direction. Any of a wide variety of other
    functions could be supported in the eNB 102 by the controller/processor 325. In some
    embodiments, the controller/ processor 325 includes at least one microprocessor or
    microcontroller.
  0          The controller/processor 325 is also capable of executing programs and other processes
    resident in the memory 330, such as a basic OS. The controller/processor 325 can move data into
    or out of the memory 330 as required by an executing process.
             The controller/processor 325 is also coupled to the backhaul or network interface 335.
    The backhaul or network interface 335 allows the eNB 102 to communicate with other devices or
25  systems over a backhaul connection or over a network. The interface 335 could support
    communications over any suitable wired or wireless connection(s). For example, when the eNB
    102 is implemented as part of a cellular communication system (such as one supporting 5G, LTE,
    or LTE-A), the interface 335 could allow the eNB 102 to communicate with other eNBs over a
    wired or wireless backhaul connection. When the eNB 102 is implemented as an access point, the
30  interface 335 could allow the eNB 102 to communicate over a wired or wireless local area
    network or over a wired or wireless connection to a larger network (such as the Internet). The
    interface 335 includes any suitable structure supporting communications over a wired or wireless
    connection, such as an Ethernet or RF transceiver.
             The memory 330 is coupled to the controller/processor 325. Part of the memory 330
35  could include a RAM, and another part of the memory 330 could include a Flash memory or other

                                                      .u
    ROM.
              As described in more detail below, the transmit and receive paths of the eNB 102
    (implemented using the RF transceivers 31 Oa-3 1On, TX processing circuitry 315, and/or RX
    processing circuitry 320) support communication with aggregation of FDD cells and TDD cells.
  5           Although FIGURE 3 illustrates one example of an eNB 102, various changes may be
    made to FIGURE 3. For example, the eNB 102 could include any number of each component
    shown in FIGURE 3. As a particular example, an access point could include a number of
    interfaces 335, and the controller/processor 325 could support routing functions to route data
    between different network addresses. As another particular example, while shown as including a
 .0 single instance of TX processing circuitry 315 and a single instance of RX processing circuitry
    320, the eNB 102 could include multiple instances of each (such as one per RF transceiver).
              In some wireless networks, DL signals include data signals conveying information
    content, control signals conveying DL Control Information (DCI), and Reference Signals (RS),
    which are also known as pilot signals. An eNB, such as eNB 102, can transmit data information or
 .5 DCI through respective Physical DL Shared CHannels (PDSCHs) or Physical DL Control
    CHannels (PDCCHs). The eNB 102 also transmits a PDCCH over a number of Control Channel
    Elements (CCEs). Enhanced PDCCHs (EPDCCHs) can also be used (see also REF 3) and, for
    brevity, in the following the term "PDCCH" can refer to either a PDCCH or an EPDCCH unless it
    is explicitly mentioned otherwise.
  0           An eNB, such as eNB 102, can transmit one or more of multiple types of RS, including a
    UE-Common RS (CRS), a Channel State Information RS (CSI-RS), and a DeModulation RS
    (DMRS). A CRS can be transmitted over a DL system BandWidth (BW) and can be used by UEs,
    such as UE 114, to demodulate data or control signals or to perform measurements. To reduce
    CRS overhead, eNB 102 can transmit a CSI-RS with a smaller density in the time or frequency
25  domain than a CRS. For channel measurement, Non-Zero Power CSI-RS (NZP CSI-RS) resources
    can be used. For interference measurement, UE 114 can use CSI Interference Measurement (CSI
    IM) resources associated with a Zero Power CSI-RS (ZP CSI-RS) that is configured to UE 114 by
    a serving eNB 102 using higher layer signaling (see also REF 3). Finally, DMRS is transmitted
    only in the BW of a respective PDSCH or PDCCH, and UE 114 can use the DMRS to demodulate
30  information in a PDSCH or PDCCH.
              FIGURE 4 illustrates an example structure of a DL Transmission Time Interval (TTI)
    according to this disclosure.   The embodiment of the DL TTI structure 400 shown in FIGURE 4
    is for illustration only. Other embodiments could be used without departing from the scope of
    this disclosure.
35            As shown in FIGURE 4, DL signaling, such as from the eNB 102, uses Orthogonal

                                                       ii
    Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) and a DL TTI includes N=14 OFDM symbols in the
    time domain and K Resource Blocks (RBs) in the frequency domain. One TTI is equivalent to one
    SubFrame (SF). A first type of Control CHannels (CCHs) is transmitted by the eNB 102 to a UE,
    such as the UE 114, in a first NI OFDM symbols 410 (including no transmission, N 1 =0). A
  5 remaining N - Ni OFDM symbols are used primarily for transmitting PDSCHs 420 and, in some
    RBs of a TTI, for transmitting a second type of Enhanced CCHs (ECCHs) 430.
             In some wireless networks, UL signals, such as from the UE 114, can include data signals
    conveying information content, control signals conveying UL Control Information (UCI), and RS.
             UE 114 can transmit data information or UCI through a respective Physical UL Shared
 .0 CHannel (PUSCH) or a Physical UL Control CHannel (PUCCH). If UE 114 simultaneously
    transmits data information and UCI, UE 114 can multiplex both in a PUSCH. The UCI can
    include Hybrid Automatic Repeat reQuest ACKnowledgement (HARQ-ACK) information
    indicating correct or incorrect detection of data Transport Blocks (TBs) in a PDSCH, Scheduling
    Request (SR) information indicating whether UE 116 has data in its buffer, and Channel State
 .5 Information (CSI) enabling eNB 102 to select appropriate parameters for PDSCH transmissions to
    UE 114. HARQ-ACK information can include a positive ACKnowledgement (ACK) in response
    to a correct PDCCH or data TB detection, a Negative ACKnowledgement (NACK) in response to
    an incorrect data TB detection, and an absence of a PDCCH detection (DTX) that can be implicit
    or explicit. A DTX could be implicit if UE 114 does not transmit a HARQ-ACK signal. A DTX
 )0 can be explicit if UE 114 can identify missed PDCCHs in other ways (it is also possible to
    represent NACK and DTX with the same NACK/DTX state).
             The CSI can include a Channel Quality Indicator (CQI) informing eNB 102 of Transport
    Block Size (TBS) that can be received by the UE with a predefined target BLock Error Rate
    (BLER), a Precoding Matrix Indicator (PMI) informing eNB 102 how to combine signals from
25  multiple transmitted antennas in accordance with a Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO)
    transmission principle, and a Rank Indicator (RI) indicating a transmission rank for a PDSCH. For
    example, UE 114 can determine a CQI from a Signal-to-Noise and Interference (SINR)
    measurement while also considering a configured PDSCH Transmission Mode (TM) and the UE' s
    receiver characteristics. Therefore, a CQI report from UE 114 can provide a serving eNB 102 an
30  estimate of the SINR conditions experienced by DL signal transmissions to UE 114.
             The UL RS can include DMRS and Sounding RS (SRS). DMRS can be transmitted only
    in a BW of a respective PUSCH or PUCCH, and eNB 102 can use a DMRS to demodulate
    information in a PUSCH or PUCCH. SRS can be transmitted by UE 114 in order to provide eNB
    102 with a UL CSI. SRS transmission from UE 114 can be periodic (P-SRS or type 0 SRS) at
35  predetermined Transmission Time Intervals (TTIs) with transmission parameters configured to

    UE 114 by higher-layer signaling, such as Radio Resource Control (RRC) signaling (see also REF
    4). SRS transmission from UE 114 can also be aperiodic (A-SRS, or type 1 SRS) as triggered by a
    SRS request field included in a DCI format conveyed by a PDCCH scheduling PUSCH or
    PDSCH and indicating A-SRS transmission parameters from a set of A-SRS transmission
  5 parameters that were previously configured to UE 114 by a serving eNB 102 (see also REF 2 and
    REF 3). For initial access or for subsequent synchronization purposes, UE 114 can also be
    configured by eNB 102 to transmit a Physical Random Access CHannel (PRACH ? see also REF
    1 and REF 3).
              FIGURE 5 illustrates an example PUSCH transmission structure over a TTI according to
 .0 this disclosure. The embodiment of the PUSCH transmission structure 500 over a TTI shown in
    FIGURE 5 is for illustration only. Other embodiments could be used without departing from the
    scope of this disclosure.
              As shown in FIGURE 5, a TTI is one subframe 450 that includes two slots. Each slot 520
                   UL
                Nm
    includes       symb symbols 530 for transmitting data information, UCI, or RS. Some PUSCH
 .5 symbols in each slot are used for transmitting DMRS 540. A transmission BW includes frequency
    resource units that are referred to as Resource Blocks (RBs). Each RB includes               sub
    carriers, or Resource Elements (REs), and UE 114 is allocated         PUSCH RBs 550 for a total
               USCHJMI
    of       sc              PUSCH            sc REs for a PUSCH transmission BW. The last TTI
    symbol may be used to multiplex SRS transmissions 560 from one or more UEs. A number of TTI
20  symbols available for data/UCI/DMRS transmission is
        PUSCH                   UL         )-NS=s
    Nsym          =2    - (N,m-1          )-NSwRS            Ns
                                                    , where                if a last TTI symbol is used
    to transmit SRS and    Nsss=0 otherwise.
              FIGURE 6 illustrates an example first PUCCH format structure for HARQ-ACK
    transmission in one slot of a TTI according to this disclosure. The example of the PUCCH format
25  structure 600 shown in FIGURE 6 is for illustration only. Other embodiments could be used
    without departing from the scope of this disclosure.
                                                                                               UL
              As shown in FIGURE 6, a TTI includes two slots and each slot 610 includes        symb
    symbols for transmitting HARQ-ACK signals 620 or RS 630 in a RB. HARQ-ACK bits             b    640

    modulate 650 a Zadoff-Chu (ZC) sequence 660 of length                   using Binary Phase Shift
    Keying (BPSK) or Quaternary Phase Shift Keying (QPSK) modulation. An HARQ-ACK bit can
    have a numeric value of -1 if it conveys a positive ACKnowledgement (ACK) for a correct
    detection of a data TB and a numeric value of 1 if it conveys a Negative ACKnowledgement
  5 (NACK) for a correct detection of a data TB. A modulated ZC sequence is transmitted after
    performing an Inverse Fast Frequency Transform (IFFT) 670. An RS is transmitted through an
    unmodulated ZC sequence.
             A first PUCCH format with structure, such as the PUCCH format structure 6006, is
    capable of supporting transmission of only one or two HARQ-ACK bits. When multiple PUCCH
 .0 resources exist for the UE 114 to select for HARQ-ACK signal transmission, a combination of
    PUCCH resource selection and a use of a first PUCCH format structure 600 can support
    transmissions of up to four HARQ-ACK bits (see also REF 3). In certain embodiments, a second
    PUCCH format also can be used to transmit a large number of HARQ-ACK bits such as, for
    example, up to 22 bits.
 .5          FIGURE 7 illustrates an example second PUCCH format structure for HARQ-ACK
    transmission in one slot of a TTI according to this disclosure. The embodiment of the transmitter
    700 shown in FIGURE 7 is for illustration only. Other embodiments could be used without
    departing from the scope of this disclosure.
                                                                                                 UL
             As shown in FIGURE 7, a TTI includes two slots and each slot 710 includes           symb
 20 symbols for transmitting HARQ-ACK signals or RS in a RB. HARQ-ACK signal transmission
    uses DFT-S-OFDM. After encoding and modulation, using respectively a block code and QPSK,
    a set of same HARQ-ACK bits 720 is multiplied 730 with elements of an Orthogonal Covering
    Code (OCC) 725 and is subsequently DFT precoded 740. For example, for 5 DFT-S-OFDM
    symbols per slot for HARQ-ACK signal transmission, an OCC of length 5 is used. An output is
25  passed through an IFFT 750 and it is then mapped to a DFT-S-OFDM symbol 760. As the
    operations are linear, their relative order may be inter-changed. Same or different HARQ-ACK
    bits may be transmitted in a second slot of a TTI. RS is also transmitted in each slot to enable
    coherent demodulation of HARQ-ACK signals. A RS is constructed from a ZC sequence of length
         RB
         sc 770 which is passed through an IFFT 780 and mapped to another DFT-S-OFDM
                                                                                                 symbol
30  790.
             A PDSCH transmission to the UE 114 or a PUSCH transmission from the UE 114 can be
    either dynamically scheduled or Semi-Persistently Scheduled (SPS). Dynamic transmissions are

    triggered by a DCI format that is conveyed by a PDCCH and includes fields providing PDSCH or
    PUSCH transmission parameters while SPS transmission parameters are configured to the UE 114
    from the eNB 102 through higher layer signaling, such as Radio Resource Control (RRC)
    signaling. A DCI format scheduling a PDSCH transmission is referred to as DL DCI format while
  5 a DCI format scheduling a PUSCH transmission is referred to as UL DCI format.
             In a TDD communication system, a communication direction in some TTIs is in the DL,
    and a communication direction in some other TTIs is in the UL. Table 1 lists indicative UL-DL
    configurations over a period of 10 TTIs (a TTI has a duration of 1 millisecond (msec)), which is
    also referred to as frame period. "D" denotes a DL TTI, "U" denotes a UL TTI, and "S" denotes a
 .0 special TTI that includes a DL transmission field referred to as DwPTS, a Guard Period (GP), and
    a UL transmission field referred to as UpPTS. Several combinations exist for a duration of each
    field in a special TTI subject to the condition that the total duration is one TTI.
    Table 1
         TDD UL-DL                   DL-to-UL                                TTI number
        Configuration        Switch-point periodicity
                                                           0   1   2  3   4   5   6  7  8       9
                0                       5ms               D    S U    U U D       S  U U        U
                1                       5ms               D    S U[U[D D S U U                  D
                2                       5ms               D    S U D D D S U D                  D
                3                       10ms              D    S U U U D D D D                  D
                                 410ms                    D!SUUDDDDD                            D
                5                       10ims             D    S[U D D D         D[DD           D
                6                       5ms               DS      U   U U DS        U   U       D
             TDD UL-DL configurations
15           In a TDD system, a HARQ-ACK signal transmission from the UE 114 in response to
    PDSCH receptions in multiple DL TTIs can be transmitted in a same UL TTI. A number               of
    DL TTIs for which a HARQ-ACK signal transmission for associated receptions of PDSCHs or
    SPS PDSCH release from the UE 114 is referred to as a bundling window of size             2". One
    consequence of TDD operation is that a HARQ-ACK signal transmission from the UE 114 or the
20  eNB 102 in response to a data Transport Block (TB) reception may not occur as early as for FDD
    where both DL signaling and UL signaling can be supported in a same TTI using different
    frequencies. Table 2 indicates DL TTIs           -k,   where     k EK, for      which an HARQ-ACK
    signal transmission is in UL TTI n (see also REF 3). For example, for TDD operation and UL-DL

    configuration 5, a HARQ-ACK signal transmission from the UE 114 in response to a data TB
    reception in TTI number 9 occurs after 13 TTIs while for FDD operation a HARQ-ACK signal
    transmission from the UE 114 in response to a data TB reception in a TTI always occurs after 4
    TTIs. From Table 2, it is observed that a bundling window size can depend on the UL TTI in
  5 which the HARQ-ACK signal transmission occurs and, for TDD UL-DL configuration 0, a
    bundling window size can be equal to zero (such as for TTI#3 and TTI#8).
    Table 2
      TDD      UL-DL                                    TTI #n
       Configuration
                          01               2               3        4  5  6      7     8   9
             0            --               6               -        4 --         6     -   4
              1           -  -           7,6               4        -  -  -     7,6    4
             2            -  -        8,7,    4,6          -        -  -  -8,7,    4,6 -
             3            -  -        7,6,     11        6,5      5,4  -  -      -     -
             4            -  -       12,8,    7,11    6,5,    4,---              -     -
                                                           7
             5            -  -13,12,       9,8,7,5,4,      -        -  --        -     -
                                         11,6
             6            -  -             7               7        5 --         7     7
             Downlink association set index    K:{ko,kl,ky_}
 .0          To accommodate an additional HARQ latency for a TDD system, a maximum number of
    HARQ processes needs to be larger than for a FDD system. For DL operation and for TDD UL
    DL configurations 2, 3, 4, and 5, a number of HARQ processes larger than 8 is needed and a
    respective DL HARQ process number field in respective DCI formats includes 4 bits while it
    includes 3 bits for a FDD system where a maximum number of DL HARQ processes is 8.
15           DL DCI formats also include a DL Assignment Index (DAI) field of 2 bits. A DAI in a
    DL DCI format is a counter indicating a number for a DL DCI format the eNB 102 transmits to
    the UE 114 in a DL TTI of a bundling window (see also REF 2 and REF 3). Using the value of a
    DAI field, the UE 114 can determine whether the UE 114 missed any detections of DCI formats
    in previous DL TTIs and can incorporate such events in a HARQ-ACK signal transmission for a
20  respective bundling window (see also REF 3). Additionally, UL DCI formats include a DAI field
    informing the UE 114 of a total number of DL DCI formats (PDSCHs or a SPS PDSCH release)
    transmitted to the UE 114 in respective TTIs of an associated bundling window (see also REF 2

    and REF 3). Using a value of a DAI field in an UL DCI format, the UE 114 provides HARQ-ACK
    information in a respective PUSCH for a number of DCI formats in a respective bundling window
    according to a configured TM for PDSCH receptions. For example, depending on certain
    conditions (see also REF 3), an UL DCI format can include a DAI field of 2 bits with the values
                                                                    U1
                                                                 WDA J)
  5 of ' 00' , ' 01' , ' 10' , and ' 11' mapped to numeris v_             indicating transmission in the
    PUSCH of HARQ-ACK information corresponding to 1, 2, 3, and 0 or 4 DL DCI formats
    scheduling respective transmissions of PDSCH or SPS PDSCH release (the UE 114 selects 4 if
    the UE 114 detects at least one DL DCI format scheduling a PDSCH or SPS PDSCH release;
    otherwise, the UE 114        selects 0 - see also REF 3). Moreover, at least for TDD UL-DL
 .0 configuration 0 that includes more UL TTIls than DL TTIls, an UL DCI format includes an UL
    index field indicating whether a PUSCH scheduling applies for a first UL TTI, a second UL TTI,
    or both a first and a second UL TTIs (see also REF 2).
             Additionally, as indicated in Table 2 for a TDD cell, HARQ-ACK transmissions from
    UEs for   AI>1         DL TTIs can be in a same UL TTI. To avoid a respective PUCCH resource
 .5 expansion, as a PUCCH resource may need to be separately determined for each of the        ">     1
    DL TTIs, a DL DCI format can include an Acknowledgement Resource Offset (ARO) field (see
    also REF 2). Such a DL DCI format can be conveyed be an Enhanced PDCCH (EPDCCH). An
    ARO field can include, for example, 2 bits and can be used to offset a PUCCH resource
    determined by the UE 114         for a respective DL TTI (see also REF 3) in order to compress
 !0 PUCCH resources corresponding to different DL TTIs and avoid PUCCH resource collisions
    among UEs. For a first DL TTI in a bundling window, represented by an index M                =0,   a
    mapping of a ARO field is same as in FDD and assists in compressing PUCCH resources
    corresponding to a same DL TTI. For each remaining DL TTI, represented by an index
     O<m<MI , a mapping of a ARO field can further
                                                              assist in compressing PUCCH resources
25  corresponding to different DL TTIs. Table 3 provides a mapping for values of an ARO field in a
    DL DCI format that the UE 114         receives in a DL TTI to an offset that the UE 114 applies in
    determining a respective PUCCH resource.        NECCE,q,n-k1       is equal to a number of CCEs in
    a set  q     of DL resources configured for EPDCCH transmission to a UE in DL TTI
    (see also REF 3).
30  Table 3

      ARO Field in DL DCI format           AARO         I-AARO
                                                                            0<m<M
                      0                               0                                0
                      1                              -2m
                                                                     --     i NECCE,q,n-k -2
                                                                         il=0
                      2                              -1                      n-1
                                                                     -      L         ' ECCE,q,n-k 1
                                                                        il=m- | mn/3 1
                      3                               2                               2
             Mapping of ARO Field in a DL DCI format to         ARO values in TDD
             In order to improve utilization of carriers with small BWs or facilitate communication
    over different carrier frequencies, a communication system can include an aggregation of several
    carriers corresponding to different cells. For example, one carrier can have a BW of 10 MHz
  5 while another carrier can have a DL BW of 1.4 MHz or one carrier may operate at a frequency of
    900 MHz while another carrier may operate at a frequency of 3.5 GHz. Then, as a spectral
    efficiency of PDCCH transmissions is typically low in small DL BWs, it can be preferable to
    schedule a PDSCH in a carrier with DL BW of 1.4 MHz from a carrier with DL BW of 10 MHz
    (cross-carrier scheduling). Also, as a path-loss is larger for higher carrier frequencies and control
 .0 information typically requires higher detection reliability than data information and cannot benefit
    from retransmissions, it can be preferable to schedule a PDSCH in a 3.5 GHz carrier from a 900
    MHz carrier.
             In Carrier Aggregation (CA), each carrier represents a cell. The UE 114 can be
    configured by the eNB 102 through higher layer signaling more than one cell for PDSCH
15  receptions (DL CA) or PUSCH transmissions (UL CA). For the UE 114 configured with DL CA
    or UL CA, UE-common control information in a respective PDCCH and SPS PDSCH or UCI in a
    respective PUCCH are transmitted, respectively, only in a DL and in an UL of a single cell that is
    referred to as Primary Cell (PCell). Other cells are referred to as Secondary Cells (SCells).
             In CA, it is possible for the eNB 102 to schedule the UE 114 in a second cell by
20  transmitting PDCCH conveying a DCI format in a first cell. This functionality is referred to as
    cross-carrier scheduling and DCI formats include a Carrier Indicator Field (CIF) having a value
    corresponding to a respective cell. For example, for a CIF consisting of 3 bits and the UE 114
    configured with 5 cells, respective binary CIF values can be ' 000' , ' 001' , ' 010' , ' 011' , and  ' 100'
    to indicate each of the 5 cells. When the UE 114 is configured with CA of 2 cells and with cross-

    carrier scheduling, all PDCCH are transmitted in the PCell. CA between a FDD carrier (cell) and
    a TDD carrier (cell) allows for greater flexibility in utilizing TDD and FDD spectrum, improves
    load balancing without inter-mode hand-over and, for a backhaul connection with negligible delay,
    it avoids a UCI reporting latency associated with TDD operation.
  5           Several additional aspects exist for supporting CA between a FDD PCell and a TDD
    SCell. The additional aspects include a payload determination for HARQ-ACK information in
    response to PDSCH receptions in FDD cells and TDD cells, a determination of whether DCI
    format information fields that are specific to single-cell TDD operation need to be maintained in
    case of CA of FDD and TDD cells, and aspects for supporting cross-carrier scheduling from a
 .0 FDD cell to a TDD cell. DCI format information fields that are different between FDD and TDD
    single-cell operation include a size of DL HARQ process number field that is larger for TDD
    operation, an existence of a DAI field in DL DCI formats, an existence of a DAI field in UL DCI
    formats, an existence at least for TDD UL-DL configuration 0 of an UL index field, and a
    mapping of values for an ARO field. Moreover, since a FDD PCell enables a UE (such as the UE
 .5 114) to transmit UL signals in every TTI and since, in many typical operating scenarios, DL
    traffic is substantially larger than UL traffic, it can be beneficial to reduce or eliminate a number
    of UL TTIs in a TDD SCell.
              Several additional aspects exist for supporting CA between a TDD PCell and an FDD
    SCell. One aspect is a determination of an UL TTI for transmission in the TDD PCell of HARQ
 )0 ACK information in response to transmissions of DL DCI formats for the FDD SCell and a
    determination of a combined payload for HARQ-ACK information is in response to transmissions
    of DL DCI formats for both the TDD PCell and the FDD SCell. Another aspect is a determination
    for an existence and dimensioning of various fields in DCI formats for the FDD SCell, including a
    DL HARQ process number field, a DAI field, and a mapping for values of an ARO field in a DL
25  DCI format, a DAI field or an UL index field in an UL DCI format. Yet another aspect is a
    support for transmission of HARQ-ACK information from the UE 114 either in the TDD PCell or
    in the FDD SCell. Yet another aspect is a support of cross-carrier scheduling from a TDD PCell to
    an FDD SCell.
              Certain embodiments of this disclosure provide a mechanism for determining an HARQ
30  ACK information payload for aggregation of FDD cells and TDD cells with either a FDD PCell or
    a TDD PCell. Certain embodiments of this disclosure also provide a mechanism for determining
    an existence, a size, or a functionality of a DL HARQ process number field, of a DAI field, or of
    an ARO field in a DCI format scheduling PDSCH transmission (DL DCI format) to a UE in an
    SCell or an existence a size, or functionality of a DAI field or of an UL index field in a DCI
35  format scheduling PUSCH transmission from a UE in an SCell with either a FDD PCell or a TDD

    PCell. Certain embodiments of this disclosure further provide a mechanism for supporting cross
    carrier scheduling from a FDD scheduling cell to a TDD scheduled cell or from a TDD scheduling
    cell to a FDD scheduled cell. Moreover, certain embodiments of this disclosure provide
    definitions of new TDD UL-DL configurations for a UE configured with aggregation of FDD
  5 cells and TDD cells.
             HARQ-ACK payload determination for FDD-TDD CA and FDD PCell
             In certain embodiments, for a FDD PCell, a HARQ-ACK signal transmission can occur in
    every UL TTI. A HARQ-ACK signal transmission from the UE 114            in TTI n+k is transmitted in
    response to PDSCH receptions in TTI n, where for a FDD PCell k-4. For CA operation including
 .0 FDD cells and TDD cells, where TDD cells (if more than one) use a same TDD UL-DL
    configuration, a payload of a HARQ-ACK signal transmitted from the UE 114            can depend on
    whether or not a respective TTI for TDD SCells is an UL one. If the TTI in TDD SCells is not an
    UL one, a HARQ-ACK payload is determined by including all TDD SCells configured to the UE
    114; otherwise, only FDD cells are included. In case a TDD UL-DL configuration for a TDD
 .5 SCell is adaptively configured to the UE 114        by physical layer signaling, such as by a DCI
    format conveyed by a PDCCH, a reference TDD UL-DL configuration configured to the UE 114
    by higher layer signaling, such as RRC signaling, is used for generating HARQ-ACK information
    and determining a respective payload.
                                                                                          C-FDD ]I
             In accordance with a first approach, if the UE 114   is configured with                cells
 20 and with a PDSCH TM supporting 2 data TBs in               CFDD,2            FDD cells, and with
     CTDD       cells and with a PDSCH TM supporting 2 data TBs in           TDD,     <      TDD cells,
                                                                                    2
    the        UE         114         determines         a       HARQ-ACK              payload         of
        FDD TDD                                +
       H4RQ-ACK          CFDD       '   FDD,2+ CTDD+            TDD,2 information bits if a respective
    TTI in TDD SCells is not an UL one and the UE 114 determines a HARQ-ACK payload of
25            A RQ -4 C7K                 FDD               FDD,      2 information bits if a respective
    TTI in TDD SCells is an UL one.
             FIGURE 8 illustrates an example determination of a HARQ-ACK payload for a FDD
    PCell and a TDD SCell using a first approach according to this disclosure. The embodiment of the
    determination of a HARQ-ACK payload for the FDD PCell and the TDD SCell shown in
30  FIGURE 8 is for illustration only. Other embodiments could be used without departing from the
    scope of the present disclosure.

                                                    ZU
             In the example shown in FIGURE 8, the UE 114 is configured with a first FDD cell 810
    which is the PCell for the UE 114, with a second FDD cell 820, with a first TDD cell 830 and
    with a second TDD cell 840. HARQ-ACK signal transmissions from the UE 114 are in the FDD
    PCell. For simplicity, the example shown in FIGURE 8 assumes that the UE 114 is configured
  5 with a PDSCH TM conveying 2 data TBs. Also, if the UE 114 transmits HARQ-ACK information
    bits for cells where the UE 114 did not receive a PDSCH for a respective TTI, the UE 114 sets a
    value for each such HARQ-ACK information bit to NACK. Therefore, an absence of a data TB
    reception (DTX) and an incorrect detection of a data TB (NACK) are represented by a same
    HARQ-ACK bit value (NACK/DTX state). In TTI#0, the UE 114 receives PDSCH in the first
 .0 FDD       cell     850    and      in    the   first    TDD    cell      852      and   transmits
                           ~3 -e-g-->                                     respective      HARQ-ACK
    information bits for each PDSCH reception in TTI#4 using a second PUCCH format 854, such as
    as described in FIGURE 8 (or in a PUSCH if the UE 114 has a PUSCH transmission in TTI#4 and
    is not configured for simultaneous PUSCH and PUCCH transmissions). In TTI#2, the UE 114
 .5 receives      PDSCH      only     in    the   second     FDD    cell      860     and   transmits
                                                                          respective      HARQ-ACK
    information bits in TTI#6 using a second PUCCH format 864 since TTI#2 is an UL TTI for the
    TDD cells and cannot convey PDSCH. In TTI#3, the UE 114 receives PDSCH only in the second
    TDD cell 870 and transmits
 !0 respective HARQ-ACK information bits in TTI#7 using a second PUCCH format 874. Finally, in
    TTI#5,    the UE     114   receives   PDSCH   only   in  the FDD     PCell    880   and transmits
                                                                          respective      HARQ-ACK
    information bits in TTI#9 using a first PUCCH format 884, such as for example as described in
    FIGURE 6. The eNB 102 can infer that the UE 114 did not receive any PDSCH other than the one
25  in the FDD PCell by detecting an absence of a HARQ-ACK signal transmission for a second
    PUCCH format (or the presence of HARQ-ACK signal transmission for a first PUCCH format).
    Also, if the UE 114 did not receive any PDSCH (or SPS PDSCH release) in a TTI, the UE 114
    does not transmit a HARQ-ACK signal.
             Payload and UL TTI determination for HARQ-ACK transmission for FDD-TDD CA and
30  TDD PCell
             In certain embodiments, for a TDD PCell, HARQ-ACK signal transmission can only

    occur in UL TTIs. HARQ-ACK signal transmission from the UE 114 in TTI n is in response to
    PDSCH receptions by the UE 114 in TTI n-k where, for a TDD PCell,             k EK         as defined in
    Table 2 (see also REF 3). For CA between a FDD SCell and a TDD PCell, a HARQ-ACK
    payload depends on the bundling window size of the TDD PCell                 "TDD        and on a DL
  5 association set index    KFDD for          a FDD SCell as it is subsequently described. In order to
    accommodate a TTI in a FDD cell for which a respective TTI in the TDD PCell is an UL one, a
                               AIFDD
    bundling window size,                 , can be defined for the FDD SCell.
             A first approach to determining a DL association set index                   for a FDD SCell
    considers minimizing a latency between a DL TTI the UE 114 receives PDSCH and decodes data
 .0 TBs and an UL TTI the UE 114 transmits respective HARQ-ACK information. Table 4 indicates
    DL TTIs     n-k,      where   kEKFDD,             for which HARQ-ACK information in response to
    reception of PDSCHs conveying data TBs in a FDD SCell is in UL TTI n in a TDD PCell.
    Table 4
     TDD UL-DL                                              TTI #n
    Configuration
                      01                     2                  3      4    5 6       7         89
           0           -   -6,               5,4                4      4    -  -   6, 5, 4      4    4
            1_-_         I              7,6,5,4                 4      4          7,6, 5,4      4
           2          -    -           8,7,6,5,4                -      -    -  - 8,7,6,5,4 -
           3          -    -     11, 10,9, 8,7,6,5, 4           4      4    --        -         -
           4          -12,          11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6, 5,   4-
           5          -    -    13, 12,11, 10,9, 8,7,6,         -      -    -  -      -         -
                                            5,4
           6          -    -            7,6,5,4                 4      4    -  -   6,5,4        4
             Downlink association set index       KDDFDD             0            1          1
15           Although the DL association set index            KFDD       in Table 4 minimizes a latency
    between a DL TTI in which the UE 114 receives PDSCHs and decodes respective data TBs and
    an UL TTI in which the UE 114 transmits respective HARQ-ACK information, the latency results

     in an imbalance of HARQ-ACK information payloads transmitted in respective UL TTIs. For
     example, for TDD UL-DL configuration 1, HARQ-ACK information corresponding to detection
     of data TBs for up to 4 DL TTIs is transmitted in UL TTI#2 while HARQ-ACK information
     corresponding to detection of data TBs for up to 1 DL TTI is transmitted in TTI#3. This
  5  imbalance can result to unequal reception reliability for HARQ-ACK information transmitted in
     different UL TIs and unequal respective coverage.
              A second approach to determining a DL association set index          KFDD       for a FDD
     SCell considers balancing of HARQ-ACK information payload for both a TDD PCell and the
     FDD SCell while assuming that the DL association set index                    in Table 2 is used for
 .0  the TDD PCell. Table 5 indicates DL TTs
                                                    n-k , where k&(KF DD , for which              HARQ
     ACK information in response to reception of data TBs in a FDD SCell is in UL TTI n in a TDD
     PCell.
     Table 5
    TDD UL-DL                                             TTI #n
    Configuration
                    0   1                2                 3          4     5 6        7          8   9
           0        -   -               6,5               5,4         4      --       6,5       5, 4  4
           1        -   -               7,6              6,5,4         -     -  -     7,6      6,5,4
           2        -   -           8,7,6,5,4               -          -     -  - 8,7,6,5,4       -
           3        -   -           11, 10,9,8           8,7,6      6,5,4V--           -
           4        -   -       12,11, 10,9, 8,7        7,6,5,4        -    -1-        -          -
           5        -   -  13, 12, 11, 10, 9,8,7,6,5,       -          -     -  -      -          -
                                         4
           6        -   -               7,5               5,4        8,4     --       7,6       5,4
              Downlink association set index     K0FDDO                    M
15            The second approach can be extended also between a TDD PCell and a TDD SCell. A DL
     association set index    K    for a TDD PCell can be as in Table 2 while a DL association set index
      Kr    for a TDD SCell as in Table 6.
     Table 6
       TDD UL-DL                                          TTI #n

    Configuration
                       0 1              2                 3       456              7          8         9
            0          -  -             6                 -       4--              6          -         4
            1          --               7               7,4       -    --          7         7,4
            2          -    -      8,7,4,6                -       -    -     -8,7,4,6         -
            3          -    -         7, 11            7,6,5    5,4    -     -     -          -
            4          -    -     12,8,7, 11         6, 5, 4, 7   -    -     -     -          -
            5          -    - 13, 12, 9, 8, 7, 5, 4,      -       -    -     -     -          -
                                      11, 6
            6          --               7                 7       5--              7          7
            Downlink association set index           for TDD SCell:         {   03     jl 3        M
            The first approach or the second approach for determining a DL association set index
   KFDD         for a FDD SCell aim to optimize a performance metric such as to minimize a reporting
   latency for HARQ-ACK information or improve a balance of HARQ-ACK information payloads
 5 in different UL TTIs, respectively. However, both these approaches represent a significant change
   relative to determining a DL association set index            for a single TDD cell. A consequence is
   that different processing of HARQ-ACK information for scheduling will be needed at the eNB
   102 and different generation of HARQ-ACK information will be needed at the UE 114 depending
   on whether an associated cell is a TDD PCell (or a single TDD cell) or a FDD SCell.
10          A third approach for determining a DL association set index          KFDD            for a FDD SCell
   considers minimizing modifications to the eNB 102 processing or to the UE 114 generation and
   reporting of HARQ-ACK information for a FDD SCell, relative to respective ones for a TDD
   PCell. Table 7 indicates DL TTIs          n-k, where kEKFDD, for                         which HARQ-ACK
   information in response to reception of data TBs in a FDD SCell is in UL TTI n in a TDD PCell.
15 Table 7
   TDD UL-DL                                                  TTI #n
   Configuration
                    0 1               2                     3             4      5 6            7         8   9
          0          - -           6,5,4                    -           5,4      -   -      6,5,4         - 5, 4
          1          - -           7,6,5                   5,4            -      -   -      7,6,5       5,4
          2          - -        8,7,6,5,4                   -             -      -   -    8,7,6,5,4       -   -

                                                        Z/4
           3          -  -        11, 10,7,6                10,6,5    10, 5,4   -  -      -         -
           4          -  -      12, 11, 10, 8, 7       10, 7, 6, 5,4      -     -  -      -         -
           5          -  - 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7, 6,         -          -     -  -      -         -
                                      5,4
           6          -  -            7,5                    5,4        8,4     -  -    7,6        5,4
              Downlink association set index -IKFDD                  0      1        MFDDI
              Combinations of the above approaches for a determination of a DL association set index
    KFDD          for a FDD SCell (which for some TDD UL-DL configuration is same between the
    second approach and the third approach) can also be considered depending upon a TDD UL-DL
  5 configuration. For example, for TDD UL-DL configuration 0, Table 5 can be considered while for
    TDD UL-DL configuration 3, Table 7 can be considered. Moreover, unlike the ordering of DL
    TTIs in Table 2 for reporting respective HARQ-ACK information for a TDD cell, an ordering of
    DL TTIs for reporting respective HARQ-ACK information for a FDD SCell is according to the
    order of the DL TTIs. The ordering is because, for special DL TTIs in a TDD cell, a DL TTI with
 .0 a same index is a normal DL TTI in a FDD SCell.
              A determination of a HARQ-ACK information payload in an UL TTI for the UE 114
    configured with a TDD PCell and a FDD SCell can be obtained from a DL association set index
    KFDD          for a FDD SCell. For example, for TDD UL-DL configuration 2, or 4, or 5, or 6
    (having same respective DL association set index         KFDD      in Table 5 and Table 7), the HARQ
15  ACK      information payload is            FDD            TDD       . For remaining      TDD      UL-DL
    configurations, the HARQ-ACK information payload can be either                "FDD                TDD
    or
         MFDD A 'TDD            +1
                                     , or
                                           AIFDD             'TDD+2
                                                                           depending on a DL association
    set index               used for a FDD SCell.
              In a first approach, the UE 114 with a TDD PCell and an FDD SCell determines a
20  HARQ-ACK information payload by assuming a bundling window size of                "FDD        regardless
    of whether a cell is a TDD one or an FDD one. If             TDD          FDD then, for the TDD PCell,

    the UE 114 can set to DTX the HARQ-ACK information bits corresponding to DL TTIs with
               .       TDD            _   FDD .FDD
    index                  D,                   , in a bundling window of          DL TTIs.
              FIGURE 9 illustrates an example determination of a HARQ-ACK payload for a TDD
    PCell and a FDD SCell using the first approach according to this disclosure. The embodiment of
  5 the HARQ-ACK payload for the TDD PCell and the FDD SCell shown in FIGURE 9 is for
    illustration only. Other embodiments could be used without departing from the scope of the
    present disclosure.
              In the example shown in FIGURE 9, the UE 114 is configured with a TDD PCell 910 and
    with a FDD SCell 920. The UE 114 transmits HARQ-ACK information in the TDD PCell in UL
 .0 TTI#12 930. For the TDD PCell, the UE 114 transmits HARQ-ACK information in UL TTI#2 in
    response to one or more PDSCH receptions in respective one or more DL TTIs that include TTI#4
    940, TTI#5 942, TTI#6 944, and TTI#8 946. Therefore,                      . For the FDD SCell, the
    UE 114 transmits HARQ-ACK information in UL TTI#2 in response to one or more PDSCH
    receptions in respective one or more DL TTIs that include TTI#4 950, TTI#5 952, TTI#6 954,
 .5 TTI#7 956, and TTI#8 958. Therefore,
                                                   "lFD-D     -5  .
                                                                     .
                                                                    Since
                                                                          ITDD AIFDD
                                                                                           , for a same
    bundling window size of         "FDD       DL TTIs for both the TDD PCell and the FDD SCell, the
    UE 114 can set HARQ-ACK information corresponding to the last (virtual)          IFDD~"TDD
    DL TTIs for the TDD PCell to DTX (or NACK).
              A consequence of having a FDD SCell when the TDD PCell has a bundling window size
20  of    WTDD           4  , such as in the case of TDD UL-DL configuration 2 or 4, is that
       MFDD            . A bundling window size larger than 4 precludes a use of HARQ-ACK
    multiplexing using PUCCH Format lb with channel selection (see also REF 3) and a transmission
    structure, such as the example shown in FIGURE 3. This can be one mode of operation (HARQ
    ACK multiplexing using PUCCH Format lb with channel selection is precluded) in case of a
25  FDD SCell with a TDD PCell having
                                                MITDD         4
                                                                .
              In a first alternative for enabling use of HARQ-ACK multiplexing using PUCCH Format
    lb with channel selection, an effective bundling window size A           FDD,eff can be defined

    when       [FDD           such that                   or       FDD ef           . The meaning of
     MFDD,eff       is that even though a bundling window size "FDD                FDD,eff exists, the
    UE     114   can    expect    to  be   scheduled    only    in                    TTIs from
                                                                                      IFDD,eff      the
     MFDD>"FDD,effTTIs in a FDD SCell. The UE 114 can associate                   a TTI with respective
  5 HARQ-ACK information based on a DAI field included in a DL DCI format scheduling a PDSCH
    reception in the TTI in the FDD SCell. Once the UE 114 detects a DL DCI format with a DAI
    value indicating that a respective PDSCH is the      MFDD,eff PDSCH          transmitted to the UE
    114 in a same bundling window, the UE 114 can disregard detection of DL DCI formats in next
    TTIs of the same bundling window. For example, referring to FIGURE 9, if the UE 114 detects a
 .0 DL DCI format for the FDD SCell for TTI#4 950, TTI#5 952, TTI#6 954, and TTI#7 956, the UE
    114 disregards detection of a DL DCI format in TTI#8 958. Otherwise, if the UE 114 does not
    detect a DL DCI format for the FDD SCell for any one or more of TTI#4 950, TTI#5 952, TTI#6
    954, and TTI#7 956, the UE 114 considers a detection of a DL DCI format in TTI#8 958. The
    introduction of a DAI field in respective DL DCI formats for operation in a FDD SCell is
 .5 subsequently described.
             In a second alternative for enabling use of HARQ-ACK multiplexing using PUCCH
    Format lb with channel selection, bundling can be used for HARQ-ACK information
    corresponding to DL DCI formats in TTIs in a bundling window having a DAI field indicating a
    value between                        and                    . With such time domain bundling, a
20  single HARQ-ACK information is generated for PDSCH receptions in respective TTIs of a
    bundling window having an index between                "FDD,e             and A     FDD~         by
    successively using an exclusive OR (XOR) operation. The XOR operation is defined as:
    XOR(0,0) = 0, XOR(0,1) = 1, XOR(1,0) = 1, XOR(l,l) = 0. For example, for TDD UL-DL
    configuration 2 or 4 and a DL association set index    KFDD for a FDD SCell as in Table 5 or
              MFDDf         4        AFDD 5
25  Table 7, A          "      and                 . Then, if the UE 114 detects DL DCI formats in all
    TTIs of a bundling window, a DAI value in the last two DL DCI formats shall have a value of 3
    and 4, respectively, and the UE 114 performs bundling for the respective HARQ-ACK
    information in order to generate a single HARQ-ACK information for the last two TTIs in the

                                                     Z/
    bundling window for the FDD SCell.
             In the above example, the UE 114 does not perform bundling of HARQ-ACK information
    in the last two TTIs if the UE 114 did not detect DL DCI formats for each of the two TTIs and if
    the value of the DAI field in each of the two DL DCI formats is not 3 and 4, respectively. Also,
  5 the UE 114 applies the previous bundling of HARQ-ACK information only for the FDD SCell
    while for the TDD PCell, the HARQ-ACK information payload is            TDD           and bundling
    of HARQ-ACK information is not needed. For example, referring to FIGURE 9, the UE 114 does
    not bundle HARQ-ACK information corresponding to detections of DL DCI formats for the TDD
    PCell while the UE 114 performs bundling of HARQ-ACK information corresponding to
 .0 detections of two DL DCI formats for the FDD SCell for TTI#7 956 and TTI#8 958 only if a
    value of a DAI field in each of the two DL DCI formats is respectively 3 and 4, that is, only if the
    UE 114 detected DL DCI formats for each TTI of the bundling window that includes
     MIFDD=5           TIs.
             In a second approach, the UE 114 with a TDD PCell and a FDD SCell determines a
 .5 HARQ-ACK information payload by assuming respective bundling window sizes of                 TDD
           "~FDD
    and              . For example, the second approach can apply when PUCCH Format 3 (see also
    REF 1) is used by the UE 114 to transmit HARQ-ACK information. The UE 114 can order
    HARQ-ACK information bits according to a cell index, such as first for the TDD PCell and
    second for the FDD SCell. Subsequently, the UE 114 can interleave the HARQ-ACK information
20  bits prior to encoding with a dual RM code when a combined payload exceeds 11 bits (see also
    REF 2). The UE 114 generates         OTDD      -  MrDD HARQ-ACK          information bits for the
    TDD PCell and       OFDD           FDD HARQ-ACK information bits for the FDD SCell for a
    total payload of       Li                  bits, where O   TDD is a number of HARQ-ACK
    information bits for a PDSCH TM the UE 114 is configured for the TDD PCell and        OFDD is
25  a number of HARQ-ACK information bits for a PDSCH TM the UE 114 is configured for the
    FDD SCell.
             Referring to FIGURE 9, assuming     OTDD    2 and    FDD     , which implies that the UE
    114 is configured a PDSCH TM conveying up to two data TBs in the TDD PCell and one data TB

    in the FDD SCell, the UE 114 detects at least one DL DCI format for the TDD PCell 910 and at
    least one DL DCI format for the FDD SCell 920 and generates 8 HARQ-ACK information bits for
    respective TTIs 940, 942, 944, 946 of the bundling window of the TDD PCell and 5 HARQ-ACK
    bits for respective TTIs 950, 952, 954, 956, and 958 of the bundling window of the FDD SCell for
  5 transmission in UL TTI#12 930. For DL TTIs where the UE 114 does not detect a DL DCI format,
    respective HARQ-ACK bits can be set to a NACK/DTX value.
              A benefit of the second approach (not assuming the maximum bundling window size of
    ''FDD         for both the TDD PCell and the FDD SCell by excluding TTIs that are UL TTIs on
    the TDD PCell) is that a total payload is not unnecessarily increased by including fixed HARQ
 .0 ACK information bits (each set to a NACK/DTX value), thereby reducing a probability that a dual
    RM code instead of a single RM code is used (when a total HARQ-ACK information payload
    exceeds a first value such as 11) or reducing a probability that bundling of HARQ-ACK
    information bits corresponding to 2 data TBs conveyed by a same PDSCH is used in order to
    decrease a total HARQ-ACK information payload below a second value such as 23.
 .5           DL HARQ process number field, DAI field, and ARO field in a DL DCI format and DAI
    Field and UL index field in an UL DCI format for scheduling in a TDD SCell in case of a FDD
    PCell
              In certain embodiments, for a DL HARQ process number field in a DCI format
    scheduling PDSCH in a TDD SCell having a FDD PCell, HARQ-ACK transmissions can occur in
 !0 every TTI (either on a PUCCH in the FDD PCell or in a PUSCH either in the FDD PCell or in the
    TDD SCell). As a consequence, there is no additional latency required for HARQ-ACK reporting
    from the UE 114, as in TDD only operation, and therefore there is no need to support a larger
    number of DL HARQ processes for PDSCH transmissions in the TDD SCell than in the FDD
    PCell. Therefore, in case of CA between a FDD PCell and a TDD SCell, there is no need to have
25  more HARQ processes for scheduling PDSCH in the TDD SCell and DL DCI formats for PDSCH
    scheduling either in the FDD PCell or in the TDD SCell have a same number of bits for DL
    HARQ process field, such as for example 3 bits to support up to 8 HARQ processes.
              Similar to the DL HARQ process number field, as transmission of HARQ-ACK
    information from the UE 114 can occur in every TTI, a respective bundling window size for a
30  TDD SCell is effectively always equal to 1 TTI. Therefore, in case of CA between a FDD PCell
    and a TDD SCell, DL DCI formats for PDSCH scheduling in the TDD SCell do not include a DAI
    field that functions as a counter of a DL DCI format in a bundling window in case of single-cell
    TDD operation. This absence of a DAI field in a DL DCI format in case of a FDD PCell and a
    TDD SCell, in conjunction with an equal size for a DL HARQ process number field in DL DCI

    formats scheduling PDSCH in a FDD PCell or in a TDD SCell, result to a DL DCI format having
    a same size regardless of whether a respective PDSCH is scheduled in a FDD PCell or in a TDD
    SCell.
            Additionally, as transmission of HARQ-ACK information from the UE 114 can occur in
  5 every TTI, a mapping of an ARO field in a DL DCI format intended for a TDD SCell can be as
    for a FDD PCell since PUCCH resource compression in the time domain is not required.
    Therefore, unlike for single-cell TDD operation, certain embodiments of this disclosure consider
    that a mapping of an ARO field in a DL DCI format is as for       m=0       in Table 3 for all DL
    TTIs in a TDD SCell
 .0         In case of cross-carrier scheduling of a TDD SCell from a FDD PCell, DL DCI formats
    can be transmitted in the FDD PCell in every TTI. In this case, regardless of whether a TDD UL
    DL configuration has more DL TTIs or more UL TTIs in a frame, an UL index field in an UL DCI
    format for indicating to the UE 114 a number of TTIs for PUSCH transmission is not required (in
    case of TDD UL-DL configuration 0). For the TDD SCell, this also implies a new HARQ timing
 .5 as the DCI format scheduling a PUSCH transmission in TTI n in the TDD SCell is transmitted in
    TTI n-4 in the FDD PCell. Evidently, if HARQ timing for the TDD SCell remains as for
    conventional single-cell operation, the UL index field also remains present in an UL DCI format
    scheduling a PUSCH transmission in the TDD SCell (in case of TDD UL-DL configuration 0)
    since UL DCI formats in the FDD PCell for scheduling PUSCH in the TDD SCell are transmitted
 !0 in same TTIs as for single-cell TDD operation.
            For a FDD PCell, a HARQ-ACK signal transmission can occur in every TTI. A HARQ
    ACK signal transmission from the UE 114 in TTI n+k is in response to PDSCH receptions in TTI
    n where for a FDD PCell k-4. As a consequence, a HARQ-ACK signal transmission in a FDD
    PCell either does not include any HARQ-ACK information bits for a TDD SCell (if a respective
25  TTI is an UL one) or includes HARQ-ACK bits in response to a single PDSCH reception in the
    TDD SCell. Therefore, a DAI field of 2 bits capable of indicating inclusion of HARQ-ACK
    information bits in a PUSCH for up to 4 TTIs (4 DL DCI formats) of the TDD SCell is not
    required and a respective signaling overhead in UL DCI formats for TDD cells can be avoided.
            In a first approach, a DAI field is not included in UL DCI formats scheduling PUSCH.
30  Then, when the UE 114 multiplexes (in a PUSCH) HARQ-ACK information bits in response to a
    PDSCH reception in a FDD PCell or in response to PDSCH reception in a TDD SCell, the UE
    114 includes HARQ-ACK information bits for all cells by setting to a NACK/DTX value each
    HARQ-ACK information bit corresponding to a cell for which the UE 114 did not receive a
    PDSCH in a respective TTI. For self-carrier scheduling and all TDD UL-DL configurations in
35  Table 1 other than TDD UL-DL configuration 0, the first approach results to an UL DCI format

                                                     JU
    having a same size regardless of whether a respective PUSCH is scheduled in a FDD cell or in a
    TDD cell. In case of cross-carrier scheduling for a PUSCH transmission in a TDD SCell from a
    FDD PCell, the previous conclusion applies also for TDD UL-DL configuration 0 in case a
    different HARQ timing applies and an UL index field is omitted from an UL DCI format and was
  5 previously described.
             FIGURE 10 illustrates an example use of a DAI field in an UL DCI format depending on
    whether or not a respective UE operates in a single TDD cell or in CA with a FDD PCell and a
    TDD SCell according to a first approach in this disclosure. While the flow chart depicts a series of
    sequential steps, unless explicitly stated, no inference should be drawn from that sequence
 .0 regarding specific order of performance, performance of steps or portions thereof serially rather
    than concurrently or in an overlapping manner, or performance of the steps depicted exclusively
    without the occurrence of intervening or intermediate steps. The process depicted in the example
    depicted is implemented by a transmitter chain in, for example, a mobile station.
             As shown in FIGURE 10, in detecting an UL DCI format for PUSCH scheduling in a
 .5 TDD cell, the UE 114 considers whether a respective operation is for a TDD single cell (including
    for a TDD PCell) or for a TDD SCell with a FDD PCell in operation 1010. If the UE 114 operates
    in a TDD single cell (with a TDD UL-DL configuration other than TDD UL-DL configuration 0),
    the UE decodes an UL DCI format assuming an inclusion of a DAI field in operation 1020. If the
    UE 114 operates with CA between at least one FDD PCell and at least one TDD SCell, the UE
 )0 114 decodes an UL DCI format assuming an absence of a DAI field in operation 1030.
             In a second approach, a DAI field of one bit is included in UL DCI formats to indicate
    whether the UE 114 should multiplex (in a PUSCH) HARQ-ACK information bits regardless of
    whether or not the UE 114 actually receives a PDSCH. In a first option, the DAI field is
    applicable only to SCells. In a second option, the DAI field is applicable to all cells. Which option
25  is used can be defined by the system operation or signaled by system information. For example,
    for a FDD PCell and a TDD SCell, a DAI field with a value of ' 0' indicates no HARQkCK
    multiplexing in a respective PUSCH while a DAI field with a value of ' 1' indicates HARQkCK
    multiplexing either corresponding to a TDD SCell (first option) or to both a FDD PCell and a
    TDD SCell (second option). The DAI field is included in an UL DCI format because a DL DCI
30  format scheduling a PDSCH, for which respective HARQ-ACK bits need to be included in a
    PUSCH, can be transmitted in the TDD SCell while an UL DCI format scheduling the PUSCH
    can be transmitted in a FDD cell. Then, as the two DCI formats are transmitted in different cells
    where the UE 114 can be experiencing different operating conditions, it is possible that the UE
    114 detects the UL DCI format, misses the DL DCI format and without a DAI field, the UE 114
35  cannot know whether to include HARQ-ACK information for the TDD SCell in the PUSCH.

                                                        i
              FIGURE 11 illustrates an example use of a DAI field in an UL DCI format depending on
    whether or not a respective UE operates in a single TDD cell or in CA with a FDD PCell and a
    TDD SCell according to a second approach in this disclosure. While the flow chart depicts a series
    of sequential steps, unless explicitly stated, no inference should be drawn from that sequence
  5 regarding specific order of performance, performance of steps or portions thereof serially rather
    than concurrently or in an overlapping manner, or performance of the steps depicted exclusively
    without the occurrence of intervening or intermediate steps. The process depicted in the example
    depicted is implemented by a transmitter chain in, for example, a mobile station.
              As shown in FIGURE 11, in detecting an UL DCI format for PUSCH scheduling, the UE
 .0 114 considers whether a respective operation is for a TDD single cell or for a TDD SCell with a
    FDD PCell in operation 1110. If the UE 114 operates in a TDD single cell, the UE 114 decodes an
    UL DCI format assuming an inclusion of a DAI field of 2 bits in operation 1120. If the UE 114
    operates with CA between at least one FDD cell and at least one TDD cell, wherein a FDD cell is
    the PCell, the UE 114 decodes an UL DCI format assuming an inclusion of a DAI field of 1 bit in
 .5 operation 1130.
              In a third approach, a DAI field of two bits is included in UL DCI formats but its
    interpretation is modified relative to that for single-cell TDD operation. The DAI field of two bits
    can indicate whether the UE 114 should not multiplex (in a PUSCH) any HARQ-ACK bits using
    for example a value ' 00' , whether the UE 114 should multipk HARQ-ACK bits for a first set of
 )0 cells using for example a value of ' 01' , whether thUE 114 should multiplex HARQ-ACK bits a
    second set of cells using for example a value of ' D' , and whether the UE 114 should multiplex
    HARQ-ACK bits for all cells using for example a value of ' 11' . The first set of cells and the
    second set of cells can be configured to the UE 114 in advance through higher layer signaling. For
    example, for CA with 2 cells, the first set of cells may include only the PCell and the second set of
25  cells may include only the TDD SCell.
              FIGURE 12 illustrates an example interpretation for a DAI field in an UL DCI format
    depending on whether or not a respective UE operates in a single TDD cell or in CA with a FDD
    PCell and a TDD SCell according to a third approach in this disclosure. While the flow chart
    depicts a series of sequential steps, unless explicitly stated, no inference should be drawn from
30  that sequence regarding specific order of performance, performance of steps or portions thereof
    serially rather than concurrently or in an overlapping manner, or performance of the steps depicted
    exclusively without the occurrence of intervening or intermediate steps. The process depicted in
    the example depicted is implemented by a transmitter chain in, for example, a mobile station.
              As shown in FIGURE 12, the UE 114 detects an UL DCI format for PUSCH scheduling
35  in a TDD cell wherein the UL DCI format includes a DAI field of 2 bits. The UE 114 considers

    whether a respective operation is for a TDD single cell or for a TDD SCell with a FDD PCell in
    operation1210. If the UE 114 operates in a TDD single cell, the UE 114 interprets the DAI field as
    indicating a number of TTIs in a bundling window for which the UE 114 includes HARQ-ACK
    information in the PUSCH in operation 1220. If the UE 114 operates with CA between at least
  5 one FDD cell and at least one TDD cell, with FDD PCell, the UE 114 interprets the DAI field as
    indicating a set of cells for which the UE 114 should include HARQ-ACK information in the
    PUSCH in operation 1230.
             A removal of a DAI field in an UL DCI format for PUSCH scheduling to the UE 114 in a
    TDD SCell, a removal of a DAI field and a reduction of a DL HARQ process number field from 4
 .0 bits to 3 bits in a DL DCI format for PDSCH scheduling to the UE 114 in a TDD SCell, and a
    remapping of the ARO values in a DL DCI format for PDSCH scheduling to the UE 114 in a
    TDD SCell are associated with transmission of HARQ-ACK information from the UE in the FDD
    PCell. If the UE 114 transmits HARQ-ACK in the TDD SCell, the previous fields remain
    unchanged (i.e., remain the same) and exist in DCI formats as for single-cell TDD operation.
 .5          DL HARQ process number field, DAI field, and ARO field in a DL DCI format and DAI
    Field and UL index field in an UL DCI format for scheduling in a FDD SCell in case of a TDD
    PCell
             In certain embodiments, for the UE 114 configured with a TDD PCell and a FDD SCell,
    when the UE 114 transmits PUCCH only in the TDD PCell, a transmission timing of HARQ
 )0 ACK information in response to detecting one or more DL DCI formats for the FDD SCell is
    determined by an availability of UL TTIs in the TDD PCell and, unlike conventional FDD
    operation, transmission of HARQ-ACK information cannot occur in every TTI of a TDD PCell.
    Therefore, a bundling window size for transmission of HARQ-ACK information in response to
    detecting one or more DL DCI formats can be larger than 1. In general, whenever a bundling
25  window size is larger than 1, a DAI field is included in an UL DCI format.
             Due to an additional latency required for the UE 114 to report HARQ-ACK information
    in a TDD PCell in response to detecting one or more DL DCI formats scheduling respective
    PDSCHs in a FDD SCell, a larger number of DL HARQ processes for PDSCH transmissions in
    the FDD SCell needs to be supported compared to the case of a FDD PCell. For example,
30  considering a delay of 3 TTIs between an end (or a delay of 4 TTIs between a beginning) of a
    PDSCH transmission from the eNB 102 and an availability of a respective HARQ-ACK
    information at the UE 114, a delay of 3 TTIs between an end (or a delay of 4 TTIs between a
    beginning) of a HARQ-ACK transmission at the UE 114 and an availability of a           scheduling
    decision for a same HARQ process at an NB, and a delay of up to 13 TTIs for reporting HARQ
35  ACK information in case the TDD PCell uses TDD UL-DL configuration 5 (as indicated in Table

    4, 4, or 5), a maximum delay of 17 TTIs can occur thereby requiring a maximum of 17 HARQ
    processes.
             Consequently, for CA between a TDD PCell and a FDD SCell, a DL HARQ process
    number field in a DL DCI format for the FDD SCell includes a larger number of bits than in case
  5 of a FDD PCell (including single-cell FDD operation). This number of bits for the DL HARQ
    process number field can be same as the one for the DL HARQ process number field in a DL DCI
    format for the TDD PCell. For example, in case of a TDD PCell and a FDD SCell, a DL HARQ
    process number field in each DL DCI format can include 4 bits, regardless of whether a DL DCI
    format is intended for the TDD PCell or the FDD SCell, while in case of a FDD PCell a DL
 .0 HARQ process number field in each DL DCI format can include 3 bits, regardless of whether a
    DL DCI format is intended for the FDD PCell or a FDD SCell or TDD SCell. In case the TDD
    SCell uses TDD UL-DL configuration 5, a restriction is that a number of HARQ processes for the
    FDD SCell is up to to 16, instead of a maximum possible of 17, but this is a minor restriction and
    avoids using an additional bit for a DL HARQ process number field in a DL DCI format
 .5 scheduling PDSCH in the FDD SCell.
             FIGURE 13 illustrates an example method for determining a size of a DL HARQ process
    number field in a DL DCI format depending on whether a PCell is an FDD cell or a TDD cell
    according to this disclosure. While the flow chart depicts a series of sequential steps, unless
    explicitly stated, no inference should be drawn from that sequence regarding specific order of
 )0 performance, performance of steps or portions thereof serially rather than concurrently or in an
    overlapping manner, or performance of the steps depicted exclusively without the occurrence of
    intervening or intermediate steps. The process depicted in the example depicted is implemented
    by a transmitter chain in, for example, a base station.
             As shown in FIGURE 13, in detecting a DL DCI format for a FDD cell or a TDD cell, the
25  eNB 102 and the UE 114 consider whether a respective operation is for a FDD PCell or for a TDD
    PCell in operation 1310. If the UE 114 operates with a FDD PCell, a DL HARQ process number
    field in a DL DCI format for the UE 114 includes 3 bits in operation 1320. If the UE 114 operates
    with a TDD PCell, a DL HARQ process number field in a DL DCI format for the UE 114
    includes 4 bits in operation 1330.
30            Similar to the DL HARQ process number field, as transmission of HARQ-ACK
    information from a UE cannot typically occur in successive TTIs in case of a TDD PCell, a
    respective bundling window size for a FDD SCell can be larger than 1 TTI. Therefore, in case of
    CA between a TDD PCell and a FDD SCell, a DL DCI format for the FDD SCell needs to include
    a DAI field that functions as a counter of a DL DCI format in a bundling window similar to the
35  DAI field in DL DCI format for a TDD PCell. This existence of a DAI field in a DL DCI format

                                                       J/4
    in case of a TDD PCell, in conjunction with an equal size for a DL HARQ process number field in
    DL DCI formats for the TDD PCell and a FDD SCell, result to a DL DCI format having a same
    size regardless of whether it is intended for a TDD PCell or a FDD SCell. In case of a FDD PCell,
    a DAI field can be omitted from a DL DCI format for a TDD SCell. It is noted that a DAI field for
  5 a FDD SCell (with a TDD PCell) can include 2 bits even though        "FDD      can be larger than 4
    and the UE 114 can determine an index for a respective DL DCI format in a bundling window
    based on an index of a last detected DL DCI format within a same bundling window. For example,
    a DAI field binary value of ' 00'     can map either ta DL DCI format index of either 1, or 5 (if
    applicable), or (if applicable) 9 within a same bundling window and the UE 114 can determine a
 .0 value of 5 if it previously detected a single DL DCI format including a DAI field with binary
    value of ' 0 ' , or ' 10' , or ' 11' . Similar, a DAll1 fiary value of ' 0 ' can map either to a DL
    DCI format index of either 2, or 6 (if applicable), or (if applicable) 10 within a same bundling
    window and the UE 114 can determine a value of 6 if the UE 114 previously detected a single DL
    DCI format including a DAI field with binary value of ' 10' or ' 11' .
 .5          FIGURE 14 illustrates an example method for determining an existence of a DAI field in
    a DL DCI format depending on whether a PCell is an FDD cell or a TDD cell according to this
    disclosure. While the flow chart depicts a series of sequential steps, unless explicitly stated, no
    inference should be drawn from that sequence regarding specific order of performance,
    performance of steps or portions thereof serially rather than concurrently or in an overlapping
 !0 manner, or performance of the steps depicted exclusively without the occurrence of intervening or
    intermediate steps. The process depicted in the example depicted is implemented by a transmitter
    chain in, for example, a mobile station.
             As shown in FIGURE 14, in detecting a DL DCI format for a FDD cell or a TDD cell, the
    UE 114 considers whether a respective operation is for a FDD PCell or for a TDD PCell in
25  operation 1410. If the UE 114 operates with a FDD PCell, a DAI field is not included in a DL
    DCI format for the UE in operation 1420. If the UE 114 operates with a TDD PCell, a DAI field is
    included in a DL DCI format for the UE 114 in operation 1430.
             As previously mentioned, a transmission of HARQ-ACK information from the UE 114
    cannot typically occur in successive TTIs and a respective bundling window size for a FDD SCell
30  can be larger than 1 TTI. Therefore, in case of a TDD PCell and a FDD SCell, a mapping of an
    ARO field in a DL DCI format intended for PDSCH scheduling in the FDD SCell can be as for
    the TDD PCell since compression in the time domain is also required. Therefore, for a bundling
    window size of M       FDD for the FDD SCell, a mapping of a ARO field in a DL DCI format the

    UE 114 receives in DL TTI with index        M in the bundling window can be as in Table 3 with
     A1    replaced by    "FDD
             For conventional operation in a FDD cell, a DAI field in an UL DCI format indicating to
    the UE 114 to multiplex HARQ-ACK information in a PUSCH transmission does not need to be
  5 included in the UL DCI format. This is because HARQ-ACK information is generated in response
    to a DL DCI format that is transmitted in a same TTI (and in a same cell) as an UL DCI format
    scheduling a PUSCH transmission, and therefore it is highly likely that the UE 114 either detects
    both DCI formats or misses both DCI formats, and because HARQ-ACK information in response
    to a DL DCI format detection in a previous TTI is already transmitted in a respective previous
 .0 PUSCH or PUCCH. The same applies for single cell TDD operation using TDD UL-DL
    configuration 0 that includes more UL TTIs than DL TTIs (and special TTIs). Therefore, an
    additional explicit indication to the UE 114, through a use of a DAI field in an UL DCI format, to
    multiplex HARQ-ACK information in a PUSCH transmission is not essential.
             In case of an FDD SCell with a TDD PCell, a DAI field needs to be included in an UL
 .5 DCI format scheduling a PUSCH transmission in the FDD SCell. In Table 5, for TDD UL-DL
    configuration 0, TTI#3 and TTI#8 are used to transmit HARQ-ACK information only for PDSCH
    reception in a FDD SCell. If the eNB 102 schedules the UE 114 a PUSCH transmission in the
    TDD PCell and also schedules a PUSCH transmission in a FDD SCell in TTI#3, the value of the
    DAI field in the UL DCI format scheduling the PUSCH transmission in the FDD SCell can
 20 indicate multiplexing of HARQ-ACK information in the PUSCH transmission in the TDD PCell
    even though the UL DCI format scheduling the PUSCH transmission in the TDD PCell does not
    include a DAI field and does not indicate HARQ-ACK multiplexing in the PUSCH transmission
    in the TDD PCell. Alternatively, in this case, HARQ-ACK multiplexing is in the PUSCH
    transmission in the FDD SCell.
25           For operation with a TDD PCell, IARQ-ACK information in response to a detection of
    DL DCI format for a FDD SCell in a previous TTI is not transmitted in any TTI where the UE
    114 transmits a PUSCH in a FDD SCell. This is because a respective UL TTI may not exist for
    the TDD UL-DL configuration in the TDD PCell in order for the UE 114 to transmit that HARQ
    ACK information or because due to the HARQ-ACK transmission timing, as for example in Table
30  5, the UL TTI may not be one where the UE 114 transmits HARQ-ACK information. In case of a
    FDD PCell, a DAI field can be omitted from an UL DCI format for a TDD SCell as was
    previously discussed.
             FIGURE 15 illustrates an example method for determining an existence of a DAI field in
    an UL DCI format depending on whether a PCell is an FDD cell or a TDD cell according to this

    disclosure. While the flow chart depicts a series of sequential steps, unless explicitly stated, no
    inference should be drawn from that sequence regarding specific order of performance,
    performance of steps or portions thereof serially rather than concurrently or in an overlapping
    manner, or performance of the steps depicted exclusively without the occurrence of intervening or
  5 intermediate steps. The process depicted in the example depicted is implemented by a transmitter
    chain in, for example, a mobile station.
              As shown in FIGURE 15, in detecting an UL DCI format scheduling PUSCH for a FDD
    cell, the UE 114 considers whether a respective operation is for a FDD PCell or for a TDD PCell
    in operation 1510. If the UE 114 operates with a FDD PCell, a DAI field is not included in the UL
 .0 DCI format for the UE 114 in operation 1520. If the UE 114 operates with a TDD PCell, a DAI
    field is included in the UL DCI format 1530.
              In case a TDD PCell uses TDD DL-UL configuration 0, a DAI for HARQ-ACK from the
    FDD SCell can be included in UL DCI formats transmitted in the TDD PCell even though it is not
    included in case of single TDD cell operation with TDD DL-UL configuration 0. This is because
 .5 HARQ-ACK timing in response to PDSCH reception can be different between TDD and FDD
    (for example, in Table 5, unlike Table 2, HARQ-ACK information for more than one TTIs of the
    FDD SCell is transmitted in a same UL TTI of the TDD PCell).
              For an FDD SCell, a PUSCH can be transmitted in every TTI (unlike for a TDD PCell
    where a PUSCH can be transmitted only if a TTI is an UL TTI according to Table 2). This allows
 )0 multiplexing in a PUSCH transmitted in an FDD SCell for any HARQ-ACK information pending
    transmission. However, this can complicate HARQ-ACK transmission from the UE 114 and
    reception by the eNB 102. For example, if HARQ-ACK information pending transmission is
    multiplexed in a PUSCH transmitted in a FDD SCell in a TTI prior to an UL TTI where a
    respective PUCCH transmission conveying the HARQ-ACK information is to occur in the TDD
25  PCell, for example according to Table 5, the HARQ-ACK information pending transmission may
    either not be included in the PUCCH transmission or can be duplicated in both the PUSCH
    transmission and the PUCCH transmission. For this reason, the UE 114 may not multiplex any
    available HARQ-ACK information in a PUSCH unless the PUSCH is transmitted in a TTI that
    supports transmission of HARQ-ACK information in the TDD PCell, for example as in Table 2 or
30  as in Table 5. It is noted that if the UE 114 is configured for PUSCH and PUCCH transmissions in
    a same UL TTI, the UE 114 can also be configured to transmit HARQ-ACK in a PUCCH.
              FIGURE 16 illustrates an example method for determining whether a UE multiplexes
    available HARQ-ACK information in a PUSCH transmission in a FDD SCell according to this
    disclosure. The embodiment of the determination shown in FIGURE 16 is for illustration only.
35  Other embodiments could be used without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

                                                    5/
             Referring to FIGURE 16, the UE 114 is configured with a TDD PCell 1610 and with a
    FDD SCell 1620. The UE 114 transmits HARQ-ACK information in the TDD PCell in UL
    TTI#12 1630. If the UE 114 transmits PUSCH in the FDD SCell in TTI#8 1654 and the UE 114
    has detected a DL DCI format for the TDD PCell in TTI#4 either for the TDD PCell 1640 or for
  5 the FDD SCell 1650, a respective HARQ-ACK information is available for the UE 114 to
    multiplex in the PUSCH. However, as the UE 114 does not transmit HARQ-ACK information in
    the TDD PCell in TTI#8 1654 (TTI#8 is a DL TTI in the TDD PCell), the UE 114 does not
    multiplex the available HARQ-ACK information in the PUSCH it transmits in the FDD SCell in
    TTI#8 1654. Similar, if the UE 114 transmits PUSCH in the FDD SCell in TTI#9 1655 and the
 .0 UE 114 has detected a DL DCI format for the TDD PCell in TTI#4 or in TTI#5 either for the
    TDD PCell 1640 or 1641 or for the FDD SCell 1650 or 1651, respectively, the UE 114 does not
    multiplex the available HARQ-ACK information in the PUSCH it transmits in the FDD SCell in
    TTI#9 1655 as that TTI is a DL TTI in the TDD PCell. Similar, the UE 114 does not multiplex
    available HARQ-ACK information in a PUSCH the UE 114 transmits in TTI#10 1656 or in
 .5 TTI#1 1 1657 in the FDD SCell. However, the UE 114 does multiplex available HARQ-ACK
    information in a PUSCH the UE 114 transmits in TTI#12 1658 in the FDD SCell as this TTI is an
    UL TTI 1630 where the UE 114 can transmit HARQ-ACK in the TDD PCell.
             As previously described, in case an UL DCI format is for a FDD SCell, the UE 114
    multiplexes HARQ-ACK information in a respective PUSCH only if the PUSCH is transmitted in
 !0 a TTI that is an UL TTI in the TDD PCell; otherwise, the UE 114 does not multiplex HARQ-ACK
    information in the PUSCH. Considering this TTI-based limitation for multiplexing HARQ-ACK
    information in a PUSCH the UE 114 transmits in a FDD SCell (for a TDD PCell), a DAI field
    does not need to convey any information when the DAI field is included in an UL DCI format
    scheduling a PUSCH in a FDD SCell in a TTI that is not a TTI where the UE 114 can transmit
25  HARQ-ACK information in a TDD PCell. In that case, two alternatives exist. Either a DAI field
    in not included in an UL DCI format scheduling a PUSCH transmission in a FDD SCell (when the
    PUSCH is transmitted in a TTI that is not a TTI where a UE 114 can transmit HARQ-ACK
    information in a PUCCH in a TDD PCell) or a DAI field can be set by the eNB 102 to a
    predetermined value (such as for example, a ' 00' xlae indicating no HARQ-ACK multiplexing in
30  the PUSCH that can also be used by the UE 114 in validating the detected UL DCI format).
             FIGURE 17 illustrates an example method for determining a use of a DAI field in an UL
    DCI format scheduling a PUSCH transmission in an FDD SCell according to this disclosure.
    While the flow chart depicts a series of sequential steps, unless explicitly stated, no inference
    should be drawn from that sequence regarding specific order of performance, performance of
35  steps or portions thereof serially rather than concurrently or in an overlapping manner, or

    performance of the steps depicted exclusively without the occurrence of intervening or
    intermediate steps. The process depicted in the example depicted is implemented by a transmitter
    chain in, for example, a mobile station.
             As shown in FIGURE 17, depending upon a type of a PCell for the UE 114 in operation
  5 1710, a DAI field is not included in an UL DCI format for scheduling PUSCH in a SCell if the
    PCell is an FDD one in operation 1720. If the PCell is a TDD one, an existence or a value of a
    DAI field in an UL DCI format for a SCell can depend on whether a respective PUSCH
    transmission from the UE 114 is scheduled in a TTI where the UE 114 can transmit HARQ-ACK
    in the TDD PCell 1730. If the UE 114 transmits PUSCH in a TTI where the UE 114 can transmit
 .0 HARQ-ACK in the TDD PCell, a DAI field is included in an UL DCI format scheduling the
    PUSCH transmission and the UE 114 determines the IARQ-ACK payload to multiplex in the
    PUSCH based on the value of the DAI field 1740. If the UE 114 transmits PUSCH in a TTI where
    the UE 114 cannot transmit HARQ-ACK in the TDD PCell, the UE 114 does not multiplex any
    available non-transmitted HARQ-ACK information in the PUSCH. Then, a DAI field is either not
 .5 included in the UL DCI format scheduling the PUSCH transmission or the UE 114 can assume
    that the DAI field has a fixed value 1750 such as a value ' 00'       (indicating no HARQkCK
    multiplexing in the PUSCH).
                                                                                                  U1L
             Upon detection of an UL DCI format that includes a DAI field with a value of
    and schedules a PUSCH in the TDD PCell or a FDD SCell in a TTI where the UE 114 can
 !0 multiplex HARQ-ACK information in a PUCCH then, if M          FDD           (this also implies that
    the TDD PCell does not use TDD UL-DL configuration 5 in Table 1), the UE 114 multiplexes in
    the PUSCH
                    OTDD -      min(WDA/TDDA                 HARQ-ACK information bits for the
                              0      min(     ~UL      4vD
    TDD PCell and
                         0FDD    -  min(WDA             FDD)
                                                                for the FDD SCell (
                                                                                              TDD
                                                                                                     or
     OFDD is equal      to one or two depending on a respective configured PDSCH TM). If the TDD
25  PCell does not use TDD UL-DL configuration 5 in Table 1 and if           FDD          , the UE 114
                                                          UL
    multiplexes in the PUSCH          TDD     mm ( fID AJ ITDD)            HARQ-ACK information
    bits for the TDD PCell and      F     mm(     +4 (U- W )     1 MED     for the FDD SCell, where

           is the number of DL DCI formats the UE 114 detects for scheduling PDSCH in the FDD
    SCell. If the TDD PCell uses TDD UL-DL configuration 5 (then it is also               FDD         ), the
    UE 114 multiplexes in the PUSCH                      Mtn         4 [ (U-          A  D'TDDHARQ-ACK
    information bits for the TDD PCell and
                                                  0 FDD ' ill f
                                                              (
                                                                     + [ (U-        1,AIFDD)4 for the FDD
  5 SCell where           is the larger number between a number of DL DCI formats the UE 114 detects
    for the TDD PCell and a number of DL DCI formats the UE 114 detects for the FDD SCell. The
    UE 114 can determine an association between a DL TTI and a respective HARQ-ACK
    information from a value of a DAI field in each detected DL DCI format, for example, as
    described in REF 3.
 .0           Alternatively, as       FDD           TDD, the UE 114 multiplexes in a PUSCH HARQ
    ACK bits for a same number of           NPDscB         PDSCH receptions (or SPS PDSCH release
    reception) in a TDD PCell and in a FDD SCell where             NPDSCN      is determined according to
    MFDD             as     it    was     described     in     the    previous    paragraph,     that      is
                                   UL
    NPDSCH=min(        PDCH-7
                               WDA,,AFDD)                       if
                                                                 f
                                                                             MFDD<4
                                                                                                        and
                                   U                       UL
15  NPDSCH                                   | (U- WDAI
                                        +4 [min(W                  4  1 ,MFDD)                FDD
    If NPDSCH>MTDD, the additional                   OTDD        - (NPDSCH-MTDD)              HARQ-ACK
    information bits for the TDD PCell can be set to a predetermined value, such as the NACK/DTX
    value.
              For SPS PUSCH or for a PUSCH retransmission that is triggered by a negative
20  acknowledgement signal transmission from an eNB and not by an UL DCI format, the UE 114
    multiplexes in the PUSCH         OTDD        M    TDD HARQ-ACK information bits for the TDD
    PCell and    OFDD " M           FDD HARQ-ACK information bits for the FDD SCell. Alternatively,

                                                      14U
    the UE 114 multiplexes     OTDD      -M    FDD HARQ-ACK information bits for the TDD PCell
    and   OFDD " M         FDD HARQ-ACK information bits for the FDD SCell.
             Transmission of HARQ-ACK information in a PUCCH either in a TDD PCell or in a
    FDD SCell
  5          In certain embodiments, PUCCH transmission in a SCell can be configured to the UE 114
    configured with aggregation of multiple cells. In case of a TDD PCell and a FDD SCell, and for
    functionalities associated with IARQ-ACK transmission from the UE 114, if a PUCCH for
    HARQ-ACK transmission is in the FDD SCell, a respective scope for a DL HARQ process
    number field, a DAI field, and an ARO field in a DL DCI format and for a DAI field or an UL
 .0 index field in an UL DCI format, for either a TDD PCell or a FDD SCell, can be redefined.
             The UE 114 can establish initial connection with a TDD cell and can be subsequently
    configured by the eNB 102 for additional communication with a FDD SCell. For example, due to
    spectrum availability or due existing deployments, a TDD PCell can use a first frequency and
    support transmission of UE-common DL control signaling while an FDD SCell may use a second
 .5 frequency and due to interference or signal propagation conditions may not support UE-common
    DL control signaling.
             If the UE 114 with a TDD PCell and a FDD SCell is configured to transmit HARQ-ACK
    information at least for PDSCH receptions in the FDD SCell in a PUCCH in the FDD SCell then,
    for the purpose of transmitting HARQ-ACK information from the UE 114, the operation is same
 20 as if the FDD SCell was a FDD PCell and the TDD PCell was a TDD SCell. Then, as was
    previously described, if HARQ-ACK information for PDSCH receptions in a TDD cell is
    transmitted in a FDD cell, a DL HARQ process number field in a DL DCI format for the TDD
    PCell can be reduced from 4 bits to 3 bits, a DAI field in a DL DCI format for the TDD PCell can
    be removed, a mapping of a ARO field can be redefined, and a DAI field in an UL DCI format for
25  the TDD PCell can be also removed. Moreover, no change is required in a DL DCI format or an
    UL DCI format for the FDD SCell relative to the case of FDD single-cell operation (a DAI field is
    not introduced in a respective DL DCI format or an UL DCI format and a number of bits for a DL
    HARQ process number field is not increased).
             FIGURE 18 illustrates an example method for determining a use of a DAI field in an UL
30  DCI format scheduling a PUSCH transmission in a FDD SCell according to this disclosure. While
    the flow chart depicts a series of sequential steps, unless explicitly stated, no inference should be
    drawn from that sequence regarding specific order of performance, performance of steps or
    portions thereof serially rather than concurrently or in an overlapping manner, or performance of
    the steps depicted exclusively without the occurrence of intervening or intermediate steps. The

                                                      L41j
    process depicted in the example depicted is implemented by a transmitter chain in, for example, a
    mobile station.
              As shown in FIGURE 18, the UE 114 is configured with a TDD PCell and a FDD SCell
    in operation 1810. For a TDD cell, a conventional DL DCI format includes a DAI field and a DL
  5 HARQ process number field of 4 bits and a conventional UL DCI format includes a DAI field.
    For an FDD cell, a conventional DL DCI format does not include a DAI field and includes a DL
    HARQ process number field of 3 bits and a conventional UL DCI format does not include a DAI
    field. If the UE 114 transmits HARQ-ACK in a PUCCH in the TDD PCell in operation 1820, a
    DL DCI format for the FDD SCell is modified to include a DAI field and a DL HARQ process
 .0 number field of 4 bits and an UL DCI format for the FDD SCell is modified to include a DAI field
    in operation 1830. Otherwise, if the UE 114 does not transmit HARQ-ACK in a PUCCH in the
    TDD PCell (and instead transmits PUCCH in the FDD SCell), a DL DCI format for the FDD
    SCell is not modified to include a DAI field or to include a DL HARQ process number field of 4
    bits and an UL DCI format for the FDD SCell is not modified to include a DAI field in operation
 .5 1840.
              In general, if the UE 114 transmits HARQ-ACK information corresponding to one or
    more PDSCH receptions in a TDD cell in a PUCCH of a FDD cell, a DL DCI format scheduling
    PDSCH on the TDD cell does not include a DAI field and includes a DL HARQ process number
    field of 3 bits (instead of 4 bits) and an UL DCI format scheduling PUSCH on the TDD cell does
 )0 not include a DAI field. Conversely, if the UE 114 transmits HARQ-ACK information
    corresponding to one or more PDSCH receptions in a FDD cell in a PUCCH of a TDD cell, a DL
    DCI format scheduling PDSCH on the FDD cell includes a DAI field and includes a DL HARQ
    process number field of 4 bits (instead of 3 bits) and an UL DCI format scheduling PUSCH on the
    TDD cell includes a DAI field.
25            In order to improve a robust system operation that can allow the UE 114 to lose
    connection with an FDD SCell while maintaining connection with a TDD PCell, the UE 114 may
    not transmit HARQ-ACK information in a PUCCH of a FDD SCell in a TTI that is an UL TTI in
    the TDD PCell. Instead, in a TTI that is an UL TTI in the TDD PCell, the UE 114 may transmit
    HARQ-ACK information in a PUCCH of the TDD PCell. The UE 114 may still transmit HARQ
30  ACK information in a PUCCH of a FDD SCell in a TTI that is not an UL TTI in the TDD PCell.
              Cross-carrier scheduling from a FDD cell to a TDD cell
              In certain embodiments, a DCI format from a FDD cell, such as a PCell, can be
    transmitted in any TTI to schedule to the UE 114 either PDSCH reception in a same TTI or
    PUSCH transmission after 4 TTIs in a FDD cell or in a first UL TTI after at least 4 TTIs in a TDD
35  cell. For a TDD cell that is cross-scheduled from a FDD cell, PDSCH reception in a same TTI as a

                                                     4z
    TTI of a respective DCI format transmission in a FDD cell is not possible if the TTI in the TDD
    cell is not a DL one.
              In a first approach, the eNB 102 does not transmit and the UE 114 does not decode in a
    TTI of a FDD cell a DL DCI format for PDSCH scheduling in a TDD cell if the TTI is an UL TTI
  5 in the TDD cell. In general, for scheduling of a TDD second cell from a (FDD or TDD) first cell,
    the eNB 102 does not transmit and the UE 114 does not decode in a TTI of the first cell a DCI
    format for PDSCH scheduling in the second cell if the TTI is an UL TTI in the second cell.
    Similar, if TTI n+ 4 is a DL TTI in a TDD cell then, in TTI n, the eNB 102 does not transmit and
    the UE 114 does not decode in a FDD cell any UL DCI format for PUSCH transmission in the
 .0 TDD cell. For example, the UE 114 can allocate the available decoding operations from not
    decoding previous DL DCI formats or UL DCI formats to increase a number of decoding
    operations it performs for scheduling in other cells or, respectively, for UL DCI formats or DL
    DCI formats for scheduling in the TDD cell.
              FIGURE 19 illustrates an example UE decoding operation in a TTI for a DL DCI format
 .5 scheduling a PDSCH in a TDD cell when the TTI is an UL TTI in the TDD cell according to this
    disclosure. While the flow chart depicts a series of sequential steps, unless explicitly stated, no
    inference should be drawn from that sequence regarding specific order of performance,
    performance of steps or portions thereof serially rather than concurrently or in an overlapping
    manner, or performance of the steps depicted exclusively without the occurrence of intervening or
 )0 intermediate steps. The process depicted in the example depicted is implemented by a transmitter
    chain in, for example, a mobile station.
              As shown in FIGURE 19, the UE 114 is configured by the eNB 102 for PDSCH
    receptions in two cells wherein a second cell uses TDD and a PDSCH reception in either cell is
    scheduled by a PDCCH transmitted in a first cell and conveying a respective DL DCI format in
25  operation 1910. In a DL TTI of the first cell, the UE 114 considers a communication direction of
    the TTI in the TDD second cell in operation 1920. If the TTI is a DL one, the UE 114 performs
    decoding operations to detect a PDCCH conveying a DL DCI format for PDSCH reception in the
    TDD second cell in operation 1930. If the TTI is an UL one, the UE 114 skips all decoding
    operations for PDCCHs associated with a transmission of a DL DCI format for PDSCH reception
30  in the TDD second cell in operation 1940.
              There are two options for using the above limitations to improve an overall system
    operation. A first option is to use a number of decoding operations becoming available when the
    UE 114 does not decode aforementioned DCI formats for increasing a number of decoding
    operations for DCI formats the UE 114 actually decodes in a TTI. For example, if the UE 114
35  performs 16 decoding operations for DL DCI formats and 16 decoding operations for UL DCI

                                                         4j
    formats per TTI in a UE-specific search space and per cell then, in a TTI where the UE 114 does
    not decode DL DCI formats for a TDD cell, the UE 114 can use the respective 16 decoding
    operations to increase a number of decoding operations it performs for DL DCI formats for an
    FDD cell or for UL DCI formats for an FDD cell or for the TDD cell. This can be useful if a
  5 Common Search Space (CSS) for PDCCH transmissions is supported in both a first cell and a
    second cell and the UE 114 has a nominal PDCCH decoding capability to support PDCCH
    decoding operation in only one CSS.
              FIGURE 20 illustrates an example allocation of decoding operations at a UE for PDCCHs
    transmitted in a first cell in a TTI depending on whether the UE monitors a DL DCI format for a
 .0 TDD cell in the TTI according to this disclosure. While the flow chart depicts a series of
    sequential steps, unless explicitly stated, no inference should be drawn from that sequence
    regarding specific order of performance, performance of steps or portions thereof serially rather
    than concurrently or in an overlapping manner, or performance of the steps depicted exclusively
    without the occurrence of intervening or intermediate steps. The process depicted in the example
 .5 depicted is implemented by a transmitter chain in, for example, a mobile station.
              As shown in FIGURE 20, the UE 114 is configured for PDSCH receptions in two cells
    wherein a SCell uses TDD and a PDSCH reception in either cell is scheduled by a PDCCH
    transmitted in a first cell in operation 2010. The UE 114 is configured with a PDSCH TM and a
    PUSCH TM in each cell and can perform a number of D 2 decoding operations for a respective DL
 )0 DCI format in the TDD cell. In a DL TTI of the first cell, the UE 114 considers a communication
    direction of the TTI in the TDD cell in operation 2020. If the TTI is a DL one, the UE 114
    performs a maximum of D 2 decoding operations for a DL DCI format scheduling PDSCH in the
    TDD cell in operation 2030 or for a CSS in the TDD cell. If the TTI is an UL one, the UE 114
    does not perform any decoding operation for a DL DCI format scheduling PDSCH in the TDD
25  cell and performs D2 1 additional decoding operations for a DL DCI format scheduling PDSCH in
    the first cell, D 2 2 additional decoding operations for a UL DCI format scheduling PUSCH in the
    first cell, and D 2 3 additional decoding operations for a UL DCI format scheduling PUSCH in the
    TDD cell, where D 2 1+D 2 2 +D 2 3 iJ 2 in operation 2040.
              A second option for the first approach is for the UE 114 to support only half a number of
30  decoding operations for a cross-carrier scheduled TDD cell compared to a number of decoding
    operations for a FDD cell or for a TDD single-cell operation. For example, the UE 114 can
    perform 16 decoding operations for DL DCI formats and 16 decoding operations for UL DCI
    formats per TTI either for a FDD cell, or for a TDD PCell, or for a TDD single-cell operation but
    can perform only 16 decoding operations, either for DL DCI formats or for UL DCI formats, for a
35  cross-carrier scheduled TDD cell.

                                                        414
             FIGURE 21 illustrates an example allocation of decoding operations at a UE for PDCCHs
    transmitted in a first cell for scheduling in the first cell and in a TDD second cell according to this
    disclosure. While the flow chart depicts a series of sequential steps, unless explicitly stated, no
    inference should be drawn from that sequence regarding specific order of performance,
  5 performance of steps or portions thereof serially rather than concurrently or in an overlapping
    manner, or performance of the steps depicted exclusively without the occurrence of intervening or
    intermediate steps. The process depicted in the example depicted is implemented by a transmitter
    chain in, for example, a mobile station.
             Referring to FIGURE 21, the UE 114 is configured for PDSCH receptions in two cells
 .0 wherein a second cell uses TDD and a PDSCH reception in either cell is scheduled by a PDCCH
    transmitted in a first cell in operation 2110. For detections of DCI formats scheduling PDSCH or
    PUSCH in the first cell in operation 2120, the UE 114 performs a total maximum of Di decoding
    operations in operation 2130. For detections of DCI formats scheduling PDSCH or PUSCH in the
    TDD second cell, the UE 114 performs a total maximum of D 2 decoding operations wherein D 2           <
 .5 Di and the UE 114 monitors either a DL DCI format or an UL DCI format (not both) in a TTI in
    operation 2140.
             In a second approach, the eNB 102 transmits and the UE 114 decodes in a FDD cell DCI
    formats for PDSCH scheduling in a TTI that is an UL TTI in a TDD SCell. Also, if TTI n+ 4 is an
    UL TTI in a TDD SCell then, in TTI n, the eNB 102 transmits and the UE 114 decodes in a FDD
 )0 cell DCI formats for PUSCH transmission in the TDD SCell. For determining a TTI of a PUSCH
    transmission, a same timeline can apply as for self-scheduling in the FDD cell. For example, a
    TTI for a PUSCH transmission in response to an UL DCI format detection can be a first UL TTI
    after 4 TTIs from a TTI of a respective UL DCI format detection. Alternatively, an existing
    timeline for single-cell TDD operation, with a same TDD UL-DL configuration, can apply for the
25  DCI formats transmitted in the FDD cell and schedule PDSCH or PUSCH in the TDD SCell.
             For determining a TTI for a PDSCH reception, a new scheduling timeline can also be
    beneficial as in all other cases a TTI of PDSCH reception is same as the TTI of a respective DL
    DCI format detection. For a TDD SCell that is cross-carrier scheduled a PDSCH reception from a
    FDD cell through a DCI format in a TTI that is an UL TTI in the TDD SCell, a TTI for the
30  PDSCH reception can be the first DL TTI after the UL TTI. A motivation use a new timeline, and
    for the eNB 102 to transmit a DL DCI format to the UE 114 for PDSCH scheduling in a TDD
    SCell when a respective TTI in an UL one, is to utilize available PDCCH resources that would
    otherwise not be used for any signal transmission and possibly use fewer PDCCH resources in a
    later TTI for PDSCH scheduling in the TDD SCell.
35           FIGURE 22 illustrates an example PDSCH scheduling for a TDD single-cell operation

    and for a cross-scheduled TDD SCell according to this disclosure. The embodiment of the
    PDSCH scheduling shown in FIGURE 22 is for illustration only. Other embodiments could be
    used without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.
             As shown in FIGURE 22, for a single cell TDD operation, the UE 114 always receives a
  5 PDSCH in a same TTI as the TTI of a PDCCH reception conveying a respective DL DCI format
    2210, 2212. For cross-carrier scheduled TDD SCell operation, the UE 114 receives a PDSCH in a
    same TTI as the TTI of a PDCCH reception conveying a respective DL DCI format if the TTI is a
    DL TTI in the TDD SCell in operation 2220. For cross-carrier scheduled TDD SCell operation,
    the UE 114 receives a PDSCH in a first DL TTI after the TTI of a PDCCH reception conveying a
 .0 respective DL DCI format if the TTI is an UL TTI or a special TTI in the TDD SCell in operation
    2230. To avoid an error case where the UE 114 can receive more DL DCI formats than DL TTIs
    over a time period, the UE 114 can only consider a most recent DCI format for a PDSCH
    reception. Therefore, if the UE 114 detects a DL DCI format in TTI#7 2240 and a DL DCI format
    in TTI#8 2242, the UE 114 disregards the DL DCI format in TTI#7 and receives a PDSCH in
 .5 accordance to the DL DCI format in TTI#8 (unless one DL DCI format triggers an SPS release
    and the other DL DCI format schedules a PDSCH reception; then, the UE considers both DL DCI
    formats).
             Cross-carrier scheduling from a TDD cell to a FDD cell
             In certain embodiments, it is desirable to schedule a PDSCH or PUSCH transmission in a
 )0 SCell using a respective DCI format conveyed by a PDCCH transmitted in a different cell. For
    PDSCH or PUSCH scheduling by a respective DCI format transmitted in a PDCCH in a TDD cell,
    a scheduling capability is limited only in DL TTIs. For single-cell TDD operation and TDD UL
    DL configuration 0 having more UL TTIs than DL TTIs, a limitation of scheduling in all UL TTIs
    is circumvented by including an UL index field in an UL DCI format. The UL index field
25  indicates one or more UL TTIs for PUSCH transmission scheduled by a respective UL DCI
    format.
             A similar scheduling limitation as for a conventional single-cell TDD operation occurs
    when a TDD PCell performs cross-carrier scheduling to a FDD SCell and is applicable to all TDD
    DL-UL configurations and to both PDSCH scheduling and PUSCH scheduling as a number of DL
30  TTIs in a TDD PCell is always smaller than a number of DL TTIs in a FDD SCell. Therefore, a
    DL index field or an UL index field can be introduced in a respective DL DCI format or UL DCI
    format for respective scheduling in a FDD SCell from a TDD PCell in order to respectively allow
    PDSCH or PUSCH scheduling in multiple TTIs from a single DL TTIs in the TDD PCell. Such a
    DL index field or UL index field for any TDD UL-DL configuration, other than TDD UL-DL
35  configuration 0, does not need to be introduced in a respective DL DCI format or UL DCI format

                                                     L40
    for respective scheduling in the TDD PCell. Therefore, a DL index field or an UL index field is
    needed only if PDSCH or PUSCH scheduling in the FDD SCell can be in multiple TTIs;
    otherwise, if PDSCH or PUSCH scheduling in the FDD SCell is restricted to a single respective
    TTI, a DL index field or an UL index field is not needed in a respective DL DCI format or UL
  5 DCI format.
             For scheduling of PDSCH transmissions in multiple respective TTIs of a FDD SCell from
    a TDD PCell using a single DL DCI format, a first restriction is that the DL DCI format is
    transmitted in a DL TTI of a same bundling window as the TTIs of the multiple PDSCH
    transmissions (which all are assumed to be in the same bundling window). This avoids confusion
 .0 in an interpretation of a DAI field in the DL DCI format (in case the UE 114 transmits HARQ
    ACK information in the TDD PCell, as was previously described) and enables HARQ-ACK
    information for a same bundling window to be transmitted in a same PUCCH or PUSCH. For
    example, if TDD UL-DL configuration 2 is used in the TDD PCell, a PDSCH transmission in
    TTI#7 in the FDD SCell can only be scheduled by a DL DCI format transmitted in DL TTI#4, DL
 .5 TTI#5, or DL TTI#6 in the TDD PCell.
             To further simplify scheduling of a PDSCH transmission in a first DL TTI of a FDD
    SCell from a DL DCI format transmitted in a second TTI of a TDD PCell, when using a DL index
    in a respective DL DCI format, such scheduling can be limited only to single-TTI scheduling and
    only for TTIs that are UL TTIs in a TDD PCell. For example, if TDD UL-DL configuration 2 is
 )0 used in the TDD PCell, a DL DCI format always schedules PDSCH in a single DL TTI and a
    PDSCH transmission only for TTI#7 in the FDD SCell can be scheduled by a DL DCI format
    transmitted in the TDD PCell while a PDSCH transmission in any other TTI in a same bundling
    window for the FDD SCell, such as TTI#6, is scheduled by a DL DCI format transmitted in a
    same TTI in the TDD PCell. As for the TDD UL-DL configurations in Table 1 there are at most 3
25  UL TTIs in a same bundling window for a FDD SCell then, using the previous restrictions, a DL
    index in a DL DCI format can include 2 bits which can indicate a TTI in the FDD SCell where the
    DL DCI format schedules a respective PDSCH transmission.
             For example, if TDD UL-DL configuration 2 is used in the TDD PCell, a DL index value
    of ' 00' can indite that a respective DL DCI format schedules a PDSCH in the FDD SCell in the
30  same TTI as the TTI where the DL DCI format is transmitted while a DL index value of ' 01' can
    indicate PDSCH scheduling in TTI#7. In this case, the UE 114 can consider the other two possible
    values of the DL index, ' 10' and ' 11' , as invaliddacan disregard a detection of an associated DL
    DCI format (alternatively, a 1-bit DL index can be used in this case). For example, if TDD UL
    DL configuration 0 is used in the TDD PCell, a DL index value of ' 00'            can indicate that a
35  respective DL DCI format schedules a PDSCH in the FDD SCell in the same TTI as the TTI

                                                    4/
    where the DL DCI format is transmitted, such as TTI#5 or TTI#6, while a DL index value of ' 01'
      10' , or' 11' can indicate, resovely, PDSCH scheduling in TTI#7, TTI#8, or TTI#9.
             In case of cross-TTI scheduling, ordering of HARQ-ACK information bits follows the
    scheduling order rather than the TTI order. For example, a scheduling order can be determined by
  5 a value of a DAI field included in each DL DCI format scheduling a respective PDSCH
    transmission. Therefore, it is possible for a PDSCH transmission scheduled by cross-TTI
    scheduling to have first HARQ-ACK information bits ordered prior to second HARQ-ACK
    information bits corresponding to an earlier PDSCH transmission in a same bundling window
    even though the first HARQ-ACK information bits become available at the UE 114 after the
 .0 second HARQ-ACK information bits. For example, if TDD UL-DL configuration 2 is used in the
    TDD PCell, a PDSCH transmission in TTI#7 in the FDD SCell can be cross-TTI scheduled by a
    DCI format transmitted in DL TTI#4 in the TDD PCell. Then, if a PDSCH transmission in the
    FDD SCell is scheduled in any of TTI#5, TTI#6, or TTI#8, respective HARQ-ACK information
    bits are placed after ones corresponding to PDSCH transmission in TTI#7.
 .5          FIGURE 23 illustrates an example method for scheduling a PDSCH in a TTI in an FDD
    SCell by a DL DCI format transmitted in an earlier TTI in a TDD PCell and for generating
    respective HARQ-ACK information bits according to this disclosure. The embodiment of the
    PDSCH scheduling shown in FIGURE 23 is for illustration only. Other embodiments could be
    used without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.
  0          As shown in FIGURE 23, the UE 114 is configured with a TDD PCell 2310 and with a
    FDD SCell 2320. The TDD PCell, on in general a TDD scheduling cell, uses TDD UL-DL
    configuration 2 and a PDSCH in the FDD SCell is scheduled by a DL DCI format transmitted in
    the TDD PCell (or, in general, in a TDD scheduling cell). For the FDD SCell, TTI#4 2340, TTI#5
    2342, TTI#6 2344, TTI#7 2346, and TTI#8 2348 belong in a same bundling window and HARQ
25  ACK information in response to a DL DCI format detection for the FDD SCell in any of these
    TTIs is transmitted in UL TTI#12 2350. A first DL DCI format for the FDD SCell and for TTI#4
    is transmitted in TTI#4 in the TDD PCell and includes a DAI field mapping to a value of 1 and a
    DL index field mapping to a value of 0 2360. A second DL DCI format for the FDD SCell and for
    TTI#7 is transmitted in TTI#4 in the TDD PCell and includes a DAI field mapping to a value of 2
30  and a DL index field mapping to a value of 1 2362. Although the second DL DCI format includes
    a DL index field mapping to a value of 1, due to a restriction of not performing cross-TTI
    scheduling in a TTI that is a DL TTI in the TDD PCell, it is unambiguous that the second DL DCI
    format is for TTI#7 in the FDD SCell. A third DL DCI format for the FDD SCell and for TTI#6 is
    transmitted in TTI#6 in the TDD PCell and includes a DAI field mapping to a value of 3 and a DL
35  index field mapping to a value of 0 2364 (the UE 114 may disregard the third DL DCI format if

                                                      146
    the mapping of the DL index field is not to a value of 0). In response to a detection of one or more
    of the first, second, and third DL DCI formats, the UE 114 generates at least respective HARQ
    ACK information bits             2370,         2372, and       '  2374 and transmits them in that
    order even though           is generated at the UE after      2 (for simplicity, the example shown
  5 in FIGURE 23 assumes that a PDSCH TM is associated with one HARQ-ACK bit; however, if a
    PDSCH TM is associated with two HARQ-ACK information bits, a same ordering applies for
    each pair of HARQ-ACK information bits).
             New TDD UL-DL Configurations
             In certain embodiments, if a TDD SCell does not support conventional UEs, new TDD
 .0 UL-DL configurations can be introduced to exploit characteristics of CA between FDD and TDD
    cells having a FDD PCell. Such a TDD UL-DL configuration can be one that includes only DL
    TTIs. These new TDD UL-DL configurations can be enabled by having PUCCH transmissions
    always occur in the FDD PCell and is further motivated from a typical system operation having
    more DL traffic than UL traffic. A TDD cell with only DL TTIs is functionally same as a FDD
 .5 cell with an UL carrier shared with another FDD cell with an exception being that a respective
    carrier frequency is in a spectrum otherwise allocated for TDD operation.
             As, due to channel reciprocity, SRS transmissions can be beneficial in a TDD cell for
    obtaining DL CSI, a TDD SCell may not include UL TTIs but can still include special TTIs,
    possibly with few or none DL symbols and as many as possible UL symbols that can be used for
 20 PRACH transmissions and SRS transmissions. It is noted that due to different interference
    conditions that the UE 114 can experience for DL signal reception and UL signal transmissions,
    CQI can also be explicitly provided by the UE 114 even though the eNB 102 can obtain other CSI
    types through an SRS transmission from the UE 114. Therefore, another new type of TDD UL-DL
    configuration can include only DL TTIs and or only DL TTIs and a special TTI.
25           FIGURE 24 illustrates an example TDD UL-DL configuration with DL TTIs, one special
    TTI, and no UL TTIs according to this disclosure. The embodiment of the TDD UL-DL
    configuration shown in FIGURE 24 is for illustration only. Other embodiments could be used
    without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.
             As shown in FIGURE 24, a frame of ten TTIs includes one special TTI 2410 and all
30  remaining TTIs are DL TTIs 2420. The special TTI can also be of a new type and include no
    DwPTS symbols, a GP, and an increased number of UpPTS symbols. The UpPTS symbols can be
    used for SRS transmissions and, for example in case a respective TDD SCell is not synchronized
    with a FDD PCell, for PRACH transmissions.
            Although the present disclosure has been described with an exemplary embodiment,

                                               ,4!)
various changes and modifications may be suggested to one skilled in the art.  It is intended that
the present disclosure encompass such changes and modifications as fall within the scope of the
appended claims.

                                                   50
          The claims defining the invention are as follows:
          1. A method for receiving acknowledgement information in a wireless communication
  system, the method comprising:
          transmitting configuration information for communicating with a secondary cell (SCell)
5 on a primary cell (PCell), the PCell using a time division duplexing (TDD) and the SCell using a
  frequency division duplexing (FDD);
          transmitting downlink control information comprising 4 bits of an HARQ process
  number on the SCell;
          transmitting downlink data scheduled by the downlink control information on the SCell;
0 and
          receiving acknowledgement information for the downlink data on the PCell.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
