Abstract
Disclosed is a method of combining industrial processes having inherent carbon capture and
conversion capabilities. The primary goal is to offer maximum flexibility, efficiency, and
economics while simultaneously enabling environmentally and sustainably sound practices. A
complementary goal isto retain as mcuh of the chemical energy available in the feedstock as
possible. A hybrid thermochemical cycle couples staged reforming (1.06, 1.15) with steam
methan reforming (1.05) and chlorination (1.09). Hydrogen generated is used to upgrade
essentially any carbon feed-stock including bitumen, shale, coal, and biomass. The residues of
the upgrading are chlorinated, metals of interest are removed and the remainder is reacted
with ammonia solution and carbon dioxide to form carbonate minerals. The combination
provides for an emissions free method of producing synthetic crude oil and its derivatives, as
well as various valuable metals and fertilizers. Sand and carbonate minerals are potentially the
only waste streams.

                                                       1
 METHOD FOR THE INTEGRATION OF CARBOCHLORINATION INTO A STAGED REFORMING OPERATION
 AS AN ALTERNATIVE TO DIRECT RESIDUE OXIDATION FOR THE RECOVERY OF VALUABLE METALS
 RELATED APPLICATIONS
This application claims priority to the provisional U.S. Application No. 61680393, filed on Aug. 7
 2012.
This application claims priority to the provisional U.S. Application No. 61786477, filed on Mar. 15
 2013.
TECHNICAL FIELD
The present invention relates generally to a system and method for improved material utilization in
 industrial processing. More specifically, the present invention addresses existing challenges with
carbon and waste stream management of major processes of the petrochemical and metallurgy
 industries. More specifically still, the present invention utilizes a reconfigurable set of processes hot
coupled to each other enabling high-efficiency carbon capture and conversion as well as
comprehensive waste stream management capabilities ideal for new plant design or retrofit.
BACKGROUND ART
Rising demand for fossil fuels, exasperated by rapidly developing nations, is driving the need for
more efficient utilization of limited natural resources in conjunction with the development of
alternative energy sources. Many modern advances in long utilized petrochemical practices such as
gasification and hydrotreatment are enabling the cost effective utilization of so called
unconventional fuels. Hybrid designs such as those discussed in papers "Development of
Multifunctional Energy Systems" (Cai et al., Energy, 2010) and "Optimization Framework for the
Simultaneous Process Synthesis, Heat and Power Integration of a Thermochemical Hybrid Biomass,
Coal, and Natural Gas Facility" (Baliban et al., Computers & Chemical Engineering, 2011) enable the
conversion of non-conventional fuels such as coal and natural gas as well as biomass and waste to be
converted to direct replacements or additives for petrochemicals conventionally derived from oil.
Furthermore, they are capable of utilizing carbon dioxide as a carbon source for conversion to
synthetic fuels, oils, and other carbon materials.
These practices do have substantial costs involved however. Capitol costs of equipment as well as
further energy costs are incurred depending on the chosen technology and level of carbon dioxide
management sought. The reliance on air separation techniques common in high efficiency and
especially carbon sequestration applications is one substantial cost. Further notable costs of such
systems are hydrogen production methods that typically rely on direct oxidation of fuel inputs which
in turn puts a greater load on carbon capture systems. An alternative method of hydrogen
production via electrolysis is emissions free but even with onsite electricity production (which
typically is not emissions free or highly efficient) represents a steep energy penalty. Even state of the
art staged reforming processes coupled to numerous complementary subsystems rely to a large
extent on legacy practices of energy production through direct oxidation and may or may not
manage the resulting carbon dioxide produced. (US 2012/0073198 Al, US 7674443) What is needed
is a superstructure that takes advantage of the level of maturity of such legacy processes while
integrating advances in alternative energy sources to efficiently deliver process heat. The present
invention accomplishes this through the novel integration of hydrogen production with the indirect

                                                      2
 oxidation by carbochlorination of pyrolysis residues. Through this arrangement, heat is conserved
 and directed at hydrogen production and carbon dioxide formation is kept to a minimum.
 Martynov et al. has shown in "Water and Hydrogen in Heavy Liquid Metal Coolant Technology"
 (Progress in Nuclear Technology, 2005) that molten lead-bismuth eutectic is an ideal catalyst for
 steam methane reactions. Combining this advantageous method of hydrogen production with heat
 amplification techniques allows for a range of viable alternative energy inputs such as direct or
 indirect heating provided by an advanced high temperature modular nuclear reactor.
Through this unique arrangement of processes, a large number of metallurgical subsystems may be
 integrated with a variety of synergistic benefits. Those of ordinary skill in the art should recognize
the integration of a flash smelter provides for both the management of smelter off gases and an
 inherent drossing mechanism within the molten metal steam methane reactor. Similarly, steel
 production through recycling and direct reduction can be incorporated with highly beneficial off gas
 processing simultaneously complementing the carbochlorination process. A variety of processing
 methods are available for the extraction of valuable base metals from the feedstock through
gaseous and electrochemical methods. In addition to the precious metals inherently captured by the
molten metal steam methane reforming, rare earth elements (as well as the various radioactive
species typically associated with them) are captured and concentrated by carbochlorination
techniques that can be removed through methods already known in the art. (US 5039336, US
5569440) Also disclosed is a method of oxidizing the carbon component of carbochlorination residue
using metal oxides from integrated processes as well as a novel electrochemical cationic exchange
for extraction of residual components utilizing a solid electrolyte. (US 4664849) Those of ordinary
skill in the art will undoubtedly recognize other varying benefits of the process integration enabled
by the present invention.
Finally, by exploiting a staged reforming operation utilizing hydrogen produced in the steam
methane reactor, oxidation of feedstock is minimized and hydrogenation is maximized. Feedstock
impurities are internally managed and a plurality of options for their removal is available. One of the
more unique features enabled is the production of carbonate minerals through a modified Solvay
process utilizing the metal chlorides produced via carbochlorination. (EP 0013586 B1, US
2013/0039824 Al) This along with internal reprocessing of carbon dioxide relieves or eliminates the
need for dedicated carbon capture subsystems and their attributed energy losses.
DISCLOSURE OF INVENTION
The present invention addresses the issue of carbon dioxide management in a staged reforming
operation through tightly integrating methods of petrochemical processing, metallurgy, and
ammonia-soda processing. Heat is generated by methods external to the invention and used to raise
feedstock temperature to a predetermined level. Heat amplification as well as emissions
management is inherently embodied within the invention by multiple direct contact heat exchanges
between integrated processes. Thermal energy accumulated in the high-temperature subsystems is
dissipated through endothermic steam methane reactions producing bulk hydrogen for consumption
by coupled processes. Within these high temperature subsystems, heat from the carbochlorination
of pyrolysis residues is generated and supplemented through the hot-coupling of further integrated
processes. Carbon dioxide generated in carbochlorination is stripped of metal chlorides and
combined with produced hydrogen to form a synthesis gas. This hot synthesis gas is employed in the

                                                      3
 pyrolysis of the feedstock and the combined gases are sent to a hydrotreatment vessel for upgrading
 and removal of impurities such as sulfur, halogens, nitrogen, and heavy metals. Gaseous impurities
 such as hydrogen chloride and hydrogen sulfide are removed from the gas stream following
 condensation of the higher molecular weight hydrocarbons and the remaining gases are further
 processed or recycled through the system. Base metals can be extracted as gaseous or liquid
 chlorides, separated and processed to oxides or another separable form, or removed through
 electro-deposition. Noble metals are removed with lead, copper, and related metals as dross from
 the steam methane reactor. Rare earth and radioactive elements present are concentrated by the
 carbochlorination and removed through cationic exchange, leaching, electrochemical, or other
 means. The remaining metal chlorides consisting substantially of alkali/alkaline chlorides as well as
 metal oxides consisting substantially of silica with varying amounts mixed oxide minerals transfer
 their useful heat to the input streams and the chlorides may be utilized in a modified Solvay process
 producing ammonium chloride and carbonate minerals. Carbon dioxide not mineralized is further
 processed through a reverse water gas shift reactor or other dedicated processing equipment as part
 of the gas cleanup and processing or recycled through the system. Carbon management is thus
 handled through minimization of direct oxidation, mineralization, and synthesis gas reprocessing.
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
 Further features, advantages and characteristics of the present invention will become apparent to a
 person of ordinary skill in the art from the following detailed description of best modes of carrying
 out the present invention, made with reference to the included drawing, in which the reference
 numbers used for selected subsystems are listed in order of appearance rather than by importance
or stepwise fashion, and in which:
 FIG. 1 illustrates the process integration of a number of embodiments of the present invention.
Subsystems in bold are considered to be integral to the operation. Solid lighter outlined subsystems
are believed to be ideal to the operation, however alternatives are known to exist and there may be
advantageous arrangements not accounted for in the illustration. Dashed subsystems are considered
to be advantageous embodiments but their exclusion is not considered detrimental in any way.
Double arrowed lines represent gas streams and single arrows represent solids or (usually high
temperature) liquids.
BEST MODES FOR CARRYING OUTTHE INVENTION
With reference to FIG. 1, multiple configurations of the present invention can be arranged through
the inclusion, exclusion, or modification of various subsystems. To those of ordinary skill in the art it
should become apparent that only a subset of applicable subsystems has been included in the
drawing and this should in no way limit the present invention to such subset. In accordance with a
best mode of carrying out the present invention the drawing illustrates the integration of staged
reforming with residue chlorination featuring inherent carbon oxide, heat, and waste management.
In accordance with best modes, all examples are implied to have attached to them an advanced high
temperature nuclear reactor as a zero emissions heat source. Furthermore, all supplementary
heating, cooling, and electricity required by the combination of integrated processes in the examples
is assumed to be provided by said reactor and related apparatus. For the purpose of this disclosure,
supplementary should be defined as any energy requirements not met by thermochemical changes
within the proposed set of integrated subsystems. Further, in the examples it should be assumed

                                                      4
that an outlet temperature of roughly 700 degrees centigrade is provided by the Supplemental
Heating (1.02) and the heating costs of said arrangement are on par with coal. All of the Core
components: Steam Methane Reaction (1.05), Thermal Decomposition (1.06), Hot Solids Recycle
(1.07), Electrochemical Processing (1.08), and Chlorination (1.09) plus all of the Recommended
components: Supplemental Heating (1.02), Feed Preparation (1.03), Gas Cleanup and Processing
(1.10), Condensation/ Distillation (1.13), and Hydrotreatment (1.15) are assumed to be included in
the examples.
For the purpose of further reference within the examples a brief explanation of the subsystems
shown in FIG. I is as follows:
1.01 Hydrogen Separation is to include any number of known technologies for the production or
      separation of purified hydrogen for use or sale. The bulk hydrogen production will be assumed
      to proceed via the Steam Methane Reaction (1.05) subsystem and the current subsystem isto
      supplement the bulk hydrogen production through methods including purification by molecular
      sieves, pressure swing absorption, proton conducting ceramics, but is also meant to include
      production techniques such as electrolysis.
1.02 Supplemental Heating isto include heat generated or used outside of and supplemental to
     other integrated subsystems. This may include a conventional boiler, gas or combined cycle
     turbine, or fuel cell; in which case it converts produced gas into electricity for sale or use. This
     subsystem is also meant to include any means of external energy input such as direct or indirect
     heating or heat recovery as well as electricity from solar, wind, or hydro for example. In most
     cases it is assumed that this supplemental energy is input substantially through steam to the
     Steam Methane Reaction (1.05) or through electricity for the Electrochemical Processing (1.08).
     Combined cycle configurations such as waste heat capture through desalination would also be
     included in this subsystem.
1.03 Feed Preparation is to include any crushing, grinding, blending, pulping, pelletizing, de
     watering, pre-heating or related pre-processing applied to the feedstock which may be located
     on premise or at a remote facility. The overall pre-processing required is assumed to be largely
     dependent on locally available resources and in turn impact the applicability of the integration
     of various subsystems within a given locale. Essentially any materials may be prepared and
     decomposed by the overall processing with the only limitations to feedstock being whether it
     economically meets the design requirements through local availability constraints.
1.04 Flash Smelting isto include the necessary apparatus for the smelting of sulfide ores or more
     precisely ore concentrates. This is to include both primary and secondary smelting. In
     conjunction with conventional flash smelting this is to include means of oxidizing molten lead
     from the Steam Methane Reaction (1.05) and its utilization within this subsystem or other
     applicable subsystems. Preferably this means of oxidation provides a heated stream of nitrogen
     enriched air to be utilized in other subsystems. All outputs from this subsystem are preferably
     sent advantageously to other subsystems; lead bullion to the Steam Methane Reaction (1.05),
     slag to Chlorination (1.09), and sulfur dioxide to a Claus plant in Gas Cleanup and Processing
     (1.10) for example. A further noteworthy use of this subsystem may be expanded to calcination
     without exceeding its disclosed scope.
1.05 Steam Methane Reaction is to include any configuration of a reactor or reactors operating by
     reacting steam with molten lead or lead alloy at moderate to high temperature. Further

                                                     5
      included are means or methods of removing oxygen from the molten lead or lead alloy such as
      reaction with methane or other gases, use of a solid oxide conducting ceramic, or direct carbon
      reduction for example. Also included are the use of further oxidation agents such as carbon
      dioxide or metal oxides and the overall management of oxygen levels. Implied in this oxygen
      management is the accumulation or concentration of metal oxide impurities along with noble
      metals providing dross of significant economic potential.
1.06 Thermal Decomposition is to include heating of the feedstock to separate volatile materials as
     well as any process or apparatus used for or in conjunction to this purpose. In accordance with
      best modes of operation it is assumed that this subsystem is coupled to the Steam Methane
      Reaction (1.05) and Chlorination (1.09) subsystems which provide hot gases utilized by this
     subsystem to volatilize the feedstock, in turn cooling and reacting the gases before processing
     by Hydrotreatment (1.15). Feedstock may be fed directly to this subsystem or as intermediate
     streams from other subsystems. Regardless of the specific arrangement of this subsystem, it
     serves to convert fed materials to gases and char residue consisting of inert mineral, spent
     catalyst, and fixed carbon which are then processed by Chlorination (1.09). This is in contrast to
     conventional staged reforming involving direct oxidation and/or heat reclamation.
1.07 Hot Solids Recycle is to include processes reclaiming heat from the remaining solid oxides
     exiting Chlorination (1.09). In accordance with best modes it is assumed that this useful heat is
     to be transferred to water/steam and that recovery of salts from brine is to be included as well.
     These salts are then utilized in Gas Cleanup and Processing (1.10) through the formation of
     carbonate minerals. Oxides having their useful heat recycled may be discharged as tailings or
     used within construction or other industries.
1.08 Electrochemical Processing is to include a wide range of processing methods available to
     advantageously drive redox reactions through electrochemical means. This includes molten salt
     or gaseous electrolysis through solid or liquid electrolytes/electrodes as well as plasma
     processing. This subsystem is assumed to be operating between or in tandem with the Steam
     Methane Reaction (1.05) and Chlorination (1.09) subsystems and further includes the
     circulation of molten lead between the two. In accordance with best modes it is envisioned
     such lead circulation may be carried out by magneto-hydro-dynamic pumping, conventional
     pumping, or gravity and displacement. Within this subsystem, substantially all metals that are
     not to be discharged to Hot Solids Recycle (1.07) are extracted from the Chlorination (1.09)
     output. There may be methods employed for this purpose that are equivalent, better than, or
     supplementary to electrochemical processes that for the purposes of this disclosure fall within
     this subsystem. Although conventionally direct current is utilized in similar apparatus, the
     present invention is not preferential to alternating or direct current within this subsystem.
1.09 Chlorination is to include any method or apparatus utilized for the purpose of indirect oxidation
     of the carbon constituent of the char produced by Thermal Decomposition (1.06) subsystems
     and chlorination of intermixed metals. This is in contrast to oxidation methods typical of staged
     reforming or gasification in that metal chlorides are produced. In accordance with a best mode
     of carrying out the present invention embodiments such as a rotating kiln, fluidized bed,
     manifold fluidized bed, or partially fluidized bed seem most suitable. A plurality of chlorides can
     be allowed to volatilize from the chlorinator then separated from the carbon oxides produced
     or alternatively kept within a chloride melt and electrodeposited. The present invention is not
     preferential to either processing technique. Volatilized chlorides not captured for removal will

                                                       6
      migrate to the Thermal Decomposition (1.06) subsystem, reacting with present oxides, and
      drop out or are filtered from the gas stream. Hot carbon monoxide from the Electric Arc
      Processing (1.12) or a similar process is also utilized as an oxygen sink. Further, carbon dioxide
      or various metal oxides and chlorides may be introduced to moderate reactivity and
      temperature. Dependent on the embodiment, thermal management is a major consideration
      for optimal operation as the heat generated drives the Thermal Decomposition (1.06) and
      Steam Methane Reaction (1.05) subsystems through transfer of materials. Electrochemical
      Processing (1.09) is one method available to maintain high operating temperatures with various
      complementary benefits.
1.10 Gas Cleanup and Processing is to include primarily the management of sulfur and carbon
      dioxide which may include conventional management processes such as acid gas stripping,
      chlorine knockout, dust collection, ammonia collection, cryogenic separation, sulfuric acid or
      Claus processes. Depending on the embodiment, sulfur dioxide from the Flash Smelting (1.04)
      and hydrogen sulfide from the Condensation\Distillation (1.13) may be reacted directly in a
      Claus process replacing or relieving the need for air or oxygen feed. Capture of either gas with
      calcium carbonate is also commonly practiced. In accordance with best modes this subsystem
     further utilizes alkali and alkaline chlorides from the Hot Solids Recycle (1.07) subsystem in a
      modified Solvay process for the capture of carbon dioxide as carbonate minerals. Within this
     disclosure the use of the term alkali chloride(s) or alkaline chloride(s) are considered to be
     synonymous and include Group 1 and Group 2 elements due to similar processing reactions.
      Due to this distinction, various methods of chlor-alkali, lime, and fertilizer production may
     directly relate to this subsystem, although Fertilizer Production (1.17) has its own subsystem
     maximal separation both in classification and physical proximity of these subsystems is
     considered in the best mode of carrying out the present invention. Cleanup is performed on the
     uncondensed gases from the Condensation/Distillation (1.12) subsystem and involves removing
     hydrogen chloride, hydrogen sulfide, and ammonia produced in the Hydrotreatment (1.15)
     from the gas. Carbon dioxide that is not mineralized may be recycled by conventional synthesis
     gas processing techniques operating within this subsystem or reprocessed within the
     superstructure of the invention by passing it through. Furthermore this subsystem may be
     expanded to include the entire range of applicable petrochemical processes in which case the
     synthesis gas processing involved has significant complementary overlap with Petrochemical
     Production (1.16) subsystems.
1.11 Coal Coking is to include means of contacting preheated coal from the High Temperature Coal
     Hopper (1.14) with hot gases from the Electric Arc Processing (1.12) volatilizing and cracking
     entrained hydrocarbons and producing a coke product. Volatilized gases are then sent to the
     Thermal Decomposition (1.06) subsystem while coke and/or reduced metals present may be
     introduced to the Electric Arc Processing (1.12) or other applicable processes.
1.12 Electric Arc Processing isto include any configuration of electric arc furnace apparatus that may
     further benefit the integrated processes through: recycling of steels, production of steel from
     direct reduced or electro won iron, acting as a high temperature carbon monoxide source, an
     appropriate carbon sink for coke, a high temperature apparatus for heating and reacting
     metals, slags, or gases from other processes, formation of slag appropriate as a heat carrier to
     other processes, reduction of silica or alumina to their metallic forms, production of metal
     chlorides for the chlorinator, or for leaching noble metals from molten metal to a lead alloy

                                                       7
       suitable for introduction to the Steam Methane Reaction(1.05). In accordance with best modes,
       a major advantage to incorporating this subsystem would be utilizing electricity produced
       through Supplemental Heating (1.02) to provide high temperature gases to the Chlorination
       (1.09) and Coal Coking (1.11) subsystems.
 1.13 Condensation/Distillation is to include means for separating a fraction or fractions of the gas
       stream from the Hydrotreatment (1.15) producing a crude oil or varying fractions thereof for
       the Petrochemical Production (1.16) subsystem. Uncondensed gases flow through to Gas
       Cleanup and Processing (1.10).
 1.14 High Temperature Coal Hopper isto include means for preheating coal to be sent to the Coal
       Coking (1.11) subsystem by contact with hot gases from Hydrotreatment (1.15). Further, this
       direct contact may be used to partially volatilize the coal producing a near-coke. Methods of
       condensing a portion of the high molecular weight fraction of the gas stream and passing it to
       the Coal Coking (1.11) for cracking may also be utilized. Utilizing sulfur sorbent mixed with the
       coal as well as circulation or fluidization between this subsystem and the Hydrotreatment (1.15)
       and Coal Coking (1.11) subsystems are considered best practices. Management of vaporous
       mercury present in the gas feed could also be carried out in this manner.
1.15 Hydrotreatment is to include the processing of volatilized gases from the Thermal
       Decomposition (1.06) with large amounts of hydrogen generated by the Steam Methane
       Reaction (1.05) through a high pressure moderate temperature reactor. It may further include
      the utilization of conventional catalysts as well as alkali\alkaline catalysts which react to form
      carbonates and drive the water gas shift reaction. The overall object of the subsystem is to
      saturate the hydrocarbon gases, simultaneously reacting to form hydrogen sulfide, hydrogen
      chloride, and ammonia which can then be removed in the Gas Cleanup and Processing (1.10)
      subsystem. Destruction of a plurality of organic pollutants is further achieved within this
      subsystem.
1.16 Petrochemical Production is to include the processing and handling of bulk or fractionated
      hydrocarbons from the Condensation/Distillation (1.13) as well as light gases from Gas Cleanup
      and Processing (1.10) and is meant to cover the entire range of petrochemical processing. Also
      included are blending, refining, and preparation for transport such as by pipeline or rail.
1.17 Fertilizer Production is to include the integration of ammonia production through reaction of
      hydrogen supplied by Hydrogen Separation (1.01) and nitrogen supplied by other subsystems
      such as the Flash Smelting (1.04) after passing through Gas Cleanup and Processing (1.10).
      Further it is to include the production of ammonium or alkali/alkaline salts such as carbonates,
      phosphates, nitrates, sulfates, sulfides, or urea.
In one embodiment of the present invention, tar sand production may be of primary importance.
Utilizing the Core and Recommended subsystems of FIG. 1, along with Petrochemical Processing
(1.16) a light sweet synthetic crude oil for pipeline transportation is produced with zero harmful
emissions, wastewater, or hazardous tailings and complete carbon conversion conserves more
chemical energy of the feedstock than conventional processing. Sand and carbonates may be utilized
along with steam produced for further in-situ tar sand recovery. Furthermore, biomass and poly
metallic shale can be fed into the system taking advantage of both the carbon conversion efficiency
and metal separation.

                                                      8
 Another embodiment of the present invention is beneficial where mixed sulfide ores may be within
 an economically reasonable distance of mineable shale and coal formations. Utilizing the Core and
 Recommended subsystems of FIG. 1, along with the Flash Smelting (1.04), Coal Coking (1.11), Electric
 Arc Processing (1.12), and High Temperature Coal Hopper (1.14) a plurality of metals can be
 extracted with a lower environmental footprint than conventional operations.
 In a further embodiment of the present invention, municipal water treatment and solid waste
 management are integrated with district heating and electricity generation. Utilizing the Core and
 Recommended subsystems of FIG. 1, Fertilizer Production (1.17) could be further integrated to
 ensure valuable nutrients are recycled. Fischer-Tropsch processing within the Gas Cleanup and
 Processing (1.10) subsystem can further be used to provide automotive fuels.
 In a final embodiment of the present invention, all of the Core, Recommended, and Optional
subsystems of FIG. 1 are utilized in a large scale combined cycle poly-generation plant providing
electricity, heating, cooling, and fresh water to a large metropolitan area. Capitalizing on economies
of scale, such a superstructure could operate on advantageous feed-in tariffs for the disposal of a
variety of wastes over a wide geographical area. It would further be capable of integrating
distributed generation into its regional power grid through a plurality of operational modes,
operating high energy demand subsystems during off-peak hours while lowering chemical output
and instead utilizing that chemical energy during periods of high demand.
INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
The present invention finds industrial applicability in the clean energy industry. In particular, the
present invention relates to industrial applicability in the petrochemical and metallurgy industries.
More particularly, the present invention finds industrial applicability in the pollution management
and environmental footprint context of a wide range of industrial processing methods.
SCOPE OF THE INVENTION
Having illustrated and described the principles of the system and method of the present invention in
various embodiments, it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the embodiment can be
modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. For example, the
carbonaceous feedstock may be entirely consumed on site if preferred. Therefore, the illustrated
embodiments should be considered only as example of the invention and not as a limitation on its
scope. Although the description above contains much specificity, these should not be construed as
limiting the scope of the invention but as merely providing illustrations of some of the presently
preferred embodiments of this invention. Further, it is appreciated that the scope of the present
invention encompasses other embodiments which may become obvious to those skilled in the art,
and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly to be limited by nothing other than the
appended claims, in which reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean "one and
only one" unless explicitly so stated, but rather "one or more". All structural and functional
equivalents to the elements of the above-described preferred embodiment that are known to those
of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be
encompassed by the present claims. Moreover, it is not necessary for a device or method to address
each and every problem sought to be solved by the present invention for it to be encompassed by
the present claims.

                                                       9
Claims of the invention:
1. A method for the integration of carbochlorination into a staged reforming operation for the
      recovery of valuable metals from the byproduct stream, the method comprising:
    i.     a thermal decomposition stage or stages where feedstock is broken down through a plurality
           of thermochemical steps yielding a plurality of raw gas streams of varying composition to be
           combined into a synthesis gas and product gas as well as producing a solid residue consisting
           substantially of spent catalyst, inert minerals, and formed coke
   ii.     a carbochlorination process hot-coupled to a steam methane reactor using molten metal
           compounds as a heat carrier between the exothermic carbochlorination and endothermic
           steam methane reforming wherein the raw gas streams are combined to form the
           appropriate stoichiometric proportions of hydrogen and carbon for the formation of
           synthesis gas to be consumed by downstream processes
      which integrated with any number of other relevant industrial processes, produce a product gas
      appropriate for any number of petrochemical and refinery operations including fuel suitable for
      a boiler, turbine, internal combustion engine, fuel cell, etc.
2. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the combined features
      of the integrated processes reduce the needed capacity and costs of pollution control
      mechanisms as well as allowing for the complete elimination of carbon dioxide emissions
     through mineralization and/or conversion by removing portions of the product gas stream and
     subsequently recycling the remaining gases back though the process for further reaction;
      in the case of carbon dioxide, involving its reaction to carbon monoxide, conversion to synthesis
     gas, and its subsequent processing to synthetic petrochemicals.
3. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the combined features
     are modified or expanded to accommodate the industrial processes of petrochemical
     production, conventional or non-conventional hydrocarbon refining operations, bio-refining,
     metal refining, rare earth separation, ceramics fabrication, glass production, fertilizer
     production, potable water production, desalination, water treatment, landfill reclamation,
     environmental remediation, soda ash production, chlor-alkali processing, processing of
     hazardous or radioactive materials, or any other viable process by means apparent to those
     skilled in the arts with the additional benefit of inherent emissions management enabled by
     process integration.
4. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the molten metal
     used as a heat carrier also functions as a catalyst.
5. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the molten metal
     used is comprised substantially of lead.
6. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the molten metal

                                                      10
     is a lead alloy of which a portion is routed to an oxidizing vessel for the purpose of oxidation with
     oxygen or air and utilizing the produced high temperature liquid oxidizer in other processes.
7. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the carbochlorination process
     is operated at slight vacuum to moderate pressure and between 700 to 1300 degrees
     centigrade, preferably at mild pressure and about 1000 degrees centigrade.
8. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the carbochlorination process
     produces an inert mineral residue consisting substantially of silica having its sensible heat
     transferred preferably to steam in a hot solids recycle process before being discharged as non
     toxic tailings or used in industrial applications.
9. The process as claimed in claim 8, wherein the inert mineral residue
     contains significant quantities of other metal oxides.
10. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the carbochlorination process
     chlorinates the pyrolysis residues producing a metal chloride melt as well as volatile metal
     chlorides and oxychlorides from which one or more metals may be extracted by various means
     known to those skilled in the arts.
11. The process as claimed in claim 10, wherein some portion of the chloride melt
     undergoes electrolysis in which the metal chlorides and dissolved oxides can be removed
     individually or as a plurality of electrodeposited metals.
12. The process as claimed in claim 10, wherein some portion of the chloride melt
     is reacted with ammonia, water, and carbon dioxide forming ammonium chloride and alkali
     carbonates for the purpose of mineralizing the carbon dioxide.
13. The process as claimed in claim 10, wherein the chloride melt
     by nature of its initial composition and processing concentrates chlorinated rare earth elements
     which are separated by means such as cationic transport through a beta alumina solid
     electrolyte or others known in the art.
14. The process as claimed in claim 10, wherein the chloride melt
     by nature of its initial composition and processing concentrates chlorinated radioactive materials
    which are separated and captured by means such as cationic transport through a beta alumina
    solid electrolyte and/or capture in a zeolite or others known in the art.
15. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the carbochlorination process
    is fluxed by a supplemental molten lead feed in which lead is reacted with a chlorination agent
    forming lead(ii)chloride that in turn reacts with alkaline oxides in the chlorinator and produces

                                                       11
      alkaline chlorides along with litharge then further reacting with carbon to form metallic lead,
      which combined with carbon being dissolved by said molten lead increasing its mobility and
      reactivity with available oxides prevents the buildup of carbon or unreacted material as well as
      improving reaction kinetics.
 16. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the carbochlorination process
      issupplemented by electrochemical processing that utilizes at least two electrodes comprising
     an anode and cathode system that may be comprised of one or more electrodes and/or
     electrolytes formed by lead and/or lead compounds including but not limited to: carbon
     saturated lead, lead chloride, lead oxide, or lead alloy.
17. The process as claimed in claim 16, wherein the electrochemical processing
     removes oxygen from the alkali halogen melt.
18. The process as claimed in claim 16, wherein the electrochemical processing
     includes one or more plasma forming apparatus used for any combination of one or more
     desirable effects comprising:
     fine control over the carbochlorination gas composition, production of further hydrogen,
     reaction and separation of volatile metal chlorides or oxy-chlorides, improving the breakdown
     and chlorination rate of solid materials, keeping metals within the chlorinator rather than
     allowing them to gas off, producing fluxing compounds such as aluminum chloride or silicon
     chloride, or providing supplemental heat.
19. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the steam methane reactor
     is operated at slight vacuum to mild pressure and between 500 to 1100 degrees centigrade,
     preferably operating near atmospheric pressure and about 700 degrees centigrade.
20. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the steam methane reactor
     by method of using lead as the heat transfer material acts simultaneously as a drossing
     mechanism by which metal impurities in the lead such as zinc, iron, and nickel are oxidized and
     act as nucleation sites for the solidification of metals with lower melting points than the
     operating temperature and nobler than lead such as copper, silver, gold, platinum, or palladium
     thus producing a concentrate of significant value mixed metals and oxides.
21. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the thermal decomposition
     is enhanced by the addition of hot materials recycled from attached or optional processes such
     as the solids removed by cyclonic separation from gas streams, hot sands from
     carbochlorination, hot coke from attached coking processes, or slags and liquid metals produced
     by accompanying metallurgical operations.
22. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the thermal decomposition

                                                     12
      comprises a vessel being fed carbonaceous feedstock and optionally a mixed flow-through
      catalyst which react with steam and a synthesis gas to obtain a product gas rich in volatile
      hydrocarbons.
23. The process as claimed in claim 22, wherein the mixed-feedstock
      is heated and reacted to obtain a char residue consisting substantially of unreacted feedstock,
      spent catalyst, and coked carbon passing through a counter-current heat exchanger in direct
      contact with high temperature gases being further heated and reacted followed by the solids
      passing into a chlorination reactor and forming a gas rich in carbon dioxide, a molten chloride
      salt, an inert solid residue, and a molten metal alloy.
24. The process as claimed in claim 22, wherein the thermal decomposition
      further comprises a high pressure moderate temperature hydrotreatment vessel for treatment
      of the product gas with hydrogen and synthesis gases.
25. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the product gas
      is passed through a bed of coal with or without the presence of oxide minerals in order to heat
     the coal/ore mixture, simultaneously cooling and condensing a portion of the gas stream
      removing high molecular weight hydrocarbons as well as mercury compounds from said gas.
26. The process as claimed in claim 25, wherein the coal/ore mixture
     along with the remaining solids, mercury, and condensed hydrocarbons passes into a high
     temperature reactor to be reacted with high temperature gases appropriate for cracking said
     hydrocarbons and volatizing them along with said mercury as well any sulfur captured by oxide
     ores if present, leaving a coke residue appropriate for metallurgy or fuel use.
27. The process as claimed in claim 26, wherein the coke
     is utilized in any of the appropriate processes as a heat carrier and/or reactant selected from the
     list comprising:
     carbochlorination, product gas cracking, hydrotreatment, direct water-gas production, hydrogen
     production, boudouard reaction, gasification, reforming, calcination, metallurgy, or any other
     integrated processes.
28. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the product gas
     is condensed by a pressure condenser or flash drum to obtain a light sweet crude oil being
     nearly free of contaminates such as mercury, sulfur, oxygen, nitrogen, halides, heavy metals, and
    organic pollutants.
29. The process as claimed in claim 1, wherein the gas streams
    within the process may be stripped of hydrogen by means of pressure swing adsorption,
    molecular sieves, or proton conducting ceramics for the production of hydrogen for any number

                                                        13
        of integrated hydrogen consuming processes such as hydrotreatment, plasma processing,
        ammonia, methane, or methanol production and/or pure hydrogen to be sent to market;
        in the case of proton conducting ceramics, optionally producing valuable alkenes.
30. The process as claimed in claim 1, further comprising one or more of the following:
     i.      a heat source providing process energy supplementary of any thermochemical changes
             within the processing method or apparatus
    ii.      a feedstock preparation stage
  iii.       a converter for the primary or secondary flash smelting of mineral sulfides or sulfates
             including but not limited to lead, copper, zinc, nickel, tin, bismuth, and antimony sulfides
             and associated minerals or materials
  iv.        an electric arc furnace
        which provide further benefits through process integration.
31. The process as claimed in claim 30, wherein the heat source
        is preferably a modular high temperature nuclear reactor but may be a geothermal,
        concentrated solar, conventional hydrocarbon fired boiler, or any process or combination of
        processes capable of meeting the energy requirements of the particular embodiment.
32. The process as claimed in claim 30, wherein the feedstock preparation stage
        is located on-site or at a separate preparation facility producing one or more suitable blended
       feedstocks.
33. The process as claimed in claim 30, wherein the feedstock preparation stage
       produces a crushed, shredded, blended, powder, pulp, fluid, or fuidizable composition.
34. The process as claimed in claim 33, wherein the feedstock composition
       is a coal based blend consisting substantially of any grade coal optionally enriched with oxides of
       iron, silicon, aluminum or any other minerals typically found in iron ore or its concentrates
       following a beneficiation process as well as any compounds that may be beneficial additives
       reacting with hydrogen sulfide for the capture of sulfur via sulfide formation.
35. The process as claimed in claim 33, wherein the feedstock composition
       is a mixed hydrocarbon feedstock consisting substantially of hydrogen rich heavy oils or tars
       blended with any carbonaceous materials as well as catalytic agents that may be considered
       waste of other industries such as wastes of urbanization, agriculture, fertilizer, metallurgical,
       medical, chemical, forestry, mining, chlor-alkali, or other industries.
36. The process as claimed in claim 35, wherein the carbonaceous material
      comprises one or more of the following:

                                                       14
        extra heavy crude, heavy crude, bitumen, oil sands, kerogen, oil shale, biomass, sewage sludge,
        landfill waste, contaminated soil, black liquor, tires, asphalt, plastics, rubbers, agriculture
        residues, or any carbonaceous material suitable as a hydrocarbon source.
37. The process as claimed in claim 35, wherein the catalytic agents
        comprise of one or more of the following:
        red mud, phosphogypsum, alkali salts, or others that preferably contain valuable amounts of
        materials that can be concentrated and selectively removed in the carbochlorination process
        such as rare earth elements.
38. The process as claimed in claim 30, wherein the converter
        produces a slag appropriate for sending to the thermal decomposition process(es) as a heat
        carrier as well as a source of metals.
39. The process as claimed in claim 30, wherein the converter
        produces a lead bullion appropriate for sending to the steam methane reformer as a heat carrier
        as well as a source of metals including precious metals.
40. The process as claimed in claim 30, wherein the electric arc furnace
        provides one or more of the following benefits comprising:
        recycling of steels, production of steel from direct reduced or electro won iron, a high
       temperature carbon monoxide source, an appropriate carbon sink for coke, a high temperature
        reactor for heating and reacting metals, slags, or gases from other processes, formation of slag
        appropriate as a heat carrier to other processes , reduction of silica or alumina to their metallic
       forms, production of metal chlorides for the chlorinator, or for leaching noble metals from
        molten metal to a lead alloy suitable for introduction to the steam methane reactor.
41. An apparatus for separating rare earth elements from an alkali halide melt, the apparatus
       comprising:
    i.      an alkali halide melt of mixed composition containing at least some amount of rare earth
            halides
   ii.      a beta alumina solid electrolyte functioning as a means of cationic exchange
  iii.      at least one other molten salt in contact with the beta alumina solid electrolyte material
       which provides a means for the transport or exchange of cationic species from one melt to at
       least one other melt.
42. The apparatus as claimed in claim 41, further comprising one or more of the following:
    i.      means of precise control of one or more molten salts so as to establish selective cationic
            transport through chemical gradient

                                                      15
   ii.    means of an imposed pressure gradient between the molten salts so as to establish selective
          cationic transport through dispersion
  iii.    means of an imposed electrical gradient between the molten salts so as to establish
          selective cationic transport through electromotive forces
  iv.     molten salts employing different fundamental anionic constituents
   v.     molten salts employing different fundamental cationic constituents
  vi.     molten salts employing a complexing agent to exploit chemical vapor transport
 vii.     molten salts employing a pressure differential to exploit chemical vapor transport
viii.     molten salts employing a temperature differential to exploit chemical vapor transport
  ix.     molten salts employing a temperature differential to exploit dispersion
      so as to establish the transport or exchange of cationic species from one melt to at least one
      other melt.
43. The apparatus as claimed in claim 41, wherein the halide melt
      contains radioactive species having similar reactivity and ionic radii as said rare earths and are
      hence transported by similar mechanisms being separated by supplemental processing means
      such as ionic or molecular trapping, distillation with or without a complexing agent such as
      aluminum(iii)chloride, or any variety of means known in the art.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
