                                          Abstract
The invention relates to a data-loading system for loading software configurations
into the electronic components of aircraft, the data-loading system comprising a
database system and at least one transportable data-loading device and software
configurations for at least one fleet of aircraft being stored on the database system.
The data-loading device is configured to load an assigned software configuration
obtained from the database system via a connection into a data bus of an aircraft
corresponding to said software configuration. The invention also relates to a
corresponding dataloading device and a data-loading method.

                                                   1
            Data-loading system, transportable data-loading device, and a method
                         for loading software configurations into aircraft
   The invention relates to a data-loading system for loading software configurations
 5 into the electronic components of aircraft, the data-loading system comprising a da
   tabase system and at least one transportable data-loading device and software con
   figurations for at least one fleet of aircraft being stored on the database system. The
   data-loading device is configured to load an assigned software configuration obtained
   from the database system via a connection into a data bus of an aircraft correspond
10 ing to said software configuration. The invention also relates to a corresponding data
   loading device and a data-loading method.
   In modern aircraft a plurality of electronic components are installed which implement
   a program or operating system stored in the electronic components to enable them to
15 perform their respective function. Said electronic components can be flight control
   systems, radio and radar systems for example. Furthermore, electronic components
   are installed into aircraft, which, in addition to a program, need to have access a plu
   rality of data to perform their function in the aircraft, such as for example access to
   navigation systems which have to be updated regularly with the latest information
20 about changes to radio navigation beacons, airports etc. The majority of electronic
   components are therefore subject to at least one software update during their period
   of use; components which access software with information from data bases are up
   dated much more frequently.
25 As it is impractical to remove the electronic components individually out of the aircraft
   to perform an update and implement the relevant changes or updates in a workshop,
   said components can generally be provided with updated or improved programs
   and/or updated database information in their installed state. The electronic compo
   nents of an aircraft are generally connected to one another by a data bus, which can
30 be used for loading the changes, so that access from the outside to the electronic
   components only needs to be provided at one or a few points in the aircraft.
   The updates or changes of software for electronic components of an aircraft are
   made available to the operator of the aircraft or an aircraft fleet by the aircraft manu-

                                                2
   facturer, the manufacturer of the individual electronic components or others as soft
   ware packages.
   A set of software packages for a software update is planned by the operator or the
 5 maintenance operation of the fleet of aircraft. The software updates are compiled for
   the individual electronic components so that a new software configuration is prepared
   for an aircraft. The software configurations are often different for each aircraft, even
   for aircraft of the same model, owing to the various different states of construction or
   overhaul or maintenance, which means that there are a plurality of different software
10 configurations for one fleet.
   The software configurations to be loaded into an aircraft are extremely critical to safe
   ty because of their relevance to flight safety, which means that clearance of the soft
   ware configurations, verification and special care are required for version mainte
15 nance. Furthermore, the operator on the ground needs to be able to check and verify
   at any time the latest software configurations of an aircraft during operation on the
   basis of official regulations.
   The various latest or planned software configurations are typically collected and held
20 on a database system, e.g. a server, of the aircraft operator or the maintenance op
   eration. Furthermore, the necessary clearances for the use of a specific software
   configuration are also provided for each aircraft.
   The software configuration is prepared for transfer to the aircraft after the creation of
25 a work order. Data carriers are used for this and for this order are loaded with the
   corresponding software configuration, generally the latter are disks, CDs or other
   data carriers.
   For loading the software configuration of data carriers into the aircraft a data-loading
30 device or also a data loader are necessary which can read the corresponding data
   carrier or carriers and can transfer into the bus system or the data bus of the aircraft.
   The data-loading device can be configured in this case to be transportable so that it
   can be used in different aircraft, or can be installed permanently in the aircraft as a
   data loader. By means of the data bus the software updates can be transferred as

                                                 3
   the new software configuration of the aircraft to the individual electronic components
   of the aircraft.
   To change or update the software configuration of the respective aircraft it is neces
 5 sary to create a plurality of data carriers, which is very time-consuming. In addition,
   the management, distribution and tracking of said data carriers are also very time
   consuming, as owing to the importance of air traffic safety a special degree of verifi
   cation is necessary.
10 The object of the invention is to provide a device and a corresponding method which
   enable the efficient and secure loading of software configurations into aircraft with
   reduced effort.
   Said object is achieved by the features of the independent claims. According to the
15 invention the data-loading device is set up in a ground-based storage position to load
   via a data connection the latest individual software configurations of all of the aircraft
   of at least one fleet from the database system and to store them on the data-loading
   device (without media breaks).
20 The data-loading system comprises a transportable data-loading device which has
   the latest software configurations of a plurality of aircraft, and for loading new soft
   ware configurations is conveyed into the aircraft and connected there to the data bus
   of the aircraft. An operator of the data-loading device selects the corresponding soft
   ware configuration for said aircraft and starts the loading process, so that all of the
25 electronic components to be updated can be updated without inserting or changing
   data carriers in the data-loading device.
   The data-loading system/method according to the invention is advantageous be
   cause there is no need to create, distribute and manage the data carriers. The risk of
30 human error is reduced during the updating process. Furthermore, the whole loading
   process is also accelerated inter alia by omitting the exchange of data carriers, so
   that the work time required for loading process is considerably reduced. Errors
   caused by defective data carriers are also prevented.

                                                 4
   Furthermore, the data-loading system according to the invention is advantageous,
   because in this way a closed data-loading system is created which reduces the risk
   of operating errors during the loading process and in the work preparation. The entire
   preparation is simplified because there is no need to create and manage data carri
 5 ers.
   Preferably, the respective software configuration to be loaded via the connection into
   the data bus of an aircraft can be selected by an operator via a user interface of the
   data-loading device. The operator can in this way very easily select the software con
10 figuration defined in the work order via a screen-controlled menu. It is not necessary
   to select corresponding data carriers and maintain the sequence when inserting and
   changing the data carriers into a conventional data-loading device.
   The data-loading device of the data-loading system is preferably set up to identify an
15 aircraft when it is connected to a data bus of said aircraft. In this way the correspond
   ing software configuration can be suggested to an operator, whereby user errors re
   lating to the selection of the software configuration can be reduced. In this way there
   is an additional level of control which increases safety.
20 In one embodiment the data-loading device can be set up, after connection to a data
   bus of an aircraft, to automatically load the corresponding software configuration for
   said aircraft into the electronic components of said aircraft. After connecting to the
   aircraft the data-loading device recognises the connection to a data bus and identi
   fies the corresponding aircraft. If a newer version is available on the data-loading
25 device this is automatically loaded into the aircraft. This accelerates the updating
   process and simplifies handling for the operator. The invention is not limited to this
   however, but also includes the manual entry of the identification code for example.
   In an advantageous embodiment the data-loading device is configured, in the storage
30 position, to transfer an automatic feedback response about the implemented loading
   processes of software configurations to the database system. The manual feedback
   response of the operator by a signed work card or a signed work order to the configu
   ration monitoring service of the aircraft fleet is additionally secured by a digital proto
   col. In this way the actually transferred data can be verified digitally, e.g. by duplica
35 tion of the transferred data. The data transfer of a software configuration from the

                                                  5
   database system to an aircraft is in this way a closed process after the clearance of
   the software configuration by a planning station, which largely excludes the human
   error factor. Furthermore, it is possible to verify efficiently software updates of a large
   number of individual electronic components of an aircraft, which is becoming ever
 5 more important for modern aircraft with an increasing number of electronic compo
   nents.
   Preferably, the data-loading device is configured to periodically load the latest indi
   vidual software configurations of all of the aircraft of at least one fleet from the data
10 base system via the data connection. This is advantageous because a data-loading
   device of the data-loading system in this way has the latest, available software con
   figurations without manual intervention, so that for each aircraft of the fleet the soft
   ware configuration is available for a planned software update. Furthermore, in this
   way a plurality of data-loading devices can be used in the data-loading system, as all
15 of the data-loading devices are provided with the respective latest software configu
   rations for all of the aircraft of the serviced fleet without further manual intervention.
   Preferably, the interval for periodically loading the latest individual software configu
   rations of all aircraft of the fleet can be adjusted by the database system. The interval
20 is advantageously selected so that a cleared software configuration is loaded in good
   time before maintenance work is carried out and thus before the removal of the data
   loading device from the storage position. Typically an interval is selected of between
   ten seconds and one hour.
25 In an advantageous embodiment the data-loading system comprises only cable con
   nections for the transfer of data between the database system and data-loading de
   vice and between the data-loading device and aircraft. A cable connection is charac
   terised by having a higher data transfer rate than wireless data transfers. It is particu
   larly important with regard to concerns about the technical safety of the software con
30 figurations for flight safety that the cable connections enable a closed data-loading
   system, which cannot be disrupted, manipulated or intercepted externally by a third
   party without physical access. This is particularly advantageous compared to radio
   based data transfers which can be infiltrated much more easily by unauthorised per
   sons, as in this case no physical or mechanical access is necessary to the data
35 loading system, the data-loading device or the aircraft.

                                               6
   In a further advantageous embodiment the data-loading system is configured to
   transmit a software configuration from the transportable data-loading device via a
   connection by a data loader installed in an aircraft into a data bus of said aircraft.
 5 Some aircraft have a permanently installed data loader, via which software configura
   tions can be transferred into the bus system of the aircraft. Said installed data load
   ers are always on board the aircraft and are used for loading software configurations
   of data carriers. They are no longer absolutely necessary for the use of mobile data
   loading devices, but are still not removed from the aircraft in every case. The transfer
10 of the software configuration by the data-loading system can in this case be per
   formed by the permanently installed data loaders. For reasons of efficiency a data
   loader permanently installed on board can be removed, as said data loader is surplus
   to requirements when loading by means of a mobile data loader. The reduction in
   weight can possibly save fuel costs and C02 emissions can be reduced.
15
   For example, if the aircraft has a permanently installed data loader and no independ
   ent connections to a data bus of the aircraft are used, it can be advantageous to
   transfer the software configuration from the transportable data-loading device of the
   data-loading system according to the invention firstly into the permanently installed
20 data loader, or to load the software configuration via the permanently installed data
   loaders into the aircraft. The advantages of the data-loading system according to the
   invention are maintained in this case.
   The data-loading system comprises in an advantageous manner a ground-based
25 software management system for the database system, which enables an electronic
   configuration check of the software configurations of aircraft, so that the detection,
   monitoring and verification of the software configurations of the aircraft of at least one
   fleet can be performed by the data-loading system. The electronic configuration
   check by the software management system of the data-loading system is much less
30 prone to error with its simpler handling and the high potential level of automation than
   manually controlled lists, drawings and databases.
   Furthermore, the object of the invention is achieved by a transportable data-loading
   device for loading software configurations into the electronic components of aircraft,
35 which is configured to load an assigned software configuration obtained from a data-

                                                7
   base system via a connection into a data bus of an aircraft corresponding to said
   software configuration. According to the invention the transportable data-loading de
   vice is configured to load in a ground-based storage position the latest individual
   software configurations of all of the aircraft of at least one fleet from the database
 5 system via a data connection and store them onto the transportable data-loading
   device. The transportable data-loading device according to the invention has a much
   broader function than simply to load data into an aircraft and enables a simplified,
   more rapid and more easily controlled data-loading process of software configura
   tions for aircrafts, which has an advantageous effect on the maintenance costs and
10 flight safety.
   The object of the invention is also achieved by a method according to the features of
   the last claim. According to the invention the data-loading device in a ground-based
   storage position loads the latest individual software configurations of all of the aircraft
15 in at least one fleet from the database system via a data connection and stores said
   software configurations on the data-loading device. The method according to the
   invention simplifies and accelerates the loading of software configurations and im
   proves the operating safety of aircraft.
20 The invention is explained in the following by way of preferred embodiments with
   reference to the attached Figures, in which:
   Fig. 1 shows a schematic representation of the data-loading system with a data
            loading device in the storage position;
25
   Fig. 2 shows a schematic representation of the data-loading system with a data
            loading device connected to an aircraft; and
   Fig. 3 shows a schematic representation of the data-loading system with a data
30          loading device connected to an aircraft by means of a data loader.
   Fig. 1 shows an exemplary embodiment of a data-loading system 10 with a database
   system 11, wherein the database system 11 has a connection to at least one storage
   position 13 for a transportable data-loading device 14. The transportable data-loading

                                                  8
   device 14 is connected via data-loading connections 15 by a cable-connected data
   connection 16 to the storage position 13 and thereby to the database system 11.
   A software configuration 12 is put together by a planning station 17 from individual or
 5 combined software packages 18, 19, 20, 21, ... planned and cleared for the transfer
   of data to an aircraft 30. The planning station 17 is in this case the place responsible
   for the maintenance and/or operating safety of the aircraft 30, and can be manned by
   a maintenance engineer for example. At the planning station 17 all of the mainte
   nance procedures for the aircraft 30 can also be planned. The clearance of a soft
10 ware configuration 12 can also be performed here, which is particularly important
   from the point of view of air traffic regulations. In one possible embodiment the plan
   ning station 17 can use a ground-based software management system for the data
   base system 11.
15 The software configuration 12 is made up of individual software packages 18, 19, 20,
   21, ... for the various electronic components 38, 39, 40, 41, ... of an aircraft 30, which
   are provided by the respective manufacturers or service providers. It is divided into
   updates of the operating software e.g. of flight control or autopilot, and database in
   formation, such as e.g. charts, radio frequencies and the landing procedures of air
20 ports.
   The software packages 18, 19, 20, 21, ... are limited to the number of electronic
   components 38, 39, 40, 41, ... used in the aircraft 30, which can be loaded with up
   dated software packages 18, 19, 20, 21, ... via the data bus 33. During a software
25 update, however, it is not absolutely necessary to update all of the available electron
   ic components.
   The storage position 13 of a transportable data-loading device 14 is a ground-based
   position or an area which has suitable space for depositing the transportable data
30 loading device 14 and a data-loading connection 15. Typically the storage position 13
   is arranged in the region of the operating device output for the maintenance and ser
   vicing of the aircraft. Next to a data-loading connection 15 in the storage position 13
   a device can be provided for loading the energy storage device of the data-loading
   device 14. The data-loading system 10 is not limited to a storage position 13; a plu
35 rality of storage positions 13 can also be used which can also be allocated to a plu-

                                                 9
   rality of maintenance sites. Typically the maintenance sites are at airports. Prefera
   bly, all of the storage positions 13 are connected to the same database system 11 of
   the data-loading system 10 and the connection can also be made in special circum
   stances via intermediate stations. The allocated storage positions 13 can make it
 5 possible to perform at short notice a worldwide update of the software configurations
   12 of the aircraft 30 of at least one fleet. An update of database information stored in
   an aircraft 30 is prescribed for example for specific software variants every 28 days.
   The database system 11 comprises in a typical embodiment a central server onto
10 which all of the latest or planned individual software configurations 12 can be stored
   for at least one serviced fleet of aircraft 30. The database system 11 manages, se
   cures and controls access to the software configurations 12.
   The data-loading device 14 is a transportable data-loading device 14, which has a
15 sufficiently large data memory and can load and store software configurations 12 for
   a plurality of aircraft 30 via a data connection 16 in a storage position 13. Advanta
   geously, the data-loading device 14 has a screen and input devices for an operator,
   such as e.g. a keyboard, mouse, touchpad or touchscreen.
20 The data connection 16 to the database system 11 via the storage position 13 can be
   performed for example via the Ethernet and a suitable data transfer protocol. The
   data-loading connections 15 can consist of standard connection boxes for data ca
   bles. Furthermore, it is possible that a data cable, for example, is connected perma
   nently to the connection 15 in the storage position 13.
25
   In a typical loading procedure using the data-loading system 10 the individual soft
   ware packages 18, 19, 20, 21, ... or software and/or database updates are made
   available to the operator and/or maintenance service of a fleet of aircraft 30 at differ
   ent time points. The planning engineer at the planning station 17 selects the relevant
30 software packages 18, 19, 20, 21, ... for a specific aircraft 30; the selection is made
   on the basis of the individual configuration of the electronic components 38, 39, 40,
   41, ... in said aircraft 30 and the corresponding state of construction of the aircraft 30,
   e.g. with regard to the electronic components 38, 39, 40, 41, ... or versions of the
   different electronic components 38, 39, 40, 41, ..., which are installed in the aircraft
35 30. The software configuration 12 is set up for a software update as part of a planned

                                               10
   or unplanned maintenance interval. After setting up, checking and clearing for trans
   fer to the corresponding aircraft 30 the software configuration 12 is made available
   on the database system 11 of the data-loading system 10. The software configuration
   12 to be loaded into the aircraft 30 is thus defined and is available centrally on the
 5 database system 11.
   A data-loading device 14 is connected in one storage position 13 to the database
   system 11, preferably downloads periodically at an update interval the newly availa
   ble software configuration 12 and stores said software configuration on its storage
10 medium. The interval for loading the current individual software configurations 12 can
   be selected as desired, however an interval is preferred which enables a sufficiently
   rapid update of the data-loading device 14 after a clearance of a software configura
   tion 12; typically an hourly update would be adequate, in special cases, however, it
   can advantageous to choose a shorter interval, for example every minute. In an al
15 ternative embodiment it is possible to trigger the update manually so that there is no
   need to wait for the preset interval every time.
   For planned maintenance work on an aircraft the relevant aircraft 30 is taken out of
   operation for the corresponding maintenance period. The planned maintenance work
20 is allocated by individual work orders to the maintenance technicians. This also ap
   plies to the maintenance technician operating the data-loading device 14. The opera
   tor then generally receives the order to update the software configuration 12 of the
   aircraft 30 and simply acquires the specified data-loading device 14 which said oper
   ator transports into the aircraft 30 and connects to the corresponding connection
25 point 35.
   Fig. 2 shows the data-loading device 14 after being transported into the aircraft 30.
   The data-loading device 14 is connected to the data bus 33 of the aircraft 30 via a
   cable-connected data bus connection 36 between data bus connections or connec
30 tion points 35. Operation of the data-loading device 14 with an internal energy source
   is advantageous, enabling an operation that is independent of the external power
   sources during the loading process into the electronic system of the aircraft 30. In an
   alternative embodiment the data-loading device 14 can be operated by an external
   power source.
35

                                                 11
   In one possible embodiment the operator selects the specified software configuration
   12 for said aircraft 30 on the basis of the work order and starts the data transfer of
   the software configuration 12 into the data bus 33 of the aircraft 30. In this way the
   individual electronic components 38, 39, 40, 41, ..., e.g. flight control device, autopi
 5 lot, navigation and radio devices, are provided with their updated, latest software
   version and/or database update or their updated software package 18, 19, 20, 21,
   In an alternative embodiment the data-loading device 14 identifies the aircraft 30 af
10 ter connection to the data bus 33 and suggests to the operator the corresponding
   software configuration 12 for loading into the electronic system or electronic compo
   nents 38, 39, 40, 41, ... of the aircraft 30. The operator matches said software config
   uration 12 with their work order and starts the loading process of the software config
   uration 12 into the various electronic components 38, 39, 40, 41, ... of the aircraft 30.
15
   The electronic components 38, 39, 40, 41, ... of an aircraft comprise the purely elec
   tronic systems, and also the mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic or electrical systems
   in the aircraft 30, which have an electronic component e.g. for control or data detec
   tion and are able to communicate by means of a data bus 33.
20
   In a continuation of the alternative embodiment the data-loading device 14 recognis
   es the aircraft 30 after connection to the data bus 33 and automatically starts the
   transfer of the software configuration 12. In this embodiment it is advantageous if the
   data-loading device 14 checks before the transfer to the aircraft 30 whether the data
25 loading device 14 has a newer software configuration 12 than the aircraft 30.
   In an advantageous embodiment the data-loading device 14 records the data transfer
   of the software configuration 12 and stores said report for a feedback response about
   the performed data transfer to the database system 11. In addition, a complete copy
30 of the transferred software configuration 12 can be stored on the data-loading device
   14.
   After the data transfer the data-loading device 14 reports to the operator the success
   of the update or displays any errors in a suitable manner. The operator signs off or

                                                12
   confirms the successful completion on their work order and removes the data-loading
   device 14 from the aircraft 30.
   The completed work order is sent to the relevant configuration control station and the
 5 operator of the data-loading device 14 hands over their operating device, the data
   loading device 14, for example at the tool storage station, where it is reconnected to
   the storage position 13.
   The data-loading device 14 can thus be loaded again at the next interval with anoth
10 er, new software configuration 12. The loading process with the data-loading system
   10 is thereby concluded.
   In one advantageous embodiment the reports about transfers of the software config
   uration 12 since the last connection to the storage position 13 are sent to the data
15 base system 11, and can be compared there with input data from the work order.
   In a further advantageous embodiment the report of the transfer of a software config
   uration 12 and/or a copy of the transferred software configuration 12 to the database
   system 11 of the data-loading system 10 are loaded and used for an electronically
20 supported configuration check of the software configurations 12 of an aircraft fleet,
   which enables a very efficient and detailed configuration check. In modern aircraft
   models with an increasing number and complexity of electronic components 38, 39,
   40, 41, ... this is particularly advantageous compared to a manual transfer confirma
   tion for each individual electronic component 38, 39, 40, 41, .... The configuration
25 check can be performed advantageously in one possible embodiment using a soft
   ware application in the database system 11, so that it is possible to verify and check
   at any time which software configuration 12 is located on an aircraft 30 of a fleet. It is
   therefore unnecessary to perform a detailed, manual entry of transferred or loaded
   software configurations 12 consisting of a plurality of software packages 18, 19, 20,
30 21, ... of a work order into a separate database. Verification by the work order of the
   general transfer of a specific software configuration 12 is expedient however, in order
   avoid problems caused by the failure of a data-loading device 14 after transmission
   or a severely delayed transfer back of the data-loading device 14 into the storage
   position 13.
35

                                                 13
   Alternatively, to complete the work order it may be necessary to reconnect the data
   loading device 14 to the storage position 13. In addition, it is also possible after con
   nection to the storage position 13 for the transfer protocol on the data-loading device
   14 to be confirmed by the operator. In this way the clear verification can be improved
 5 further.
   In one possible embodiment all of the latest individual software configurations 12,
   which have been cleared for transfer into an aircraft 30, are stored on the data
   loading device(s) 14, in the same way that they are also stored on the database sys
10 tem 11. Therefore, on a data-loading device 14 for each aircraft 30 of a fleet at least
   one software configuration 12 would be stored, regardless of whether the software
   configuration 12 had already been loaded onto the corresponding aircraft 30.
   In an alternative embodiment the current individual software configuration 12 can be
15 considered to be the software configuration 12 which has been cleared but not yet
   transferred to the corresponding aircraft 30. The software configuration 12, which has
   already been transferred to a specific aircraft 30, could thus be deleted from all data
   loading devices 14 of the data-loading system 10, as soon as the transfer to the re
   spective aircraft 30 has been confirmed by an electronic transfer protocol and/or a
20 confirmed work order. In this way the required storage space on the storage medium
   of the data-loading device 14 could be much reduced, which is a particular ad
   vantage for a large fleet of aircraft 30.
   In a possible embodiment the data-loading system 10 comprises a software applica
25 tion for importing and distributing the software configuration 12 or software to be
   loaded directly to the data-loading device 14 without further media breaks.
   A fleet of aircraft 30 can in this case be the fleet of an airline company, or part of said
   fleet, or a fleet of aircraft 30 serviced by a maintenance operation. Furthermore, a
30 fleet can also be only a partial fleet consisting of one aircraft model of an airline com
   pany.
   Fig. 3 shows an alternative embodiment for loading a software configuration 12 into
   the electronic components 38, 39, 40, 41, ... of an aircraft 30. The aircraft 30 in this
35 embodiment has a permanently installed data loader 42, which is intended to be

                                                 14
   used in this case for transferring the software configuration 12 into the data bus 33.
   The data-loading device 14 is connected to the data loader 42 after transport into the
   aircraft 30 via the transfer connections 45 by a data transfer connection 46. The
   transfer of the various software packages 18, 19, 20, 21, ... of the software configura
 5 tion 12 is thus performed by the data loader 42 into the different electronic compo
   nents 38, 39, 40, 41, ... of the aircraft 30. In this way the function of a permanently
   installed data loader 42 with a connection to the data bus 33 of the aircraft 30 can be
   used with the advantages of the data-loading system 10 according to the invention.
   This is practical as long as no other connection to the data bus 33 of the aircraft 30 is
10 easily accessible, for example.

                                                       15
    1.      A data-loading system for loading software configurations into electronic
    components of aircraft, comprising:
            a database system,
            wherein the database system is configured to store a plurality of software
 5  configurations corresponding to a plurality of aircraft;
            a ground-based storage position,
            wherein the ground-based storage position is connected to the database system;
    and
            at least one data-loading device,
 0          wherein each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device is
    transportable from the ground-based storage position to one or more aircraft of the
    plurality of aircraft,
            wherein the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device
    comprises a processor,
 5          wherein the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device is
    configured to connect to the ground-based storage position via a data connection such that
    the database system can transmit data to the each data-loading device of the at least one
    data-loading device,
            wherein the data-loading system is configured such that,
 10         when the plurality of software configurations are stored on the database system,
    and the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device is connected to the
    ground-based storage position via the data connection, the plurality of software
    configurations stored on the database system are transmitted from the database system to
    the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device via the data connection
 .5 and the plurality of software configurations transmitted from the database system to the
    each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device are stored on the each
    data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device,
            wherein, when the plurality of software configurations transmitted from the
    database system are stored on the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading
 ,0 device, the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device is configured to
    connect to a transfer connection point of an aircraft of the plurality of aircraft such that
    either:
             (i) the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device connects to
    the transfer connection point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via a data bus
35  connection and transmits a software configuration of the plurality of software
    configurations stored on the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading
    device corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft into a data bus of the aircraft
    of the plurality of aircraft via the data bus connection; or
             (ii) the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device connects to
40  the transfer connection point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via a data transfer
    connection and transmits a software configuration of the plurality of software
    configurations stored on the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading
    device corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft to a data loader installed on
    the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data transfer connection, and
45          wherein the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device
    comprises a data memory, a screen and input devices for an operator.

                                                       16
    2.      The data-loading system according to claim 1,
            wherein, when the plurality of software configurations
 5  transmitted from the database system are stored on the each data-loading device of the at
    least one data-loading device, the each data loading device of the at least one data-loading
    device isconfigured to connect to the transfer connection point of the aircraft of the
    plurality of aircraft such that the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading
    device connects to the transfer connection point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via
 0  the data bus connection and transmits the software configuration of the plurality of
    software configurations stored on the each data-loading device of the at least one data
    loading device corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft into the data bus of
    the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data bus connection.
 5  3.      The data-loading system according to claim 2,
            wherein each software configuration of the plurality of software configurations
    includes a corresponding one or more individual software packages corresponding to one or
    more electronic components of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft that the each software
    configuration corresponds to, and wherein the each data-loading device of the at least one
 '0 data-loading device isconfigured such that, when the plurality of software configurations
    transmitted from the database system are stored on the each data-loading device, and the
    each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device is connected to the transfer
    connection point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data bus connection, the
    each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device automatically transmits the
 .5 software configuration of the plurality of software configurations stored on the each data
    loading device of the at least one data-loading device corresponding to the aircraft of the
    plurality of aircraft into the data bus of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft and
    automatically loads the one or more individual software packages of the software
    configuration of the plurality of software configurations stored on the each data-loading
 ,0 device of the at least one data-loading device corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality
    of aircraft transmitted into the data bus of the aircraft into the corresponding one or more
    electronic components of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft.
    4.      The data-loading system according to claim 2,
35          wherein the data bus connection between the each data-loading device of the at
    least one data-loading device and the transfer connection point of the aircraft of the
    plurality of aircraft is in the form of a cable connection.
    5.      The data-loading system according to claim 1,
40          wherein, when the plurality of software configurations transmitted from the
    database system are stored on the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading
    device, the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device is configured to
    connect to the transfer connection point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft such that
    each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device connects to the transfer
45  connection point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data transfer connection
    and transmits the software configuration of the plurality of software configurations stored
    on the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device corresponding to the

                                                      17
    aircraft of the plurality of aircraft to the data loader installed on the aircraft of the plurality
    of aircraft via the data transfer connection.
    6.       The data-loading system according to claim 5,
 5           wherein each software configuration of the plurality of software configurations
    includes a corresponding one or more individual software packages corresponding to one or
    more electronic components of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft that the each software
    configuration corresponds to, and wherein, after the each data-loading device of the at least
    one data-loading device transmits the software configuration of the plurality of software
 0  configurations corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft to the data loader
    installed on the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft, the data loader installed on the aircraft of
    the plurality of aircraft loads the one or more individual software packages of the software
    configuration transmitted to the data loader installed on the aircraft of the plurality of
    aircraft into the corresponding one or more electronic components of the aircraft of the
 5  plurality of aircraft.
    7.       The data-loading system according to claim 5,
             wherein the data transfer connection between the each data-loading device of the
    atleast one data-loading device and the transfer connection point of the aircraft of the
 '0 plurality of aircraft is in the form of a cable connection.
    8.       The data-loading system according to claim 1,
             wherein each software configuration of the plurality of software configurations
    includes a corresponding one or more individual software packages corresponding to one or
 .5 more electronic components of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft that the each software
    configuration of the plurality of software configurations corresponds to.
    9.       The data-loading system according to claim 1,
             wherein the data connection connecting the each data-loading device of the at
 ,0 least one data-loading device to the ground-based storage position allows the each data
    loading device of the at least one data-loading device to transmit data to the database
    system via the data connection, and wherein the each data-loading device of the at least
    one data-loading device is configured such that, when the each data-loading device of the at
    least one data-loading device is connected to the ground-based storage position via the data
35  connection, the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device transmits
    an automatic feedback response regarding implemented loading procedures of the plurality
    of software configurations to the database system.
    10.      The data-loading system according to claim 1,
40           wherein data-loading the system is configured such that, when the plurality of
    software configurations are stored on the database system, and the each data-loading
    device of the at least one data-loading device is connected to the ground-based storage
    position via the data connection, the plurality of software configurations stored on the
    database system are periodically transmitted from the database system to the each data
45  loading device of the at least one data-loading device connected to the ground-based
    storage position via the data connection and the plurality of software configurations
    transmitted from the database system to the each data-loading device of the at least one

                                                       18
    data-loading device are stored on the each data-loading device of the at least one data
    loading device.
    11.     The data-loading system according to claim 10,
 5          wherein an interval between periodical transmissions of the plurality of
    software configurations stored on the database system from the database system to the
    each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device via the data connection is
    adjustable.
 0  12.     The data-loading system according to claim 1,
            wherein the data connection between the each data-loading device of the at
    least one data-loading device and the ground-based storage position is in the form of a
    cable connection.
 5  13.     The data-loading system according to claim 1,
            further comprising: a ground-based software management system, wherein
    the ground-based software management system for the database system isconfigured such
    that an electronic configuration check of the plurality of software configurations can be
    performed by the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device.
 10
    14.     The data-loading system according to claim 1,
            wherein the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device
    comprises a user interface, and wherein the software configuration of the plurality of
    software configurations to be transmitted via the data bus connection into the data bus of
 .5 the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft is selectable by an operator via the user interface of
    the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device.
    15.     The data-loading system according to claim 1,
            wherein the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device
 ,0 comprises a user interface, and wherein the software configuration of the plurality of
    software configurations to be transmitted via the data transfer connection to the data
    loader installed on the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft is selectable by an operator via the
    user interface of the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device.
35  16.     The data-loading system according to claim 1,
            wherein the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device
    comprises at least one input device selected form the group consisting of: a keyboard, a
    mouse, a touchpad, and a touchscreen.
40  17.      Atransportable data-loading device for loading software configurations into
            electronic components of aircraft, comprising:
    a data memory; and a processor, wherein the transportable data-loading device is
    configured to connect, via a data connection, to a ground-based storage position that is
    connected to a database system, such that when the transportable data-loading device is
45  connected to the ground-based storage position via the data connection, the database
    system can transmit data to the transportable data-loading device, wherein the database
    system is configured to store a plurality of software configurations corresponding to a

                                                       19
    plurality of aircraft, wherein the transportable data-loading device is configured such that,
    when the plurality of software configurations are stored on the database system, and the
    transportable data-loading device is connected to the ground-based storage position via the
    data connection, the plurality of software configurations stored on the database system are
 5  transmitted from the database system to the transportable data-loading device via the data
    connection and the plurality of software configurations transmitted from the database
    system to the transportable data-loading device are stored on the transportable data
    loading device, wherein, when the plurality of software configurations transmitted from the
    database system are stored on the transportable data-loading device, the transportable
 0  data-loading device isconfigured to connect to a transfer connection point of an aircraft of
    the plurality of aircraft such that either:
                 (i)     the transportable data-loading device connects to the transfer connection
                         point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via a data bus connection
                         and transmits a software configuration of the plurality of software
 5                       configurations stored on the transportable data-loading device
                         corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft into a data bus of
                         the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data bus connection; or
                 (ii)    the transportable data-loading device connects to the transfer connection
                         point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via a data transfer
 10                      connection and transmits a software configuration of the plurality of
                         software configurations stored on the transportable data-loading device
                         corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft to a data loader
                         installed on the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data transfer
                         connection.
 .5 18.      The transportable data-loading device for loading software configurations into
    electronic components of aircraft according to claim 17,
             wherein, when the plurality of software configurations transmitted from the
    database system are stored on the transportable data-loading device, the transportable
    data-loading device isconfigured to connect to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft such
 0  that the transportable data-loading device connects to the transfer connection point of the
    aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data bus connection and transfers the software
    configuration of the plurality of software configurations stored on the transportable data
    loading device corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft into the data bus of
    the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data bus connection.
35
    19.      A method for loading software configurations into the electronic components of
    aircraft, comprising:
             providing a data-loading system,
             wherein the data-loading system comprises:
40           a database system,
             wherein the database system isconfigured to store a plurality of software
    configurations corresponding to a plurality of aircraft;
             a ground-based storage position,
             wherein the ground-based storage position is connected to the database system;
45  and at least one data-loading device,

                                                      20
             wherein each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device is
    transportable from the ground-based storage position to one or more aircraft of the
    plurality of aircraft,
             wherein the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device
 5  comprises a processor, wherein the each data-loading device of the at least one data
    loading device is configured to connect to the ground-based storage position via a data
    connection such that the database system can transmit data to the each data-loading device
    of the at least one data-loading device, wherein the data-loading system is configured such
    that, when the plurality of software configurations are stored on the database system, and
 0  the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device is connected to the
    ground-based storage position via the data connection, the plurality of software
    configurations stored on the database system are transmitted from the database system to
    the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device via the data connection
    and the plurality of software configurations transmitted from the database system to the
 5  each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device are stored on the each
    data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device,
             wherein, when the plurality of software configurations transmitted from the
    database system are stored on the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading
    device, the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device is configured to
 '0 connect to a transfer connection point of an aircraft of the plurality of aircraft such that
    either:
        (i)     the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device connects to
                the transfer connection point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via a data
                 bus connection and transmits a software configuration of the plurality of
 '5             software configurations stored on the each data-loading device of the at least
                one data-loading device corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft
                 into a data bus of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data bus
                connection; or
        (ii)     (ii) the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device connects
 10             to the transfer connection point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via a
                data transfer connection and transmits a software configuration of the plurality
                of software configurations stored on the each data-loading device of the at least
                one data-loading device corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft
                to a data loader installed on the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data
35              transfer connection, and
              wherein the each data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device is
        configured to identify the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft when the each data-loading
        device of the at least one data-loading device is connected to the transfer connection
        point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft; storing the plurality of software
40      configurations corresponding to the plurality of aircraft in the database system;
        connecting a data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device to the ground
        based storage position via the data connection such that the database system can
        transmit data to the data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device;
        transmitting the plurality of software configurations stored on the database system from
45      the database system to the data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device
        via the data connection and storing the plurality of software configurations transmitted

                                                     21
       from the database system to the data-loading device of the at least one data-loading
       device on the data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device; transporting
       the data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device from the ground-based
       storage position to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft; connecting the data-loading
5      device of the at least one data-loading device to the transfer connection point of the
       aircraft of the plurality of aircraft such that either:
       (i)      the data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device connects to the
                transfer connection point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data
                bus connection and transmits the software configuration of the plurality of
0               software configurations stored on the data-loading device of the at least one
                data-loading device corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft into
                the data bus of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data bus connection;
                or
       (ii)     (ii) the data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device connects to
5               the transfer connection point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the
                data transfer connection and transmits the software configuration of the
                plurality of software configurations stored on the each data-loading device of the
                at least one data-loading device corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality of
                aircraft to the data loader installed on the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via
10              the data transfer connection.
   20.      The method for loading software configurations into the electronic components of
   aircraft according to claim 19,
            wherein the data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device is
   configured to connect to the transfer connection point of the aircraft of the plurality of
.5 aircraft such that the data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device connects to
   the transfer connection point of the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft via the data bus
   connection and transmits the software configuration of the plurality of software
   configurations stored on the data-loading device of the at least one data-loading device
   corresponding to the aircraft of the plurality of aircraft into the data bus of the aircraft of
0  the plurality of aircraft via the data bus connection.

                                           <U+261E><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-date>
                                           <U+2736><U+2736>
                                                 <U+2736><U+271F>
                            <U+2736><U+271D>
<removed-apn>
                                                       <U+2736><U+2706>
                                                 <U+2736><U+2704>    <U+2736><U+2704>
                                                                 <U+271F><U+2704>
                                                            <U+2736><U+271E>
              <U+2736><U+2720>
                                                  <U+2736><U+260E>
               <U+2736><U+2721>      <U+2736><U+261B>        <U+271D><U+260E>   <U+271D><U+2736>
              <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2736>

                                       <U+270D><U+270C><U+270D>
<removed-date>                            <U+271F><U+2704>
                                                       <U+271F><U+2721>
<removed-apn>
                                                       <U+271F><U+261B>
                                  <U+271F><U+2706>                   <U+271E><U+260E>
                <U+2736><U+2704>          <U+271F><U+2704>
                       <U+2736><U+271E>                              <U+271E><U+2736>
                                  <U+271F><U+271F>
              <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702> <U+271D>
                                             <U+271F><U+260E>
                                  <U+271E><U+2704>
                                                  <U+271E><U+271D>
                                                       <U+271F><U+2721>
                                 <U+271E><U+2706>
                            <U+271E><U+2704>
                                                   <U+271F><U+261B>
                <U+2736><U+2704>     <U+2736><U+271E>
                                                   <U+271E><U+260E>
                                 <U+271F><U+271F>
                                                   <U+271E><U+2736>
              <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702> <U+271F>
                                             <U+271F><U+260E>

