   ABSTRACT:
                                 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
 5 A distribution unit 10 is described comprising a housing 12 having a plurality of
   connectors 16, 18 to permit the connection of a plurality of lines or cables thereto such
   that, in use, the distribution unit 10 can be used in the distribution of inputs to a plurality
   of pieces of subsea equipment, the housing 12 including at least one socket 20 in
   which an active device 22 can be fitted to allow tests to be conducted and/or to permit
10 enhanced control, and a seal arrangement 36 whereby a seal can be formed between
   the active device 22 and the socket 20, the relative dimensions of the socket 20 and
   the active device 22 being such that only a small volume exists therebetween. Also
   described is an arrangement 50, 60 comprising a housing 52, 62, equipment located
   within the housing 52, 62, and a barrier fluid 54, 64, 66 located within the housing 52,
15 62 providing environmental protection to the equipment located within the housing 52,
   62.

                                                1
                                ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
   This invention relates to environmental protection of, for example, a distribution unit for
   use in subsea applications and/or the connections thereto. By way of example, the
 5 distribution unit may be used in the distribution of electrical power and/or control
   signals to a plurality of subsea located pieces of equipment. However, the invention is
   not restricted in this regard and may alternatively or additionally be used in the
   distribution of chemicals, hydraulic or pneumatic pressures, optical signals or the like to
   subsea located equipment.
10
   Subsea distribution      units are in widespread      use in distributing   power and/or
   communication signals between an umbilical or cable connecting the distribution unit to
   a remote location and a plurality of subsea located pieces of equipment. In the event
   of a fault, it is typically necessary to disconnect a number of connections from the
15 distribution unit in order to allow tests to be conducted to identify the location of the
   fault. This is time consuming and inconvenient. Furthermore, the disconnection and
   reconnection operations can themselves generate faults. One object of the invention is
   to provide a distribution unit in which monitoring for faults can be undertaken in a more
   convenient manner, and/or in which enhanced control can be achieved.
20
   One common cause of faults results from the connections to the distribution unit being
   exposed to a seawater environment. It is another object of the invention to provide a
   distribution unit in which the occurrence of such faults is reduced.
25 Whilst environmental protection for a distribution unit represents one application in
   which the invention may be used, the invention is also applicable to the protection of
   other subsea located equipment.
   According to one aspect of the invention there is provided an arrangement comprising
30 a housing, equipment located within the housing, and a barrier fluid located within the
   housing.
   The equipment preferably includes a connector that, in use, is located within the barrier
   fluid. By way of example, the equipment may comprise a subsea distribution unit.
35

                                                 2
   The barrier fluid is conveniently of greater density than sea water, and the housing is
   preferably orientated such that the barrier fluid is retained therein. By way of example,
   the housing may take the form of an open topped trough within which the barrier fluid is
   located, and into which at least a part of the equipment extends. The equipment may
 5 have a series of connectors associated therewith, the connectors being located within
   the housing so as to be immersed in the barrier fluid contained therein.
   The housing may include a lid.
10 In an alternative arrangement, a barrier fluid of density lower than sea water may be
   used. By way of example, a gas such as nitrogen gas may be used as the barrier fluid.
   In such an arrangement, it may be desired to additionally provide a second barrier fluid
   of density greater than the first mentioned barrier fluid but lower than sea water, the
   second barrier fluid serving to separate the first mentioned barrier fluid from the sea
15 water. By way of example, an oil such as silicon oil, may be used as the second barrier
   fluid. The equipment preferably has a series of connectors associated therewith, the
   connectors being located within the housing so as to be positioned within the barrier
   fluid contained therein.
20 The distribution unit may comprise a plurality of electrical connectors. Alternatively, or
   additionally, other forms of connector may be provided, for example to permit the
   distribution of chemicals, and/or to permit the distribution of hydraulic or pneumatic
   pressures, optical signals or the like.
25 According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a distribution unit
   comprising a housing having a plurality of first connectors to permit the connection of
   second connectors associated with a plurality of lines or cables or devices thereto such
   that, in use, the distribution unit can be used in the distribution of inputs to a plurality of
   pieces of subsea equipment, and a seal arrangement whereby a seal can be formed
30 between at least one of the second connectors and a respective one of the first
   connectors, the relative dimensions of the first and second connectors being such that
   only a small volume exists therebetween.
   According to another aspect of the invention there is provided a distribution unit
35 comprising a housing having a plurality of connectors to permit the connection of a
   plurality of lines or cables thereto such that, in use, the distribution unit can be used in

                                                  3
   the distribution of inputs to a plurality of pieces of subsea equipment, the housing
   including at least one socket in which an active device can be fitted to allow tests to be
   conducted and/or to permit enhanced control, and a seal arrangement whereby a seal
   can be formed between the active device and the socket, the relative dimensions of the
 5 socket and the active device being such that only a small volume exists therebetween.
   The active device is preferably removably fitted to the socket. When not fitted to the
   socket, a passive device is preferably fitted thereto.
10 The active device carries a seal arranged to cooperate with the socket to restrict sea
   water ingress to a connector part thereof. It will be appreciated that by restricting sea
   water ingress, the likelihood of marine growth depositing upon the connector part is
   reduced.    Likewise, by ensuring that only a small volume exists between the socket
   and the active device, accumulation of marine growth therebetween is restricted.
15
   A barrier fluid is preferably located within the socket. Preferably, the barrier fluid is of
   greater density than sea water and the socket is orientated such that the barrier fluid is
   retained therein.
20 It will be appreciated that, in use, once the active device is introduced into the socket,
   the connector part thereof may be immersed in the barrier fluid, thereby protecting the
   connector part from any sea water that may be present within the socket.
   The barrier fluid is preferably electrically non-conductive. It thus provides an additional
25 electrical barrier. It is preferably selected to impede marine growth. As, upon removal
   of the active device, the barrier fluid may be exposed to the surrounding sea water, it is
   conveniently of an environmentally friendly material. For use over an extended period
   of time, the barrier fluid is preferably non-biodegradable.
30 The distribution unit may form part of an arrangement according to the first aspect.
   The invention will further be described, by way of example, with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which:
35 Figure 1 is a diagrammatic view of a distribution unit in accordance with an
   embodiment of the invention;

                                                 4
   Figures 2 and 2a are diagrammatic views illustrating part of the distribution unit of
   Figure 1, partly in section, with parts removed;
 5 Figure 3 is a view illustrating an active device of the distribution unit of Figure 1;
   Figures 4 and 5 are illustrations of a distribution unit arrangement in accordance with
   another embodiment of the invention; and
10 Figures 6 and 7 are illustrations of a distribution unit arrangement in accordance with
   another embodiment of the invention.
   Referring firstly to Figures 1 to 3, a distribution unit 10 in accordance with an
   embodiment of the invention is illustrated. The distribution unit 10 comprises a housing
15 12 supported upon legs 14 intended for installation in a subsea location. The housing
   12 includes a series of connectors including an input connector 16 whereby an
   umbilical or other cable can be connected to circuits located within the housing 12 and
   a series of output connectors 18 whereby cables can be connected to the distribution
   unit 10 to connect the distribution unit 10 to other pieces of subsea equipment. As is
20 well known, the circuits within the distribution unit 10 are operable to allow power
   and/or control signals supplied via the umbilical or the like to be distributed to the
   various pieces of equipment connected to the distribution unit 10. As this function is
   well known, it is not described herein in further detail.
25 As shown, the housing 12 is formed with a series of sockets 20, each socket 20 being
   adapted to receive an active device in the form of a test device 22.             As shown in
   Figures 2 and 2a, each socket 20 takes the form of a hollow, generally cylindrical
   housing 24 or stepped inner diameter. The housings 24 are mounted to the top of the
   housing 12 of the distribution unit 10, and within a lower part of each housing 24 is
30 located an electrical connector stub 26, the stub 26 being generally coaxial with the
   housing 24. The electrical connector stub 26 is electrically connected to the circuits of
   the distribution unit 10. A barrier fluid 40 is located within the socket 20, the barrier
   fluid 40 covering the connector stub 26 when the test device 22 is not fitted to the
   socket 20, thus protecting the connector stub 26 against the build-up of marine growth.
35

                                                 5
   The manner in which tests are undertaken using the test device 22 will be understood
   by a person skilled in the art, and so is not described herein in further detail.
   Whilst this embodiment makes use of active devices in the form of test devices 22, it
 5 will be appreciated that the invention is also applicable to arrangements in which the
   active devices perform other functions, for example enhanced control functions,
   communications functions or the like.
   The test device 22 comprises a generally cylindrical body 28 of dimensions and shape
10 such that it can be at least partially received within the housing 24. An upper end of
   the body 28 includes a handle 30 to aid manipulation thereof, and a key 32 projects
   from the outer surface of the body 28 for receipt within a corresponding key way
   formed in the socket 20 to ensure that the test device 22 can only be introduced into
   the socket 20 in a single angular orientation, thereby ensuring correct make up of
15 electrical connections, in use.
   Projecting from a lower part of the body 28 is a hollow connector part 34 adapted to fit
   over the connector stub 26 in such a manner as to make electrical contact therewith so
   as to electrically connect circuits within the test device 22 with circuits within the
20 distribution unit 10.
   A seal member 36 extends around the periphery of a part of the body 28, the seal
   member 36 cooperating, in use, with the inner surface of the socket 20 to restrict sea
   water ingress into the socket when the test device 22 is fitted thereto.
25
   With the distribution unit 10 installed in a subsea location, and with umbilicals, cables
   or the like connected to the connectors 16, 18 as required, if it is desired to undertake
   tests on the various cables or the like or subsea located pieces of equipment, then test
   devices 22 may be fitted to the sockets 20.            Depending upon the tests to be
30 undertaken, it may be desired for the test device 22 to be fitted to a specific one of the
   sockets 20. When the test device 22 is fitted, it will be appreciated that the barrier fluid
   located within the socket 20 is displaced by the connector part 34, the barrier fluid 40
   then substantially filling a volume defined between the test device 22 and the socket
   20.
35

                                                 6
   It will be appreciated that with the test device 22 fitted, tests may be undertaken on the
   distribution unit, and the cables and equipment connected thereto, to identify the nature
   and location of faults associated therewith. The nature of the tests may depend upon
   the functionality of the test device 22, and if desired, a number of interchangeable test
 5 devices may be provided to enable a range of tests to be undertaken.
   With the test device 22 fitted, it will be appreciated that the barrier fluid 40 provides
   protection to the connectors associated with the test device 22 and socket 20, and the
   presence of the seal member 36 restricts sea water ingress into the socket 20 and the
10 escape of barrier fluid therefrom.     The barrier fluid 40 is preferably electrically inert,
   providing an additional electrical barrier for the connectors. In addition, by restricting
   sea water ingress, the risk of marine growth occurring within the socket 20 is reduced.
   When no tests are required to be undertaken, the test device 22 may be removed. If
15 desired, it may be replaced by a similarly shaped passive device 22a. The presence of
   the seal member 36 and barrier fluid 40 will again serve to protect the integrity of the
   connector stub 34.
   Although the test devices 22 are removable/replaceable, and so lend themselves to
20 temporary installation or reconfiguration, they may, if desired, be installed on a long
   term basis, and may be retrofitted to previously installed distribution units, if desired.
   Whilst in the arrangement described hereinbefore a barrier fluid is provided in the
   socket, in some arrangements this fluid may be omitted, the presence of the seal
25 member restricting sea water ingress into the space between the test device and the
   socket, in combination with the volume of the space between the test device and the
   socket being small, being sufficient to prevent marine growth.
   Turning to Figures 4 and 5, a distribution unit arrangement 50 is illustrated, the
30 arrangement comprising a distribution          unit 10 of the general form described
   hereinbefore. In the arrangement of Figures 4 and 5, the positions of the connectors
   16, 18 have been modified, but the invention is not restricted in this regard and could
   be employed using a distribution unit of the type shown in Figures 1 to 3.                The
   distribution unit arrangement 50 further comprises a housing in the form of a trough 52
35 within which the distribution unit 10 is located. The trough 52 is of closed bottomed
   form, and a barrier fluid 54 of density greater than sea water is located therein. The

                                                  7
   barrier fluid 54, like that used in the socket 20, is of electrically inert, non-conductive
   form. It is preferably non-biodegradable so as to be suitable for use over an extended
   period of time, and is preferably environmentally friendly, thereby minimising any
   negative environmental impacts that may occur in the event that the material mixes
 5 with sea water and/or escapes from the trough 52. The trough 52 and depth of the
   barrier fluid 54 located therein are preferably such that the connectors 16, 18, and
   components physically connected thereto, are completely immersed in the barrier fluid
   54. The connections to the distribution unit 10 are thus separated from the sea water,
   and the risk of damage arising through contact with sea water, for example, water
10 ingress to electrical components, the build-up of marine growth, or the like, is reduced.
   Electrical connections to the distribution unit 10 may be made and/or broken within the
   barrier fluid 54.
   As illustrated, the trough 52 is conveniently provided with a lid 56 that may be removed
15 to gain access to the distribution unit 10, to allow removal or connection of components
   thereto. The design of the lid 56 is preferably such that the test devices 22 may be
   removed without the need to remove the lid 56. However, the invention is not restricted
   in this regard.    The primary purpose of the lid 56 is to avoid water currents from
   washing away the barrier fluid 54, and it may also serve to restrict access to the
20 connectors 16, 18. It will be appreciated that in some arrangements, the lid 56 may be
   omitted, if desired.
   It is envisaged that deployment of the arrangement shown in Figures 4 and 5 will
   involve positioning the distribution unit 10 and trough 52 in the desired location,
25 introducing the barrier fluid 54 into the trough 52 and then establishing the desired
   electrical connections to the distribution unit 10, the connections being made within the
   barrier fluid 54. After establishing the electrical connections, the lid 56 may be fitted,
   and thereafter the test devices 22 (and/or passive devices 22a) fitted in position.
   Alternatively, the test devices 22 and/or passive devices 22a could be fitted in position
30 prior to deployment of the distribution unit 10.      To recover the arrangement to the
   surface, after removal of the lid 56 and breaking of the electrical connections, the
   barrier fluid 54 is drained into a suitable receptacle prior to lifting the distribution unit 10
   and trough 52 to the surface.
35 Whilst the description hereinbefore is of a distribution unit arrangement 50 using a
   distribution unit 10 of substantially the form described with reference to Figures 1 to 3,

                                                  8
   it will be appreciated that the invention is also applicable to arrangements in which
   other forms of distribution unit are used, for example distribution units 10 that do not
   have sockets 20 for fitting test devices 22 thereto.
 5 Figures 6 and 7 illustrate an alternative distribution unit arrangement 60.         In the
   arrangement 60, a housing 62 is provided over the distribution unit 10, the housing 62
   being of open bottomed form, and closed at its top. For convenience, the housing 62 is
   hingedly connected to the distribution unit 10 (and is shown in its open condition in
   Figure 6), but this need not always be the case. The arrangement is adapted such
10 that, once the required electrical connections have been made to the distribution unit
   10 and the required test devices 22 and/or passive devices 22a fitted thereto, the
   housing 62 is secured in position with at least the connectors 16, 18 of the distribution
   unit 10 located within the housing 62. Once so positioned, a barrier fluid 64 in the form
   of a gas, such as nitrogen gas, of density less than sea water is introduced into the
15 housing 62, displacing the sea water therefrom to a level such that the connectors 16,
   18 are not covered by the sea water, but rather are exposed to the barrier fluid 64.
   The barrier fluid 64 should preferably be of a non-toxic material, and ideally should not
   be corrosive in the presence of water. As mentioned above, nitrogen gas may form a
20 suitable material for the barrier fluid 64. It may be introduced into the housing 62 from,
   for example, a pressurised gas canister mounted upon the housing 62.
   Preferably, prior to introducing the barrier fluid 64 into the housing 62, a quantity of a
   second barrier fluid 66 of density greater than the first barrier fluid 64 but lower than
25 that of sea water is introduced into the housing 62. The second barrier fluid 66 will thus
   float upon the sea water within the housing 62. Upon the introduction of the first barrier
   fluid 64, the second barrier fluid 66 serves to separate the sea water from the first
   barrier fluid 64. This may be beneficial as, in the absence of the second barrier fluid,
   some sea water may evaporate into the first barrier fluid 64, and the combination of the
30 sea water and the first barrier fluid 64 may, depending upon the materials used, be
   corrosive. By isolating the first barrier fluid 64 from the sea water using the second
   barrier fluid 66, the risk of corrosion arising in this manner is reduced. The second
   barrier fluid 66 should preferably be non-hydroscopic, should be a dielectric, should be
   environmentally friendly, non-toxic and non-biodegradable.           It may comprise, for
35 example, silicon oil.

                                                 9
   Deployment of the arrangement may involve installing the distribution unit 10 and
   housing 62 in the desired location, moving the housing 62 to an open condition to allow
   access to the distribution unit 10 so that connections can be made thereto and test
   devices 22 and/or passive devices 22a installed thereon.         Subsequently, the housing
 5 62 is secured in position on the distribution unit 10. The second barrier fluid 66 is then
   released from a bladder 66a located within the housing 62, for example by way of an
   ROV operable valve or the like, so as to float upon the surface of the sea water within
   the housing 62, after which the first barrier fluid 64 is introduced into the housing 62, for
   example via a bleed/fill valve 68 displacing the seawater from the upper part of the
10 housing 62. Conveniently, a window or float indicator or the like is provided to allow an
   operator to know when the desired quantity of sea water has been displaced, the
   connectors 16, 18 being located within the first barrier fluid 64 at that point.
   Rather than supplying the first barrier fluid 64 from a cylinder or the like, it could be
15 generated by causing a gas generating chemical reaction to occur beneath the housing
   62. Similarly, rather than supplying the second barrier fluid from a bladder 66a located
   within the housing 62, other techniques are possible.
   To recover the arrangement, the first barrier fluid 64 is vented from the housing 62 via
20 the valve 68 to the surrounding sea water. The second barrier fluid 66 is then returned
   to the bladder 66a or another suitable receptacle. After venting or collection of the
   barrier fluids, the housing 62 can be released and moved to allow access to the
   distribution unit 10. The connections to the distribution unit 10 can be broken, and the
   arrangement then lifted to the surface.
25
   By modifying the design of the housing 62, it is thought that both the barrier fluids 64,
   66, or alternatively just the second barrier fluid 66, may be retained within the housing
   62 both when the housing 62 is in its in use position and when it is moved to the open
   position in which access to the distribution unit 10 is permitted.
30
   As with the arrangement shown in Figures 4 and 5, the arrangement of Figures 6 and 7
   is advantageous in that corrosion of components of the distribution unit and associated
   connectors is reduced, the formation of marine growth is avoided, and the connectors
   are maintained in a clean condition. The barrier fluids serve to provide an additional
35 electrical barrier, and cathodic protection demands are reduced.

                                                10
   Although the arrangement of Figures 6 and 7 uses a distribution unit 10 of the type
   described hereinbefore, it will be appreciated that the invention is not restricted in this
   regard, and distribution units that do not include removable test devices may also be
   used without departing from the scope of the invention.
 5
   In the description hereinbefore, for the most part the distribution unit is described as
   being used in the distribution of electrical power and/or signals. It will be appreciated,
   however, that the invention is not restricted to such arrangements, and may be
   employed in applications in which other connectors such as hydraulic or chemical
10 conducting connectors are used, or in which optical fibres or the like are used. Indeed,
   the invention may be employed in providing protection for devices other than
   distribution units.
   Whilst specific embodiments of the invention are described hereinbefore, it will be
15 appreciated that a wide range of modifications and alterations are possible without
   departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

                                               11
   CLAIMS:
   1.       A distribution unit comprising a housing having a plurality of first connectors to
   permit the connection of second connectors associated with a plurality of lines or
 5 cables or devices thereto such that, in use, the distribution unit can be used in the
   distribution of inputs to a plurality of pieces of subsea equipment, and a seal
   arrangement whereby a seal can be formed between at least one of the second
   connectors and a respective one of the first connectors, the relative dimensions of the
   first and second connectors being such that only a small volume exists therebetween.
10
   2.       A unit according to Claim 1, wherein at least one of the first connectors
   comprises a socket.
   3.       A unit according to Claim 2, wherein an active device can be fitted into the
15 socket to allow tests to be conducted and/or to permit enhanced control.
   4.       A unit according to Claim 3, wherein the active device is removably fitted to the
   socket.
20 5.       A unit according to Claim 4, wherein, when the active device is not fitted to the
   socket, a passive device is fitted thereto.
   6.       A unit according to any of Claims 1 to 5, wherein a barrier fluid is located within
   the first connector.
25
   7.       A unit according to Claim 6, wherein the barrier fluid is of greater density than
   sea water and the first connector is orientated such that the barrier fluid is retained
   therein.
30 8.       A unit according to Claim 6 or Claim 7, wherein the barrier fluid is electrically
   non-conductive.
   9.       A unit according to any of Claims 6 to 8, wherein the barrier fluid is selected to
   impede marine growth.
35

                                                 12
   10.      A unit according to any of Claims 6 to 9, wherein the barrier fluid is selected to
   be of an environmentally friendly material.
   11.      A unit according to any of Claims 6 to 10, wherein the barrier fluid is selected to
 5 be non-biodegradable.
   12.      A unit according to any of the preceding claims, wherein a barrier fluid is
   located within the housing.
10 13.      A unit according to Claim 12, wherein the second connector is, in use, located
   within the barrier fluid located within the housing.
   14.      A unit according to Claim 13, wherein the second connector, or at least one of
   the second connectors, is an electrical connector, a connector for a hose or a
15 connector for an optical fibre.
   15.      A unit according to any of Claims 13 to 14, wherein the second connector, or at
   least one of the second connectors, comprises a stabplate.
20 16.      A unit according to any of Claims 12 to 15, wherein the barrier fluid is of greater
   density than sea water, and the housing is orientated such that the barrier fluid is
   retained therein.
   17.      A unit according to Claim 16, wherein the housing takes the form of an open
25 topped trough within which the barrier fluid is located, and into which at least a part of
   the second connector extends.
   18.      A unit according to Claim 16 or Claim 17, wherein the housing includes a lid.
30 19.      A unit according to any of Claims 12 to 15, wherein the barrier fluid is of density
   lower than sea water.
   20.      Aunit according to Claim 19, wherein the barrier fluid comprises a gas.
35 21.      A unit according to Claim 19 or Claim 20, further comprising a second barrier
   fluid of density greater than the first mentioned barrier fluid but lower than sea water,

                                                13
   the second barrier fluid serving to separate the first mentioned barrier fluid from the sea
   water.
   22.    A unit according to Claim 21, further comprising a bladder for containing the
 5 second barrier fluid when not deployed.
   23.    An arrangement comprising a housing, equipment located within the housing,
   and a barrier fluid located within the housing, the equipment including at least one
   connector, and wherein the connector is, in use, located within the barrier fluid.
10
   24.    An arrangement according to Claim 23, wherein the barrier fluid is of greater
   density than sea water, and the housing is orientated such that the barrier fluid is
   retained therein.
15 25.    An arrangement according to Claim 23, wherein the barrier fluid is of density
   lower than sea water, and further comprising a second barrier fluid of density greater
   than the first mentioned barrier fluid but lower than sea water, the second barrier fluid
   serving to separate the first mentioned barrier fluid from the sea water.
20 26.    An arrangement according to Claim 25, further comprising a bladder for
   containing the second barrier fluid when not deployed.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
