   ABSTRACT
   The present invention relates to an albumin-free liquid formulation comprising a long-lasting
   oxyntomodulin conjugate in which an oxyntomodulin peptide comprising a derivative, variant,
   precursor or fragment of oxyntomodulin is linked to an immunoglobulin Fc region, which can
 5 increase the duration of physiological activity of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate and
   maintain the invivo stability thereof for an extended period of time, as compared to native
   oxyntomodulin, as well as a method for preparing the liquid formulation. The liquid formulation
   comprises a buffer, a sugar alcohol and a nonionic surfactant and does not contain a human
   serum albumin and factors that are potentially harmful to the human body, and thus is not
10 susceptible to viral infection. In addition, the oxyntomodulin conjugate of the invention
   comprises oxyntomodulin linked to an immunoglobulin Fc region, and thus has a large
   molecular weight, prolonged physiological activity, and excellent storage stability, compared to
   native oxyntomodulin.

    WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
                                         Description
     Title of Invention: LIQUID FORMULATION OF PROTEIN
CONJUGATE COMPRISING THE OXYNTOMODULIN AND AN
                       IMMUNOGLOBULIN FRAGMENT
        Technical Field
[1]       The present invention relates to an albumin-free liquid formulation comprising a
        long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate in which an oxyntomodulin peptide comprising
        a derivative, variant, precursor or fragment of oxyntomodulin is linked to an im
        munoglobulin Fc region, which can increase the duration of physiological activity of
        the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate and maintain the invivostability thereof for
        an extended period of time, compared to native oxyntomodulin. The present invention
        also relates to a method for preparing the liquid formulation.
        Background Art
[2]       Obesity is defined as a condition of abnormal or excessive fat accumulation that may
        impair health and results from an energy imbalance in which energy intake exceeds
        energy expenditure. Obesity was not a serious health problem in the past, but with
        economic growth, the obese population is increasing with increasing economic
        affluence, and the number of various diseases related to obesity is also increasing.
        According to the report of the World Health Organization (WHO), over 1.5 billion
        adults worldwide are overweight, over 500 million of them are obese, and the obesity
        population increased by about twice between 1980 and 2008 (World Health Orga
        nization, Fact sheet on obesity and overweight, 2011). Not only in high-income
        countries, but also in low-income countries, the percentage of obese people is currently
        increasing. Overweight and obesity are responsible for increasing blood pressure and
        cholesterol levels and cause or worsen various diseases. In addition, the obesity
        problem is more serious in children or teenagers, increases the incidence of diabetes,
        heart diseases, hypertension or hyperlipidemia, and can also cause deaths or dis
        abilities.
[3]       As described above, obesity is a global disease and social problem, but in the past, it
        was believed that obesity could be overcome by individual efforts, and thus no
        particular emphasis was placed on the treatment of obesity. However, obesity is not
        easy to treat, because it is a complex disease associated with the mechanisms of
        appetite control and energy metabolism. Accordingly, the treatment of obesity requires
        not only the patient's own efforts, but also a method capable of treating abnormal
        mechanisms associated with appetite control and energy metabolism. Thus, efforts
        have been made to develop drugs for treating obesity.

    WO 2014/073842                                                          PCT/KR2013/009986
[4]       As a result of such efforts, drugs, including Rimonabant (Sanofi-Aventis),
        Sibutramine (Abbott), Contrave (Takeda), Orlistat (Roche) and the like, were
        developed, but these drugs have shortcomings in that they show fetal side effects or
        have an insufficient effect on the treatment of obesity. It was reported that Rimonabant
        (Sanofi-Aventis) showed disorders of the central nervous system, Sibutramine (Abbott)
        and Contrave (Takeda) showed cardiovascular side effects, and Orlistat (Roche)
        showed a weight reduction effect of only about 4 kg when administered for 1 year.
        Thus, there are currently little or no obesity therapeutic agents that can be safely
        prescribed for obesity patients.
[5]       Recently, glucagon derivatives have received much attention. Glucagon is produced
        by the pancreas when blood glucose levels start to drop due to medications, diseases,
        hormone or enzyme deficiencies, or the like. Glucagon functions to stimulate liver
        cells to break down stored glycogen into glucose which is then released into the blood
        to raise the blood glucose level to a normal level. In addition to the effect of increasing
        the blood glucose level, glucagon was reported to suppress appetite and activate
        hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL) of adipocytes to facilitate lipolysis, thereby showing
        anti-obesity effects. Among the glucagon derivatives, glucagon-like peptide- 1 (GLP- 1)
        is under development as a therapeutic agent for reducing hyperglycemia in diabetic
        patients and functions to stimulate insulin synthesis and secretion, inhibit glucagon
        secretion, suppress gastric emptying, increase glucose utilization and inhibit food
        intake. It is known that exendin-4 that is isolated from lizard venom has an amino acid
        homology of about 50% with GLP- 1 and activates the GLP- 1 receptor to reduce hyper
        glycemia in diabetic patients. However, obesity therapeutic drugs, including GLP- 1,
        were reported to cause side effects such as vomiting and nausea.
[6]       Thus, as an alternative to GLP- 1, oxyntomodulin capable of binding to both receptors
        for two peptides (GLP- 1 and glucagon) is receiving attention. Oxyntomodulin is a
        peptide made from pre-glucagon, a precursor of glucagon, and is a potent anti-obesity
        agent, because it inhibits food intake, like GLP- 1, promotes satiety, and shows lipolytic
        activity, like glucagon.
[7]       Based on the dual function of the oxyntomodulin peptide, studies on the development
        of drugs for the treatment of obesity have been actively conducted. For example,
        Korean Patent Registration No. 925017 discloses an oral, parenteral, mucosal, rectal,
        subcutaneous or transdermal pharmaceutical composition for treating human obesity,
        which comprises oxyntomodulin as an active ingredient. However, it was reported that
        obesity therapeutic agents comprising oxyntomodulin have a short in vivo half-life and
        show a low effect on the treatment of obesity,even when these are administered at a
        high dose three times a day. Thus, efforts have been made to increase the in vivo half
        life or obesity-treating effect of oxyntomodulin by modifying oxyntomodulin.

    WO 2014/073842                                                            PCT/KR2013/009986
[8]        For example, the dual agonist oxyntomodulin (Merck) is obtained by substituting L
        serine with D-serine at amino acid 2 of oxyntomodulin to increase resistance to
        dipeptidyl peptidase-IV (DPP-IV) and by attaching a cholesterol moiety to the C
        terminal to increase the blood half-life. ZP2929 (Zealand) is obtained by substituting
        L-serine with D-serine at amino acid 2 of oxyntomodulin to increase resistance to
        DPP-IV, substituting arginine with alanine at amino acid 17 to increase resistance to
        protease, substituting methionine with lysine at amino acid 27 to increase oxidative
        stability, and substituting glutamines at amino acids 20 and 24 and asparagine at amino
        acid 28 with aspartic acid, alanine and serine, respectively, to increase deamidation
        stability. The dual agonist oxyntomodulin (Merck) has an increased in vivo half-life of
         1.7 hours, which is longer than the half-life (8-12 minutes) of native oxyntomodulin,
        but it still has a very short in vivo half-life and is administered at a very high dose of
        several mg/kg. Thus, oxyntomodulin or derivatives thereof have two big disad
        vantages, that is, a short half-life and low medicinal effects. Due to these disad
        vantages, they should be administered daily at high doses. In order to overcome these
        disadvantages, a method was studied to increase the blood half-life of oxyntomodulin
        while maintaining the in vivo activity thereof,and as a result, an oxyntomodulin
        derivative was developed. In addition, using this technology, a non-peptidyl polymer
        was prepared by conjugating a carrier to the oxyntomodulin derivative, and it was
        found that the protein conjugate can show a better anti-obesity effect as a result of in
        creasing the blood half-life thereof while maintaining the in vivo activity (Korean
        Patent Application No. 10-2012-0064110).
[9]        Generally, proteins and peptides have a very short half-life, and undergo denaturation
        such as precipitation by aggregation of monomers, and adsorption on the surfaces of
        vessels, upon exposure to various factors such as unfavorable temperatures, water-air
        interface, high pressure, physical/ mechanical stress, organic solvents and microbial
        contamination. This denaturation is irreversible, and thus the denatured proteins and
        peptides lose intrinsic physicochemical properties and physiologically active effects. In
        addition, proteins and peptides are unstable and susceptible to extrinsic factors such as
        temperature, humidity, oxygen, UV rays or the like to undergo physical or chemical
        changes including association, polymerization or oxidation, resulting in substantial loss
        of activity (Korean Patent Registration No. 10-0389726).
[10]       Furthermore, the adsorbed proteins and peptides are easily aggregated by the de
        naturation process, and the denatured proteins and peptides, when administered to the
        human body, act as the cause of antibody formation in the human body, and for this
        reason, the proteins and peptides should be administered in a sufficiently stable form.
        Accordingly, various methods for preventing the denaturation of proteins and peptides
        in solution have been studied (John Geigert, J. Parenteral Sci. Tech., 43, No5, 220-224,

    WO 2014/073842                                                          PCT/KR2013/009986
         1989; David Wong, Pharm. Tech. October, 34-48, 1997; Wei Wang., Int. J. Pharm.,
         185, 129-188, 1999; Willem Norde, Adv. Colloid Interface Sci., 25, 267-340, 1986;
        Michelle et al., Int. J. Pharm. 120, 179-188, 1995).
[11]      Lyophilization is applied to some protein and peptide drugs to achieve the goal of
        stability. However, lyophilized products are inconvenient in that they must be re
        dissolved in injection water for use. In addition, in the case of lyophilization, massive
        investment on large-capacity freeze-driers or the like is required, because the
        lyophilization process is included in the production processes. Further, a method for
        producing powdered proteins and peptides using a spray drier is also being used, but in
        this case, economic efficiency is decreased due to a low yield, and exposure to high
        temperatures can adversely affect the stability of the proteins.
[12]      In order to overcome such limitations, studies have been conducted in which sta
        bilizers were added to proteins and peptides in solution to suppress the physico
        chemical changes of the proteins and peptides while maintaining the in vivo efficiency
        thereof even upon long-term storage. Human serum albumin, a kind of protein, has
        been widely used as a stabilizer for various protein drugs, and the performance thereof
        has been proven (Edward Tarelli et al., Biologicals (1998) 26, 331-346).
[13]      A process for purifying human serum albumin includes inactivating biological con
        taminants such as mycoplasma, prion, bacteria and virus and screening or examining
        one or more biological contaminants or pathogens. However, there is always the risk
        that patients will be exposed to the biological contaminants that are not completely
        removed or inactivated. For example, the screening process includes examining
        whether human blood from donators contains a certain virus, but this process is not
        always reliable. Particularly, a specific virus existing in a very small number of
        donators cannot be detected.
[14]      Different proteins may be gradually inactivated at different rates under different
        conditions during storage, due to their chemical differences. That is to say, the
        extension of the storage term by a stabilizer is not identical for different proteins. For
        this reason, the suitable ratio, concentration and kind of stabilizer that is used to
        provide storage stability vary depending on the physicochemical properties of the
        target protein. When stabilizers are used in combination, they may cause adverse
        effects different from the desired effects due to the competition and interaction
        therebetween. Further, because the nature or concentration of proteins may change
        during storage, the stabilizers used may show effects different from those intended.
        Thus, a great amount of effort and precautions are required to stabilize proteins in
        solution.
[15]      Particularly, a conjugate of oxyntomodulin and immunoglobulin Fc is a conjugate in
        which oxyntomodulin that is a physiologically active peptide is linked to an im-

   WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
       munoglobulin Fe region. Thus, because the molecular weight and volume of the
       conjugate certainly differ from those of native oxyntomodulin, a special composition
       for stabilizing the protein is required.
[16]     Further, because oxyntomodulin (that is a physiologically active peptide) and the im
       munoglobulin Fc region are peptides or proteins having different physicochemical
       properties, they should be simultaneously stabilized. However, as described above,
       different proteins or proteins may be gradually inactivated at different rates under
       different conditions during storage, due to their chemical differences, and when sta
       bilizers suitable for proteins or peptides are used in combination, they may cause
       adverse effects different from desired effects due to the competition and interaction
       therebetween. Thus, in the case of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate, there is
       much difficulty in finding a composition for simultaneously stabilizing oxyntomodulin,
       which is a physiologically active peptide, and the immunoglobulin Fc region.
[17]     Under such circumstances, the present inventors have made extensive efforts to
       provide a stable liquid formulation that can be stored for a long period of time without
       concern about viral contamination, and as a result, have found that a stabilizer, which
       includes a buffer, a sugar alcohol and a nonionic surfactant and may further include an
       additive, such as an isotonic agent or an amino acid, and a preservative for repeated
       use, can increase the stability of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin derivative, and a cost
       effective and stable liquid formulation can be prepared using the stabilizer, thereby
       completing the present invention.
       Disclosure of Invention
       Technical Problem
[18]     It is an object of the present invention to provide a liquid formulation of a long
       lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate, comprising a pharmacologically effective amount of
       a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate wherein an oxyntomodulin which is a physio
       logically active peptide is linked to an immunoglobulin Fc region; and an albumin-free
       stabilizer.
[19]     Another object of the present invention is to provide a method for preparing the
       above liquid formulation.
[20]     Still another object of the present invention is to provide a composition for
       preventing or treating obesity or diabetes, comprising a liquid oxyntomodulin
       conjugate formulation comprising physiologically active peptide oxyntomodulin linked
       to an immunoglobulin Fc region.
[21]     Still another object of the present invention is to provide a method for preventing or
       treating obesity or diabetes, comprising administering the above liquid formulation to a
       subject.

    WO 2014/073842                                                          PCT/KR2013/009986
        Solution to Problem
[22]      To achieve the above objects, in one aspect, the present invention provides a liquid
        formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate, comprising a pharmaco
        logically effective amount of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate wherein an
        oxyntomodulin which is a physiologically active peptide is linked to an im
        munoglobulin Fc region; and an albumin-free stabilizer, wherein the stabilizer contains
        a buffer, a sugar alcohol and a nonionic surfactant.
[23]      As used herein, the term "liquid formulation" refers to a drug formulation processed
        into a liquid form and is intended to include all liquid formulations for internal use and
        formulations for external use. In the prior art, the inventive liquid formulation suitable
        for a pharmacologically effective amount of the oxyntomodulin conjugate comprising
        oxyntomodulin linked to the immunoglobulin Fc domain was not reported. Thus, the
        liquid formulation of the present invention may comprise a pharmacologically
        effective amount of the oxyntomodulin conjugate comprising oxyntomodulin linked to
        the immunoglobulin Fc domain,and an albumin-free stabilizer, wherein the stabilizer
        contains a buffer,a sugar alcohol and a nonionic surfactant. In addition, the liquid for
        mulation of the present invention may further comprise a preservative.
[24]      In the present invention, the stabilizer may further comprise one or more components
        selected from the group consisting of isotonic agents, sugars, polyhydric alcohols, and
        amino acids. The sugar alcohol may be one or more selected from the group consisting
        of mannitol, sorbitol and glycerol, and the concentration of the sugar alcohol in the
        liquid formulation may be 2-15% (w/v). Further, the buffer may be one or more
        selected from the group consisting of citrate, acetate, histidine and phosphate buffers
        and may have a pH ranging from 4.5 to 7.0. The isotonic agent may be sodium
        chloride, and the nonionic surfactant may be polysorbate or poloxamer and be present
        at a concentration of 0.001-0.1% (w/v). The amino acid may be methionine. Thus, the
        liquid formulation of the present invention may comprise a stabilizer that contains a
        buffer having a pH ranging from 4.8 to 6.0, one or more sugar alcohols selected from
        the group consisting of mannitol and sorbitol, and polysorbate 20.
[25]      In addition, the liquid formulation of the present invention may further comprise one
        or more preservatives selected from the group consisting of m-cresol, phenol and
        benzyl alcohol. The concentration of the preservative in the liquid formulation may be
        0.001-1% (w/v).
[26]      Particularly, the liquid formulation of the present invention may comprise a pharma
        cologically effective amount of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate, 5-50 mM
        histidine, 2-15% (w/v) of mannitol, 0.01-1 mg/mL of methionine and 0.001-0.1%
        (w/v) of polysorbate 20. In addition to these components, the liquid formulation may

   WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
       further comprise 0.00 1-1% (w/v) of m-cresol.
[27]     As used herein, the term "stabilizer" refers to a substance that stably maintains in
       gredients such as active ingredients for a specific period of time. For the purpose of the
       present invention, the term refers to a substance that enables the long-lasting oxyn
       tomodulin conjugate to be stably stored. The storage stability of proteins such as the
       long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate is important not only to guarantee a precise
       dose, but also to inhibit the potential production of an antigenic substance for the oxyn
       tomodulin derivative conjugate.
[28]     The stabilizer in the present invention preferably contains a buffer, a sugar alcohol
       and a nonionic surfactant in order to impart stability to the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate. In addition, the stabilizer may preferably further comprise one or more
       components selected from the group consisting of isotonic agents, sugars, polyhydric
       alcohols and amino acids.
[29]     The buffer functions to maintain the pH of the liquid formulation so that the pH of
       the liquid formulation does not rapidly change so as to make the long-lasting oxyn
       tomodulin conjugate stable. Examples of the buffer may include pharmaceutically ac
       ceptable pH buffers, including an alkali salt (sodium phosphate, potassium phosphate,
       or a hydrogen or dihydrogen salt thereof), sodium citrate, citric acid, sodium acetate,
       acetic acid, and histidine, or a mixture of these buffers may also be used. The buffer is
       preferably a citrate or histidine buffer, and more preferably a histidine buffer. The con
       centration of the buffer is preferably 5-100 mM, and more preferably 5-50 mM. The
       pH of the buffer is preferably 4.0-8.0, more preferably 4.5-7.0, and even more
       preferably 5.0-6.0.
[30]     In an example of the present invention, the stability of the long-lasting oxyn
       tomodulin conjugate according to the pH of the buffer of the liquid formulation was
       measured. That is, after the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was stored at 25 0C
       for 0-4 weeks while changing the pH of the buffer, the remaining amount of the
       conjugate was analyzed, and as a result, it was shown that the oxyntomodulin
       conjugate was more stable at pH 5.6, pH 5.8 and pH 6.0 (Example 3, Tables 2 to 5,
       Example 7, Tables 18 to 21, Example 8 and Tables 22 to 25). Thus, it was found that
       the pH of the most stable buffer in the present invention ranges from 5.0 to 6.0. In an
       example of the present invention, the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate according to the kind of buffer of the liquid formulation was measured.
       Specifically, after the oxyntomodulin conjugate was stored with 0.02% polysorbate 20,
       0.1 mg/mL of methionine and 5% mannitol at 25 0C for 0-4 weeks, the remaining
       amount of the conjugate was analyzed. The results of SE-HPLC analysis indicated that
       the remaining amount of the conjugate did not greatly differ between the buffers at the
       same pH. The results of IE-HPLC or RP-HPLC analysis indicated that histidine was

    WO 2014/073842                                                          PCT/KR2013/009986
        most stable at the same pH (Example 8 and Tables 22 to 25).
[31]      The sugar alcohol functions to increase the stability of the long-lasting oxyn
        tomodulin conjugate. In the present invention, the sugar alcohol may be one or more
        selected from the group consisting of mannitol, sorbitol and glycerol. Preferably, the
        sugar alcohol may be mannitol. The concentration of the sugar alcohol in the liquid
        formulation is preferably 1-20% (w/v), and more preferably 2-15% (w/v).
[32]      In an example of the present invention, the influence of the kind of sugar alcohol as a
        stabilizer on the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was analyzed.
        Specifically, the oxyntomodulin conjugate was stored in citrate buffer (pH 5.6) at 25
        'C for 0-4 weeks, and then analyzed by IE-HPLC, SE-HPLC and RP-HPLC. As a
        result, the conjugate was more stable in the presence of mannitol or sorbitol than in the
        presence of glycerol at the same concentration. The results of RP-HPLC analysis
        indicated that the conjugate was a little more stable in the presence of mannitol
        compared to the presence of sorbitol (Example 4 and Tables 6 to 9). In other words, it
        was shown that the addition of mannitol or sorbitol showed excellent stability, but the
        conjugate was most stable in the presence of mannitol.
[33]      In an example of the present invention, the influence of the concentration of the
        sugar alcohol as a stabilizer on the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
        conjugate was analyzed. Specifically, the oxyntomodulin conjugate was stored at 25 'C
        for 0-4 weeks, and then analyzed by IE-HPLC, SE-HPLC and RP-HPLC. As a result,
        in the presence of 2% mannitol or 15% mannitol, a protein precipitate was produced,
        and in the presence of 5% mannitol or 10% mannitol, the conjugate was stable
        (Example 5, Tables 10 to 13, Example 7 and Tables 18 to 21).
[34]      The nonionic surfactant functions to lower the surface tension of the protein solution
        to prevent the protein from being adsorbed onto a hydrophobic surface or from ag
        gregating. Preferred examples of a nonionic surfactant that may be used in the present
        invention include polysorbate-based nonionic surfactants and poloxamer-based
        nonionic surfactants, which may be used alone or in combination of two or more. It is
        not proper that the nonionic surfactant is used at high concentrations in the liquid for
        mulation. The liquid formulation of the present invention contains the nonionic
        surfactant at a concentration of 0.2% (w/v) or less, and preferably 0.001-0.1% (w/v).
[35]      The stabilizer of the present invention may contain an amino acid such as me
        thionine. Methionine functions to additionally stabilize the protein by inhibiting the
        production of impurities that can be caused by, for example, the oxidative reaction of
        the protein.
[36]      In an example of the present invention, the influence of the concentration of the
        nonionic surfactant as a stabilizer and the presence or absence of an amino acid on the
        stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was tested. Specifically, the

   WO 2014/073842                                                          PCT/KR2013/009986
       oxyntomodulin conjugate was stored in citrate buffer (pH 5.6) and 10% mannitol at 25
       'C for 0-4 weeks, and then analyzed by IE-HPLC, SE-HPLC and RP-HPLC. As a
       result, the oxyntomodulin conjugate was most stable in the presence of 0.02%
       polysorbate 20 and 0.1 mg/mL of methionine (Example 6 and Tables 14 to 17).
[37]     The isotonic agent functions to maintain osmotic pressure a suitable level when ad
       ministering the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate in solution in vivo and may addi
       tionally function to further stabilize the the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate in
       solution. Typical examples of the isotonic agent include water-soluble inorganic salts,
       such as sodium chloride, sodium sulfate, sodium citrate and the like. The concentration
       of the isotonic agent is preferably 0-200 mM, and the content thereof can be suitably
       controlled.
[38]     The stabilizer of the present invention preferably contains no albumin. Human serum
       albumin that can be used as a protein stabilizer is prepared from human blood, and thus
       can be contaminated with human pathogenic virus, and gelatin or bovine serum
       albumin can cause diseases or can cause allergic reactions in some patients. The
       albumin-free stabilizer of the present invention does not contain a foreign protein such
       as human or animal serum albumin or purified gelatin, and thus is not susceptible to
       viral infection.
[39]     Preferred examples of sugars among the sugars and polyhydric alcohols that may ad
       ditionally be used to increase the storage stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate include monosaccharides such as mannose, glucose, fucose and xylose, and
       polysaccharides such as lactose, maltose, sucrose, raffinose and dextran, and preferred
       examples of the polyhydric alcohols include polypropylene, low-molecular-weight
       polyethylene glycol, glycerol, low-molecular-weight polypropylene glycol and the
       like. These sugars and polyhydric alcohols may be used alone or in combination of two
       or more.
[40]     In addition to the above-described buffer, isotonic agent, sugar alcohol, amino acid
       and nonionic surfactant, the liquid formulation of the present invention may further
       comprise other components or substances known in the art within a range that does not
       impair the effect of the present invention.
[41]     The inventive liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       comprises a pharmacologically effective amount of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate comprising physiologically active peptide oxyntomodulin linked to a im
       munoglobulin Fc region, and an albumin-free stabilizer, wherein the stabilizer may
       contain a buffer having a pH ranging from 4.8 to 7.0, one or more sugar alcohol
       selected from the group consisting of mannitol and sorbitol, and polysorbate 20. More
       specifically, the stabilizer may contain a buffer having a pH ranging from 5.0 to 6.0,
       mannitol and polysorbate 20. In addition, the stabilizer may further comprise one or

   WO 2014/073842                                                        PCT/KR2013/009986
       more components selected from the group consisting of isotonic agents, sugars,
       polyhydric alcohols and amino acids.
[42]     The inventive albumin-free liquid formulation containing a high concentration of the
       long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate, which imparts stability to the long-lasting
       oxyntomodulin conjugate, is not susceptible toviral infection, is simple and shows
       excellent storage stability, and thus can be provided in an economical manner
       compared to other stabilizers or lyophilized formulations.
[43]     In addition, because the liquid formulation of the present invention comprises the
       long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate that has physiological activity for an extended
       period of time compared to native oxyntomodulin, it can maintain protein activity in
       the human body for an extended period of time compared to conventional oxyn
       tomodulin formulations, and thus can be used as an efficient drug formulation. In
       addition, the liquid formulation of the present invention imparts excellent stability even
       to a high concentration of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate.
[44]     As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin" refers to a peptide produced from pre
       glucagon that is a precursor of glucagon. In the present invention, oxyntomodulin is
       meant to include native oxyntomodulin and its precursor, derivative, fragment and
       variant. Preferably, oxyntomodulin has an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1
       (HSQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIA).
[45]     As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin derivative" is meant to include a peptide, a
       peptide derivative or a peptide mimic that is obtained by the addition, deletion or sub
       stitution of amino acids in the amino acid sequence of oxyntomodulin and can activate
       the glucagon and GLP- 1 receptors at a higher level than that activated by native oxyn
       tomodulin. In the present invention, the oxyntomodulin derivative may have any one
       of amino acid sequences of SEQ ID NOS: 2 to 34. Preferably, the oxyntomodulin
       derivative may have an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 23 or 25. More
       preferably, it may have an amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 25.
[46]     As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin fragment" refers to a fragment having one
       or more amino acids at the amino or carboxyl terminal end of native oxyntomodulin, in
       which the added amino acids may also be non-naturally occurring amino acids (e.g., D
       type amino acid). This oxyntomodulin fragment has a function of regulating blood
       glucose levels in vivo.
[47]     As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin variant" is a peptide that has one or more
       amino acid residues different from those of the amino acid sequence of native oxyn
       tomodulin and possesses a function of activating the GLP-1 and glucagon receptors.
       The oxyntomodulin variant can be prepared by any one of substitution, addition,
       deletion, modification, or a combination thereof of some amino acids in the amino acid
       sequence of native oxyntomodulin.

    WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
[48]      Methods for preparing the oxyntomodulin variant, derivative and fragment may be
        used alone or in combination. For example, the present invention also includes a
        peptide, which has one or more amino acids different from those of native oxyn
        tomodulin and deamination of the N-terminal amino acid residues and has a function
        of activating both GLP- 1 receptor and glucagon receptor.
[49]      Amino acids mentioned herein are abbreviated according to the nomenclature rules
        of IUPAC-IUB as follows:
[50]      Alanine A; Arginine R;
[51]      Asparagine N; Aspartic acid D;
[52]      Cysteine C; Glutamic acid E;
[53]      Glutamine    Q; Glycine G;
[54]      Histidine H; Isoleucine I;
[55]      Leucine L; Lysine K;
[56]      Methionine M; Phenylalanine F
[57]      Proline P; Serine S;
[58]      Threonine T; Tryptophan W;
[59]      Tyrosine Y; Valine V.
[60]      In the present invention, the oxyntomodulin derivative encompasses any peptide,
        which is prepared by the substitution, addition, deletion or post-translational modi
        fication (e.g., methylation, acylation, ubiquitination, or intramolecular covalent
        bonding) of amino acids in the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1 and can activate
        both the glucagon and GLP-1 receptors. For substitution or addition of the amino
        acids, not only 20 amino acids commonly found in human proteins, but also atypical or
        non-naturally occurring amino acids can be used. Commercial sources of atypical
        amino acids include Sigma-Aldrich, ChemPep Inc., and Genzyme Pharmaceuticals.
        The peptides, which include these amino acids, and atypical peptide sequences may be
        synthesized and purchased from commercial suppliers, for example, American Peptide
        Company or Bachem (USA) or Anygen (Korea).
[61]      In a specific embodiment of the present invention, the oxyntomodulin derivative of
        the present invention is a novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the
        following formula 1:
[62]
[63]      Formula 1
[64]      Ri-X1-X2-GTFTSD-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9-X10-X 11-X12-X13-X14-X15-X16
        X17-X18-X19-X20-X21-X22-X23-X24-R2
[65]      wherein
[66]      RI is histidine, desamino-histidyl, dimethyl-histidyl (N-dimethyl-histidyl), beta
        hydroxyimidazopropionyl, 4-imidazoacetyl, beta-carboxy imidazopropionyl or

    WO 2014/073842                                                          PCT/KR2013/009986
        tyrosine;
[67]      X1 is Aib (aminosiobutyric acid), d-alanine, glycine, Sar (N-methylglycine), serine
        or d-serine;
[68]      X2 is glutamic acid or glutamine;
[69]      X3 is leucine or tyrosine;
[70]      X4 is serine or alanine;
[71]      X5 is lysine or arginine;
[72]      X6 is glutamine or tyrosine;
[73]      X7 is leucine or methionine;
[74]      X8 is aspartic acid or glutamic acid;
[75]      X9 is glutamic acid, serine or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is deleted;
[76]      X10 is glutamine, glutamic acid, lysine, arginine or serine or is deleted;
[77]      X1I is alanine, arginine or valine or is deleted;
[78]      X12 is alanine, arginine, serine or valine or is deleted;
[79]      X13 is lysine, glutamine, arginine or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is deleted;
[80]      X14 is aspartic acid, glutamic acid or leucine or is deleted;
[81]      X15 is phenylalanine or is deleted;
[82]      X16 is isoleucine or valine or is deleted;
[83]      X17 is alanine, cysteine, glutamic acid, lysine, glutamine or alpha-methyl-glutamic
        acid or is deleted;
[84]      X18 is tryptophan or is deleted;
[85]      X19 is alanine, isoleucine, leucine, serine or valine or is deleted;
[86]      X20 is alanine, lysine, methionine, glutamine or arginine or is deleted;
[87]      X21 is asparagine or is deleted;
[88]      X22 is alanine, glycine or threonine or is deleted;
[89]      X23 is cysteine or lysine or is deleted;
[90]      X24 is a peptide having 2 to 10 amino acids consisting of a combination of alanine,
        glycine and serine or is deleted; and
[91]      R2 is KRNRNNIA (SEQ ID NO: 35), GPSSGAPPPS (SEQ ID NO: 36),
        GPSSGAPPPSK (SEQ ID NO: 37), HSQGTFTSDYSKYLD (SEQ ID NO: 38),
        HSQGTFTSDYSRYLDK (SEQ ID NO: 39), HGEGTFTSDLSKQMEEEAVK (SEQ
        ID NO: 40) or is deleted (with the exception of the case in which the amino acid
        sequence of formula 1 is identical to that of SEQ ID NO: 1).
[92]      In order to increase the activity of wild-type oxyntomodulin for the glucagon
        receptor and the GLP- 1 receptor, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present invention
        may be substituted with 4-imidazoacetyl obtained by deletion of the alpha carbon of
        histidine at position 1 of the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1, desamino-histidyl
        obtained by deletion of the N-terminal amino group, dimethyl-histidyl

   WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
       (N-dimethyl-histidyl) obtained by modification of the N-terminal amino group with
       two methyl groups, beta-hydroxy imidazopropionyl obtained by substitution of the N
       terminal amino group with a hydroxyl group, or beta-carboxy imidazopropionyl
       obtained by substitution of the N-terminal amino group with a carboxyl group. In
       addition, the GLP- 1 receptor-binding region may be substituted with amino acids that
       enhance hydrophobic and ionic bonds or a combination thereof. Further, a portion of
       the oxyntomodulin sequence may be substituted with the amino acid sequence of GLP
       1 or Exendin-4 to increase the activity of the GLP- 1 receptor.
[93]     Moreover, a portion of the oxyntomodulin sequence may be substituted with a
       sequence that enhances alpha helix. Preferably, amino acids at positions 10, 14, 16, 20,
       24 and 28 of the amino acid sequence of formula 1 may be substituted with amino
       acids or amino acid derivatives consisting of Tyr(4-Me), Phe, Phe(4-Me), Phe(4-Cl),
       Phe(4-CN), Phe(4-NO 2),Phe(4-NH 2), Phg, Pal, Nal, Ala(2-thienyl) and
       Ala(benzothienyl) that are known to stabilize alpha helix, and the type and number of
       alpha helix-stabilizing amino acid or amino acid derivatives to be inserted are not
       limited. Preferably, amino acids at positions 10 and 14, 12 and 16, 16 and 20, 20 and
       24, and 24 and 28 of the amino acid sequence may also be substituted with glutamic
       acid or lysine so as to form rings, and the number of rings to be inserted is not limited.
       Most preferably, the oxyntomodulin derivative may have an amino acid sequence
       selected from among the following formulas 2 to 6.
[94]     In a specific embodiment, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present invention is a
       novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the following formula 2, obtained
       by substitution of the amino acid sequence of oxyntomodulin with that of exendin or
       GLP-1:
[95]
[96]     Formula 2
[97]     R1-A-R3
[98]
[99]     In another specific embodiment, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present
       invention is a novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the following
       formula 3, which is prepared by linking a portion of the amino acid sequence of oxyn
       tomodulin and a portion of the amino acid sequence of exendin or GLP- 1 via a proper
       amino acid linker:
[100]
[101]    Formula 3
[102]    R1-B-C-R4
[103]
[104]    In still another specific embodiment, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present

   WO 2014/073842                                                        PCT/KR2013/009986
       invention is a novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the following
       formula 4, wherein a portion of the amino acid sequence of oxyntomodulin is sub
       stituted with an amino acid that enhances the hydrophobic binding to GLP- 1 receptor.
       For example, it is a peptide wherein Leu at position 26 is substituted with the amino
       acid Ile or Val that increases hydrophobicity.
[105]
[106]    Formula 4
[107]    R1-SQGTFTSDYSKYLD-D1-D2-D3-D4-D5-LFVQW-D6-D7-N-D8-R3
[108]
[109]    In still another specific embodiment, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present
       invention is a novel peptide including the amino acid sequence of the following
       formula 5, wherein a portion of the amino acid sequence of native oxyntomodulin is
       deleted, added, or substituted with other amino acids in order to increase the abilities of
       native oxyntomodulin to activate GLP- 1 receptor and glucagon receptor:
[110]
[111]    Formula 5
[112]    R1-El-QGTFTSDYSKYLD-E2-E3-RA-E4-E5-FV-E6-WLMNT-E7-R5
[113]
[114]    In formulas 2 to 5, RI is as described in formula 1;
[115]    A is selected from the group consisting of SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQD
       FVQWLMNT (SEQ ID NO: 41), SQGTFTSDYSKYLDEEAVRLFIEWLMNT (SEQ
       ID NO: 42), SQGTFTSDYSKYLDERRAQDFVAWLKNT (SEQ ID NO: 43),
       GQGTFTSDYSRYLEEEAVRLFIEWLKNG (SEQ ID NO: 44), GQGTFTSDYS
       RQMEEEAVRLFIEWLKNG (SEQ ID NO: 45), GEGTFTSDL
       SRQMEEEAVRLFIEWAA (SEQ ID NO: 46), and SQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRL
       FIEWLMNG (SEQ ID NO: 47);
[116]    B is selected from the group consisting of SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQD
       FVQWLMNT (SEQ ID NO: 41), SQGTFTSDYSKYLDEEAVRLFIEWLMNT (SEQ
       ID NO: 42), SQGTFTSDYSKYLDERRAQDFVAWLKNT (SEQ ID NO: 43),
       GQGTFTSDYSRYLEEEAVRLFIEWLKNG (SEQ ID NO: 44), GQGTFTSDYS
       RQMEEEAVRLFIEWLKNG (SEQ ID NO: 45), GEGTFTSDL
       SRQMEEEAVRLFIEWAA (SEQ ID NO: 46), SQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRL
       FIEWLMNG (SEQ ID NO: 47), GEGTFTSDLSRQMEEEAVRLFIEW (SEQ ID NO:
       48), and SQGTFTSDYSRYLD (SEQ ID NO: 49);
[117]    C is a peptide having 2 to 10 amino acids consisting of a combination of alanine,
       glycine and serine;
[118]    D1 is serine, glutamic acid or arginine;
[119]    D2 is arginine, glutamic acid or serine;

   WO 2014/073842                                                        PCT/KR2013/009986
[120]    D3 is arginine, alanine or valine;
[121]    D4 is arginine, valine or serine;
[122]    D5 is glutamine, arginine or lysine;
[123]    D6 is isoleucine, valine or serine;
[124]    D7 is methionine, arginine or glutamine;
[125]    D8 is threonine, glycine or alanine;
[126]    El is serine, Aib, Sar, d-alanine or d-serine;
[127]    E2 is serine or glutamic acid;
[128]    E3 is arginine or lysine;
[129]    E4 is glutamine or lysine;
[130]    E5 is aspartic acid or glutamic acid;
[131]    E6 is glutamine, cysteine or lysine;
[132]    E7 is cysteine or lysine or is deleted;
[133]    R3 is KRNRNNIA (SEQ ID NO: 35), GPSSGAPPPS (SEQ ID NO: 36) or
       GPSSGAPPPSK (SEQ ID NO: 37);
[134]    R4 is HSQGTFTSDYSKYLD (SEQ ID NO: 38), HSQGTFTSDYSRYLDK (SEQ ID
       NO: 39) or HGEGTFTSDLSKQMEEEAVK (SEQ ID NO: 40); and,
[135]    R5 is KRNRNNIA (SEQ ID NO: 35), GPSSGAPPPS (SEQ ID NO: 36) or
       GPSSGAPPPSK (SEQ ID NO: 37) or is deleted (with the exception of the case in
       which the amino acid sequences of formulas 2 to 5 are identical to that of SEQ ID NO:
       1).
[136]    Preferably, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present invention may be a novel
       peptide of the following formula 6:
[137]
[138]    Formula 6
[139]    Ri-X1-X2-GTFTSD-X3-X4-X5-X6-X7-X8-X9-XIO-X1 I-X12-X13-X14-X15-X16
       X17-X18-X19-X20-X21-X22-X23-X24-R2
[140]    wherein RI is histidine, desamino-histidyl, 4-imidazoacetyl or tyrosine;
[141]    X1 is Aib(aminosiobutyric acid), glycine or seine;
[142]    X2 is glutamic acid or glutamine;
[143]    X3 is leucine or tyrosine;
[144]    X4 is seine or alanine;
[145]    X5 is lysine or arginine;
[146]    X6 is glutamine or tyrosine;
[147]    X7 is leucine or methionine;
[148]    X8 is aspartic acid or glutamic acid;
[149]    X9 is glutamic acid or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is deleted;
[150]    X10 is glutamine, glutamic acid, lysine or arginine or is deleted;

   WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
[151]    X1I is alanine or arginine or is deleted;
[152]    X12 is alanine or valine or is deleted;
[153]    X13 is lysine, glutamine, arginine or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or is deleted;
[154]    X14 is aspartic acid, glutamic acid or leucine or is deleted;
[155]    X15 is phenylalanine or is deleted;
[156]    X16 is isoleucine or valine or is deleted;
[157]    X17 is alanine, cysteine, glutamic acid, glutamine or alpha-methyl-glutamic acid or
       is deleted;
[158]    X18 is tryptophan or is deleted;
[159]    X19 is alanine, isoleucine, leucine or valine or is deleted;
[160]    X20 is alanine, lysine, methionine or arginine or is deleted;
[161]    X21 is asparagine or is deleted;
[162]    X22 is threonine or is deleted;
[163]    X23 is cysteine, lysine or is deleted;
[164]    X24 is a peptide having 2 to 10 amino acids consisting of glycine or is deleted; and
[165]    R2 is KRNRNNIA (SEQ ID NO: 35), GPSSGAPPPS (SEQ ID NO: 36),
       GPSSGAPPPSK (SEQ ID NO: 37), HSQGTFTSDYSKYLD (SEQ ID NO: 38),
       HSQGTFTSDYSRYLDK (SEQ ID NO: 39) or HGEGTFTSDLSKQMEEEAVK (SEQ
       ID NO: 40) or is deleted (with the exception of the case in which the amino acid
       sequence of formula 6 is identical to that of SEQ ID NO: 1).
[166]    More preferably, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present invention may be
       selected from the group consisting of the peptides of SEQ ID NOs: 2 to 34. Even more
       preferably, the oxyntomodulin derivative of the present invention may be an oxyn
       tomodulin derivative described in Table 1 of Example 1.
[167]    Oxyntomodulin has the activities of two peptides, GLP-1 and glucagon. GLP-1 has
       the effect of lowering blood glucose levels by insulin secretion, but glucagon has the
       effect of increasing blood glucose levels. Further, GLP- 1 inhibits food intake and
       suppresses gastric emptying, and glucagon has the effect of reducing bodyweight by
       facilitating lipolysis and increasing energy metabolisms. Thus, GLP- 1 and glucagon
       have different biological effects. Thus, in the case in which the two peptides present as
       a conjugate, if the effect of any one of the two peptides is greater than that of the other,
       an adverse effect can occur. For example, if the effect of glucagon is greater than that
       of GLP- 1, blood glucose levels can rise, and if the effect of GLP- 1 is greater than that
       of glucagon, side effects such as nausea and vomiting can occur. In addition, the effect
       of the two peptides may vary depending on the ratio of the activities of the two
       peptides. Thus, the oxyntomodulin derivatives and their conjugates are not limited only
       to derivatives having increased activities.
[168]    As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin conjugate" refers to a conjugate comprising

   WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
       oxyntomodulin and another element. The other element may be any substance having
       beneficial functions, including increasing the blood half-life of oxyntomodulin or
       delaying the release of oxyntomodulin into the kidneys. The conjugate of the present
       invention can bind covalently to oxyntomodulin or form microspheres to increase the
       serum stability of oxyntomodulin or to delay the release of oxyntomodulin into the
       kidneys or to change the binding activity of oxyntomodulin to its receptor. The carrier
       that can form a conjugate comprising oxyntomodulin may be selected from the group
       consisting of albumin, transferrin, antibodies, antibody fragments, elastin, heparin,
       polysaccharide such as chitin, fibronectin, and the like, which can bind to oxyn
       tomodulin to increase the serum stability of oxyntomodulin. Preferably, the carrier is
       an immunoglobulin Fc region.
[169]    The immunoglobulin Fc that may be used in the present invention may be a human
       immunoglobulin Fc, an immunoglobulin Fc having the sequence of an analogue
       thereof, or an immunoglobulin Fc derived from animals, including cows, goats, pigs,
       mice, rabbits, hamsters, rats and guinea pigs. Further, the immunoglobulin Fc region
       may be derived from IgG, IgA, IgD, IgE, IgM, or a combination or hybrid thereof.
       Further, each domain of the immunoglobulin Fc region of the present invention may be
       a hybrid of domains originated from different immunoglobulins selected from the
       group consisting of IgG, IgA, IgD, IgE, and IgM. Alternatively, the immunoglobulin
       Fc region is a dimer or multimer consisting of single-chain immunoglobulins
       composed of domains of the same origin. Preferably, the immunoglobulin Fc region is
       one derived from IgG or IgM, which is most rich in human blood. Most preferably, it
       is an immunoglobulin Fc derived from IgG known to increase the half-life of ligand
       binding proteins. The immunoglobulin Fc may be prepared either by treating native
       IgG with a specific protease or from transformed cells using recombination technique.
       Preferably, it is a recombinant human immunoglobulin Fc prepared in E. coli.
[170]    Meanwhile, IgG can also be sub-classified into IgGI, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4, and in
       the present invention, a combination or hybrid of these subclasses is also possible.
       Preferably, IgG is the IgG2 ad IgG4 subclass, and most preferably, it is the Fc region
       of IgG4 that substantially lacks effector functions such as complement-dependent cyto
       toxicity (CDC). In other words, the most preferred immunoglobulin Fc region that is
       used as a drug carrier in the present invention is a non-glycosylated Fc region derived
       from human IgG4. A human-derived Fc region is more preferable than a non
       human-derived Fc region, which may act as an antigen in the human body and cause
       undesirable immune responses such as the production of a new antibody against the
       antigen.
[171]    In the present invention, the oxyntomodulin conjugate may be prepared by using a
       non-peptidyl polymer or by gene recombination technique. Preferably, the conjugate

   WO 2014/073842                                                          PCT/KR2013/009986
       may be prepared by linking oxyntomodulin to the immunoglobulin Fe region by a non
       peptidyl polymer.
[172]    The non-peptidyl polymer may be linked to each of oxyntomodulin and the im
       munoglobulin Fe region. Each ends of the non-peptidyl polymer may be linked to the
       immunoglobulin Fe region and the amine or thiol group of the oxyntomodulin
       derivative, respectively.
[173]    As used herein, the term "oxyntomodulin conjugate" refers to one having an
       increased long-lasting effect compared to native oxyntomodulin. Examples of the long
       lasting conjugate include, but are not limited to, a conjugate in which a oxyntomodulin
       derivative resulting from the modification, substitution, addition or deletion of amino
       acids in the amino acid sequence of native oxyntomodulin is linked to a biodegradable
       polymer such as polyethylene glycol (PEG), a conjugate in which a protein having
       excellent long-lasting properties, such as albumin or immunoglobulin, is linked to
       oxyntomodulin, a conjugate in which a fatty acid having ability to bind to albumin in
       vivo is linked to oxyntomodulin, or a conjugate in which oxyntomodulin is en
       capsulated in biodegradable nanoparticles.
[174]    As used herein, the term "non-peptidyl polymer" refers to a biocompatible polymer
       including two or more repeating units linked to each other by any covalent bond in
       place of a peptide bond. In the present invention, the non-peptidyl polymer may be
       used interchangeably with the non-peptidyl linker.
[175]    A peptide linker that is used in a fusion protein obtained by a conventional inframe
       fusion method has drawbacks in that it is easily cleaved by proteinase in vivo, and thus
       the desired effect of increasing the serum half-life of the active drug by a carrier cannot
       be obtained. However, in the present invention, the polymer having resistance to
       proteinase can be used to maintain the serum half-life of the peptide, similar to the
       carrier. Therefore, any non-peptidyl polymer can be used without limitation in the
       present invention, as long as it is a polymer having the aforementioned function, that
       is, a polymer having resistance to proteinase invivo. The non-peptidyl polymer has a
       molecular weight in the range of 1 to 100 kDa, and preferably 1 to 20 kDa. The non
       peptidyl polymer of the present invention, which is linked to the immunoglobulin Fe
       region, may be one kind of polymer or a combination of different polymers.
[176]    The non-peptidyl polymer that is used in the present invention may have a reactive
       group capable of binding to the immunoglobulin Fe region and the protein drug. The
       reactive group at both ends of the non-peptidyl polymer is preferably selected from the
       group consisting of a reactive aldehyde group, a propionaldehyde group, a bu
       tyraldehyde group, a maleimide group and a succinimide derivative.
[177]    The succinimide derivative may be succinimidyl propionate, hydroxy succinimidyl,
       succinimidyl carboxymethyl, or succinimidyl carbonate. In particular, when the non-

   WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
       peptidyl polymer has a reactive aldehyde group at both ends thereof, non-specific
       reactions can be minimized, and a physiologically active polypeptide and an im
       munoglobulin can be effectively bound to both ends of the non-peptidyl polymer, re
       spectively. A final product generated by reductive alkylation with an aldehyde bond is
       much more stable than that linked by an amide bond. The aldehyde reactive group se
       lectively binds to an N-terminus at a low pH and can form a covalent bond with a
       lysine residue at a high pH such as pH 9.0.
[178]    The reactive groups at both ends of the non-peptidyl polymer may be the same or
       different. For example, the non-peptidyl polymer may possess a maleimide group at
       one end, and an aldehyde group, a propionaldehyde group or a butyraldehyde group at
       the other end. When a polyethylene glycol having a reactive hydroxy group at both
       ends thereof is used as the non-peptidyl polymer, the hydroxy group may be activated
       to various reactive groups by known chemical reactions, or a polyethylene glycol
       having a commercially available modified reactive group may be used so as to prepare
       the long-acting conjugate of the present invention.
[179]    The conjugate of the present invention may be one in which each end of the non
       peptidyl polymer is linked to the immunoglobulin Fc region and the amine or thiol
       group of the oxyntomodulin derivative, respectively.
[180]    Meanwhile, in the present invention, both ends of the non-peptidyl polymer include
       reactive groups to which an immunoglobulin Fc region and a protein drug can bind.
       Examples of the reactive groups include, but are not limited to, an aldehyde group, a
       propionaldehyde group or a butyraldehyde group, a maleimide group, a succinimide
       derivative (succinimidyl propionate, hydroxyl succinimidyl, succinimidyl car
       boxymethyl or succinimidyl carbonate) and the like.
[181]    The reactive groups at both ends of the linker that is the non-peptidyl polymer may
       be the same or different. For example, the non-peptidyl polymer may have a maleimide
       group at one end and an aldehyde group, a propionaldehyde group or a butyraldehyde
       group at the other end. For example, when the non-peptidyl polymer has a reactive
       aldehyde group at one end and a reactive maleimide group at the other end, non
       specific reactions can be minimized, and a physiologically active polypeptide and an
       immunoglobulin can be effectively bound to both ends of the non-peptidyl polymer.
       The non-peptidyl polymer that may be used in the present invention may be selected
       from the group consisting of polyethylene glycol, polypropylene glycol, an ethylene
       glycol/propylene glycol copolymer, polyoxyethylated polyol, polyvinyl alcohol,
       polysaccharides, dextran, polyvinyl ethyl ether, biodegradable polymers such as PLA
       (poly(lactic acid)) and PLGA (polylactic-glycolic acid), lipid polymers, chitins,
       hyaluronic acid, and combinations thereof. Preferably, the non-peptidyl polymer is
       polyethylene glycol. In addition, derivatives thereof known in the art and derivatives

   WO 2014/073842                                                          PCT/KR2013/009986
       that may be easily prepared by a method known in the art are included in scope of the
       present invention.
[182]    In an example of the present invention, a conjugate was synthesized by linking oxyn
       tomodulin or its derivative to the immunoglobulin Fc region via a covalent bond using
       the non-peptidyl polymer PEG including a propionaldehyde group alone or both a
       maleimide group and an aldehyde group.
[183]    The conjugate of the present invention has excellent GLP- 1 receptor and glucagon
       receptor activities compared to native oxyntomodulin. Also, it has bound thereto an Fc
       region that increase the in vivo blood half-life thereof to maintain the activity thereof in
       vivo for an extended period of time.
[184]    As used herein, term "preservative" refers to a substance that is used to prevent
       abnormal reactions or decomposition from being caused by microbial contamination.
       The liquid formulation of the present invention may further comprise a preservative. A
       preservative is generally used in multiple-dosage formulations that are most likely con
       taminated with microorganisms, but is not limited thereto and may also be used in
       lyophilized formulations or single-dosage formulations to prevent microbial con
       tamination. The liquid formulation of the present invention may comprise one or more
       preservatives selected from m-cresol, phenol and benzyl alcohol. The concentration of
       the preservative in the liquid formulation may be 0.001-1% (w/v). Particularly, the
       preservative that is included in the liquid formulation of the present invention is
       preferably m-cresol. The liquid formulation of the present invention may be a multiple
       dosage formulation.
[185]    In another aspect, the present invention provides a method for preparing a liquid for
       mulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate.
[186]    Specifically, in one embodiment of the present invention, the method for preparing
       the liquid formulation may comprise the steps of: a) preparing a long-lasting oxyn
       tomodulin conjugate; and b) mixing the prepared long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate with a stabilizer containing a buffer, a sugar alcohol and a non-ionic
       surfactant.
[187]    In another embodiment of the present invention, the method for preparing the liquid
       formulation may comprise the steps of: a) preparing a long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate; and b) mixing the prepared long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate with a
       stabilizer, which contains a buffer, a sugar alcohol and a non-ionic surfactant, and a
       preservative.
[188]    Preferably, the stabilizer in step b) may further comprise one or more selected from
       the group consisting of isotonic agents, sugars, polyhydric alcohols and amino acids.
[189]    In still another aspect, the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition
       for preventing or treating obesity or diabetes, comprising the above liquid formulation.

   WO 2014/073842                                                           PCT/KR2013/009986
[190]    As used herein, the term "preventing" refers to all actions that inhibit or delay the de
       velopment of a target disease. As used herein, the term "preventing" means admin
       istering the conjugate of the present invention to inhibit or delay the development of
       diabetic conditions, such as abnormal blood glucose levels or abnormal insulation
       secretion, or obesity conditions such as an increase in body weight or body fat
[191]    As used herein, the term "treating" refers to all actions that alleviate, ameliorate or
       relieve the symptoms of the disease developed. As used herein, the term "treating"
       means administering the conjugate of the present invention to alleviate, ameliorate or
       relieve the above diabetic conditions or obesity conditions to normalize blood glucose
       levels and insulin secretion and reduce body weight or body fat.
[192]    As used herein, the term "obesity" refers to an excessive amount of body fat. A body
       mass index (= weight (kg) divided by height (m)) of 25 or more is defined as obesity.
       Obesity generally results from an energy imbalance in which energy intake exceeds
       energy expenditure. Obesity is a metabolic disease that affects the entire body and
       highly likely to lead to diabetes and hyperlipidemia. In addition, obesity is related to
       sexual dysfunction, arthritis, and an increased risk of the development of cardio
       vascular diseases, and is also related to the development of cancer in some cases.
[193]    As used herein the term "diabetes" is a kind of metabolic disease in which insulin
       secretion is insufficient or normal functions are not made. Diabetes is characterized by
       increased blood glucose levels and causes various health problems. In the case of
       diabetes, glucose is excreted with urine.
[194]    The pharmaceutical composition of the present invention may further comprise a
       pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, excipient or diluent. As used herein, the term
       "pharmaceutically acceptable" means an amount that is sufficient to exhibit therapeutic
       effects and causes no side effects. The dose of the active ingredient of the pharma
       ceutical composition of the present invention may be readily determined by those
       skilled in the art depending on the type of disease, the patient's age, weight, health
       condition, sex, and drug sensitivity, the route of administration, the mode of admin
       istration, the frequency of administration, the duration of treatment, drugs used in com
       bination or coincident with the composition of this invention, and other factors known
       in the medical field.
[195]    In still another aspect, the present invention provides a method for preventing or
       treating obesity or diabetes, comprising administering the liquid formulation to a
       subject.
[196]    Herein, the liquid formulation, obesity and diabetes are as described above.
[197]    As used herein, the term "subject" refers to a subject suspected of having obesity or
       diabetes. Specifically, the term means mammals, including humans, rats and domestic
       animals, which have or are at the risk of developing the above disease. In addition, the

   WO 2014/073842                                                          PCT/KR2013/009986
       subject may be any subject that can be treated by the liquid formulation derivative of
       the present invention.
[198]    The therapeutic method of the present invention may comprise administering a phar
       maceutically effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition comprising the
       liquid formulation. The total daily dose of the composition can be determined through
       appropriate medical judgment by a physician, and the composition may be ad
       ministered once or several times. However, in view of the purpose of the present
       invention, the specific therapeutically effective dose of the composition for any
       particular patient may vary depending on various factors well known in the medical
       field, including the kind and degree of response to be achieved, concrete compositions
       according to whether other agents are used therewith or not, the patient's age, body
       weight, health condition, sex and diet, the time and route of administration, the
       secretion rate of the composition, the duration of treatment, other drugs used in com
       bination or coincident with the composition of the present invention, and other factors
       known in the medical field.
       Advantageous Effects of Invention
[199]    The inventive liquid formulation comprising the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate comprises a buffer, a sugar alcohol and a nonionic surfactant and does not
       contain a human serum albumin and factors that are potentially harmful to the human
       body, and thus is not susceptible to viral infection. In addition, the oxyntomodulin
       conjugate of the present invention comprises oxyntomodulin linked to an im
       munoglobulin Fc region, and thus has a great molecular weight, prolonged physi
       ological activity, and excellent storage stability, compared to native oxyntomodulin.
       Brief Description of Drawings
[200]    FIG. la is a graph showing the results obtained by purifying a mono-PEGylated
       oxyntomodulin derivative (SEQ ID NO: 25) through a SOURCE S purification
       column.
[201]    FIG. lb is a graph showing the results obtained by purifying a conjugate of a mono
       PEGylated oxyntomodulin derivative (SEQ ID NO: 25) and an immunoglobulin Fc
       through a SOURCE 15Q purification column.
[202]    FIG. Ic is a graph showing the results obtained by purifying a conjugate of a mono
       PEGylated oxyntomodulin derivative (SEQ ID NO: 25) and an immunoglobulin Fc
       through a SOURCE ISO purification column.
[203]    FIG. 2a is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to pH by IE-HPLC in Example 3
       after 0-2 weeks of storage at 25 'C. Each graph in FIG. 2a shows the percent retention
       of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start value.

   WO 2014/073842                                                        PCT/KR2013/009986
[204]    FIG. 2b is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to pH by SE-HPLC in Example 3
       after 0-2 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each graph in FIG. 2b shows the percent retention
       rate of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start value.
[205]    FIG. 2c is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to pH by RP-HPLC in Example 3
       after 0-2 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each graph in FIG. 2c shows the percent retention
       of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start value.
[206]    FIG. 3a is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to the kind of sugar alcohol and
       the presence or absence of an isotonic agent by IE-HPLC in Example 4 after 0-4 weeks
       of storage at 25 C. Each graph in FIG. 3a shows the percent retention of the long
       lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start value.
[207]    FIG. 3b is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to the kind of sugar alcohol and
       the presence or absence of an isotonic agent by SE-HPLC in Example 4 after 0-4
       weeks of storage at 25 C. Each graph in FIG. 3b shows the percent retention of the
       long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start value.
[208]    FIG. 3c is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to the kind of sugar alcohol and
       the presence or absence of an isotonic agent by RP-HPLC in Example 4 after 0-4
       weeks of storage at 25 C. Each graph in FIG. 3c shows the percent retention of the
       long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start value.
[209]    FIG. 4a is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to the concentration of sugar
       alcohol by IE-HPLC in Example 5 after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each graph in
       FIG. 4a shows the percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       relative to the start value.
[210]    FIG. 4b is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to the concentration of sugar
       alcohol by SE-HPLC in Example 5 after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each graph in
       FIG. 4b shows the percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       relative to the start value.
[211]    FIG. 4c is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to concentration of sugar alcohol
       by RP-HPLC in Example 5 after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each graph in FIG. 4c
       shows the percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the
       start value.

   WO 2014/073842                                                        PCT/KR2013/009986
[212]    FIG. 5a is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to the concentration of a
       surfactant and the presence or absence of an amino acid by IE-HPLC in Example 6
       after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each graph in FIG. 5a shows the percent retention
       of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start value.
[213]    FIG. 5b is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to the concentration of a
       surfactant and the presence or absence of an amino acid by SE-HPLC in Example 6
       after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each graph in FIG. 5b shows the percent retention
       of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start value.
[214]    FIG. 5c is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to the concentration of a
       surfactant and the presence or absence of an amino acid by RP-HPLC in Example 6
       after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each graph in FIG. 5c shows the percent retention
       of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start value.
[215]    FIG. 6a is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to pH and the concentration of
       sugar alcohol by IE-HPLC in Example 7 after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each
       graph in FIG. 6a shows the percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate relative to the start value.
[216]    FIG. 6b is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to pH and the concentration of
       sugar alcohol by SE-HPLC in Example 7 after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each
       graph in FIG. 6b shows the percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate relative to the start value.
[217]    FIG. 6c is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to pH and the concentration of
       sugar alcohol by RP-HPLC in Example 7 after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each
       graph in FIG. 6c shows the percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate relative to the start value.
[218]    FIG. 7a is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to pH and the kind of buffer
       alcohol by IE-HPLC in Example 8 after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each graph in
       FIG. 7a shows the percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       relative to the start value.
[219]    FIG. 7b is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to pH and the kind of buffer
       alcohol by SE-HPLC in Example 8 after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 C. Each graph in

   WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
       FIG. 7b shows the percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       relative to the start value.
[220]    FIG. 7c is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to pH and the kind of buffer
       alcohol by RP-HPLC in Example 8 after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 'C. Each graph in
       FIG. 7c shows the percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       relative to the start value.
[221]    FIG. 8a is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to the presence or absence of a
       preservative and the concentration of long-lasting oxyntomodulin by IE-HPLC in
       Example 9 after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 'C. Each graph in FIG. 8a shows the
       percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start
       value.
[222]    FIG. 8b is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to the presence or absence of a
       preservative and the concentration of long-lasting oxyntomodulin by SE-HPLC in
       Example 9 after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 'C. Each graph in FIG. 8b shows the
       percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start
       value.
[223]    FIG. 8c is a graphic diagram showing the results obtained by evaluating the stability
       of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate according to the presence or absence of a
       preservative and the concentration of long-lasting oxyntomodulin by RP-HPLC in
       Example 9 after 0-4 weeks of storage at 25 'C. Each graph in FIG. 8c shows the
       percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start
       value.
       Mode for the Invention
[224]    Hereinafter, the present invention will be described in further detail with reference to
       examples. It is to be understood, however, that these examples are for illustrative
       purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.
[225]
[226]    Example 1: Synthesis of oxyntomodulin and oxvntomodulin derivatives
[227]    In order to measure the stabilities of oxyntomodulin and oxyntomodulin derivatives
       in the liquid formulation of the present invention, oxyntomodulin derivatives having
       the amino acid sequences shown in Table 1 below were synthesized.
[228]    Table 1

WO 2014/073842                                     PCT/KR2013/009986
    [Table 1]
    Oxyntornodulin and oxyntornodulin derivatives
     SEQ ID NO       Sequence
     SEQ ID NO: 1    HSQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIA
     SEQ ID NO: 2    CA-SQGTFTSDYSKYLDEEAVRLFIEWLMNTKRNRNNIA
     SEQ ID NO: 3    CA-SQGTFTSDYSKYLDERRAQDFVAWLKNTGPSSGAPPPS
     SEQ ID NO: 4    CA-GQGTFTSDYSRYLEEEAVRLFIEWLKNGGPSSGAPPPS
     SEQ ID NO: 5    CA-GQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWLKNGGPSSGAPPPS
     SEQ ID NO: 6    CA-GEGTFTSDLSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWAAHSQGTFTSDYSK
                     YLD
     SEQ ID NO: 7    CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVRLFIEWLMNTK
     SEQ ID NO: 8    CA-SQGTFTSDLSRQLEEEAVRLFIEWLMNK
     SEQ ID NO: 9    CA-GQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVXLFIEWLMNTKRNRNNIA
     SEQ ID NO: 10   CA-SQGTFTSDYSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWLMNGGPSSGAPPPSK
     SEQ ID NO: 11   CA-GEGTFTSDLSRQMEEEAVRLFIEWAAHSQGTFTSDYSRY
                     LDK
     SEQ ID NO: 12   CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDGGGHGEGTFTSDLSKQMEEEAVK
     SEQ ID NO: 13   CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDXEAVXLFIEWLMNTK
     SEQ ID NO: 14   CA-GQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVXLFIXWLMNTKRNRNNIA
     SEQ ID NO: 15   CA-GQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVRLFIXWLMNTKRNRNNIA
     SEQ ID NO: 16   CA-SQGTFTSDLSRQLEGGGHSQGTFTSDLSRQLEK
     SEQ ID NO: 17   CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVRLFIEWIRNTKRNRNNIA
     SEQ ID NO: 18   CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVRLFIEWIRNGGPSSGAPPPSK
     SEQ ID NO: 19   CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVKLFIEWIRNTKRNRNNIA
     SEQ ID NO: 20   CA-SQGTFTSDYSRYLDEEAVKLFIEWIRNGGPSSGAPPPSK
     SEQ ID NO: 21   CA-SQGTFTSDYSRQLEEEAVRLFIEWVRNTKRNRNNIA
     SEQ ID NO: 22   DA-SQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTK
     SEQ ID NO: 23   HAibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVCWLMNT
     SEQ ID NO: 24   HAibQGTFTSDY SKYLDEKRAK EFVQWLMNTC
     SEQ ID NO: 25   HAibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC

   WO 2014/073842                                                        PCT/KR2013/009986
        SEQ ID NO: 26       HAibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC
        SEQ ID NO: 27       HAibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEQAAKEFICWLMNT
        SEQ ID NO: 28       HAibQGTFTSDY SKYLDEKRAK EFVQWLMNT
        SEQ ID NO: 29       H(d)SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIA
        SEQ ID NO: 30       CA-SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIA
        SEQ ID NO: 31       CA-(d)SQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNTKRNRNNIA
        SEQ ID NO: 32       CA-AibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC
        SEQ ID NO: 33       HAibQGTFTSDYAKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC
        SEQ ID NO: 34       YAibQGTFTSDYSKYLDEKRAKEFVQWLMNTC
[229]    In Table a above, the amino acid residues indicated by bold letters mean amino acids
       that form rings, and the amino acid residues indicated by X mean alpha
       methyl-glutamic acid that is a non-native amino acid. In addition, CA indicates
       4-imidazoacetyl, DA indicates desamino-histidyl, and (d)S indicates d-serine.
[230]
[231]    Example 2: Preparation of conjugate comprising oxyntomodulin derivative
       (SEO ID NO: 25) and immunoglobulin Fc (oxyntomodulin derivative (SEO ID
       NO: 25) linked to immunoglobulin Fc region)
[232]    First, in order to PEGylate MAL-OK-ALD PEG at a cysteine residue at amino acid
       position 30 of an oxyntomodulin derivative (SEQ ID NO: 25), the oxyntomodulin
       derivative (SEQ ID NO: 25) and MAL- OK-ALD PEG were allowed to react with
       each other at a molar ratio of 1:3 and a protein concentration of 3 mg/m2 at room tem
       perature for 3 hours. Herein, the reaction was performed in 50 mM Tris buffer (pH 8.0)
       in the presence of IM guanidine. After completion of the reaction, the reaction solution
       was applied to a SOURCE S column to purify an oxyntomodulin derivative mono
       PEGylated at the cysteine (column: SOURCE S, flow rate: 2.0 m2/min, gradient: A 0
       ->100% 50 min B (A: 20 mM Na-citrate, pH 3.0 + 45% ethanol, B: A + IM KCl))
       (FIG. la). FIG. la is a graph showing the results obtained by purifying the mono
       PEGylated oxyntomodulin derivative (SEQ ID NO: 25) through the SOURCE S pu
       rification column.
[233]    Then, the purified mono-PEGylated oxyntomodulin derivative (SEQ ID NO: 25) and
       an immunoglobulin Fc were reacted with each other at a molar ratio of 1:5 and a
       protein concentration of 20 mg/m2 at 4 'C for 16 hours. The reaction was performed in
        100mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.0) in the presence of 20 mM SCB as a
       reducing agent. After completion of the reaction, the reaction was applied to a

   WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
       SOURCE 15Q purification column (column: SOURCE 15Q, flow rate: 2.0m2/min,
       gradient: A 0 -> 4% 1 min B -> 20% 80 min B (A: 20mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, B: A +
        IM NaCl)) (FIG. 1b) and a source ISO purification column (column: SOURCE ISO,
       flow rate: 2.0 m2/min, gradient: B 0 -> 100% 100 min A (A: 20mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5,
       B: A + 1. 1M AS)) (FIG. Ic) to purify a conjugate comprising the oxyntomodulin
       derivative (SEQ ID NO: 25) and the immunoglobulin Fc. FIG. lb is a graph showing
       the results obtained by purifying the conjugate, comprising the oxyntomodulin
       derivative (SEQ ID NO: 25) and the immunoglobulin Fc, through the SOURCE 15Q
       purification column, and FIG. ic is a graph showing the results obtained by purifying
       the conjugate, comprising the oxyntomodulin derivative (SEQ ID NO: 25) and the im
       munoglobulin Fc, through the Source ISO purification column.
[234]    The oxyntomodulin conjugate prepared as described above was developed to
       increase the blood half-life of oxyntomodulin. It comprises the immunoglobulin Fc
       region, the non-peptidyl polymer and the oxyntomodulin, linked covalently to each
       other in a site-specific manner, and has a significantly increased blood half-life.
[235]
[236]    Example 3: Evaluation of stability of long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       according to pH
[237]    In order to evaluate the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       (prepared in Example 2) in liquid formulations, the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate was stored in the compositions shown in Table 2 at 25 'C for 0-2 weeks, and
       then was analyzed by ion exchange-high performance liquid chromatography
       (IE-HPLC), size exclusion-high performance liquid chromatography (SE-HPLC) and
       reverse phase-high performance liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC). For storage of the
       oxyntomodulin conjugate, citrate buffer as buffer, mannitol as sugar alcohol, and
       polysorbate 20 as a nonionic surfactant were used. In Tables 3, 4 and 5 below, IE
       HPLC (%), SE-HPLC (%) and RP-HPLC (%) indicate area%/start area%, which
       indicates the percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to
       the start value. Table 3 shows the IE-HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate after storage, Table 4 shows the SE-HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting oxyn
       tomodulin conjugate after storage, and Table 5 shows the RP-HPLC area(%) of the
       long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage.
[238]    Table 2

   WO 2014/073842                                                   PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 2]
            pH    Buffer     Isotonic Sugar        Surfactant     Others     Long-lastin
                             agent      alcohol                              g oxyn
                                                                             tomodulin
       #1 4.8     20mMNa- -             10%        0.005%Polysor 0.1mg/mL     10mg/mL
                  Citrate               Mannitol   bate 20        Methionin
                                                                  e
       #2 5.2     20mMNa- -             10%        0.005%Polysor 0.1mg/mL     10mg/mL
                  Citrate               Mannitol   bate 20        Methionin
                                                                  e
       #3 5.6     20mMNa- -             10%        0.005%Polysor 0.1mg/mL     10mg/mL
                  Citrate               Mannitol   bate 20        Methionin
                                                                  e
       #4 6.0     20mMNa- -             10%        0.005%Polysor 0.1mg/mL     10mg/mL
                  Citrate               Mannitol   bate 20        Methionin
                                                                  e
       #5 6.4     20mMNa- -             10%        0.005%Polysor 0.1mg/mL     1Omg/mL
                  Citrate               Mannitol   bate 20        Methionin
                                                                  e
[239]    Table 3
       [Table 3]
                       IE-HPLC (%)
                       #1            #2          #3           #4            #5
        0 week         100.0         100.0       100.0        100.0         100.0
        2 weeks        97.6          97.2        96.8         94.0          85.2
[240]    Table 4
       [Table 4]
                       SE-HPLC (%)
                       #1            #2          #3           #4            #5
        0 week         100.0         100.0       100.0        100.0         100.0
        2 weeks        99.7          99.8        99.8         99.3          99.4
[241]    Table 5

   WO 2014/073842                                                        PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 5]
                       RP-HPLC (%)
                       #1             #2            #3            #4             #5
        0 week         100.0          100.0         100.0          100.0          100.0
        2 weeks        83.0           84.4          86.7          65.5           74.0
[242]    As can be seen from the results of IE-HPLC (%) in Table 3 above, the oxyn
       tomodulin conjugate was more stable at lower pH. In the results of SE-HPLC in Table
       4, the oxyntomodulin conjugate was most stable at a pH of 5.2, and in the results of
       RP-HPLC in Table 5, the oxyntomodulin conjugate was most stable at a pH of 5.6.
       Although the stability at pH did differ between the analysis methods, the difference in
       retention between pHs was the greatest in the RP-HPLC analysis method. This
       suggests that the oxyntomodulin conjugate was most stable at a pH of 5.6.
[243]
[244]    Example 4: Evaluation of stability of long - lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       according to the kind of sugar alcohol and the presence or absence of isotonic
       agent
[245]    The present inventors tested the influences of the kind of sugar alcohol as a stabilizer
       and the presence or absence of sodium chloride as an isotonic agent on the stability of
       the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate. Specifically, using the citrate buffer (pH
       5.6) selected in Example 3, the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was stored in the
       compositions shown in Table 6 below at 25 'C for 0-4 weeks, and then was analyzed
       by IE-HPLC, SE-HPLC and RP-HPLC. In Tables 7, 8 and 9 below, IE-HPLC (%), SE
       HPLC (%) and RP-HPLC (%) indicate area%/start area%, which indicates the percent
       retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start value. Table
       7 shows the IE-HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate after
       storage, Table 8 shows the SE-HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate after storage, and Table 9 shows the RP-HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting
       oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage.
[246]    Table 6

   WO 2014/073842                                             PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 6]
            pH    Buffer      Isotonic Sugar    Surfactant     Others     Long-last
                              agent    alcohol                            ing oxyn
                                                                          tomoduli
                                                                          n
       #1 5.6     20mMNa-C -           10%      0.005%Polysorb -          10mg/miL
                  itrate               Mannitol ate 20
       #2 5.6     20mMNa-C -           10%      0.005%Polysorb -          10mg/miL
                  itrate               Sorbitol ate 20
       #3 5.6     20mMNa-C -           10%      0.005%Polysorb -          10mg/miL
                  itrate               Glycerol ate 20
       #4 5.6     20mMNa-C 150mMN 10%           0.005%Polysorb -          10mg/miL
                  itrate      aCl      Mannitol ate 20
[247]    Table 7
       [Table 7]
                         IE-HPLC (%)
                         #1             #2           #3            #4
        0 week           100.0          100.0        100.0         100.0
        1 week           98.8           98.8         88.3          98.3
        2 weeks          97.2           96.9         79.0          95.0
        3 weeks          94.4           94.5         63.0          93.8
        4 weeks          91.6           91.8         55.8          91.6
[248]    Table 8
       [Table 8]
                         SE-HPLC (%)
                         #1             #2           #3            #4
        0 week           100.0          100.0        100.0         100.0
        1 week           99.9           100.0        92.0          100.0
        2 weeks          99.7           99.8         84.7          99.9
        3 weeks          99.2           99.4         79.2          99.5
        4 weeks          98.4           98.6         76.0          98.8
[249]    Table 9

   WO 2014/073842                                                             PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 9]
                          RP-HPLC (%)
                          #1                 #2                 #3                  #4
        0 week             100.0              100.0              100.0              100.0
        1 week            98.9               98.7                90.0               98.4
        2 weeks           96.0               95.6                80.6               95.0
        3 weeks           94.0               93.6                75.2               92.9
        4 weeks           92.6               91.1                70.0               90.1
[250]    As can be seen in Tables 6 to 9 above, the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was
       more stable in mannitol or sorbitol than in glycerol at the same concentration. The
       results of RP-HPLC indicated that the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was a
       little stable in mannitol than in sorbitol. In addition, the stability of the long-lasting
       oxyntomodulin conjugate did not significantly differ between the presence and absence
       of sodium chloride as an isotonic agent.
[251]
[252]    Example 5: Evaluation of stability of long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       according to concentration of sugar alcohol
[253]    The present inventors tested the influence of the concentration of sugar alcohol as a
       stabilizer on the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate. Specifically,
       using the citrate buffer (pH 5.6 and mannitol selected in the above Examples, the long
       lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was stored in the compositions shown in Table 10
       below at 25 'C for 0-4 weeks, and then was analyzed by IE-HPLC, SE-HPLC and RP
       HPLC. In Tables 11, 12 and 13 below, IE-HPLC (%), SE-HPLC (%) and RP-HPLC
       (%) indicate area%/start area%, which indicates the percent retention of the long
       lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start value. Table 11 shows the IE
       HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage, Table 12
       shows the SE-HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate after
       storage, and Table 13 shows the RP-HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate after storage.
[254]    Table 10

   WO 2014/073842                                             PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 10]
            pH    Buffer      Isotonic Sugar    Surfactant     Others Long-lasting
                              agent    alcohol                          oxyntomodu
                                                                        lin
       #1 5.6     20mMNa-C -           2%       0.005%Polysorb -        l0mg/mL
                  itrate               Mannitol ate 20
       #2 5.6     20mMNa-C -           5%       0.005%Polysorb -        l0mg/mL
                  itrate               Mannitol ate 20
       #3 5.6     20mMNa-C -           10%      0.005%Polysorb -        l0mg/mL
                  itrate               Mannitol ate 20
       #4 5.6     20mMNa-C -           15%      0.005%Polysorb -        l0mg/mL
                  itrate               Mannitol ate 20
[255]    Table 11
       [Table 11]
                         IE-HPLC (%)
                         #1             #2           #3            #4
        0 week           100.0          100.0        100.0         100.0
        1 week           79.7           98.7         98.8          79.0
        2 weeks          57.6           97.6         97.9          61.0
        3 weeks          39.8           97.1         97.2          49.2
        4 weeks          34.9           95.5         95.5          43.4
[256]    Table 12
       [Table 12]
                         SE-HPLC (%)
                         #1             #2           #3            #4
        0 week           100.0          100.0        100.0         100.0
        1 week           97.3           99.4         100.0         99.5
        2 weeks          89.0           99.4         99.8          95.4
        3 weeks          79.4           99.3         99.4          90.5
        4 weeks          74.7           98.4         99.1          83.5
[257]    Table 13

   WO 2014/073842                                                        PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 13]
                          RP-HPLC (%)
                          #1                 #2               #3               #4
        0 week            100.0               100.0           100.0            100.0
        1 week            89.8               93.2             98.2             95.2
        2 weeks           80.3                85.3            94.7             90.9
        3 weeks           71.9               78.5             91.1             84.1
        4 weeks           66.0               71.0             89.1             76.5
[258]    As can be seen in Tables 10 to 13, the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was
       stable in the presence of 5% mannitol or 10% mannitol. However, a protein precipitate
       was formed in the presence of 2% mannitol or 15% mannitol. The results of IE-HPLC
       or SE-HPLC indicated that the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       was similar between 10% mannitol and 5% mannitol. The results of RP-HPLC
       indicated that the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was more
       stable in 10% mannitol than in 5% mannitol.
[259]
[260]    Example 6: Evaluation of stability of long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       according to the concentration of surfactant and the presence or absence of amino
       acid
[261]    The present inventors tested the influences of the concentration of a surfactant as a
       stabilizer and the presence or absence of an amino acid on the stability of the long
       lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate. Using the citrate buffer (pH 5.6) and citrate buffer
       and 10% mannitol selected in the above Examples, the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate was stored in the compositions shown in Table 14 below at 25 'C for 0-4
       weeks, and then was analyzed by IE-HPLC, SE-HPLC and RP-HPLC. In Tables 15, 16
       and 17 below, IE-HPLC (%), SE-HPLC (%) and RP-HPLC (%) indicate area%/start
       area%, which indicates the percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate relative to the start value. Table 15 shows the IE-HPLC area(%) of the long
       lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage, Table 16 shows the SE-HPLC area(%)
       of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage, and Table 17 shows the RP
       HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage.
[262]    Table 14

   WO 2014/073842                                                PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 14]
            pH    Buffer       Isotonic Sugar    Surfactant    Others      Long-lastin
                               agent    alcohol                            g oxyn
                                                                           tomodulin
       #1 5.6     20mMNa-      -        10%      0.005%Polysor -           10mg/mL
                  Citrate               Mannitol bate 20
       #2 5.6     20mMNa-      -        10%      0.02%Polysorb -           10mg/mL
                  Citrate               Mannitol ate 20
       #3 5.6     20mMNa-      -        10%      0.05%Polysorb -           10mg/mL
                  Citrate               Mannitol ate 20
       #4 5.6     20mMNa-      -        10%      0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml 10mg/mL
                  Citrate               Mannitol ate 20        Methioni
                                                               ne
[263]    Table 15
       [Table 15]
                          IE-HPLC (%)
                          #1              #2            #3            #4
        0 week            100.0            100.0        100.0         100.0
        1 week            96.0            96.5          96.4          96.2
        2 weeks           95.1            94.7          95.1          95.3
        3 weeks           92.7            92.0          92.2          92.7
        4 weeks           89.7             89.1         89.2          89.7
[264]    Table 16
       [Table 16]
                          SE-HPLC (%)
                          #1              #2            #3            #4
        0 week            100.0            100.0        100.0         100.0
        1 week            99.4            99.7          99.7          99.6
        2 weeks           99.3            99.5          99.2          99.3
        3 weeks           98.3            98.1          98.3          99.1
        4 weeks           97.3            97.1          97.3          97.9
[265]    Table 17

   WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 17]
                          RP-HPLC (%)
                          #1                 #2                 #3             #4
        0 week            100.0               100.0             100.0           100.0
        1 week            97.3               97.8               98.1           97.4
        2 weeks           79.2               79.2               77.5           79.7
        3 weeks           71.5               71.6               69.5           73.3
        4 weeks           65.1               65.0               65.0           67.8
[266]    As can be seen from the results in Tables 14 to 17, the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate was most stable in the composition containing 0.02% polysorbate 20 and 0.1
       mg/mL methionine.
[267]
[268]    Example 7: Evaluation of stability of long - lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       according to UH and the concentration of sugar alcohol
[269]    The present inventors tested the influences of pH and the concentration of sugar
       alcohol as a stabilizer on the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate.
       Specifically, using the 0.02% polysorbate 20 and 0.1 mg/mL methionine selected in
       the above Examples, the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was stored in the com
       positions shown in Table 18 below at 25 'C for 0-4 weeks, and then was analyzed by
       IE-HPLC, SE-HPLC and RP-HPLC. In Tables 19, 20 and 21 below, IE-HPLC (%),
       SE-HPLC (%) and RP-HPLC (%) indicate area%/start area%, which indicates the
       percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start
       value. Table 19 shows the IE-HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate after storage, Table 20 shows the SE-HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting
       oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage, and Table 21 shows the RP-HPLC area(%) of
       the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage.
[270]    Table 18

   WO 2014/073842                                          PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 18]
            pH    Buffer  Isotonic Sugar    Surfactant    Others    Long-lastin
                          agent    alcohol                          g oxyn
                                                                    tomodulin
       #1 5.2     20mMNa- -        5%       0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml 10mg/mL
                  Citrate          Mannitol ate 20        Methioni
                                                          ne
       #2 5.2     20mMNa- -        10%      0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml 10mg/mL
                  Citrate          Mannitol ate 20        Methioni
                                                          ne
       #3 5.2     20mMNa- -        15%      0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml 10mg/mL
                  Citrate          Mannitol ate 20        Methioni
                                                          ne
       #4 5.6     20mMNa- -        5%       0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml 10mg/mL
                  Citrate          Mannitol ate 20        Methioni
                                                          ne
       #5 5.6     20mMNa- -        10%      0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml 10mg/mL
                  Citrate          Mannitol ate 20        Methioni
                                                          ne
       #6 5.6     20mMNa- -        15%      0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml 10mg/mL
                  Citrate          Mannitol ate 20        Methioni
                                                          ne
       #7 6.0     20mMNa- -        5%       0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml 10mg/mL
                  Citrate          Mannitol ate 20        Methioni
                                                          ne
       #8 6.0     20mMNa- -        10%      0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml 10mg/mL
                  Citrate          Mannitol ate 20        Methioni
                                                          ne
       #9 6.0     20mMNa- -        15%      0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml 1Omg/mL
                  Citrate          Mannitol ate 20        Methioni
                                                          ne
[271]    Table 19

   WO 2014/073842                                          PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 19]
                 IE-HPLC (%)
                 #1    #2    #3    #4    #5    #6    #7     #8     #9
        0        100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0  100.0  100.0
        week
        1        99.4  99.6  97.1  97.2  97.6  98.0  90.6   92.9   93.4
        week
        2        97.5  97.8  90.5  93.8  94.1  93.2  81.5   83.6   85.6
        weeks
        3        93.0  93.6  82.6  86.0  86.9  87.1  71.2   74.6   77.0
        weeks
        4        90.0  90.5  71.1  85.0  85.6  85.7  62.7   66.3   68.9
        weeks
[272]     Table 20
       [Table 20]
                 SE-HPLC (%)
                 #1    #2    #3    #4    #5    #6    #7     #8     #9
        0        100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0  100.0  100.0
        week
        1        98.8  99.5  98.8  99.5  99.3  98.5  99.6   100.0  100.7
        week
        2        98.8  99.1  91.1  98.4  97.1  96.9  97.3   98.3   97.9
        weeks
        3        97.7  98.3  96.4  98.1  98.4  98.2  98.1   99.1   100.8
        weeks
        4        98.0  98.5  94.9  97.9  98.3  98.3  97.6   98.2   99.0
        weeks
[273]     Table 21

   WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 21]
                 RP-HPLC (%)
                 #1       #2       #3       #4     #5     #6      #7       #8     #9
        0        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0
        week
        1        78.2     78.2     42.1     88.2   90.7   89.4    99.9     99.1    100.7
        week
        2        60.7     58.6     -        80.4   80.2   80.6    96.8     93.4   92.0
        weeks
        3        47.5     41.9     -        79.4   77.3   69.8    97.6     92.8   93.6
        weeks
        4        34.8     28.0     -        72.8   65.0   62.6    96.9     91.1    88.9
        weeks
[274]     As can be seen from the results in Tables above, the results of IE-HPLC indicated
       that the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was higher in the order
       of pH 5.2, pH 5.6 and pH 6.0. The results of RP-HPLC indicated that the stability of
       the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was higher in the order of pH 6.0, pH 5.6
       and pH 5.2. The results of SE-HPLC indicated that the stability of the long-lasting
       oxyntomodulin conjugate did not significantly differ between pH 5.2, pH 5.6 and pH
       6.0. In other words, the results of IE-HPLC, RP-HPLC and SE-HPLC indicated that
       the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was stable at pH 5.6.
[275]     Meanwhile, the results of IE-HPLC and SE-HPLC indicated that the long-lasting
       oxyntomodulin conjugate did not significantly differ between mannitol concentrations
       at pH 5.6. However, in the results of RP-HPLC, the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate was more stable in 5% mannitol than in 10% or 15% mannitol at pH 5.6.
[276]
[277]     Example 8: Evaluation of stability of long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       according to pH and the kind of buffer
[278]     The present inventors tested the influences of pH and the kind of buffer as a stabilizer
       on the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate. Specifically, using the
       0.02% polysorbate 20, 0.1 mg/mL methionine and 5% mannitol selected in the above
       Examples, the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was stored in the compositions
       shown in Table 22 below at 25 'C for 0-4 weeks, and then was analyzed by IE-HPLC,
       SE-HPLC and RP-HPLC.
[279]     In Tables 23, 24 and 25 below, IE-HPLC (%), SE-HPLC (%) and RP-HPLC (%)

   WO 2014/073842                                                        PCT/KR2013/009986
       indicate area%/start area%, which indicates the percent retention of the long-lasting
       oxyntomodulin conjugate relative to the start value. Table 23 shows the IE-HPLC
       area(%) of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage, Table 24 shows the
       SE-HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage, and
       Table 25 shows the RP-HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       after storage.
[280]    Table 22
       [Table 22]
            pH Buffer         Isotonic  Sugar        Surfactant        Others      Long-lastin
                              agent     alcohol                                    g oxyn
                                                                                   tomodulin
       #1 5.6 20mMNa-C -                5%           0.02%Polysorb     0.1mg/ml    10mg/mL
                 itrate                 Mannitol     ate 20            Methionin
                                                                       e
       #2 5.8 20mMNa-C -                5%           0.02%Polysorb     0.1mg/ml    10mg/mL
                 itrate                 Mannitol     ate 20            Methionin
                                                                       e
       #3 5.8 20mMNa-A -                5%           0.02%Polysorb     0.1mg/ml    10mg/mL
                 cetate                 Mannitol     ate 20            Methionin
                                                                       e
       #4 5.8 l0mMHisti -               5%           0.02%Polysorb     0.1mg/ml    10mg/mL
                 dine                   Mannitol     ate 20            Methionin
                                                                       e
       #5 5.8 lOmMNa-P -                5%           0.02%Polysorb     0.1mg/ml    1Omg/mL
                 hosphate               Mannitol     ate 20            Methionin
                                                                       e
[281]    Table 23

   WO 2014/073842                                                        PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 23]
                      IE-HPLC (%)
                      #1            #2              #3             #4            #5
        0 week        100.0         100.0           100.0          100.0         100.0
        1 week        97.6          96.8            96.5           97.2          96.1
        2 weeks       93.9          91.4            90.6           92.6          89.6
        3 weeks       90.4          88.1            86.9           89.2          84.4
        4 weeks       90.1          87.0            84.8           87.4          81.7
[282]    Table 24
       [Table 24]
                      SE-HPLC (%)
                      #1            #2              #3             #4            #5
        0 week        100.0         100.0           100.0          100.0         100.0
        1 week        99.4          99.8            99.8           99.7          99.7
        2 weeks       100.5         100.2           100.0          100.0         99.3
        3 weeks       100.4         100.2           99.1           99.6          98.2
        4 weeks       100.1         99.2            99.0           98.8          97.7
[283]    Table 25
       [Table 25]
                      RP-HPLC (%)
                      #1            #2              #3             #4            #5
        0 week        100.0         100.0           100.0          100.0         100.0
        1 week        99.1          97.2            99.4           99.5          99.0
        2 weeks       97.6          97.7            99.4           99.8          99.3
        3 weeks       96.1          98.7            97.2           98.9          97.4
        4 weeks       98.0          96.6            97.6           98.3          98.1
[284]    As can be seen from the results in Tables 23 to 25, the results of SE-HPLC or RP
       HPLC indicated that the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate did not
       significantly differ between pH 5.6 and pH 5.8. The results of IE-HPLC indicated that
       the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate was more stable at pH 5.6 than at pH 5.8.
       The results of SE-HPLC showed that the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin

   WO 2014/073842                                                         PCT/KR2013/009986
       conjugate did not significantly differ between the buffers at the same pH. In addition,
       the results of IE-HPLC or RP-HPLC indicated that the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate was most stable in histidine at the same pH.
[285]
[286]    Example 9: Evaluation of influences of the presence or absence of preservative
       and the concentration of long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate on the stability of
       long-lasting oxvntomodulin conjugate
[287]    The present inventors tested the influences of the presence or absence of a
       preservative as a stabilizer and the concentration of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin
       conjugate on the stability of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate. Specifically,
       using histidine buffer (pH 5.6), 0.02% polysorbate 20, 0.1mg/mL methionine and 5%
       mannitol, selected in the above Examples, the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       was stored in the compositions shown in Table 26 below at 25 'C for 0-4 weeks, and
       then was analyzed by IE-HPLC, SE-HPLC and RP-HPLC. In Tables 27, 28 and 29
       below, IE-HPLC (%), SE-HPLC (%) and RP-HPLC (%) indicate area%/start area%,
       which indicates the percent retention of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
       relative to the start value. Table 27 shows the IE-HPLC area(%) of the long-lasting
       oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage, Table 28 shows the SE-HPLC area(%) of the
       long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage, and Table 29 shows the RP-HPLC
       area(%) of the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate after storage.
[288]    Table 26

   WO 2014/073842                                               PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 26]
            pH    Buffer      Isotonic Sugar    Surfactant    Others      Long-lastin
                              agent    alcohol                            g oxyn
                                                                          tomodulin
       #1 5.6     lOmMHisti -          5%       0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml    10mg/mL
                  dine                 Mannitol ate 20        Methionin
                                                              e
       #2 5.6     lOmMHisti -          5%       0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml    10mg/mL
                  dine                 Mannitol ate 20        Methionin
                                                              e0.27%
                                                              m-cresol
       #3 5.6     lOmMHisti -          5%       0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml 40mg/mL
                  dine                 Mannitol ate 20        Methionin
                                                              e
       #4 5.6     l0mMHisti -          5%       0.02%Polysorb 0.1mg/ml 40mg/mL
                  dine                 Mannitol ate 20        Methionin
                                                              e0.27%
                                                              m-cresol
[289]    Table 27
       [Table 27]
                         IE-HPLC (%)
                         #1              #2            #3            #4
        0 week           100.0            100.0        100.0         100.0
        1 week           97.9            98.2          97.7          97.1
        2 weeks          95.3            95.7          95.1          94.3
        3 weeks          93.6            92.9          93.4          91.8
        4 weeks          91.3            90.4          90.2          88.4
[290]    Table 28

   WO 2014/073842                                                           PCT/KR2013/009986
       [Table 28]
                           SE-HPLC (%)
                           #1                #2                 #3                #4
        0 week             100.0             100.0               100.0             100.0
        1 week             99.7              99.6               99.5              99.4
        2 weeks            99.3              99.1               99.0              97.9
        3 weeks            99.1              98.9               98.7              97.0
        4 weeks            98.8              98.0               98.0              95.4
[291]    Table 29
       [Table 29]
                           RP-HPLC (%)
                           #1                #2                 #3                #4
        0 week             100.0             100.0               100.0             100.0
        1 week             100.1             100.0              99.8              99.7
        2 weeks            99.4              99.5               99.2              99.1
        3 weeks            98.3              98.3               98.8              98.5
        4 weeks            98.8              97.9               97.7              97.4
[292]    As can be seen in Tables 26 to 29, the results of IE-HPLC, SE-HPLC or RP-HPLC
       indicated that the stability of long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate did not change
       even in the presence of the preservative and did not differ according to the con
       centration thereof.
[293]    Although the preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described
       for illustrative purposes, those skilled in the art will appreciate that various modi
       fications, additions and substitutions are possible, without departing from the scope
       and spirit of the invention as disclosed in the accompanying claims.
[294]

   WO 2014/073842                                                    PCT/KR2013/009986
                                     Claims
[Claim 1]         A liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate,
                  comprising a pharmacologically active amount of a long-lasting oxyn
                  tomodulin conjugate wherein an oxyntomodulin, which is a physio
                  logically active peptide, is linked to an immunoglobulin Fc region; and
                  an albumin-free stabilizer, wherein the stabilizer contains a buffer, a
                  sugar alcohol and a nonionic surfactant.
[Claim 2]         The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 1, wherein the stabilizer further contains one or
                  more selected from the group consisting of isotonic agents, sugars,
                  polyhydric alcohols and amino acids.
[Claim 3]         The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 1, wherein the oxyntomodulin is a peptide made
                  from pre-glucagon, a precursor of glucagon, and has an amino acid
                  sequence of SEQ ID NO: 1.
[Claim 4]         The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 1, wherein the oxyntomodulin is native oxyn
                  tomodulin or a precursor, derivative, fragment or variant thereof.
[Claim 5]         The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 4, wherein the derivative has any one amino acid
                  sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOS: 2 to 34.
[Claim 6]         The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 1, wherein the immunoglobulin Fc region is an Fc
                  region derived from IgG, IgA, IgD, IgE or IgM.
[Claim 7]         The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 6, wherein each domain of the immunoglobulin Fc
                  region is a hybrid of domains originating from different im
                  munoglobulins selected from the group consisting of IgG, IgA, IgD,
                  IgE and IgM.
[Claim 8]         The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 6, wherein the immunoglobulin Fc region is a dimer
                  or multimer consisting of single-chain immunoglobulins composed of
                  domains of the same origin.
[Claim 9]         The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 6, wherein the immunoglobulin Fc region is an IgG4
                  Fc region.
[Claim 10]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate

   WO 2014/073842                                                     PCT/KR2013/009986
                  according to claim 9, wherein the immunoglobulin Fc region is a
                  human aglycosylated IgG4 Fc region.
[Claim 11]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 1, wherein the conjugate is prepared by using a non
                  peptidyl polymer or recombination technique.
[Claim 12]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 11, wherein the non-peptidyl polymer is selected the
                  group consisting of polypropylene glycol, an ethylene glycol/propylene
                  glycol copolymer, polyoxyethylated polyol, polyvinyl alcohol, polysac
                  charides, dextran, polyvinyl ethyl ether, biodegradable polymers,
                  including polylactic acid (PLA) and polylactic-glycolic acid (PLGA);
                  lipid polymers; chitins; hyaluronic acid; and combinations thereof.
[Claim 13]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 11, wherein the non-peptidyl polymer is
                  polyethylene glycol.
[Claim 14]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 1, wherein the sugar alcohol is one or more selected
                  from the group consisting of mannitol, sorbitol and glycerol.
[Claim 15]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 14, wherein the concentration of the sugar alcohol in
                  the liquid formulation is 2-15% (w/v).
[Claim 16]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 1, wherein the buffer is one or more selected from
                  the group consisting of citrate, acetate, histidine and phosphate buffer.
[Claim 17]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 1, wherein the buffer has a pH ranging from 4.5 to
                  7.0.
[Claim 18]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 2, wherein the isotonic agent is sodium chloride.
[Claim 19]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 1, wherein the nonionic surfactant is polysorbate or
                  poloxamer.
[Claim 20]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 19, wherein the concentration of the nonionic
                  surfactant in the liquid formulation is 0.001-0.1% (w/v).
[Claim 21]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 2, wherein the amino acid is methionine.
[Claim 22]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate

   WO 2014/073842                                                     PCT/KR2013/009986
                  according to claim 1, wherein the stabilizer contains a buffer having a
                  pH ranging from 4.8 to 6.0, one or more sugar alcohols selected from
                  the group consisting of mnnitol and sorbitol, and polysorbate 20.
[Claim 23]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 1, further comprising one or more preservatives
                  selected from the group consisting of m-cresol, phenol and benzyl
                  alcohol.
[Claim 24]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 23, wherein the concentration of the preservative in
                  the liquid formulation is 0.00 1-1% (w/v).
[Claim 25]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 23, wherein the preservative is m-cresol.
[Claim 26]        The liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate
                  according to claim 23, wherein the formulation is for multiple-dosage
                  administration.
[Claim 27]        A liquid formulation of a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate,
                  comprising a pharmacologically effective amount of a long-lasting
                  oxyntomodulin conjugate wherein an oxyntomodulin, which is a physi
                  ologically active peptide, is linked to an immunoglobulin Fc region;
                  5-50 mM histidine; 2-15% (w/v) of mannitol; 0.01-1 mg/mL of me
                  thionine; and 0.001-0.1% (w/v) of polysorbate 20.
[Claim 28]        The liquid formulation of claim 27, further comprising 0.001-1% (w/v)
                  of m-cresol.
[Claim 29]        A method for preparing the liquid formulation of any one of claims 1 to
                  22 and 27, the method comprising the steps of:
                  a) preparing a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate; and
                  b) mixing the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate, prepared in step
                  a), with a stabilizer containing a buffer, a sugar alcohol and a nonionic
                  surfactant.
[Claim 30]        A method for preparing the liquid formulation of any one of claims 23
                  to 26 and 28, the method comprising the steps of:
                  a) preparing a long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate; and
                  b) mixing the long-lasting oxyntomodulin conjugate, prepared in step
                  a), with a stabilizer, which contains a buffer, a sugar alcohol and a
                  nonionic surfactant, and a preservative.
[Claim 31]        The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the stabilizer further contains
                  one or more selected from the group consisting of isotonic agents,
                  sugars, polyhydric alcohols and amino acids.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                             PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <110>      HANMI PHARM. CO. , LTD.
              <120>      Li qui d f or mul at i on of pr ot ei n c onj ugat e c ompr i s i ng t he
                         ox y nt omodul i n and an i mmunogl obul i n f r agment
              <130>      OPA13128PCT
              <150>      10- 2012- 0124725
              <151>      2012- 11- 06
              <160>      49
              <170>      Kopat ent I n 2. 0
<removed-apn>
              <210>      1
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n
              <400>     1
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Ser
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ar g Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                              20                     25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      2
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     2
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                      25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      3
              <211>      39
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     3
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ar g Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Al a Tr p Leu Ly s As n Thr Gl y Pr o Ser
                                                          Page 1

                                                   PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
                             20                         25                        30
              Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser
                        35
              <210>     4
              <211>     39
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>     VARI ANT
<removed-apn>
              <222>     ( 1)
              <223>     Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>      4
              Hi s Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu Gl u Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Ly s As n Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser
                             20                      25                      30
              Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser
                        35
              <210>     5
              <211>     39
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>     VARI ANT
              <222>     ( 1)
              <223>     Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>      5
              Hi s Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Ly s As n Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser
                             20                      25                      30
              Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser
                        35
              <210>     6
              <211>     42
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>     VARI ANT
              <222>     ( 1)
              <223>     Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>      6
              Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                    15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Al a Al a Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr
                             20                      25                      30
                                                               Page 2

                                             PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p
                       35                     40
              <210>      7
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
<removed-apn>
              <400>     7
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s
                             20                      25                    30
              <210>      8
              <211>      29
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     8
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Leu Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                    15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Ly s
                             20                      25
              <210>      9
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 20)
              <223>      Xaa = al pha- met hy l - gl ut ami c ac i d
              <400>      9
              Hi s Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Xaa Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                     25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
                                                                Page 3

                                                    PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>      10
              <211>      40
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
<removed-apn>
              <400>     10
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser
                             20                      25                     30
              Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser Ly s
                        35                      40
              <210>      11
              <211>      43
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>      11
              Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                    15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Al a Al a Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr
                             20                      25                      30
              Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Ly s
                       35                     40
              <210>      12
              <211>      38
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     12
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl y
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl y Gl y Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ly s Gl n Met
                              20                     25                   30
              Gl u Gl u Gl u Al a Val Ly s
                         35
                                                                Page 4

                                                    PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>      13
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
<removed-apn>
              <222>      ( 16)
              <223>      Xaa = al pha- met hy l - gl ut ami c ac i d
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 20)
              <223>      Xaa = al pha- met hy l - gl ut ami c ac i d
              <400>     13
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Xaa
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Xaa Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s
                             20                     25                    30
              <210>      14
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 20)
              <223>      Xaa = al pha- met hy l - gl ut ami c ac i d
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 24)
              <223>      Xaa = al pha- met hy l - gl ut ami c ac i d
              <400>      14
              Hi s Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Xaa Leu Phe I l e Xaa Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                    25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      15
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
                                                                Page 5

                                                     PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <213>       ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>       VARI ANT
              <222>       ( 1)
              <223>       Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <220>
              <221>       VARI ANT
              <222>       ( 24)
              <223>       Xaa = al pha- met hy l - gl ut ami c ac i d
<removed-apn>
              <400>      15
              Hi s Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Xaa Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                     25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>       16
              <211>       34
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>       VARI ANT
              <222>       ( 1)
              <223>       Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     16
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Leu Gl u Gl y
                 1                 5                   10                    15
              Gl y Gl y Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Leu
                              20                    25                   30
              Gl u Ly s
              <210>       17
              <211>       37
              <212>       PRT
              <213>       ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>       VARI ANT
              <222>       ( 1)
              <223>       Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     17
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p I l e Ar g As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                      25                       30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
                                                                 Page 6

                                                    PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>      18
              <211>      40
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     18
<removed-apn>
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p I l e Ar g As n Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser
                             20                      25                        30
              Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser Ly s
                        35                      40
              <210>      19
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     19
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ly s Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p I l e Ar g As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                      25                       30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      20
              <211>      40
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     20
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl u Al a Val Ly s Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p I l e Ar g As n Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser
                             20                      25                        30
              Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser Ly s
                        35                      40
              <210>      21
                                                                Page 7

                                                    PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <400>     21
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Gl n Leu Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
<removed-apn>
              Gl u Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Val Ar g As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                             20                      25                     30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      22
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   des ami no- hi s t i dy l .
              <400>     22
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>      23
              <211>      29
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
              <400>     23
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Cy s Tr p Leu Met As n Thr
                              20                     25
              <210>      24
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
                                                                Page 8

                                                      PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <400>     24
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Cy s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>     25
              <211>     30
              <212>     PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>     ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>     VARI ANT
              <222>     ( 2)
              <223>     Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
              <400>     25
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Cy s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>     26
              <211>     30
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>     VARI ANT
              <222>     ( 2)
              <223>     Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
              <400>     26
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Cy s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>     27
              <211>     29
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>     VARI ANT
              <222>     ( 2)
              <223>     Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
              <400>     27
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Gl n Al a Al a Ly s Gl u Phe I l e Cy s Tr p Leu Met As n Thr
                                                            Page 9

                                                    PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
                               20                        25
              <210>      28
              <211>      29
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
<removed-apn>
              <400>     28
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr
                              20                     25
              <210>      29
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Thi s " S" r ef er s a v ar i ant of s er i ne, d- s er i ne.
              <400>     29
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Ser
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ar g Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                              20                     25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      30
              <211>      37
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l
              <400>     30
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Ser
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ar g Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                              20                     25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      31
              <211>      37
                                                               Page 10

                                                    PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Thi s " S" r ef er s a v ar i ant of s er i ne, d- s er i ne.
<removed-apn>
              <400>     31
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Ser
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ar g Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Ly s Ar g As n
                              20                     25                    30
              Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                         35
              <210>      32
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 1)
              <223>      Thi s " H" r ef er s a der i v at i v e of hi s t i di ne,   4- i mi daz oac et y l .
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
              <400>     32
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Cy s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>      33
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
                                                               Page 11

                                                       PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <400>     33
              Hi s Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Al a Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                      15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Cy s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>      34
              <211>      30
              <212>      PRT
<removed-apn>
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      ox y nt omodul i n der i v at i v e
              <220>
              <221>      VARI ANT
              <222>      ( 2)
              <223>      Xaa = ami noi s obut y r i c ac i d
              <400>     34
              Ty r Xaa Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Ly s Ar g Al a Ly s Gl u Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr Cy s
                              20                     25                    30
              <210>      35
              <211>      8
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      gr oup R2
              <400>      35
              Ly s Ar g As n Ar g As n As n I l e Al a
                 1                   5
              <210>      36
              <211>      10
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      gr oup R2
              <400>      36
              Gl y Pr o Ser Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser
                 1                 5                      10
              <210>      37
              <211>      11
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      gr oup R2
                                                                 Page 12

                                                      PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
              <400>      37
              Gl y Pr o Ser Ser Gl y Al a Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser Ly s
                 1                 5                      10
              <210>     38
              <211>     15
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <223>     gr oup R2
              <400>     38
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              <210>     39
              <211>     16
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup R2
              <400>     39
              Hi s Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p Ly s
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              <210>     40
              <211>     20
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup R2
              <400>      40
              Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ly s Gl n Met Gl u Gl u
                 1                  5                   10                    15
              Gl u Al a Val Ly s
                             20
              <210>     41
              <211>     28
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
              <400>     41
              Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Ser Ar g
                1                 5                    10                     15
              Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Gl n Tr p Leu Met As n Thr
                                                         Page 13

                                                      PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
                             20                            25
              <210>     42
              <211>     28
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
              <400>     42
<removed-apn>
              Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u Gl u
                1                 5                    10                     15
              Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Thr
                             20                      25
              <210>     43
              <211>     28
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
              <400>     43
              Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ly s Ty r Leu As p Gl u Ar g
                1                 5                    10                     15
              Ar g Al a Gl n As p Phe Val Al a Tr p Leu Ly s As n Thr
                              20                     25
              <210>     44
              <211>     28
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
              <400>      44
              Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu Gl u Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                    10                     15
              Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Ly s As n Gl y
                             20                      25
              <210>     45
              <211>     28
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
              <400>      45
              Gl y Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                    10                     15
              Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Ly s As n Gl y
                                                         Page 14

                                                      PCTKR2013009986- s eql . t x t
<removed-date>
                             20                            25
              <210>     46
              <211>     26
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
              <400>      46
<removed-apn>
              Gl y Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Al a Al a
                             20                      25
              <210>     47
              <211>     28
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup A or B
              <400>     47
              Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u Gl u
                1                 5                    10                     15
              Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Met As n Gl y
                             20                      25
              <210>     48
              <211>     24
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup B
              <400>      48
              Gl y Gl u Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Leu Ser Ar g Gl n Met Gl u Gl u Gl u
                 1                 5                   10                     15
              Al a Val Ar g Leu Phe I l e Gl u Tr p
                             20
              <210>     49
              <211>     14
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     gr oup B
              <400>     49
              Ser Gl n Gl y Thr Phe Thr Ser As p Ty r Ser Ar g Ty r Leu As p
                1                 5                    10
                                                                Page 15

