Abstract
A system and method for generating nowcasts for a given location over a period. The system
receives weather observations and predictions for the given location from a plurality of
weather sources, and processes this information to determine a probability distribution of the
type of precipitation (PType) and a probability distribution of the rate of precipitation (PRate)
over a period. These two probability distributions may then be combined into a plurality of
probability distributions (PTypeRate forecasts) indicating the probability of occurrence of a
certain type of precipitation at a certain rate over a period over the given location. In some
embodiments, instead of determining the PType distribution, one precipitation type may be
selected based on the weather observations being inputted to the system to produce the
PTypeRate forecast indicating the probability of occurrence of the selected precipitation type
at a certain rate over a period over the give location.

  METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR NOWCASTING PRECIPITATION BASED ON
                          PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTIONS
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[00011                 This application claims priority of co-owned and co-invented U.S.
Patent Application No. 13/856,923 filed on April 4, 2013, U.S. Patent Application No.
13/922,800, filed on June 20, 2013, U.S. Patent Application No. 13/947,331, filed on July
22, 2013, U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/839,675, filed on June 26, 2013, U.S.
Provisional Application No. 61/835,626, filed on June 16, 2013, and U.S. Provisional
Application No. 61/836,713, filed on June 19, 2013, the entire disclosures of which are
hereby incorporated by reference.
                                     BACKGROUND
(a) Field
[0002]          The subject matter disclosed generally relates to a system for determining
weather forecasts.
(b) Related Prior Art
[00031          Weather forecasting    of storms and other meteorological           events is
extremely important to aviation, space agencies, emergency response agencies, traffic,
public safety etc.
[0004]          Conventional weather forecasting systems provide weather predictions
twelve hours to a few days from the present time by applying mathematical/physical
equations using various two-dimensional or three-dimensional physical parameters.
[0005]          Many systems use meteorological radars. The meteorological radar emits
pulses to a precipitation region in the sky so as to observe the strength of rainfall or
snowfall according to reflective (or echo) intensities of the pulses. The intensities are then
converted into gray levels. An image of the precipitation region is represented as a
combination pattern of various shapes and gray-levels. Two consecutive images are
                                              1

subjected to pattern matching using a cross correlation (CC) method so as to evaluate
moving vector(s), and by using a one-dimensional extrapolation method, a precipitation
pattern (of the same shape and size) is translated.
[00061           Such technique tracks clusters or cells to predict storm motion by
correlating cells in two or more successive images to determine speed and direction of a
storm front. This movement information is then used to project where the precipitation
areas are likely to be located in the next thirty to sixty minutes which is represented in the
form of forecasted radar reflectivity images.
 [0007]           However, these systems have too many limitations which affect the
 accuracy of the predictions.
 [0008]           For example, it is possible that a given radar reflectivity information may
 provide inaccurate forecasts. Furthermore, where more than one radar site is tracking a
 storm front, it is possible that each of the radar sites may provide different and conflicting
 forecasts. In this case, the result output to the user may very well be the inaccurate ones.
 [0009]           Furthermore, these systems do not take into consideration the degree of
 change in the state of the precipitation region e.g. from rain to snow. In brief, unstable
 changes regarding size, shape, gray-level, and the like, which represent the natural
 phenomena, cannot be sufficiently predicted, and topographical influences on the
 precipitation region are also not considered.
  [00101          Moreover, none of the existing systems provide a probability distribution
  indicating the possible types of precipitation at the possible rates and over a specified
  period.
  [0011]          For these and other reasons, there remains a need for a system and method
  which implement an improved nowcasting technique.
                                           SUMMARY
  [0012]           In an embodiment, there is described a system/method for generating
  variable length and variable level-of-detail textual descriptions of precipitation types,
  precipitation intensities and probability or level of confidence.             A precipitation
                                                  2

nowcasting system produces a forecast of precipitation type and precipitation rate
(Forecasted Values). Forecasted Values are forecasted in equal or variable time intervals,
each interval having a start time and an end time (ex: time-series of 1, 5, 10, 15, 30
minute increments).
[0013]         In an embodiment, weather observations and predictions are received from
a plurality of weather data sources and processed to determine a probability distribution
of the type of precipitation (PType) and a probability distribution of the rate of
precipitation (PRate) over a period. These two probability distributions may then be
combined into a plurality of single probability distributions (PTypeRate) each indicating
the probability of occurrence of a certain type of precipitation at a certain rate over a
period. Examples of a PTypeRate forecasts could be the combination of Rain and Light
Intensity (Light Rain) along with the probability associated with such combination e.g.
40% chance of light rain. Other combinations may include Rain and Heavy Intensity
(Heavy Rain), Snow and Light Intensity (Light Snow), etc.
[0014]         The probability of precipitation occurring is equal to the sum of all
PTypeRate categories with precipitation. The probability of precipitation not occurring is
equal to the sum of all PTypeRate categories describing no precipitation.
[0015]         For each time interval, the probability distribution may be displayed in
textual and/or numerical forms comprising a textual/numerical description of the
PTypeRate Category, along with its probability percentage. The probability distribution
can also be displayed graphically with time on one axis and PTypeRate categories on the
other.
[0016]          According to an aspect, there is provided a computer implemented method
for generating weather forecast for a given period and a given territory, the method
comprising: receiving weather values for the given territory from one or more weather
sources;        using the weather values, generating        a probability distribution of
precipitation type forecast (PType forecast) for the given period, the PType forecast
comprising a number m of precipitation types and a probability associated with each
type; using the weather values, generating a probability distribution of precipitation rate
                                             3

forecast (PRate forecast) for the given period, the PRate forecast comprising a number n
of precipitation rates and a probability associated with each rate; combining the PType
forecast for the given period and the PRate forecast for the given period to produce a
number m*n of precipitation type-rate forecasts (PTypeRate forecasts), each PTypeRate
forecast representing the probability of having a given type of precipitation at a given
rate; and outputting one or more of the PTypeRate forecasts for display.
[0017]          In an embodiment, the method may further include, for each PTypeRate
forecast, multiplying a first probability P1 associated with a given type of precipitation
from the PType forecast by a second probability P2 associated with a given rate of
precipitation from the PRate forecast to obtain a value P3 representing the probability of
receiving the given type of precipitation at the given rate.
[0018]          In an embodiment, the method further comprises receiving the weather
values from a plurality of different weather sources.
[0019]          In an embodiment, the method further comprises generating an individual
PType forecast from the weather values received from each weather source, thus
generating a plurality of individual PType forecasts, and using a probability aggregator,
combining the plurality of individual PType forecasts into a final PType forecast.
[0020]          In another embodiment, the method further comprises generating an
individual PRate forecast from the weather values received from each weather source,
thus generating a plurality of individual PRate forecasts,       and  using a probability
aggregator, combining the plurality of individual PRate forecasts into a final PRate
forecast.
[0021]          In a further embodiment, aggregating comprises performing weighted
averaging, wherein a weight is assigned to each individual PRate forecast and/or PType
forecast depending on the weather source associated with the PType forecast or PRate
forecast.
                                               4

[0022]          In an embodiment, the method further comprises determining a probability
that precipitation will not occur by summing the probabilities for all categories of
PTypeRates that represent no precipitation.
[0023]          In an embodiment, the method further comprises determining a probability
that precipitation will occur by summing the probabilities for all categories of
PTypeRates that represent precipitation.
[0024]          In an embodiment, the method further comprises associating a textual
description to one or a combination of PTypeRates; and outputting the textual description
for display on a user device.
[0025]          In an embodiment, the method further comprises combining two or more
PTypeRate forecasts along a dimension, the dimension being one of: probability, rate of
precipitation, and type of precipitation; and associating a textual description to each
combination of PTypeRate forecasts.
[0026]          In an embodiment, the method further comprises receiving a user input
indicating the location of the given territory.
[0027]          In an embodiment, the method further comprises receiving a user input
indicating the given period.
[0028]          In an embodiment, the given period comprises multiple time intervals,
wherein the multiple time intervals have a fixed value.
[0029]          In an embodiment, the fixed value is either one of 1 minute, 2 minutes, 5
minutes, 10 minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes and 60 minutes.
[0030]          In an embodiment, the given period comprises multiple time intervals,
wherein the multiple time intervals have variable values.
[0031]          In an embodiment, wherein receiving weather values comprises receiving
at least a temperature profile for the given territory and generating the PType forecasts
based on at least the temperature profile.
                                                5

[00321          In an embodiment, the method further comprises outputting different
combinations of PTypeRate forecasts for display.
[0033]          In another aspect, there is provided a computer implemented method for
generating weather forecast for a given period and a given territory, the method
comprising: receiving weather values for the given territory from one or more weather
sources;        using the weather values,       generating   a probability distribution of
precipitation type forecast (PType forecast) for the given period, the PType forecast
comprising a number m of precipitation types and a probability associated with each
type; using the weather values, generating a probability distribution of precipitation rate
forecast (PRate forecast) for the given period, the PRate forecast comprising a number n
of precipitation rates and a probability associated with each rate; combining the PType
forecast for the given period and the PRate forecast for the given period to produce a
number z of precipitation type-rate forecasts (PTypeRate forecasts), the number z being
equal to or less than m*n, wherein each PTypeRate forecast represents the probability of
having a given type of precipitation at a given rate; and outputting the PTypeRate
forecasts for display.
[0034]          In a further aspect, there is provided a device for generating a weather
forecast for a given period and a given territory, the device comprising an input for
receiving weather values for the given territory from one or more weather sources; a
precipitation type (PType) distribution forecaster for generating, using the weather
values, a probability distribution of precipitation type forecast (PType forecast) for the
given period, wherein the PType forecast comprising a number m of precipitation types
and a probability associated with each type;       a precipitation rate (PRate) distribution
forecaster for generating, using the weather values, a probability distribution of
precipitation rate forecast (PRate forecast) for the given period, the PRate forecast
comprising a number n of precipitation rates and a probability associated with each rate; a
precipitation type and rate (PTypeRate) distribution forecast combiner for combining the
PType forecast for the given period and the PRate forecast for the given period to
produce a number m*n of precipitation type-rate forecasts (PTypeRate forecasts), each
                                              6

PTypeRate forecast representing the probability of having a given type of precipitation at a
given rate; and an output for outputting one or more of the PTypeRate forecasts for display.
Definitions
[0035]          In the present specification, the following terms are meant to be defined as
indicated below:
[0036]          Nowcasting:     The   term   nowcasting is       a   contraction   of "now"     and
"forecasting"; it refers to the sets of techniques devised to make short term forecasts,
typically in the 0 to 12 hour range.
[0037]          Precipitation type (PType): indicates the type of precipitation. Examples of
precipitation types include, but are not limited to, rain, snow, hail, freezing rain, ice pellets,
ice crystals.
[0038]          Precipitation rate (PRate): indicates the precipitation intensity. Examples of
precipitation rate values include, but are not limited to, no (i.e., none), light, moderate, heavy,
extreme. In an embodiment, the precipitation rate can also be expressed as a range of values
such as: none to light, light to moderate, moderate to heavy, or any combination of the above.
[0039]          Precipitation probability: indicates the probability that precipitation might
occur. Examples of precipitation probability values include, but are not limited to, no,
unlikely, slight chance of, chance of, likely, very likely, certain,.
[0040] In an embodiment, the precipitation probability can also be expressed as a range of
values such as: none to light, light to moderate, moderate to heavy,. Precipitation probability
may also be expressed in terms of percentages; e.g., 0%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 100%; or ranges of
percentages; e.g., 0% to 25%, 25% to 50%, 50% to 75%, 75% to 100%. In an embodiment,
the precipitation probability may be taken from the probability distribution as discussed
below.
[0039a]         According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
computer implemented method for generating a weather forecast for a given time period and
a given territory, the method comprising:
        receiving weather values for the given territory from one or more weather sources;
                                                 7

       using the weather values, generating a plurality of type probabilities, wherein each of
               the plurality of type probabilities indicates a likelihood that a corresponding
               precipitation type of a plurality of precipitation types will occur in the given
               territory during the given time period;
       using the weather values, generating a plurality of rate probabilities, wherein each of
               the plurality of rate probabilities indicates a likelihood that precipitation will
               occur at a corresponding precipitation rate of a plurality of precipitation rates
               in the given territory during the given time period;
       combining the plurality of type probabilities and the plurality of rate probabilities to
               produce a plurality of result probabilities, wherein the plurality of result
               probabilities indicates likelihoods that each of the plurality of precipitation
               types will occur at each of the plurality of precipitation rates in the given
               territory during the given time period; and
       outputting a forecast representing the plurality of result probabilities for display.
[0039b]        According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
device for generating a weather forecast for a given time period and a given territory, the
device comprising:
        one or more processors; and
        a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors,
               cause the one or more processors to:
               receive weather values for the given territory from one or more weather
                        sources;
               generate, using the weather values, a plurality of type probabilities, wherein
                        each of the plurality of type probabilities indicates a likelihood that a
                        corresponding precipitation type of a plurality of precipitation types
                        will occur in the given territory during the given time period;
                generate, using the weather values, a plurality of rate probabilities, wherein
                        each of the plurality of rate probabilities indicates a likelihood that
                        precipitationwill occur at a corresponding precipitation rate of a
                        plurality of precipitation rates in the given territory during the given
                        time period;
                combine the plurality of type probabilities with the plurality of rate
                        probabilities to produce a plurality of result probabilities, wherein the
                                                 7a

                         plurality of result probabilities indicates likelihoods that each of the
                         plurality of precipitation types will occur at each of the plurality of
                         precipitation rates in the given territory during the given time period;
                         and
                output a forecast representing the plurality of result probabilities for display.
[0039c]         According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
computer implemented method for generating weather forecast for a given time period and a
given territory, the method comprising:
        receiving weather values for the given territory from one or more weather sources;
        using the weather values, generating a type probability that indicates a likelihood that
                a precipitation type will occur in the given territory during the given time
                period;
        using the weather values, generating a plurality of rate probabilities, wherein each of
                the plurality of rate probabilities indicates a likelihood that precipitation will
                occur ata corresponding one of a plurality of precipitation rates in the given
                territory during the given time period;
        combining the type probability with each of the plurality of rate probabilities to
                produce a plurality of result probabilities, wherein the plurality of result
                probabilities indicates likelihoods that the precipitation type will occur at each
                of the plurality of precipitation rates in the given territory during the given
                time period; and
        outputting a forecast representing the plurality of result probabilities for display.
                                                  7b

[0041]           Precipitation type and precipitation rate categories (PTypeRate):              a
PTypeRate category is combination of precipitation type and precipitation rate to which
may be associated a probability of occurrence for a given period to indicate the
possibility of receiving a certain type of precipitation at a certain rate.
[0042]           Temperature     profile:  a list of temperature       values   indicating   the
temperature at different latitudes e.g. ground surface, 100 feet above ground, 200 feet
above ground etc.
[0043]           Throughout the specification and claims, the following terms take the
meanings explicitly associated herein, unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The
phrase "in one embodiment" as used herein does not necessarily refer to the same
embodiment, though it may. Furthermore, the phrase "in another embodiment" as used
herein does not necessarily refer to a different embodiment, although it may. Thus, as
described below, various embodiments of the invention may be readily combined,
without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. The term "comprising" and
"including" should be interpreted to mean: including but not limited to.
 [0044]          In addition, as used herein, the term "or" is an inclusive "or" operator, and
is equivalent to the term "and/or," unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term
 "based on" is not exclusive and allows for being based on additional factors not
described, unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.
 [0045]          Features and advantages of the subject matter hereof will become more
apparent in light of the following detailed description of selected embodiments, as
illustrated in the accompanying figures. As will be realized, the subject matter disclosed
and claimed is capable of modifications in various respects, all without departing from
the scope of the claims. Accordingly, the drawings and the description are to be regarded
as illustrative in nature, and not as restrictive and the full scope of the subject matter is set
forth in the claims.
                                                 8

                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0046]         Further features and advantages of the present disclosure will become
apparent from the following detailed description, taken in combination with the appended
drawings, in which:
 [0047]         Figure 1 is a block diagram of a system for generating PTypeRate
nowcasts in accordance with an embodiment;
[0048]          Figure 2 is table containing examples of PType values, PRate values and
combined PTypeRate values, in accordance with an embodiment;
 [0049]         Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary PType Forecaster in
accordance with an embodiment;
 [0050]         Figure 4 is a block diagram of an exemplary PRate forecaster, in
accordance with an embodiment;
[0051]          Figure 5 is an example of a network environment in which the
embodiments may be practiced;
[0052]          Figure 6 is a flowchart of a method for generating weather forecast for a
given period and a given territory, in accordance with an embodiment;
[0053]          Figure 7 is a flowchart of a method for generating weather forecast for a
given period and a given territory, in accordance with another embodiment; and
[0054]          Figure 8 illustrates an exemplary diagram of a suitable computing
operating environment in which embodiments of the invention may be practiced.
[0055]          It will be noted that throughout the appended drawings, like features are
identified by like reference numerals.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0056]          The embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with
reference to the accompanying drawings, which form a part hereof, and which show, by
way of illustration, specific embodiments by which the embodiments may be practiced.
The embodiments are also described so that the disclosure conveys the scope of the
                                             9

The embodiments are also described so that the disclosure conveys the scope of the
invention to those skilled in the art. The embodiments may, however, be embodied in
many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth
herein.
[0057]          Among other things, the present embodiments may be embodied as
methods or devices. Accordingly, the embodiments may take the form of an entirely
hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment, an embodiment combining
software and hardware aspects, etc. Furthermore, although the embodiments are
described with reference to a portable or handheld device, they may also be implemented
on desktops, laptop computers, tablet devices or any computing device having sufficient
computing resources to implement the embodiments.
[0058]          Briefly stated the invention relates to a system for producing highly
localized (1xlkm and less), very short term (0 - 6 hours), and timely (updated frequently
e.g. every 5 minutes) forecasts of precipitation type and intensity (called nowcasts). The
system ingests high-resolution precipitation observations from weather radars, surface
observations, and weather forecasts to then automatically track the location, trajectory,
speed and intensity of precipitation structures as they move (advect) over time. These
high-resolution precipitation observations, forecasts and tracking information are used to
forecast the future by extrapolation (advection).
 [0059]         Figure 1 is a block diagram of a system for generating PTypeRate
nowcasts in accordance with an embodiment. As shown in Figure 1, the system 200
receives weather observations from different sources 201 such as weather observations
 sources including but not limited to: point observations 201-2 (e.g. feedback provided by
users and automated stations), weather radars 201-3, satellites 201-4 and other types of
weather observations 201-1, and weather forecast sources such as numerical weather
prediction (NWP) model output 201-5 and weather forecasts and advisories 201-6.
 [0060]         In an embodiment, the system 200 comprises a PType distribution
forecaster 202 and a PRate distribution forecaster 204.
                                              10

[0061]          The PType forecaster 202 receives the weather observations from the
different sources 201 and outputs a probability distribution of precipitation type over an
interval of time, for a given latitude and longitude. In one non-limiting example, it could
be:
             a. Snow: 10%
            b. Rain: 30%
            c. Freezing Rain: 60%
            d. Hail: 0%
            e.  Ice Pellets: 0%
[0062]          Similarly, the PRate forecaster 204 receives the weather observations for a
given latitude and longitude from the different sources 201 and outputs a probability
distribution forecast of a precipitation rate (PRate) in a representation that expresses the
uncertainty. For example, the PRate may be output as a probability distribution of
precipitation rates or a range of rates over an interval of time, for a given latitude and
longitude. For example:
             f. No Precip: 30%
             g. Light: 40%
             h. Moderate: 20%
             i. Heavy: 10%
 [0063]         The PRate and PType values output by the PRate forecaster 204 and the
 PType forecaster 202 are sent to a forecast combiner 206 to combine these values into a
 single value PTypeRate which represents the precipitation outcomes. For example, if the
 value of PType is "Snow", and the value of "PRate" is heavy, the combined value of
 PTypeRate may be "heavy snow". An example of possible PType values, PRate values
 and combined PTypeRate values is shown in Figure 2.
 [0064]         In an embodiment, the forecast combiner 206 (or PType forecaster 202)
 determines the probability that precipitation will not occur by summing the probability
for all PTypeRate categories that represent no precipitation. Ex: NoSnow, NoRain, or
NoFreezingRain. Conversely, the probability that precipitation will occur may be
                                              11

obtained by summing the probability for all PTypeRate categories that represent
precipitation. Ex: a. LightSnow, HeavyRain or ModerateFreezingRain.
Calculation of PType
[0065]           As shown in Figure 1, the PType forecaster 202 receives weather
observations/values from different sources 201. Examples of weather values include:
surface temperature, precipitation type, temperature profile, wind direction and speed etc.
For each weather value obtained from one of the sources 201, the PType forecaster 202
calculates a forecasted weather value over the time interval such that the forecasted
weather value represents the uncertainty within that time interval. For example, if the
value for the ground temperature is -23, the forecasted weather value may be in the range
of: -22.5 to -23.6.
[0066]           Factors that affect the uncertainty may include: a.) Lead time and length of
the interval, b.) Availability, trust, precision, accuracy, distance from location, conflicting
reports and recency of the data, and c.)         inherent imprecision and inaccuracies of the
forecasting systems.
[0067]           Returning back to the PType forecaster 202, calculation of the final PType
distribution depends on the availability of weather values from the different sources 201.
Generally, the PType forecaster 202 extracts two types of inputs            from the weather
values: 1.) a PType distribution based precipitation type weather values (PTypeWV)
received from the different sources 201, and 2.) PType probabilities based on temperature
Weather Values (PTypeProbTemp).
[0068]           The PTypeWV may be obtained by aggregating (or weighted averaging)
the PType distributions received from the different sources. For example: If the PType
distribution of surface observations are as follows: a. Snow: 90%, b. Rain: 0%, c.
Freezing Rain: 80%, d. Hail: 0%, e. Ice Pellets: 50%; while the PType distribution of
NWP model are: a. Snow: 10%, b. rain: 0%. c. Freezing Rain: 60%, d. Hail: 0%, e. Ice
Pellets: 0%; then the final PType distribution, based on averaging would be: a. Snow:
50%, b. Rain: 0%, c. Freezing Rain: 70%, d. Hail: 0%, e. Ice Pellets: 25%.
                                                12

[0069]         PTypeProbTemp may be obtained by assigning each precipitation type the
probability that it can occur based on air temperature obtained from Weather Values. As
discussed above, the system may forecast the change in temperatures over the period
based on such variable as the direction and speed of wind, and the air temperature in
surrounding areas, temperature profile etc. For example, if surface air temperature is well
below freezing, rain or hail are impossible but snow, freezing rain or ice pellets are
possible.
[0070]          In one non-limiting       example,    if  the temperature     =  -10C,  the
PTypeProbTemp may be:
                1.      Snow: 100%
                2.      Rain: 0%
                3.      Freezing Rain: 70%
                4.      Hail: 0%
                5.      Ice Pellets: 50%
[0071]          In the case where only PTypeProbTemp is available (but not PTypeWV),
the PType forecaster 202 may generate the final PType distribution by dividing the
probabilities such that all the probabilities add to 100%. In one non-limiting example: the
final PType distribution may be:
                a.      Snow: 100% / (100+70+50) = 45%
                b.      Rain: 0% / (100+70+50) = 0%
                c.      Freezing Rain: 70% / (100+70+50) = 32%
                d.      Hail: 0% / (100+70+50) = 0%
                e.      Ice Pellets: 50% / (100+70+50) = 23%
[0072]          If only a PTypeWV is available (but not PTypeProbTemp), the PTypeWV
may be used as the final PType distribution.
                                               13

 [0073]          If both PTypeProbTemp and PTypeWV are available, the final PType
distribution may be obtained by multiplying them both together.
 [0074]          Figure 3 is a block diagram of an exemplary PType Forecaster 202 in
accordance with an embodiment. As shown in Figure 3, the PType Forecaster 202
receives sets of weather values from different sources e.g. value 1, value 2.. .value n, as
well as the time interval over which the forecast needs to be performed. For example, the
time interval may be set/changed by the user. As shown in Figure 3, a probability
forecaster 210 receives the sets of weather values and the time and outputs for each set a
probability distribution of a precipitation type (PType) e.g. PType 1 for values 1, PType 2
for values 2 etc.
[0075]            A probability aggregator 212 receives the different PType1 n distributions
output by the probability forecaster 210 and aggregates them into a final PType
distribution. In a non-limiting example of implementation, the probability aggregator 212
may average the different PType distributions as exemplified above. However, other
embodiments are also possible which allow weighted aggregation, whereby it is possible
to reduce the weight for PType distributions associated with less reliable sources, and
increase the weight for PType distributions associated with sources that are known to be
reliable and accurate.
Calculation of PRate
[0076]           Referring back to Figure 1, the PRate forecaster 204 receives weather
observations/values from different sources 201 and outputs a probability distribution
PRate indicative of the precipitation rate/amount, over an interval of time. The interval of
time may be fixed for example: every minute, or variable for example: one minute, then
five minutes, then ten minutes etc.
[0077]          The PRate Distribution represents,      for each time interval, possible
outcomes of water precipitation amounts (whether the water is frozen in the form of
snow, ice pellets etc. or melted and in a liquid form).
[0078]          A non-limiting example of a PRate may be:
                                              14

                 No Precipitation: 20%
                 Light (0-1 mm): 10%
                 Moderate (1-20 mm): 10%
                 Heavy (20-40 mm): 20%
                 Very Heavy (40+ mm): 40%
[0079]           In an embodiment, the PRate forecaster 204 may extract precipitation rate
values from the weather values received from the sources 201. For each precipitation
available rate value the PRate Forecaster 204 may calculate a forecasted PRate
Distribution for a given interval of time by assigning a probability to each precipitation
type of precipitation rate. For example, for each type of precipitation rate (no
precipitation, light precipitation, moderate precipitation etc.) the PRate forecaster 204
may associate a probability indicating the likelihood that the type may happen, based on
the weather values received from the different sources.
[0080]           Factors that affect the uncertainty may include (but are not limited to): a.)
Lead time and length of the interval, b) Availability, trust, precision, accuracy, distance
from location, conflicting reports and recency of the data, and c) the forecasting systems'
inherent imprecision and inaccuracies.
[0081]           Figure 4 is a block diagram of an exemplary PRate forecaster 204, in
accordance with an embodiment. As shown in Figure 4, the PRate forecaster 204
comprises a probability forecaster 214 which is adapted to receive the sets of weather
values from the different sources e.g. value 1, value 2.. .value n, as well as the time
interval over which the forecast needs to be performed, and outputs for each set a
probability distribution of a precipitation rate (PRate) e.g. PRate 1 for values 1, PRate 2
for values 2 etc.
[0082]          A probability aggregator 216 receives the different PRate -ndistributions
output by the probability forecaster 214 and aggregates them into a final PRate
distribution. In a non-limiting example of implementation, the probability aggregator 216
                                               15

may average the different PRate distributions as exemplified above. However, other
embodiments are also possible which allow weighted aggregation, whereby it is possible
to reduce the weight for PRate distributions associated with less reliable sources, and
increase the weight for PRate distributions associated with sources that are known to be
reliable and accurate.
Calculation of PTypeRate
[0083]          For a given latitude and longitude, the system outputs forecasted
PTypeRate Distributions for predefined time intervals, either fixed (ex: 1 minute) or
variable (ex: 1 minute, then 5 minutes, then 10 minutes, etc). The system can either pre
calculate and store forecasted PTypeRate Distributions in a sequence of time intervals, or
calculate it on the fly. A PTypeRate Distribution represents, for each time interval, the
certainty or uncertainty that a PTypeRate will occur.
[0084]          With reference to Figure 1, the forecast combiner 206 receives the final
PRate distribution from the PType forecaster 202 and the final PRate distribution from
the PRate forecaster 204 to combine them into a group of PTypeRate distribution values
each representing the probability of receiving a certain type of precipitation at a certain
rate. An example is provided below.
[0085]          Assuming that the PType distribution is as follows: Snow: 50%, Rain 0%,
Freezing rain: 30%, Hail 0%, Ice pellets 20%, and the PRate distribution is as follows:
None: 0%, light: 10%, moderate:20%, Heavy: 30%, Very heavy 40%, the PTypeRate
distributions may be as follows:
    PType         Snow             Rain         Freez. Rain        Hail         Ice Pellets
                   50%              0%             30%             0%              20%
PRate
None 0%       No               No             No              No              No
              precipitation    precipitation  precipitation   precipitation   precipitation
                                             16

Light           5%       light  No             3%        light  No               2% light ice
10 %            snow            precipitation  freezing rain    precipitation    pellets
Moderate        10%             No             6% moderate      No               4% moderate
20%             moderate        precipitation  freezing rain    precipitation    ice pellets
                snow
Heavy           15%     heavy   No             9%       heavy   No               6% heavy ice
30%             snow            precipitation  freezing rain    precipitation    pellets
V.     heavy    20%     heavy   No             12%    v.heavy   No                8%    v.heavy
40%             snow            precipitation  freezing rain    precipitation    ice pellets
[0086]           Accordingly, the forecast combiner 206 multiplies the probability of each
type of precipitation by the probability of each rate of precipitation to obtain a probability
of receiving a certain type of precipitation at a certain rate for example, 20% chance of
heavy snow, or 12% chance of very heavy freezing rain. In an embodiment, it is possible
to associate probability ranges with textual information for displaying the textual
information to the user instead of the probabilities in numbers. For example, probabilities
that are between 5% and 15% may be associated with the text: "low chance", while
probabilities that are between 40% and 70% may be associated with the text "high
chance", or "very likely" etc. whereby, instead of displaying: 60% chance of heavy snow,
it is possible to display: "high chance of heavy snow".
[0087]           In another embodiment, it is possible to combine two or more different
PTypeRates along one or more dimensions (the dimensions including: the rate, type, or
probability). For example, results of such combination may include: Likely light to
moderate rain, Likely light to moderate rain or heavy snow; Likely moderate rain or
snow; likely rain or snow; chance of light to moderate rain or heavy snow or light hail;
chance of moderate rain, snow or hail; chance of rain, snow or hail, etc.
                                              17

[00881          Figure 5 is an example of a network environment in which the
embodiments may be practiced. The system 200 (aka "nowcaster") may be implemented
on a server/computer 250 which is accessible by a plurality of client computers 252 over
a telecommunications network 254. The client computers may include but not limited to:
laptops, desktops, portable computing devices, tablets and the like. Using a client
computer 252, each user may specify the time interval for which they want to receive the
nowcasts and the location for which the nowcasts are needed. For example, the user may
enter the zip/postal code, or address, or location on a map, or the latitude and longitude of
the location for which the nowcasts are needed, along with the time interval over which
the nowcasts are needed. The time interval may extend between one minute and several
hours.
[0089]          Upon receiving the location information and time information, the server
250 may receive the available weather values for the specified location, and output the
different PTypeRates discussed above which represent the nowcasts for the specific
location over the specified period. Accuracy of the nowcasts may also depend on the
number of weather sources available for a certain area. For example, an area that is
highly populated may include more weather radars and more media attention (and thus
more satellite coverage or forecasts) than a remote area in a forest.
[0090]          The PTypeRates produced by the server 250 may then be sent to the client
computer 252 for display to the user. In an embodiment, it is possible to display the
PTypeRates in series one after the other, or display those having a higher percentage.
[00911          Figure 6 is a flowchart of a computer implemented method 300 for
generating weather forecast for a given period and a given territory, in accordance with
an embodiment. The method comprising receiving weather values for the given territory
from one or more weather sources at step 302. Step 304 comprises using the weather
values, generating a probability distribution of precipitation type forecast (PType
forecast) for the given period, the PType forecast comprising a number m of precipitation
types and a probability associated with each type. Step 306 comprises, using the weather
values, generating a probability distribution of precipitation rate forecast (PRate forecast)
                                              18

for the given period, the PRate forecast comprising a number n of precipitation rates and
a probability associated with each rate. Step 308 comprises combining the PType forecast
for the given period and the PRate forecast for the given period to produce a number m*n
of precipitation type-rate forecasts (PTypeRate forecasts), each PTypeRate forecast
representing the probability of having a given type of precipitation at a given rate. Step
310 comprises outputting one or more of the PTypeRate forecasts for display. method for
method 300 for generating weather forecast for a given period and a given territory, in
accordance with another embodiment.
[0092]          Figure 7 is a flowchart of a computer implemented method 320 for
generating weather forecast for a given period and a given territory, in accordance with
another embodiment. Step 322 comprises receiving weather values for the given territory
from one or more weather sources. Step 324 comprises, using the weather values,
generating a probability distribution of precipitation type forecast (PType forecast) for
the given period, the PType forecast comprising a number m of precipitation types and a
probability associated with each type. Step 326 comprises, using the weather values,
generating a probability distribution of precipitation rate forecast (PRate forecast) for the
given period, the PRate forecast comprising a number n of precipitation rates and a
probability associated with each rate. Step 328 comprises combining the PType forecast
for the given period and the PRate forecast for the given period to produce a number z of
precipitation type-rate forecasts (PTypeRate forecasts), the number z being equal to or
less than m*n, wherein each PTypeRate forecast represents the probability of having a
given type of precipitation at a given rate. Step 330 comprises outputting the PTypeRate
forecasts for display.
 [0093]                There may be another embodiment of the nowcaster 200. In this
embodiment, the nowcaster comprises a PType selector/receiver and a PRate distribution
 forecaster.    Similar to the embodiment shown in Figure 1, the PRate distribution
 forecaster receives the weather observations for a given latitude and longitude from the
 different sources and outputs a probability distribution forecast of a precipitation rate
 (PRate) in a representation that expresses the uncertainty. For example, the PRate may be
                                              19

output as a probability distribution of precipitation rates or a range of rates over an
interval of time, for a given latitude and longitude. In one non-limiting example:
          f. No Precip.: 30%
          g. Light: 40%
          h. Moderate: 20%
          i. Heavy: 10%
[00941             However, the PType selector/receiver does not output a probability
distribution    associated with different      types of precipitation.    Instead, the PType
selector/receiver receives weather observations for a given latitude and longitude from
the different sources to select one precipitation type from a list of different precipitation
types. In one non-limiting example, based on the inputs received from the sources, the
PType selector/receiver selects a single precipitation type that is most likely to occur in
the given latitude and longitude (and/or location) from the following list of precipitation
types:
           a. Snow
          b. Rain
           c. Freezing Rain
           d. Hail
           e. Ice Pellets
           f. Mix (e.g., a+c, a+d, b+c, a+e, c+e, d+e, etc.)
 [0095]            From the list of precipitation types such as the one above, only one
precipitation type is selected for a given location. For example, a mix of snow and
freezing rain can be selected as the most likely precipitation type for a given location at a
given time. The precipitation type is not associated with a probability value. In fact, since
only one precipitation type is selected for any given location and time corresponding to
the location, the selected precipitation type will have the effective probability value of
 100%.
 [0096]            The list of precipitation types that are available for selection of one type
may include a mix type that represents a mix of two different precipitation types (e.g.,
                                                 20

snow and freezing rain, hail and ice pellets, etc.). A mix type is considered as a distinct
precipitation type available for selection and, as shown above in (f) of the list, there can
be many different mix types representing the mix of different pairs of various
precipitation types.
[0097]           In another embodiment, the precipitation type is not selected by the
PType selector/receiver but instead is received from a source outside the nowcaster. In
other words, the nowcaster 200 may request to a remote source (e.g., a third-party
weather service) identification of the precipitation type that is most likely to occur for a
given location at a given time and receive a response from the source identifying the most
likely precipitation type. In this case, selection of the precipitation type is not performed
by the nowcaster. The nowcaster             merely is inputted with the already-selected
precipitation type and thereby can save computational power of the nowcaster that would
otherwise have been needed to perform the selection.
[0098]           The selected precipitation type and the PRate values respectively output
by the PType selector/receiver and the PRate distribution forecaster are combined. In one
non-limiting example, if the selected precipitation type is snow, and the PRate values are
as described above, the combined information would indicate:
          a. No Snow: 30%
          b. Light Snow: 40%
          c. Moderate Snow: 20%
          d. Heavy Snow: 10%.
 [0099]                 As only one precipitation type is concerned, only minimal amount
of computational power is needed to perform the combining to output the final weather
 forecast data. Since the PType selector/receiver will output one (1) precipitation type for
 a given location and time, if the PRate distribution forecaster outputs a number m of
 probability distribution, the final weather forecast data will comprise only a number m
 (m* 1) of weather forecast distribution.
 [00100]                In outputting the final weather forecast data, it is possible to
 associate probability ranges with textual information           for displaying the textual
                                               21

information to the user instead of the probabilities in numbers, similar to the embodiment
shown in Figure 1. For example, probabilities that are between 5% and 15% may be
associated with the text: "low chance," while probabilities that are between 40% and 70%
may be associated with the text "high chance," or "very likely," etc. whereby, instead of
displaying: "60% chance of heavy snow," it is possible to display: "high chance of heavy
 snow."
 [00101]         Accordingly, the nowcaster receives the location for which the nowcasts
 are needed and the time and/or time interval for which the nowcasts are needed and
 outputs the selected PType and PRate distribution for the given location and for the
 specific time.
 [00102]         The   nowcaster    according    to  this another    embodiment    may  be
 advantageous over the embodiment shown in Figure 1 in certain circumstances in which
 efficiency is desired. This another embodiment can be implemented using much less
 processing power than the embodiment of Figure 1. However, the embodiment of Figure
  1 may be more suitable than this alternative embodiment in providing more detailed and
  accurate snapshot of weather forecast data for any given location and time.
                    HARDWARE AND OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
  [00103]        Figure 8 illustrates an exemplary diagram of a suitable computing
  operating environment in which embodiments of the invention may be practiced. The
  following description is associated with Figure 8 and is intended to provide a brief,
  general description of suitable computer hardware and a suitable computing environment
  in conjunction with which the embodiments may be implemented. Not all the
  components are required to practice the embodiments, and variations in the arrangement
  and type of the components may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of
  the embodiments.
   [00104]       Although not required, the embodiments are described in the general
  context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being executed
  by a computer, such as a personal computer, a hand-held or palm-size computer,
                                               22

Smartphone, or an embedded system such as a computer in a consumer device or
specialized industrial controller. Generally, program modules include routines, programs,
objects, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular tasks or implement
particular abstract data types.
[00105]          Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the embodiments
may be practiced with other computer system configurations, including hand-held
devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based       or programmable consumer
electronics, network PCS, minicomputers, mainframe computers, cellular telephones,
smart phones, display pagers, radio frequency (RF) devices, infrared (IR) devices,
Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), laptop computers, wearable computers, tablet
computers, a device of the IPOD or IPAD family of devices manufactured by Apple
 Computer, integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices, or any
 other computing device capable of performing the methods and systems described herein.
 The embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where
 tasks   are performed by remote processing devices          that are linked through      a
 communications network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules
 may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.
 [00106]         The exemplary hardware and operating environment of Figure 8 includes a
 general purpose computing device in the form of a computer 720, including a processing
  unit 721, a system memory 722, and a system bus 723 that operatively couples various
  system components including the system memory to the processing unit 721. There may
  be only one or there may be more than one processing unit 721, such that the processor of
  computer 720 comprises a single central-processing unit (CPU), or a plurality of
  processing units, commonly referred to as a parallel processing environment. The
  computer 720 may be a conventional computer, a distributed computer, or any other type
  of computer; the embodiments are not so limited.
  [00107]        The system bus 723 may be any of several types of bus structures
  including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using any
  of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory may also be referred to as simply
                                               23

the memory, and includes read only memory (ROM) 724 and random access memory
(RAM) 725. A basic input/output system (BIOS) 726, containing the basic routines that
help to transfer information between elements within the computer 720, such as during
start-up, is stored in ROM 724. In one embodiment of the invention, the computer 720
further includes a hard disk drive 727 for reading from and writing to a hard disk, not
shown, a magnetic disk drive 728 for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic
disk 729, and an optical disk drive 730 for reading from or writing to a removable optical
disk 731 such as a CD ROM or other optical media. In alternative embodiments of the
invention, the functionality provided by the hard disk drive 727, magnetic disk 729 and
optical disk drive 730 is emulated using volatile or non-volatile RAM in order to
conserve power and reduce the size of the system. In these alternative embodiments, the
 RAM may be fixed in the computer system, or it may be a removable RAM device, such
 as a Compact Flash memory card.
 [00108]         In an embodiment of the invention, the hard disk drive 727, magnetic disk
 drive 728, and optical disk drive 730 are connected to the system bus 723 by a hard disk
 drive interface 732, a magnetic disk drive interface 733, and an optical disk drive
 interface 734, respectively. The drives and their associated computer-readable media
 provide nonvolatile storage of computer-readable instructions, data structures, program
 modules and other data for the computer 720. It should be appreciated by those skilled in
 the art that any type of computer-readable media which can store data that is accessible
 by a computer, such as magnetic cassettes, flash memory cards, digital video disks,
 Bernoulli cartridges, random access memories (RAMs), read only memories (ROMs),
 and the like, may be used in the exemplary operating environment.
  [00109]        A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk, magnetic
  disk 729, optical disk 731, ROM 724, or RAM 725, including an operating system 735,
  one or more application programs 736, other program modules 737, and program data
  738. A user may enter commands and information into the personal computer 720
  through input devices such as a keyboard 740 and pointing device 742. Other input
  devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish,
                                             24

scanner, touch sensitive pad, or the like. These and other input devices are often
connected to the processing unit 721 through a serial port interface 746 that is coupled to
the system bus, but may be connected by other interfaces, such as a parallel port, game
port, or a universal serial bus (USB). In addition, input to the system may be provided by
a microphone to receive audio input.
[00110]          A monitor 747 or other type of display device is also connected to the
system bus 723 via an interface, such as a video adapter 748. In one embodiment of the
invention, the monitor comprises a Liquid Crystal Display (LCD). In addition to the
monitor, computers typically include other peripheral output devices (not shown), such as
speakers and printers. The monitor may include a touch sensitive surface which allows
the user to interface with the computer by pressing on or touching the surface.
[00111]          The computer 720 may operate in a networked environment using logical
connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer 749. These
logical connections are achieved by a communication device coupled to or a part of the
computer 720; the embodiment is not limited to a particular type of communications
device. The remote computer 749 may be another computer, a server, a router, a network
PC, a client, a peer device or other common network node, and typically includes many
or all of the elements described above relative to the computer 720, although only a
memory storage device 750 has been illustrated in Figure 6. The logical connections
depicted in Figure 6 include a local-area network (LAN) 751 and a wide-area network
(WAN) 752. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide
computer networks, intranets and the Internet.
[00112]          When used in a LAN-networking environment, the computer 720 is
connected to the local network 751 through a network interface or adapter 753, which is
one type of communications device. When used in a WAN-networking environment, the
computer 720 typically includes a modem 754, a type of communications device, or any
other type of communications device for establishing communications over the wide area
network 752, such as the Internet. The modem 754, which may be internal or external, is
connected to the system bus 723 via the serial port interface 746. In a networked
                                             25

environment, program modules depicted relative to the personal computer 720, or portions
thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It is appreciated that the
network connections shown are exemplary and other means of and communications devices
for establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.
 [00113]        The hardware      and operating    environment in conjunction with which
embodiments of the invention may be practiced has been described. The computer in
conjunction with which embodiments of the invention may be practiced may be a
conventional computer a hand-held or palm-size computer, a computer in an embedded
system, a distributed computer, or any other type of computer; the invention is not so limited.
Such a computer typically includes one or more processing units as its processor, and a
computer-readable    medium such as a memory. The computer may also include a
communications device such as a network adapter or a modem, so that it is able to
communicatively couple other computers.
[00114]         While preferred embodiments have been described above and illustrated in the
accompanying drawings, it will be evident to those skilled in the art that modifications may
be made without departing from this disclosure. Such modifications are considered as
possible variants comprised in the scope of the disclosure.
[00115]         Mere reference to background art herein should not be construed as an
admission that such art constitutes common general knowledge in relation to the invention.
[001161         Throughout this specification, including the claims, where the context permits,
the term "comprise" and variants thereof such as "comprises" or "comprising" are to be
interpreted as including the stated integer or integers without necessarily excluding any other
integers.
                                                26

         CLAIMS:
          1. A computer implemented method for generating a weather forecast for a given time
period and a given territory, the method comprising:
         receiving weather values for the given territory from one or more weather sources;
         using the weather values, generating a plurality of type probabilities, wherein each of the
                 plurality of type probabilities indicates a likelihood that a corresponding
                 precipitation type of a plurality of precipitation types will occur in the given
                 territory during the given time period;
         using the weather values, generating a plurality of rate probabilities, wherein each of the
                 plurality of rate probabilities indicates a likelihood that precipitation will occur at
                 a corresponding precipitation rate of a plurality of precipitation rates in the given
                 territory during the given time period;
         combining the plurality of type probabilities and the plurality of rate probabilities to
                 produce a plurality of result probabilities, wherein the plurality of result
                 probabilities indicates likelihoods that each of the plurality of precipitation types
                 will occur at each of the plurality of precipitation rates in the given territory
                 during the given time period; and
         outputting a forecast representing the plurality of result probabilities for display.
         2. The method of claim 1, wherein combining the plurality of type probabilities with the
plurality of rate probabilities comprises multiplying each of the plurality of type probabilities
with each of the plurality of rate probabilities to obtain the result probabilities.
         3. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving the weather values from a
plurality of different weather sources.
         4. The method of claim 3, further comprising:
         generating the plurality of type probabilities from the weather values received from each
                 weather source using a probability aggregator.
         5. The method of claim 4, further comprising:
                                                   27

        generating the plurality of rate probabilities based on an aggregation of a portion of the
                weather values.
        6. The method of claim 5, further comprising generating the aggregation by performing
weighted averaging on the portion of the weather values, wherein the weighted averaging is
based on weather sources associated with the portion.
        7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, further comprising determining a probability that
precipitation will not occur by summing a subset of the plurality of result probabilities
corresponding to no precipitation occurring the given territory during the given time period.
        8. The method of any one of claims 1-7, further comprising determining a probability that
precipitation will occur by summing a subset of the plurality of result probabilities corresponding
to precipitation occurring in the given territory during the given time period.
        9. The method of any one of claims 1-8, further comprising associating a textual
description to a particular result probability of the plurality of result probabilities, wherein the
forecast comprises the textual description.
        10. The method of claim 9, further comprising:
        generating a combination of two or more of the plurality of result probabilities along a
                dimension, the dimension being one of: probability, rate of precipitation, and type
                of precipitation; and
        associating a textual description to the combination.
        11. The method of any one of claims 1-10, further comprising receiving a user input
indicating a location of the given territory.
        12. The method of any one of claims 1-11, further comprising receiving a user input
indicating the given time period.
                                                  28

         13. The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the given time period comprises
multiple time intervals, wherein the multiple time intervals have a fixed duration.
         14. The method of claim 13, wherein the fixed duration is one of 1 minute, 2 minutes, 5
minutes, 10 minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes and 60 minutes.
         15. The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein the given time period comprises
multiple time intervals, wherein the multiple time intervals have variable durations.
         16. The method of any one of claims 1-15, wherein receiving the weather values
comprises receiving at least a temperature profile for the given territory, and wherein the
plurality of type probabilities are generated based on at least the temperature profile.
         17. The method of any one of claims 1-16, wherein the plurality of type probabilities
includes a first number of values, the plurality of rate probabilities includes a second number of
values, and the plurality of result probabilities includes the first number of values times the
second number of values.
         18. A device for generating a weather forecast for a given time period and a given
territory, the device comprising:
         one or more processors; and
         a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause
                 the one or more processors to:
                 receive weather values for the given territory from one or more weather sources;
                 generate, using the weather values, a plurality of type probabilities, wherein each
                         of the plurality of type probabilities indicates a likelihood that a
                         corresponding precipitation type of a plurality of precipitation types will
                         occur in the given territory during the given time period;
                 generate, using the weather values, a plurality of rate probabilities, wherein each
                         of the plurality of rate probabilities indicates a likelihood that precipitation
                         will occur at a corresponding precipitation rate of a plurality of
                         precipitation rates in the given territory during the given time period;
                                                    29

                combine the plurality of type probabilities with the plurality of rate probabilities
                        to produce a plurality of result probabilities, wherein the plurality of result
                        probabilities indicates likelihoods that each of the plurality of precipitation
                        types will occur at each of the plurality of precipitation rates in the given
                        territory during the given time period; and
                output a forecast representing the plurality of result probabilities for display.
        19. A computer implemented method for generating weather forecast for a given time
period and a given territory, the method comprising:
        receiving weather values for the given territory from one or more weather sources;
        using the weather values, generating a type probability that indicates a likelihood that a
                precipitation type will occur in the given territory during the given time period;
        using the weather values, generating a plurality of rate probabilities, wherein each of the
                plurality of rate probabilities indicates a likelihood that precipitation will occur at
                a corresponding one of a plurality of precipitation rates in the given territory
                during the given time period;
        combining the type probability with each of the plurality of rate probabilities to produce a
                plurality of result probabilities, wherein the plurality of result probabilities
                indicates likelihoods that the precipitation type will occur at each of the plurality
                of precipitation rates in the given territory during the given time period; and
        outputting a forecast representing the plurality of result probabilities for display.
        20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when
executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform any of the methods of claims 1-17 and
19.
                                                   30

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
