                                           ABSTRACT
A table may be sized and configured to nest with another table to reduce a height of a plurality
of stacked tables in a nested configuration. The table may include a table top with a receiving
portion disposed at least proximate an intersection of an upper surface and a sidewall. The
table top may also include a lip and a lower portion of the lip may include a contact surface that
is sized and configured to contact an upper surface of an adjacent, nested table. The lower
portion of the lip may also include an engaging portion that is sized and configured to be
disposed in a receiving portion of an adjacent, nested table.      The contact surface and the
engaging portion may be directly adjacent to each other in the lower portion of the lip.

                  6110
     00
        00
        C'14
                 1;4- Q>
                 cn cn
                             00
                             C%4
                                        Q>
                                     cn cn
Q>
00
                                              <0 C%4
C'-4
0:
             C%4    C%4          C%4          <0
             cn                  cn           cn
                                              Q>
                                              C\j
                                           Q> 00
                                              LO     LL
                         LO
                                              C%4
                                              LO
                         C%4
                         LO
C'%4

                           TABLE WITH NESTING TABLE TOP
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0001]      This application    is a divisional application     of Australian Application No.
2015264938 which in turn is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2012216584, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.               Most of the
disclosure of that application is also included herein, however, reference may be made to the
specification of Australian Application No. 2015264938, which in turn is a divisional
application of Australian Patent Application No. 2012216584 as filed or amended to gain
further understanding of the invention claimed herein. The present application claims priority
to and the benefit of United States provisional patent application serial no. 61/531,081, entitled
TABLE, which was filed on September 5, 2011; and U.S. provisional patent application serial
no. 61/543,277, entitled TABLE, which was filed on October 4, 2011; each of which is hereby
incorporated by reference in its entirety.
                                         BACKGROUND
Field of the Invention
[0002]      The present invention generally relates to tables and, in particular, to tables that may
nest together.
Description of Related Art
[0003]      Many different types of tables are well known and used for a variety of different
purposes. For example, conventional tables may include legs that are pivotally attached to a
table top and the legs may be movable between a use position in which the legs extend
outwardly from the table top and a storage position in which the legs are folded against the
table top.   Conventional tables with relatively large table tops and folding legs are often
referred to as "banquet tables" and these tables are frequently used in assembly halls, banquet
halls, convention centers, hotels, schools, churches and other locations where large groups of

people meet.     These types of tables can often be positioned in an assortment of different
configurations and used in a variety of settings. When banquet tables are no longer needed, the
table legs can be moved into the storage position and the tables may be more easily moved or
stored.
[0004]       Because most banquet tables have a length between six and ten feet and a width
between three and four feet, the required storage area for such tables is quite large even with
the legs in the collapsed position. This large storage area may be problematic for businesses or
facilities such as hotels, schools and churches because a considerable number of these tables
may have to be stored. The large size of conventional banquet tables may also be problematic
for manufacturers, retailers and consumers because a number of tables may have to be stored,
transported and/or displayed.
                                       BRIEF SUMMARY
[0005]       A need therefore exists for a table that eliminates or diminishes the above-described
disadvantages and problems.
[0006]       The invention provides a blow-molded plastic table top sized and configured to nest
with a blow-molded plastic table top of an adjacent table to reduce a height of a plurality of
stacked tables in a nested configuration, each table top of a plurality of stacked tables being
substantially identical, the table top comprising: an upper surface; a sidewall extending
downwardly relative to the upper surface; a nesting portion at least partially formed in the
upper surface and the sidewall, the nesting portion including a groove disposed at least
proximate a hollow interior portion, the hollow interior portion being formed during a blow
molding process; a lower surface spaced apart from the upper surface by a distance, the lower
surface and the upper surface at least partially defining the hollow interior portion; and a lip
downwardly extending from the lower surface, the upper surface, the sidewall, the nesting
portion, the lower surface, and the lip being integrally formed as part of a unitary, one-piece
structure during the blow-molding process, the lip comprising; a contact surface in a first lower

portion of the lip, the contact surface sized and configured to contact an upper surface of a table
top of an adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table; and an engaging
portion in a second lower portion of the lip, the engaging portion sized and configured to be
disposed in a nesting portion of a table top of the adjacent table when the table is nested with
the adjacent table.
[0007]      The invention also provides a table sized and configured to nest with an adjacent
table to reduce a height of a plurality of stacked tables in a nested configuration, each table of a
plurality of stacked tables being substantially identical, the table comprising: a table top
constructed from blow-molded plastic, the table top comprising: an upper surface; a sidewall; a
lower surface spaced apart from the upper surface by a distance, the lower surface and the
upper surface at least partially defining a hollow interior portion formed during a blow-molding
process; a nesting portion disposed at least proximate a perimeter of the table top, the nesting
portion including a groove disposed at least proximate the hollow interior portion; a lip, the
upper surface, the sidewall, the lower surface, the nesting portion, and the lip being integrally
formed as part of a unitary, one-piece structure during the blow-molding process; a contact
surface in a first lower portion of the lip sized and configured to contact an upper surface of a
table top of an adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table; an engaging
portion in a second lower portion of the lip sized and configured to be disposed in a nesting
portion of a table top of the adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table; a
frame comprising: a first side rail disposed at least proximate a first side of the table top, a
lower portion of the first side rail sized and configured to contact an upper surface of the
adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table; and a second side rail disposed
at least proximate a second side of the table top, a lower portion of the second side rail sized
and configured to contact an upper surface of the adjacent table when the table is nested with
the adjacent table; and one or more support structures connected to the table top, the support
structures movable between an extended position and a collapsed position relative to the table
top.

[0008]      The invention also provides a blow-molded plastic table top sized and configured to
nest with an adjacent table top when the table tops are disposed in a stacked configuration, the
table top comprising: an upper portion; a sidewall; a receiving portion disposed at least
proximate an intersection of the upper portion and the sidewall, the receiving portion including
a groove disposed at least proximate a hollow interior portion, the hollow interior portion being
formed during a blow-molding process; a lower portion spaced apart from the upper portion by
a distance, the lower portion and the upper portion at least partially defining the hollow interior
portion; a lip extending downwardly from the lower portion, the upper portion, the sidewall, the
receiving portion, the lower portion, and the lip being integrally formed as part of a unitary,
one-piece structure during the blow-molding process; a contact surface formed by a first lower
portion of the lip, the contact surface sized and configured to contact an upper portion of a table
top of an adjacent, stacked table; and an engaging portion formed by a second lower portion of
the lip, the engaging portion sized and configured to be disposed in a receiving portion of a
table top of an adjacent, stacked table.
[0009]      One embodiment described herein is a table that may include a table top and one or
more legs sized and configured to support the table top above a surface such as the floor or
ground. The table may also include a frame and the legs may be connected to the frame. The
legs may be movable relative to the table top between a collapsed or storage position and an
extended or use position. In particular, the legs may be pivoted between a collapsed position in
which the legs are disposed at least proximate a lower surface of the table top and an extended
position in which the legs extend outwardly from the table top. If desired, the legs may at least
partially contact or abut the lower surface of the table top when the legs are in the collapsed
position. In addition, the lower surface of the table top may include one or more recesses sized
and configured to receive at least a portion of the legs when the legs are in the collapsed
position. Advantageously, this may decrease the amount of space required to store and/or
transport the table.

[0010]      Another embodiment described herein is a table that may be relatively lightweight,
which may allow the table to be more easily transported and moved. For example, the table
may include a lightweight table top and that may reduce the overall weight of the table. The
table may also be constructed from a limited number of parts or components, which may allow
the weight of the table to be reduced.
[0011]      Still another embodiment described herein is a table that may include a table top
constructed from plastic. For example, the table top may be constructed from molded plastic
using blow-molding, injection molding, rotary molding or other suitable molding processes.
The molded plastic table top may provide a relatively rigid, high-strength structure that is
capable of withstanding repeated use and wear.        The molded plastic table top may also be
relatively quickly, easily and efficiently manufactured. In addition, the molded plastic table top
may be readily molded into the desired size and shape, such as for a utility table, card table,
personal table and the like. The molded plastic table top may be relatively lightweight because,
for instance, it may include a hollow interior portion that is formed during the molding process.
The molded plastic table top may further include two opposing walls, which may be spaced
apart by a generally constant and/or predetermined distance, and that may help increase the
strength and rigidity of the table top. The table top may also include one or more depressions,
tack-offs or other structures which may be sized and configured to help support an opposing
surface.   Additionally, the molded plastic table top may be generally weather resistant and
temperature insensitive.     Further, the molded plastic table top may not corrode, rust or
otherwise deteriorate over an extended period of time, which may help create a long-lasting
table.
[0012]      Yet another embodiment described herein is a table that may be sized and
configured to facilitate stacking a plurality of tables. In addition, the tables may be sized and
configured to be easily aligned. Advantageously, the table top may be sized and configured to
facilitate both stacking and alignment of the tables. Significantly, the tables may be aligned
vertically, horizontally or at an angle depending, for instance, if the tables are to be shipped,

stored, displayed, or the like. If desired, the stacked tables may lock or have a tendency to stay
together. For instance, a friction or interference fit between adjacent stacked tables may tend to
maintain the tables in a stacked configuration. If the tables have a penchant to stay together,
this may help reduce damage to the tables during shipping, storage and/or display.
[0013]      Still yet another embodiment described herein is a table that may be sized and
configured to nest with an adjacent table. Advantageously, nested tables may allow a plurality
of tables to be stored in a smaller area, which may substantially reduce storage and shipping
costs. The nested tables may also allow a greater number of tables to be stored in the same area
as conventional tables that do not nest together. In addition, the nested tables may help protect
the tables from damage. Significantly, the nested tables may have the same general footprint as
a conventional table, but the nested tables may allow significantly more tables to be disposed
on a pallet, in a shipping container or in a given storage space.
[0014]      A further embodiment described herein is a table top that may facilitate stacking and
nesting. For example, the table top may be constructed from molded plastic, such as blow
molded plastic, and it may include a downwardly extending lip disposed about an outer edge or
perimeter of the table top. The lip may be disposed about the entire periphery of the table top
and it may be unbroken or uninterrupted. The lip may be aligned with or proximate an outer
surface or sidewall of the table top and the thickness of the lip may vary. For instance, the
thickness of the lip along the sides and/or ends of the table top may be generally constant
and/or the same, but the thickness of the lip in the corners may be significantly smaller because
an inner surface of the lip may be curved or disposed towards the outer surface of the lip.
[0015]      A still further embodiment described herein is a table top that may include a portion
of a lip sized and configured to contact or abut an upper surface of an adjacent, nested table.
For example, the lip may include a contact surface that is sized and configured to contact or
abut the upper surface of the adjacent, nested table. The contact surface may be generally
planar, smooth and free from projections to match the corresponding upper surface of the table
top of the adjacent, nested table. The contact surface may have generally the same size along

one or more of the sides and/or ends of the table top. The contact surface may have a different
size in the corners of the table top. For example, the contact surfaces in the corners may have a
width generally equal to or more than fifty percent (50%), seventy-five (75%) or ninety (90%)
smaller than the width of the contact surfaces along the sides and/or ends of the table top. All
or a portion of the corners may also not include a contact surface depending, for example, upon
the configuration of the table top.
[0016]      Yet another further embodiment described herein is a table top that may include an
engaging or nesting portion sized and configured to be disposed in a receiving portion of an
adjacent, nested table. The engaging portion may be an outwardly extending protrusion that
projects from a lower portion of the lip and the engaging portion may be sized and configured
to fit within the receiving portion, such as a groove or cutout, of the adjacent, nested table.
Advantageously, the engaging portion may directly support at least a portion of the weight
and/or forces applied to the tables in the nested configuration, which may help prevent damage
to the tables. For example, when the tables are stacked in a horizontal configuration, the
engaging portion of one table top may contact the receiving portion of the adjacent, stacked
table in a manner that allows the stacked tables to support a significant amount of weight
without damage to the tables. This may allow ten, twenty, thirty or more tables to be disposed
in a stacked configuration without damaging any of the tables. In addition, the engaging and
receiving portions may facilitate stacking, storing and/or shipping of the tables because these
components may help maintain the tables in the stacked configuration and ensure the weight is
properly and/or evenly distributed.
[0017]      Another embodiment described herein is a table top that may include an engaging
portion constructed from molded plastic, such as compression molded plastic, which may be
formed during a blow-molding process. Advantageously, the molded plastic engaging portion
may help create a stronger, more rigid and/or increased impact resistant structure, which may
enhance the durability and usefulness of the table.      In addition, if the engaging portion is
constructed from compression molded plastic, that may allow the engaging portion to be

relatively thin because there is little or no gap or space between the walls of the compression
molded plastic structure.
[0018]      Still another embodiment described herein is a table top that may include an
engaging portion, such as a protrusion, which facilitates nesting and stacking of the tables. The
protrusion may include a hollow interior portion that is in direct communication with a hollow
interior portion of the lip and/or the table top. Advantageously, the table top, lip and protrusion
may be integrally formed as part of a unitary, one-piece construction if the table top is
constructed from blow-molded plastic. In addition, the hollow interior portions of the table top,
lip and protrusion may be simultaneously formed during the blow-molding process.               The
protrusion, however, does not require a hollow interior portion and it could, for example, be an
at least substantially solid structure.   For example, the protrusion could extend downwardly
from a lower portion of the lip and the upper portion of the protrusion could be generally
aligned with the lower portion of the lip.
[0019]      Yet another embodiment described herein is a table top that may include a receiving
or nesting portion, such as a groove, channel or recessed portion, sized and configured to
receive a portion of an adjacent table top to facilitate nesting of the tables. For example, the
receiving portion may be disposed about an upper surface and/or outer perimeter of the table
top. In greater detail, the receiving portion may be disposed in the upper, outer perimeter of the
table top and it may have a generally L-shaped configuration with a lower surface generally
parallel to the upper surface of the table top and a side wall generally perpendicular to the
upper surface of the table top. An engaging portion of an adjacent, stacked table top may be
disposed in the receiving portion to allow the tables to be nested together.
[0020]      Still yet another embodiment described herein is a table top that may have
dimensions similar to a conventional table top, but the table top can be nested with an adjacent
table top to reduce the height of the stacked tables. Advantageously, because the nesting table
top may have the same general size and configuration as a conventional table top, the nesting
table top may have the same general strength, structural integrity, rigidity and/or torsion

resistance as a conventional table top. The similar size and configuration of the table tops may
allow consumers to immediately infer the nesting table tops have the same general strength,
structural integrity, rigidity and/or torsion resistance as conventional table tops. The nesting
table tops, however, may significantly decrease the height of two or more stacked tables. The
substantial decrease in height of the nested tables may result in considerable space savings that
may be very important to the manufacturer during the manufacturing and shipping process; to
the retailer when storing or displaying the tables; and/or to a consumer purchasing, transporting
or storing more than one table.
[0021]      A further embodiment described herein is a table top that may be nested with an
adjacent table top to reduce the height of two or more stacked tables, which may result in a
significantly reduced height in comparison to conventional tables that do not nest together. For
example, known tables may have a table top with a height of about two and one-eighth (2.125)
inches and thirty (30) of these conventional tables would have a stacked height of at least 63.75
inches. An exemplary embodiment of a nesting table top may have an overall height of about
one and five-eighths (1.625) inches and it may overlap with an adjacent table by about one
eighth (0.125) inch so the height of the table top in the nested configuration may only be about
one and one-half (1.5) inches. Consequently, the nested tables may have a reduction in height
of about one-eighth (0.125) inch per stacked table in comparison to conventional tables. Thus,
the height of thirty nested tables may be only about 45.125 inches while the height of thirty
stacked conventional tables is much larger.        Therefore, the nesting table tops may greatly
increase the number of tables that can be stacked on a pallet or shelf, or disposed in a shipping
container or truck.
[0022]      A still further embodiment described herein is a table top that may be nested with
another table top to decrease the height of the nested table top by about seven percent (7%) or
more. For example, the height of a single table top may be about one and five-eighths (1.625)
inches. When the table top is nested with another table top, the height of the table top may be
about one and one-half (1.5) inches because a portion of the table tops may overlap. In this

embodiment, the nested table top results in a decrease in height of each stacked table by about
one-eighth (0.125) inch. Therefore, the height of a table top in the stacked configuration may
be about seven percent (7%) less than in the non-stacked configuration. This may result in
significant savings and cost advantages because, for example, considerably more tables may be
stored, transported or displayed in the same area; or the same number of tables may be stored,
transported or displayed in an area that is at least seven percent smaller. When large volumes
of tables are being transported, such as in a standard or high-capacity shipping container, this
may result in sizeable cost savings and advantages.
[0023]       Yet another further embodiment described herein is a table top that may be nested
with another table top to reduce the height of the nested table top by approximately twenty
percent (20%) or more. For example, the height of a conventional blow-molded plastic table
top is typically two (2.0) or more inches. The nesting table top may have a height of about two
(2.0) inches when it is not nested with another table top, but the nesting table top may have a
height between about one and one-half (1.5) and one and three-quarters (1.75) inches when
nested with another table top. This may result in a significant reduction in height between
twelve and one-half percent (12.5%) and twenty-five percent (25%) when two table tops are
nested together. In particular, if the nested table tops are decreased in height by about twenty
percent (20%), then the tables may have a height of about 1.6 inches in the nested
configuration.
[0024]       Another embodiment described herein is a frame that may be sized and configured
to facilitate stacking of the tables. For example, the frame may include side rails and a lower
portion or surface of the side rails may be sized and configured to contact an upper surface of
an adjacent, stacked table. In particular, the lower portions of the side rails may have generally
flat, planar surfaces that are generally aligned with and contact the upper surface of an adjacent
table top when the tables are disposed in a stacked configuration. Advantageously, the frame
may provide additional contact areas between adjacent, nested tables.

[0025]      Still another embodiment described herein is a table that may be sized and
configured to nest with an adjacent, stacked table in which a weight or force is supported by
multiple areas, in different locations and/or by different surfaces.          Advantageously, the
multiple contact areas may allow stresses and forces to be disposed over a larger area and that
may help prevent damage to the tables. For example, a lower portion of the lip may include a
contact surface sized and configured to contact the upper surface of the adjacent table top. In
addition, an engaging portion may be sized and configured to contact a receiving portion of the
adjacent, stacked table. Further, the frame may include a lower surface sized and configured to
contact the upper surface of the adjacent table top.       When two or more tables are nested
together, the multiple contact areas may facilitate stacking of the tables without marring or
otherwise damaging the tables.
[0026]      These and other aspects, features and advantages of the present invention will
become more fully apparent from the following brief description of the drawings, the drawings,
the detailed description of preferred embodiments and appended claims.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0027]      The appended drawings contain figures of exemplary embodiments to further
illustrate and clarify the above and other aspects, advantages and features of the present
invention. It will be appreciated that these drawings depict only exemplary embodiments of the
invention and are not intended to limits its scope. Additionally, it will be appreciated that while
the drawings may illustrate preferred sizes, scales, relationships and configurations of the
invention, the drawings are not intended to limit the scope of the claimed invention.          The
invention will be described and explained with additional specificity and detail through the use
of the accompanying drawings in which:
[0028]      Figure 1 is an upper perspective view of an exemplary table;
[0029]      Figure 2 is a lower perspective view of the table shown in Figure 1, illustrating the
support structures or legs in an extended or use position;

[0030]       Figure 3 is another lower perspective view of the table shown in Figure 1,
illustrating the support structures or legs in a collapsed position;
[0031]       Figure 4 is a perspective view of two exemplary tables in a vertically aligned
configuration;
[0032]       Figure 5 is a perspective view of the tables shown in Figure 4, illustrating the tables
in a nested configuration;
[0033]       Figure 6 is an enlarged cross-sectional perspective view along lines 6-6 of a portion
of the tables shown in Figure 5;
[0034]       Figure 7 is an enlarged cross-sectional side view along lines 7-7 of a portion of the
tables shown in Figure 5;
[0035]       Figure 8 is an enlarged cross-sectional side view along lines 8-8 of a portion of a
table shown in Figure 4;
[0036]       Figure 9 is an enlarged cross-sectional side view along lines 9-9 of a portion of a
table shown in Figure 4; and
[0037]       Figure 10 is an enlarged cross-sectional side view along lines 10-10 of a portion of
the table shown in Figure 4.
                DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0038]       The present invention is generally directed towards a table with a nesting table top.
The principles of the present invention, however, are not limited to tables with nesting table tops.
It will be understood that, in light of the present disclosure, the tables disclosed herein can have
a variety of shapes, sizes, configurations and arrangements.         It will also be understood the
tables may include any suitable number and combination of features, components, aspects and
the like. In addition, while the tables shown in the accompanying figures are illustrated as
being banquet or utility tables, it will be appreciated the tables could be other suitable types of
tables such as round, personal, conference or card tables. Further, the invention disclosed
herein may be successfully used in connection with other types of furniture and/or structures.

[0039]      Additionally, to assist in the description of exemplary embodiments of the table,
words such as top, bottom, front, rear, right and left may be used to describe the accompanying
figures which may be, but are not necessarily, drawn to scale. It will further be appreciated the
tables can be disposed in a variety of desired positions or orientations, and used in numerous
locations, environments and arrangements. A detailed description of exemplary embodiments
of the table now follows.
[0040]      As shown in Figure 1, an exemplary table 10 may include a table top 12 and the
table top may be constructed from molded plastic.        The table top 12 may include an upper
portion or surface 14, a lower portion or surface 16, a first side 18, a second side 20, a first end
22 and a second end 24. The table top 12 may also include a perimeter 26, which may include
an outer edge or sidewall. As shown in the accompanying figures, the table top 12 may have a
rectangular configuration with four corners 28, but it will be understood that the table top may
have any number of corners and it may have other shapes and configurations such as square,
triangular, polygon, round and the like. In addition, it will be understood that the upper portion
14 may be spaced apart from the lower portion 16 of the table top 12 by a distance, which may
be a generally constant distance, and a hollow interior portion may be disposed between the
upper and lower portions of the table top.
[0041]      In greater detail, the table top 12 may be constructed from blow-molded plastic and
the hollow interior portion may be formed during the blow-molding process. The table top 12
may also be integrally formed during the blow-molding process as part of a unitary, one-piece
construction or structure. It will be appreciated that the table top 12 may also be constructed
using other suitable processes such as injection molding, rotary molding, extrusion molding,
thermoforming, vacuum forming and the like. It will further be appreciated that the table top
12 may be constructed using other materials such as wood, metal, composites and the like
[0042]      As shown in Figures 2 and 3, he table top 12 may also include an outwardly
extending lip 30. In particular, the lip 30 may extend downwardly from the lower portion 16 of
the table top and the lip may include an inner portion 32, an outer portion 34 and a lower

portion 36. As shown in the accompanying figures, the lip 30 may have a generally U-shaped
configuration and the inner portion 32, the outer portion 34 and the lower portion 36 may have
generally flat or planar surfaces. The lip 30 may also be disposed about the perimeter 26 or
outer edge of the table top 12. In particular, the lip 30 may be disposed about the boundary or
periphery of the table top 12 with the outer portion 34 of the lip generally aligned with the
sidewall of the table top 12. It will be understood that all or a portion of the lip 30 may also be
spaced inwardly from the perimeter 26 of the table top 12. Additionally, it will be understood
that the lip 30 could have other appropriate configurations such curved, rounded, V-shaped and
the like.
[0043]       The lip 30 may extend completely around the perimeter 26 of the table top 12. In
particular, the lip 30 may be disposed about the entire perimeter 26 of the table top 12 and the
lip may be unbroken or uninterrupted. Thus, for example, if the table top 12 does not fold-in
half, the lip 30 may be a continuous structure with no breaks or openings. On the other hand, if
the table top 12 does fold-in-half, then the lip may be a continuous structure on each half of the
table top. The lip 30 could also be contiguous and may include one or more portions that abut
or are disposed proximate to each other. In addition, the lip 30 could include one or more
sections that are spaced apart by a distance.
[0044]       The inner and outer portions 32, 34 of the lip 30 may be separated by a distance,
which may be referred to as a thickness or width of the lip. The thickness of the lip 30 may be
generally constant along one or more of the sides 18, 20 and/or ends 22, 24 of the table top 12.
In particular, the thickness of the lip 30 may be the same along the sides 18, 20 and ends 22, 24
of the table top 12. The lip 30, however, may have a different thickness in one or more of the
corners 28. For example, the lip 30 in the corners 28 may have a much smaller thickness than
along the sides 18, 20 and/or ends 22, 24. Specifically, the inner portion 32 of the lip 30 in the
corners 28 may be disposed towards the outer portion 34 of the lip to decrease the thickness.
For instance, the inner portion 32 of the lip 30 may be curved towards the outer portion 34 of
the lip. In greater detail, as shown in the accompanying figures, the inner portion 32 of the lip

30 may have a curvilinear configuration with at least one outwardly curved portion 38 in each
of the corners 28.
[0045]      For example, the lip 30 may have a thickness in the range between about three
quarters (0.75) inch and about one and one-half (1.5) inches along the sides 18, 20 and ends 22,
24 of the table top 12. In particular, the lip 30 may have a thickness of about one and one
quarter (1.25) inches along the sides 18, 20 and ends 22, 24 of the table top 12. While the lip
30 may have generally the same size along the sides 18, 20 and ends 22, 24 of the table top 12,
each or both of the sides and/or the ends could be larger or smaller. For example, the ends 22,
24 could be slightly larger than the sides 18, 20 because that portion of the lip 30 could help
strengthen that portion of the table top 12. As discussed above, the lip 30 in the corners 28 may
have a much smaller thickness. For instance, the lip 30 in the corners 28 may have a thickness
in the ranged between about one-eighth (0.125) inch and about three-quarters (0.75) inch.
Preferably the lip 30 in the corners 28 has a thickness of about one-half (0.5) inch. Thus, the
thickness of the lip 30 in the corners 28 may be less than half the thickness of the lip in the
sides 18, 20 and/or ends 22, 24 of the table top 12.
[0046]      The inner portion 32 of the lip 30 may further include one or more alignment
members 40, which may extend inwardly from the inner portion of lip and may be disposed
along the sides 18, 20 of the table top 12. The alignment members 40 may be located at least
proximate the outwardly curved portions 38. In particular, an alignment member 40 may be
disposed    adjacent to the outwardly curved portion 38 in each of the corners 28.
Advantageously, the table top 12, the lip 30, the outwardly curved portions 38 and/or the
alignment members 40 may be integrally formed as part of a unitary, one-piece structure if the
table top is constructed from blow-molded plastic. In addition, the table top 12, the lip 30, the
outwardly curved portions 38 and/or the alignment members 40 may include hollow interior
portions that are formed during the blow-molding process and these hollow interior portions
may be in direct communication.

[0047]      The table 10 may also include a frame 42 and a portion of the frame may be
disposed at least proximate the lip 30. Advantageously, the alignment members 40 may help
position the frame 42. For example, the ends of the frame 42 may be disposed proximate or
contact an engagement surface 44 of the alignment members 40. In greater detail, the frame 42
may include a first side rail 46 disposed at least proximate a first portion of the lip 30 disposed
along the first side 18 of the table top 12 and a second side rail 48 disposed at least proximate a
second portion of the lip disposed along the second side 20 of the table top. The first and
second side rails 46, 48 may be disposed between the alignment members 40. In addition, an
end of the side rails 46, 48 may be sized and configured to abut or contact the engagement
surfaces 44 of the alignment members 40, which may help maintain the side rails in a fixed
position. Further, the side rails 46, 48 may be at least partially or substantially enclosed by the
lower portion 16 of the table top 12, the lip 30 and/or the alignment members 40. This may
beneficially help maintain the frame 42 and/or the side rails 46, 48 in a fixed position, which
may help create a more sturdy and robust table 10. The table 10 may also support a larger
amount of weight or force because the side rails 46, 48 may be at least partially enclosed and
the frame 42 may be securely connected to the table top 12 in a fixed position.
[0048]      The table 10 may also include a one or more support structures 50, which may be
sized and configured to support the table top 12 above a surface such as the floor or ground.
The support structures 50 may include one or more legs or supports 52 and the support
structures may be movable between an extended or use position and a collapsed or storage
position relative to the table top 12.     As shown in the accompanying figures, the support
structures 50 may include a pair of legs or supports 52 and a connecting member 54 may
interconnect the supports.
[0049]      If desired, the support structures 50 may be connected to the frame 42. In addition,
the support structures 50 may be movably connected to the frame 42 to allow the legs 52 to
move between an outwardly extending or use position and a collapsed or storage position. For
example, the support structures 50 may include or be connected to cross members 56, 58 and

the legs 52 may be connected to the cross members. The cross members 56, 58 may then be
connected to the frame 42. In particular, the cross members 56, 58 may be connected to the
side rails 46, 48 of the frame 42. It will be appreciated that the cross members 56, 58 may also
be part of the frame 42.
[0050]       The support structures 50 and/or the legs 52, however, do not have to be connected
to the cross members 56, 58 or the frame 42. Instead, the support structures 50 and/or the legs
52 may be connected to any suitable portions of the table 10. It will also be appreciated that the
table 10 may include any suitable number of support structures 50 and/or legs 52 depending,
for example, upon the intended use of the table. In addition, it will be appreciated that the table
top 12, the support structures 50 and the legs 52 may have various sizes, shapes, configurations
and arrangements depending, for example, upon the intended use of the table 10. It will further
be appreciated that the frame 42, the side rails 46, 48 and/or the cross members 56, 58 are not
required; and the table 10 may have other components, features, aspects, characteristics and the
like, if desired.
[0051]       The table 10 may also include first and second brace assemblies 60, 62, which may
be connected to the support structures 50. In particular, the first and second brace assemblies
60, 62 may be connected to the legs 52 and may be sized and configured to allow the legs to
move between the use and storage positions. The brace assemblies 60, 62 may include a first
portion 64 connected to the legs 52 and a second portion 66 connected to a cross member 68
and/or the table top 12. The brace assemblies 60, 62 may be locked in position by a locking
mechanism such as a locking ring.
[0052]       The table 10 is preferably sized and configured to be stacked with one or more
additional tables.   The tables 10 are preferably nested together to reduce the height of the
stacked tables, which may allow the tables to be shipped, stored and transported in a smaller
area. This may result in significant cost savings to the manufacturer, for example, because less
storage space may be required and a substantial reduction in transportation costs may be
achieved.

[0053]       The table 10, for example, may include a first surface, such as a contact surface 70,
that is sized and configured to contact an adjacent, nested table. The contact surface 70 may be
part of the lip 30 and the contact surface may be sized and configured to contact an upper
portion of the adjacent, nested table. In particular, the contact surface 70 may be a first portion,
such as an interior portion, of the lower portion 36 of the lip and the contact surface may have a
generally planar, flat or level configuration.      Additionally, the contact surface 70 may be
disposed in a single plane and the contact surface may be disposed generally parallel to the
upper portion 14 of the table top 12. Advantageously, the contact surface 70 may be sized and
configured to abut or contact a portion of the upper surface of the adjacent, nested table. Thus,
the contact surface 70 may be a smooth surface that is at least substantially free from
projections to match the generally flat, even upper surface of the adjacent, nested table. It will
be appreciated that the contact surface 70 may also have configurations and arrangements
depending, for example, upon the shape, contour or form of the adjacent, nested table.
[0054]       In greater detail, the contact surface 70 may be a continuous surface that is
unbroken or uninterrupted. For instance, if the table top 12 does not fold-in-half, the contact
surface 70 may not include any openings or breaks. However, if the table top 12 does fold-in
half, then the contact surface 70 may include portions that are contiguous, abutting or spaced
apart. While the contact surface 70 may be disposed at least proximate the perimeter 26 of the
table top 12 and may extend about the entire lower surface 16 of the table top, the contact
surface could also be spaced inwardly and may include any suitable number of openings or
gaps.
[0055]       Significantly, if the contact surface 70 is disposed about at least a majority of the
table top 12, the contact surface may have a large surface area and that may allow the nested
tables to support a significant amount of weight or force without being damaged because the
load may be spread out over a larger area. Further, the contact surface 70 may be disposed
towards an inner portion of the lower portion 36 of the lip 30 so that it can contact the upper

surface of the adjacent, stacked table. It will be understood that the contact surface 70 may also
be formed by other suitable portions of the lip 30 and/or table top 12.
[0056]      The table top 12 may also include an engaging portion 72 that is sized and
configured to be disposed in a receiving portion of an adjacent, stacked table. In particular, the
engaging portion 72 may be sized and configured to nest or be inserted into a receiving portion
of the adjacent, stacked table to allow a portion of the table top 12 to overlap, mesh or engage
the table top of the adjacent, stacked table.
[0057]      For example, as shown in the accompanying figures, the engaging portion 72 may
extend outwardly from the lip 30.          In particular, the engaging portion 72 may extend
downwardly from a second or outer portion of the lower portion 36 of the lip 30. In addition,
the engaging portion 72 may be disposed adjacent to the contact surface 70. For example, if
the contact surface 70 is formed by a first, inner portion of the lower portion 36 of the lip 30,
then the engaging portion 72 may be formed by a second, outer portion of the lower portion of
the lip. Advantageously, if the contact surface 70 and engaging portion 72 are disposed next to
each other, multiple adjacent surfaces may contact or abut when the tables 10 are nested
together.
[0058]      In greater detail, the engaging portion 72 may be disposed about the perimeter 26 of
the table top 12. The engaging portion 72 may also be generally aligned with the outer edge or
sidewall of the table top 12.       While the engaging portion 72 may be disposed about the
periphery of the lip 30 and/or the table top 12, the engaging portion may also be spaced
inwardly.    Advantageously, the engaging portion 72 may be a continuous structure that is
disposed along the first and second sides 18, 20, the first and second ends 22, 24 and the
corners 28 of the table top 12. If the engaging portion 72 is uninterrupted, then it may provide
a large contact area with an adjacent, stacked table. The engaging portion 72, however, could
also be a contiguous structure with one or more portions that abut or disposed proximate to
each other. It will be appreciated that the engaging portion 72 could further include one or

more portions that are spaced apart depending, for example, upon the configuration of the table
top 12.
[0059]       The engaging portion 72 may have a generally constant size, such as height and
width, and it may have a generally U-shaped configuration. For example, the engaging portion
72 may include an inner portion 74 disposed towards the contact surface 70 and an inner
portion of the table top 12, an outer portion 76 disposed towards the outer portion 34 of the lip
30, and a lower portion 78. The engaging portion 72 may also include one or more surfaces
and these surfaces may be sized and configured to contact or abut the table top of an adjacent,
stacked table.
[0060]       The engaging portion 72 may be formed from compression molded plastic. For
example, if the table top 12 is formed from blow-molded plastic, then the engaging portion 72
may be compression molded during the blow-molding process.            The compression molded
engaging portion 72 may be formed by having the inner portion 74 and the outer portion 76
directly touch or contact each other so there is no gap between the inner and outer portions.
Because the compression molded engaging portion 72 may have a double-wall thickness, it
may create a stronger, more rigid and/or more impact resistant structure. The compression
molding may allow the engaging portion 72 to be relatively thin because there is little or no
space between the inner and outer walls 74, 76 of the compression molded plastic structure.
[0061]       The engaging portion 72 may also be formed from other suitable processes. For
example, the engaging portion 72 may include a hollow interior portion that is in direct
communication with a hollow interior portion of the lip 30 and/or the table top 12. If the table
top 12 and the engaging portion 72 are constructed from blow-molded plastic, then the table
top, the lip 30 and the engaging portion may be integrally formed as part of a unitary, one-piece
construction.
[0062]       As mentioned above, the engaging portion 72 may have a generally uniform size
and configuration. In addition, the engaging portion 72 may be directly adjacent to the contact
surface 70. For example, the engaging portion 72 may have a width between about one-eighth

(0.125) inch and about one-half (0.5) inch. In particular, the engaging portion 72 may have a
width of about two-tenths (0.2) inch or about one-quarter (0.25) inch. The engaging portion 72
may have a height between about one-tenth (0.1) inch and about one-half (0.5) inch.
Preferably, the engaging portion 72 has a height of about one-eighth (0.125) inch.
Advantageously, the engaging portion 72 may be integrally formed with the table top 12 as part
of a unitary, one-piece construction.   In addition, the relatively small size of the engaging
portion 72 may allow it to be created during the manufacturing process.          For instance, the
engaging portion 72 may be a protrusion that is formed during a molding process, such as
blow-molding.
[0063]      While the engaging portion 72 may have a consist size, the contact surface 70 may
change in size. For example, the contact surface 70 may have a size in the range between about
one-half (0.5) inch and about one and one-half (1.5) inches along the sides 18, 20 and the ends
22, 24 of the table top 12. In particular, the contact surface 70 may have a size of about one
(1.0) inch along the sides 18, 20 and the ends 22, 24 of the table top. The contact surface 70,
however, may be much smaller in the corners 28. For instance, the contact surface 70 may
have a size in the range between about one-eighth (0.125) inch and about one-half (0.5) inch,
such as about one-quarter (0.25) inch. The contact surface 70 may also be smaller and may be
almost or completely nonexistent in the corners 28.       One or more portions of the contact
surface 70 may also be larger, such as at or proximate the alignment members 40, depending,
for example, upon the intended use of the table 10. Advantageously, the constant size of the
engaging portion 72 may facilitate stacking and alignment of the tables 10. In addition, the
constant size of the engaging portion 72 may allow the tables 10 to be stacked in different
arrangements and orientations. The smaller size of the contact surfaces 70 in the corners 28
may facilitate manufacturing of the table top 12, especially if the table top is constructed from
blow-molded plastic. The smaller size of the contact surfaces 70 in the corners 28 may also
help prevent the corners 28 from being damaged by, for example, limiting the amount of
weight or force applied to the corners.     The larger, generally constant size of the contact

surfaces 70 along the sides 18, 20 and ends 22, 24 may help distribute weight or force more
evenly on the nested table. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate, after reviewing the
disclosure herein, the contact surfaces 70 and engaging portions 72 may have other shapes,
sizes, configurations and arrangements depending, for example, upon the type or intended use
of the table 10.
[0064]       The table top 12 may include a receiving or nesting portion 80 that is sized and
configured to facilitate nesting of the tables. The nesting portion 80 is preferably disposed
about the perimeter 26 of the table top 12. In particular, the nesting portion 80 is preferably
disposed about the entire perimeter 26 of the table top 12 including the sides 18, 20, the ends
22, 24 and the corners 38. The nesting portion 80 may be at least partially disposed in the
upper surface 14 and the sidewall of the table top 12. Desirably, the nesting portion 80 may be
disposed below a plane aligned with the upper surface 14 of the table top 12. The nesting
portion 80 is preferably sized and configured to receive the engaging portion 72 of an adjacent,
nested table. The nesting portion 80 may be integrally formed with the table top 12 as part of a
unitary, one-piece construction during the molding process if, for example, the table top is
constructed from molded plastic.
[0065]       In greater detail, the nesting portion 80 may be disposed at least proximate the
intersection of the upper surface 14 and the perimeter or side wall 26. Additionally, the nesting
portion 80 may have a generally L-shaped configuration that is open on two sides, which may
help facilitate alignment and nesting of the tables 10. As shown in the accompanying figures,
the nesting portion 80 may be a groove or channel with a height H and a width W. The height
H is preferably between about one-tenth (0.1) inch and about one-half (0.5) inch, such as about
one-eighth (0.125) inch, and the width W may be larger than the height by a factor such as two,
three or more. For example, the width W may be approximately two times the height H such
that, in this exemplary embodiment, if the height is about one-eighth (0.125) inch, then the
width may be about one-quarter (0.25) inch. The height H and the width W may also be
approximately the same. For instance, if the height H is about one-eighth (0. 125) or about one-

quarter (0.25) inches, then the width W may also be about one-eighth (0.125) or about one
quarter (0.25) inch. It will also be appreciated that the width W may be smaller than the height
H. Thus, for example, if the height H is about four-tenths (0.4) inch, then the width W may be
about three-tenths (0.3) inches or less. It will be understood that the height H and/or the width
W may vary depending, for example, upon the intended use of the table 10.
[0066]      The exemplary dimensions for the contact surface 70, the engaging portion 72 and
the nesting portion 80 given about may be used in connection with a table top 12 that has a lip
30 with a height of about one and one-half (1.5) inches measured from the upper surface 14 to
the lower portion 36. It will be understood that the contact surface 70, the engaging portion 72
and/or the nesting portion 80 could also larger or smaller depending, for example, upon the
size, shape, configuration or arrangement of the table top 12. It will also be understood that the
table top 12, along with one or more of its various components and features, may have other
suitable sizes, shapes, configurations and arrangements depending, for example, upon the
intended use of the table 10.
[0067]      As discussed above, the nesting portion 80 may be sized and configured to receive
the engaging portion 72. In particular, the inner portion 74 of the engaging portion 72 may
contact a sidewall 82 of the receiving portion 80 and/or the lower portion 78 of the engaging
portion may contact a lower wall 84 of the receiving portion. For example, the inner portion 74
of the engaging portion 72 may have a height substantially equal to the height of the nesting
portion 80 and the lower portion 78 of the engaging portion may have a width substantially
equal to the width of the nesting portion. Advantageously, because the receiving portion 80
may be a strong and sturdy portion of the table top 12, the lower wall 84 may be able to support
a relatively large amount of force or weight. In addition, the contact of the inner portion 74 of
the engaging portion 72 with the sidewall 82 of the receiving portion may help align the tables
10 and may tend to keep the tables in the nested configuration. While the receiving portion 80
may be sized and configured to receive the engaging portion 72 of an adjacent, stacked table
and the receiving portion may be disposed about the entire perimeter 26 of the table top 12, the

receiving portion can also have other appropriate shapes, sizes, configurations               and
arrangements depending, for example, upon the engaging portion and/or the intended use of the
table 10.
[0068]      Advantageously, the nested tables may have multiple contact surfaces or areas. In
addition, the contact areas or surface may be continuous or uninterrupted, which may allow
forces to be more evenly distributed.      For example, the lower portion 78 of the engaging
portion 72 may contact or abut the lower wall 84 of the receiving portion 80 of the adjacent,
stacked table. The inner portion 74 of the engaging portion 72 may also contact or abut the
sidewall 82 of the receiving portion 80 of the adjacent, stacked table. Additionally, the contact
surface 70 may contact or abut the upper surface 14 of the adjacent, stacked table.          The
multiple contact areas may create multiple load bearing surfaces that allow a load or force to be
shared or distributed over a larger area, which may permit the table 10 to support more weight
and may help prevent damage to the table top 12.
[0069]      In addition, the frame 42 may include one or more surfaces that are sized and
configured to contact or abut an adjacent, nested table. For example, a lower surface 86 of the
side rails 46, 48 of the frame 42 may be sized and configured to contact or abut the upper
surface 14 of the adjacent, nested table. Thus, the frame 42 may also help protect the table top
12 of the adjacent, nested table from damage because it may provide another area of contact
between adjacent, nested tables 10. Therefore, the frame 42 may further help distribute loads
or forces over a larger area, which may increase the amount of weight that may be supported by
a table 10.
[0070]      Advantageously, the engaging portion 72 and the receiving portion 80 may facilitate
nesting of the tables 10, which may significantly reduce the height of a plurality of stacked
tables. The reduction in height of the stacked tables 10 may be particularly advantageous when
manufacturing, shipping, storing and displaying of the tables. Further, while the table top 12
may have the same general size, configuration and appearance as a conventional table top, the
table top 12 may allow two or more stacked tables to be nested together.

[0071]      For instance, the table top 12 may have a height measured from the upper surface 14
to the lower portion 78 of the engaging portion 72 that is about one and five-eighths (1.625)
inches. Because the engaging portion 72 may be disposed in a receiving portion 80 of an
adjacent, nested table 10, the table may only have a height of about one and one-half (1.5)
inches in the stacked configuration. This may result in a decrease in height of a table 10 in the
stacked configuration of more than seven percent (7%). This may allow seven percent more
tables to be loaded into a conventional shipping container. This may also allow the same
number of tables 10 to be disposed in an area that is seven percent smaller than a conventional
table with the same size and shape.
[0072]      One of ordinary skill in the art may appreciate after reviewing this disclosure that
the tables disclosed herein may have a number of different aspects, features, characteristics and
configurations. The tables may also have other suitable aspects, features, characteristics and
configurations such as disclosed in Assignee's U.S. patent no. 7,069,865, entitled HIGH
STRENGTH, LIGHTWEIGHT BLOW-MOLDED PLASTIC STRUCTURES, issued July 4,
2006;    U.S.   patent   application   serial no.   11/372,515,    entitled  HIGH-STRENGTH,
LIGHTWEIGHT BLOW-MOLDED PLASTIC STRUCTURES, filed March 9, 2006; U.S.
patent application serial no. 13/455,041, entitled TABLES WITH NESTING TABLE TOP,
filed April 24, 2012; U.S. patent application serial no. 13/455,055, entitled FRAME FOR A
TABLE, filed April 24, 2012; U.S. patent application serial no. 13/455,073, entitled TABLE
WITH MOLDED PLASTIC TABLE TOP, filed April 24, 2012; U.S. patent application serial
no. 13/455,076 entitled TABLE WITH MOLDED PLASTIC TABLE TOP, filed April 24,
2012; U.S. patent application serial no. 13/455,081, entitled TABLE TOP, filed April 24,
2012.; and U.S. patent application serial no. 13/455,066, entitled TABLE, filed April 24, 2012.
Each of these patents and applications are incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[0073]      Although this invention has been described in terms of certain preferred
embodiments, other embodiments apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art are also within

the scope of this invention. Accordingly, the scope of the invention is intended to be defined
only by the claims which follow.
[0074]      In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the
word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
[0075]      It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.

              THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
        1.       A blow-molded plastic table top sized and configured to nest with a blow
molded plastic table top of an adjacent table to reduce a height of a plurality of stacked tables in
a nested configuration, each table top of a plurality of stacked tables being substantially
identical, the table top comprising:
                 an upper surface;
                 a sidewall extending downwardly relative to the upper surface;
                 a nesting portion at least partially formed in the upper surface and the sidewall,
        the nesting portion including a groove disposed at least proximate a hollow interior
        portion, the hollow interior portion being formed during a blow-molding process;
                 a lower surface spaced apart from the upper surface by a distance, the lower
        surface and the upper surface at least partially defining the hollow interior portion; and
                 a lip downwardly extending from the lower surface, the upper surface, the
        sidewall, the nesting portion, the lower surface, and the lip being integrally formed as
        part of a unitary, one-piece structure during the blow-molding process, the lip
        comprising;
                         a contact surface in a first lower portion of the lip, the contact surface
                 sized and configured to contact an upper surface of a table top of an adjacent
                 table when the table is nested with the adjacent table; and
                         an engaging portion in a second lower portion of the lip, the engaging
                 portion sized and configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of a table top of
                 the adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table.
        2.       The table top as in Claim 1, wherein the nesting portion is disposed about an
upper perimeter of the table top;
        wherein the engaging portion is disposed about a lower perimeter of the table top; and

         wherein the contact surface is disposed directly adjacent to the engaging portion in the
second lower portion of the lip.
         3.      The table top as in Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein the table top is constructed from
blow-molded plastic and the upper surface, the sidewall, the nesting portion, the lower surface,
the lip, the contact surface and the engaging portion are integrally formed as part of a unitary,
one-piece construction during the blow-molding process.
         4.      The table top as in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the table top has a
wall thickness measured between an inner surface and an outer surface; and
         wherein the engaging portion has a thickness approximately equal to twice the wall
thickness.
         5.      A table sized and configured to nest with an adjacent table to reduce a height of
a plurality of stacked tables in a nested configuration, each table of a plurality of stacked tables
being substantially identical, the table comprising:
                 a table top constructed from blow-molded plastic, the table top comprising:
                          an upper surface;
                          a sidewall;
                          a lower surface spaced apart from the upper surface by a distance, the
                 lower surface and the upper surface at least partially defining a hollow interior
                portion formed during a blow-molding process;
                          a nesting portion disposed at least proximate a perimeter of the table top,
                 the nesting portion including a groove disposed at least proximate the hollow
                 interior portion;

                        a lip, the upper surface, the sidewall, the lower surface, the nesting
                portion, and the lip being integrally formed as part of a unitary, one-piece
                structure during the blow-molding process;
                        a contact surface in a first lower portion of the lip sized and configured
                to contact an upper surface of a table top of an adjacent table when the table is
                nested with the adjacent table;
                        an engaging portion in a second lower portion of the lip sized and
                configured to be disposed in a nesting portion of a table top of the adjacent table
                when the table is nested with the adjacent table;
                a frame comprising:
                        a first side rail disposed at least proximate a first side of the table top, a
                lower portion of the first side rail sized and configured to contact an upper
                surface of the adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent table; and
                        a second side rail disposed at least proximate a second side of the table
                top, a lower portion of the second side rail sized and configured to contact an
                upper surface of the adjacent table when the table is nested with the adjacent
                table; and
                one or more support structures connected to the table top, the support structures
        movable between an extended position and a collapsed position relative to the table top.
        6.      The table as in Claim 5, wherein the table top is constructed from blow-molded
plastic and the upper surface, the sidewall, the lower surface, the nesting portion, the lip, the
contact surface and the engaging portion are integrally formed as part of a unitary, one-piece
construction during the blow-molding process.
        7.      The table as in Claim 5 or Claim 6, wherein the contact surface is directly
adjacent to the engaging portion in the second lower portion of the lip.

        8.      The table as in Claim 5 or Claim 6, wherein the engaging portion is disposed
about an outer periphery of the second lower portion of the lip; and
        wherein the contact surface is disposed about an inner periphery of the first lower
portion of the lip.
        9.      The table as in any one of Claims 5 to 8, wherein the contact surface has a
generally constant width along a side of the table top; and
        wherein the contact surface has a width in a corner less than one-half the width along
the side of the table top.
        10.     The table as in any one of claims 5 to 8, wherein the contact surface has a
generally constant width along a first side of the table top, a second side of the table top, a first
end of the table top and a second end of the table top; and
        wherein the contact surface has a width in a corner that is less than one-half the width
along the first side, the second side, the first end or the second end.
        11.     A blow-molded plastic table top sized and configured to nest with an adjacent
table top when the table tops are disposed in a stacked configuration, the table top comprising:
                an upper portion;
                a sidewall;
                a receiving portion disposed at least proximate an intersection of the upper
        portion and the sidewall, the receiving portion including a groove disposed at least
        proximate a hollow interior portion, the hollow interior portion being formed during a
        blow-molding process;
                a lower portion spaced apart from the upper portion by a distance, the lower
        portion and the upper portion at least partially defining the hollow interior portion;

                a lip extending downwardly from the lower portion, the upper portion, the
        sidewall, the receiving portion, the lower portion, and the lip being integrally formed as
        part of a unitary, one-piece structure during the blow-molding process;
                a contact surface formed by a first lower portion of the lip, the contact surface
        sized and configured to contact an upper portion of a table top of an adjacent, stacked
        table; and
                an engaging portion formed by a second lower portion of the lip, the engaging
        portion sized and configured to be disposed in a receiving portion of a table top of an
        adjacent, stacked table.
        12.     The table top as in Claim 11, wherein the contact surface is directly adjacent to
the engaging portion.
        13.     The table top as in Claim 11, wherein the engaging portion is disposed about an
outer periphery of the second lower portion of the lip; and
        wherein the contact surface is disposed about an inner periphery of the first lower
portion of the lip.
        14.     The table top as in any one of Claims 11 to 13, wherein the contact surface has a
generally constant width along a side of the table top; and
        wherein the contact surface has a width in a corner less than one-half the width along
the side of the table top.
        15.     The table top as in any one of Claims 11 to 13, wherein the contact surface has a
generally constant width along a first side of the table top, a second side of the table top, a first
end of the table top and a second end of the table top; and

        wherein the contact surface has a width in a corner of the table top that is less than one
half of the width along the first side, the second side, the first end or the second end of the table
top.
         16.     The table top as in any one of Claims 11 to 15, wherein a lower portion of the
engaging portion contacts a lower wall of a receiving portion of a table top when the table top
is nested with an adjacent, stacked table; and
        wherein the contact surface contacts an upper portion of a table top when the table top is
nested with an adjacent, stacked table.
         17.     The table top as in any one of Claims 11 to 16, further comprising:
                 a frame attached to the table top, the frame including a first side rail disposed at
        least proximate a first portion of the lip disposed along a first side of the table top and a
        second side rail disposed at least proximate a second portion of the lip disposed along a
        second side of the table top;
                 a first pair of alignment members extending inwardly from an inner portion of
        the first portion of the lip, the first side rail disposed between the first pair of alignment
        members, the first pair of alignment members including a lower surface generally
        aligned and coplanar with the contact surface; and
                 a second pair of alignment members extending inwardly from an inner portion
        of the second portion of the lip, the second side rail disposed between the second pair of
        alignment members, the second pair of alignment members including a lower surface
        generally aligned and coplanar with the contact surface.
         18.     The table top as in any one of Claims 11 to 16, further comprising a frame
attached to the table top, the frame comprising:

                a first side rail disposed at least proximate a first portion of the lip disposed
        along a first side of the table top, the first side rail including a lower portion generally
        aligned and coplanar with the contact surface; and
                a second side rail disposed at least proximate a second portion of the lip
        disposed along a second side of the table top, the second side rail including a lower
        portion generally aligned and coplanar with the contact surface.
        19.     The table top as in any one of Claims 11 to 18, wherein the table top is
constructed from blow molded plastic and the lip, the engaging portion and the contact portion
are integrally formed as part of a unitary, one-piece structure during the blow-molding process;
and
        wherein the table top, the lip and the engaging portion each include a hollow interior
portion that is formed during the blow-molding process, the hollow interior portions of the
table top, the lip and the engaging portion being in direct communication during the blow
molding process.
        20.     The table top as in Claim 11, wherein the contact surface has a width generally
equal to or smaller than a width of the engaging portion in a corner of the table top; and
        wherein the contact surface has a width at least twice as large as a width of the engaging
portion along a first side and along a second side of the table top.

                                              <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                              14                              10
                                    18
          22
                                         12
28
                                                         26
                                                                    24
                         20
                    54             30
                                                                            1 / 10
     52
               50
                                                    54
                                                                    52
                                               50
                          Fig. 1

                                                                                       <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
10                                                                          50
                                                                            54                   52
                                                        64
          50
                                                  62
                                        20                                             24
                              52                                                                                    2 / 10
                                   60                                                            34
                                                                                                 36
                                                                                                 32
                         54                                                                           38
                                                                                                      28
                    46                                                                           26
                                                                                            58
                                                                                       16
                                                                                  36
                                                                             18
     40                                                                66
          30                                                      12
                                                             68
               22                                  42
                         56                  48
                                                                  Fig. 2

                                                                                      <removed-apn>                 <removed-date>
                                                                                          40
                                                                                          16 76
      10                                                         86                          72        74
                                                                                             78        70
                                                                                                       24
                                                   12
                                              68                                                                    36
                                         52                                                                         30
                                                                                                                    32    40
                                    20
                                                                                                                          38
                          54
                42                                                                                                   58
          46                                                                                                                   3 / 10
                                                                                                            64
                                                                                                  54
                                                                                            62
                                                                                     52
40                                                                              18
                                                                           66
     22                                                               60
           26
                                                            48
                     34
                               40
                               28
                                                        Fig. 3

                                           <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                                      10
                                      10
                                                  24
                       18
                  14
             12
                                                                 30
                                                        26
                                             20
    22                           26                                       4 / 10
                                                  24
                       18                                    8
                                                                      8
                  14
             12
         9
9                                                       30
                                                  80
    22                                20
                            Fig. 4

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     6/7
          14                               6/7
     12
                                                 5 / 10
                                     80
12
               Fig. 5

                                                     <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
     12   14              40           44               82        80
                                                                          84
16                                                                        28
                                             32
                                                                          34
                                             42
                                                                          30    6 / 10
               52    58    48
12
                                                                          28
16
                                             32
                                                                          34
                                                                          30
                          40    44
                52        58    48   42 70   36 74           76
                                                78           72
                          Fig. 6

                                   <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
     12        40    44                 82
                                        80
                                        84
                                              30
                                              26
                                              76
12                                            74
                                              72            7 / 10
                                  82          78
                                  80
                                  84
                                              30
                                              26
                                              76
                                              72
          40        44       70    74    78
                    Fig. 7

                                  <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
     12   14   40    44                82
                                       80
                                       84
16
                                             30
                                                           8 / 10
                                             26
                                             76
                                             72
                             70   74    78
                    Fig. 8

                             <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
12   14                         82
                                80
                                84
     16                               30
                                                    9 / 10
                                      26
                                      76
                                      72
                   70   74       78
          Fig. 9

                                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
12   14                  82
                         80
                         84
                                   30
     16                                                  10 / 10
                                   76
                                   72
             70     74        78
          Fig. 10

