                                              ABSTRACT
The present invention provides a plasma ignition plug for an internal combustion engine, the plasma
ignition plug comprising: a generally cylindrical insulating body having a proximal end and a distal
end; a central anode co-axially disposed within the insulating body and generally coextensive
therewith; a generally semi-spherical emitter disposed in the distal end of the insulating body and
electrically connected to the central anode; a terminal disposed in the proximal end of the insulating
body and electrically connected to the central anode; and a generally cylindrical cathode sleeve co
axially disposed around the distal end of the insulating body and having a torus-shaped ring encircling
and immediately adjacent to the emitter, wherein the ring and emitter form an annular spark gap
opening from the distal end of the insulating body without obstruction.
FIG. 1

WO 2015/057915               PCT/US2014/060816
                    1/6
               24
                          18
                             22
                                    20
                      116
                  FIG. 1

                 PLASMA IGNITION PLUG FOR AN INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINE
                                     TECHNICAL FIELD
This disclosure is directed to an ignition source for use with internal
combustion engines.
RELATED APPLICATION
[Para 1] This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/891,551, filed on October 16, 2013.
BACKGROUND
[Para 2] Plasma ignition properties are not currently provided by conventional
spark ignition devices such as spark plugs. The field of spark-type devices is
densely populated by more than 1,000 patented spark emitter and plasma
propagation devices. The field of plasma-arc igniter systems is also densely
populated but largely relegated to uses not affiliated with internal combustion
engines. All such devices are typically comprised of (a) an anode bar which is
inserted longitudinally through the center of (b) an insulating porcelain material
comprised of a vitreous or glassine ceramic of various types, (c) a fitted metallic
cathode material comprised of various materials, which is affixed to the ceramic
insulating material using various strategies and techniques, (d) all of which
incorporate a wide variety of spark-gap geometries ranging from a simple
spark bar separated from the tip of the anode bar to various types of cages,
                                                                               PCT APP
                                                                         SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

plates, layered materials, and other strategies intended to amplify or enhance
the effectiveness of the spark emitted into the cylinder of the engine during
ignition cycles.
[Para 3] The current disclosure is distinguished from prior art devices of the
same class by at least one of (a) the materials incorporated into its design, (b)
the geometry of its ignition tip, and (c) its electronic and electrical properties. A
singular and common short-coming of spark plugs in general is that the
metallic elements incorporated into their manufacture are incapable of emitting
a spark across the ignition gap that efficiently ignites, beyond a finite limit, the
air and fuel droplets compressed in the cylinder during the detonation phase.
The limitations of current 'spark emitter' devices are the product of (a) marginal
conductivity of the metallic elements, (b) electrical persistence demonstrated by
the metallic elements, and (c) a finite limit to electrical saturation provided by
the porcelain ceramic insulating materials.
[Para 4] The normal air-to-fuel ratio supported by conventional devices is
generally recognized as 14.7:1. Newer engines have recently been
manufactured which operate at an elevated ratio of 22:1. This elevated level of
air-to-fuel mixtures represents the upper limit of operability in conventional
internal combustion engine devices because the amount of electrical current
(including a number of variable input properties) that can be tolerated by
conventional spark plugs cannot exceed this level of performance. In order to
efficiently detonate a fuel-air mixture at a higher ratio the ignition source must
be designed to tolerate much higher current levels, faster switching times, and
                                        2
                                                                                 PCT APP
                                                                           SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

higher peak amplitudes than can be supported by any currently available
devices.
[Para 5] The above references to the background art do not constitute an
admission that the art forms part of the common general knowledge of a
person of ordinary skill in the art. The above references are also not intended to
limit the application of the process as disclosed herein.
SUMMARY
[Para 6] Disclosed herein is a plasma ignition plug for an internal combustion
engine, the plasma ignition plug comprising:
[Para 7]                    a boron-nitride ceramic insulating body having a proximal end and
a distal end;
[Para 8]                    a thorium-alloyed tungsten central anode co-axially disposed
within the insulating body;
[Para 9]                    a titanium semi-spherical emitter disposed in the distal end of the
insulating body and electrically connected to the central anode;
[Para 10]                   a terminal disposed in the proximal end of the insulating body and
electrically connected to the central anode; and
[Para 11]                   a beryllium or vanadium-alloyed copper cathode sleeve co-axially
disposed around the distal end of the insulating body and having a torus
shaped ring encircling and immediately adjacent to the emitter, wherein the
ring and emitter form an annular spark gap opening from the distal end of the
insulating body without obstruction.
                                                      3
                                                                                            PCT APP
                                                                                      SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

[Para 12] In some forms this plasma ignition plug is designed to replace a spark
plug. The plasma generated by the inventive ignition plug may increase
molecular dissociation of the fuel such that virtually 100% combustion is
achieved, with a decrease in heat generation, an increase in horsepower, and
near complete remediation of the exhaust profile.
[Para 13] The plasma ignition plug incorporates the following elements into its
design:
[Para 14] Electrical Saturation: The conventional porcelain glassine ceramic
insulation material used in spark plugs of current manufacture is replaced by a
vitreous machinable ceramic, such as boron-nitride. Vitreous machinable
ceramics such as boron-nitride are available in various formulations and
generally reduce to a glassine ceramic crystalline insulator when exposed to
appropriately applied temperatures and pressures. Other examples include
RESCORTM alumina and alumina silicate machinable ceramics provided by
Catronics Corp. Such machinable ceramic insulator materials provide elevated
electrical saturation limits which are shown by manufacturer's specifications to
exceed conventional porcelain spark plug insulation materials by as much as
1800 times. The use of such materials renders the current disclosure capable of
supporting input levels of current in the range of 75,000 volts DC at up to 7.5
amperes. Tests demonstrate that electrical current applied at this level breaches
the tolerances of the most advanced conventional devices resulting in
catastrophic failure in identical test protocols within less than 15 seconds. The
test results for the current disclosure demonstrate its ability to accommodate
                                       4
                                                                               PCT APP
                                                                         SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

switched and sustained inputs at this level for indefinite periods without
damage or deterioration.
[Para 15] Switchinq Times: The nature of spark-type ignition devices of current
manufacture induces residual persistence of each electrical impulse as it is
delivered by the ignition coil and distributor apparatus. Beyond a certain
switching threshold, shown by manufacturers of the best commercially available
racing-type spark plugs to be less than 5 milliseconds, the spark arc passing
from the anode to the cathode at each ignition event becomes a continuous
arcing sequence. The result of this material-based limitation is that a
significant amount of the induced spark impulse is retained by the metallic
materials of the spark plug and not delivered to the gases in the cylinder. It has
been repeatedly shown that the efficiency of combustion in an ignition system
is a function of numerous combined variables, including (a) switching times, (b)
amplitude peaks, (c) pulse duration, (d) pulse discriminator curve slopes, (e)
resonance, capacitance and impedance in the arc emitter, and (f) insulation
efficiencies. The current disclosure resolves the issues which limit the
performance of conventional spark-emitter devices by including in its
manufacture (a) thorium-alloyed tungsten as the anode material, (b) titanium as
the plasma emitter tip, (c) vitreous machinable ceramics as the ceramic
insulation material, and (d) beryllium-alloyed copper as the cathode housing.
These materials demonstrate electrical discharge persistence at less than 2.1 x
10-6 watts per pulse at 75,000 volts @ 6.5 amps when switched at intervals of 5
x    10-7 seconds with 5            x 10-8 discriminator durations. This performance level is
                                                   5
                                                                                         PCT APP
                                                                                   SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

fully 1000 times better than any conventionally manufactured spark emitter yet
manufactured.
[Para 16]                   Combustion Efficiency: The nature of the ignition cycle in internal
combustion engines relies on (a) the ratio and efficiency with which air is mixed
with finely atomized fuel vapor inside the cylinder, (b) the amount of heat and
pressure applied to the air-fuel mixture in the cylinder prior to ignition, (c) the
properties of the ignition source, and (d) the geometry of the physical
apparatus in which the fuel is combusted. The current disclosure may increase
combustion efficiency by enabling the combustion of air-to-fuel mixtures in
the range of 30:1 - 40:1, with a resulting increase in actual output in the form
of usable horsepower, a concomitant reduction in fuel consumption per unit of
output, a decrease in the operating temperature of the engine, and substantial
remediation of the exhaust constituents, to as little as 1.0 parts-per-million to
2.5 parts-per-billion. The current disclosure accomplishes this in some forms
by (a) delivering an ignition source that is at least 1000 times greater in
amplitude than a conventional spark plug, and (b) introducing a dissociating
plasma field prior to the ignition event which serves to fully dissociate the
long-chain hydrocarbon molecules characterizing petroleum-based fuels. By
exposing virtually all carbon ions held in the molecular chain to free oxygen
molecules carried by the air component of the fuel-air mixture, the percentage
of carbon ions which are effectively oxidized results in a substantial increase in
ignition pressure output and virtual elimination of un-ignited carbon
particulates in the exhaust profile.
                                                    6
                                                                                            PCT APP
                                                                                      SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

[Para 17]                   Plasma-Induced Iqnition: Plasma-induced ignition of compressed
mixtures of petroleum-based fuels and air has been shown to (a) increase
combustion efficiency, (b) increase combustion effectiveness, (c) increase work
function output, (d) reduce operating temperatures, and (e) remediate exhaust
emission profiles. To date it has not been possible to introduce an effective
plasma-based ignition component to conventional internal combustion engines
because the materials used to manufacture conventional spark plugs are
incapable of accommodating the electrical and signal input levels required to
create plasma fields which can be sufficiently dense, adequately amplified, and
effectively switched in extended operation.
[Para 18]                   In one particular embodiment, a plasma ignition plug according to
the present disclosure includes a generally cylindrical insulating body having a
proximal end and a distal end. A central anode is coaxially disposed within the
insulating body and generally coextensive therewith. A generally semi
spherical or hemispherical emitter is disposed in the distal end of the insulating
body and electrically connected to the central anode. A terminal is disposed in
the proximal end of the insulating body and electrically connected to the
central anode. A generally toroidal cathode sleeve is coaxially disposed around
the distal end of the insulating body and forms an annular gap between the
cathode sleeve and the emitter.
[Para 19]                  The equatorial diameter of the emitter is approximately equal to
the inner diameter of the hollow insulating body. The cathode sleeve may be
threaded and configured to be compatible with a threaded port on an internal
                                                    7
                                                                                          PCT APP
                                                                                    SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

combustion engine. The insulating body is in some forms made from a
vitreous, machinable ceramic. A preferred example of such a material is boron
nitride ceramic powder compressed with a machinable composition, which is
subsequently heated and compressed to a glassine crystalline structure.
[Para 20]                  The central anode is in some forms made from a thorium-alloyed
tungsten. The emitter is in some forms made from titanium and press-fitted
onto the central anode. The cathode sleeve is in some forms made from
beryllium-alloyed copper or vanadium-alloyed copper.
[Para 21]                  The emitter in some forms extends beyond the distal end of the
cathode sleeve. The insulating body electrically insulates the central anode
from the cathode sleeve along its length. The annular gap formed between the
emitter and the torus on the distal end of the cathode sleeve is not interrupted
by the insulating body.
[Para 22]                  The plasma ignition plug may be constructed using the general
shapes and configurations described above, the materials described above, or a
combination of both.
[Para 23]                   Other features and advantages of the present disclosure will
become apparent from the following more detailed description, taken in
conjunction with the accompanying drawings, which illustrate, by way of
example, the principles of the disclosure.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                                                    8
                                                                                          PCT APP
                                                                                    SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

[Para 24]                  The accompanying drawings illustrate the disclosure. In such
drawings:
[Para 25]                   FIGURE 1 is a perspective view of the plasma ignition plug of the
present disclosure.
[Para 26]                   FIGURE 2 is a front view of the plasma ignition plug of the present
disclosure.
[Para 27]                   FIGURE 3 is an exploded view of the plasma ignition plug of the
present disclosure.
[Para 28]                   FIGURE 4 is a close-up view of the annular gap of the plasma
ignition plug of the present disclosure.
[Para 29]                   FIGURE 5 is a schematic illustration of an OEM system including the
inventive plasma ignition plug.
[Para 30]                   FIGURE 6 is a schematic illustration of an integrated plug and wire
retrofit used with the inventive plasma ignition plug.
[Para 31]                   FIGURE 7 is a schematic illustration of a retrofit system for use with
the inventive plasma ignition plug.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[Para 32] In the following detailed description, reference is made to
accompanying figures which form a part of the detailed description. The
illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description, depicted in the
figures and defined in the claims, are not intended to be limiting. Other
embodiments may be utilised and other changes may be made without
                                                   9
                                                                                              PCT APP
                                                                                        SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented. It will be
readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure, as generally
described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged, substituted,
combined, separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations,
all of which are contemplated in this disclosure.
[Para 33] This disclosure is directed to an ignition source for use with internal
combustion engines. More particularly, the disclosure is directed to a plasma
ignition plug designed to replace a spark plug. The plasma generated by the
ignition plug increases molecular dissociation of the fuel such that virtually
 100% combustion is achieved, with a decrease in heat generation, an increase in
horsepower, and near complete remediation of the exhaust profile.
[Para 34]                  The plasma ignition plug 10 may accommodate a specially
designed plasma emitter shown in separate tests to emit a highly energized
arc-driven plasma field when subjected to a properly designed power supply
and switching system. The device as shown in FIGS 1-4 is constructed of (a) an
anode 12 made from thorium-alloyed tungsten rod stock, (b) an insulator 14
made from a vitreous machinable ceramic material such as boron-nitride, (c) a
hemispherical field emitter 16 made from titanium, and (d) a cathode sleeve 18
made from either beryllium-alloyed copper or vanadium-alloyed copper. The
cathode 18 has a torus-shaped ring 20 near the emitter 16. The body of the
cathode 18 is in some forms tooled and threaded 22 to fit into an engine port
                                                   10
                                                                                       PCT APP
                                                                                 SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

configured to receive a spark plug in a typical internal combustion engine. A
terminal or ignition input cap 24 is press-fitted on the end of the anode 12
opposite the cathode 18.
[Para 35]                  The inventive plasma ignition plug delivers much higher current to
the ignition cycle in nanosecond bursts. Instead of simply producing an
ignition arc, the inventive plasma plug produces a plasma so powerful that it
disassociates water molecules in open air and burns them with a brilliant arc.
When exposed to the plasma field of the inventive plasma ignition plug,
gasoline molecules are broken into single ionic radicals which are then ignited
by an equally powerful arc. The result is that in some forms fuel molecules are
completely burned with hydrocarbon particulates being virtually eliminated in
amounts less than 2.5 parts per billion. In addition, in some forms, carbon
monoxide is completely eliminated and the entire exhaust profile is remediated.
When used in two-stroke oil additive vehicles, the six carcinogenic exhaust
contaminants typically produced by such engines are completely eliminated.
Vehicles tested with plasma ignition plugs according to the present disclosure
demonstrate significant increases in horsepower output and gas mileage.
Emission tests performed on such vehicles demonstrates a significant reduction
or total elimination of the most dangerous exhaust contaminants. Additional
components can be used with the inventive plasma ignition plugs to increase
electrical discharge levels, control switching rates, recalibrate ignition timing,
and recalibrate fuel-air ratios.
                                                   11
                                                                                         PCT APP
                                                                                   SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

[Para 36]                  The current disclosure resolves one or more of the underlying
issues of prior art spark plugs by adopting the following design distinctions:
[Para 37]                  Thorium-alloyed Tungsten Anode: Thorium-232 is useful as an
alloy in devices that propagate finely controlled electronic systems because the
232 isotope of Thorium continuously emits free electrons (6.02 x 1017 per
square cm/sec) without also exhibiting the release of any of the other emission
products associated with nuclear decay. In the inventive plasma ignition plug
 10, the free electrons supplied by the Thorium-232 increase the amount of
actual electron output by the emitter by 73.91%. This amplifying feature
renders the current disclosure functionally superior to any known devices of
similar construction or application. The anode 12 is in some forms made from
thorium-alloyed tungsten (3%). The thorium-alloyed Tungsten anode rod
allows for super fast switching with exceptionally low resistance. The material
allows for free electron field saturation with virtually zero residual charge
persistence.
[Para 38]                   Beryllium-alloyed Copper Cathode: Conventional iron-based
metals have been used in spark plug cathode systems for more than 130 years.
This convention has been adopted because steel cathodes are strong, relatively
inexpensive, and ubiquitously available. The short-comings of ferrous materials
in spark-plug applications only become important when desired input values
breach the tolerance thresholds that can be tolerated by this kind of material.
The present disclosure in some forms resolves or has an effect on this problem
by substituting beryllium-alloyed copper for conventional ferrous cathode
                                                    12
                                                                                          PCT APP
                                                                                    SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

materials. The alloy of copper with beryllium has the effect of (a) increasing the
tensile strength of copper, (b) increasing the softening point of copper, and (c)
amplifying the conductivity of copper in environments of elevated
temperatures. The cathode 18 is in some forms made from beryllium-alloyed
copper or vanadium-alloyed copper.                    The beryllium-alloyed copper cathode
provides extremely high conductance with amplified dielectric potential and
superior tensile strength compared to copper.
[Para 39]                  Titanium Plasma Emitter: The point of greatest exposure to
deterioration in every spark-emitter type device is the tip of the spark-emitting
anode. Recent advancements in materials technologies have produced anode
tips that are thinly coated with materials such as platinum and iridium. When
the test data of such coating materials is reviewed, it is clear that the actual
output of work-function in the form of usable energy is not improved by the
addition of these coating materials. Additionally, while the life-expectancy of
anode tips exposed to conventional input discharge impulses may have been
extended by this modification, conventional anode tips coated with platinum or
iridium catastrophically fail within 15 seconds or less when exposed to the
input levels required to create and propagate a continuous series of plasma
bursts.
[Para 40]                  The present disclosure in some forms solves or has an effect on
this problem by substituting a spherical propagation element or emitter 16
comprised of high purity titanium. The emitter 16 is in some forms on the order
of          inch in diameter - presented as either a sphere or a hemisphere. The
                                                  13
                                                                                          PCT APP
                                                                                    SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

thorium-alloyed tungsten anode rod 12 is press-fitted to the titanium emitter
16 to constitute a strong, highly conductive component that is fundamentally
resistive to deterioration under continuous operation at the levels contemplated
for plasma generation. When assembled with the cathode 18, the arc of the
emitter 16 - whether a sphere or a hemisphere - protrudes beyond an end of
the torus 20. The fact that titanium exhibits extremely low electrical
capacitance in the form of residual charge persistence renders it ideal for this
specific application. Titanium is also fundamentally resistant to deterioration
when employed as a high voltage anode. The titanium plasma emitter provides
extremely high resistance to high voltage/high amperage degradation with very
low residual charge persistence, very low resistance, high surface area
geometries, and extremely high temperature/pressure tolerance.
[Para 41]                   Field Propagation Mapping: The sufficiency of an electrical arc as
an ignition source in internal combustion engine-type devices is a function of
(a) source charge amplitude, (b) source charge duration, (c) geometry at the tip
of the emitter, and (d) surface area operating between the anode and cathode
elements. In conventional spark plug devices, a single bar of approximately
0.125" diameter is separated from a cathode element by a gap which is typically
in the range of 0.030" +/-. The highest efficiency devices (e.g., as approved by
NASCAR and Formula 1 racing organizations) consist of a single platinum
coated spark bar tip surrounded by three or more cathode tips. This
configuration has been adopted because it effectively increases the surface area
upon which the spark arc can operate.
                                                    14
                                                                                           PCT APP
                                                                                     SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

[Para 42]                  The current disclosure in some forms optimizes the relationship
between both the geometric and surface area components by using a spherical
anode emitter 16 which is separated from a torus 20 of the beryllium-alloyed
copper or vanadium-alloyed copper cathode 18 by a gap of approximately
0.030 inches. The tip of the emitter hemisphere protrudes beyond the end of
the torus 20 by approximately 0.020 inches. The vitreous machinable ceramic
insulator 14 is situated within 0.030 inches of the exposed surface of the
cathode torus 20. This combination of materials, along with curved geometric
sections and a closely-fixed insulator floor provides a conductive surface area
which is at least twenty-five times greater than the high performance NASCAR
racing-type spark plugs. In addition, the configuration of the plasma ignition
plug 10 forces the plasma field away from the tip of the propagation device
towards the head of the piston. The combination of increased surface area has
been shown to improve combustion effectiveness and efficiency by more than
68% when compared to NASCAR-type spark plugs in identical test applications
under typical 4-cycle gasoline burning internal combustion engine systems.
[Para 43]                  When high amplitude pulses are driven into the anode 12, the arc
that results reaches across the annular gap 26 at more than twenty-four spots
simultaneously. Under conventional input from a standard alternator and
ignition system (2500 rpm at 13.5 volts DC and 30 amps, converted to 50,000
volts DC and 0.0036 amps), the inventive plasma ignition plug 10 produces
twenty-five times more ignition flame front than a conventional spark plug.
When the ignition level is increased 1,800 times (75,000 volts DC and 6.5
                                                    15
                                                                                          PCT APP
                                                                                    SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

amps), the spark front is replaced by a plasma. No conventional spark plug can
tolerate current input levels such as this. At these conditions, the inventive
plasma ignition plug 10 increases molecular dissociation to near 100%
combustion with a decrease in heat, an increase in horsepower, and near
complete remediation of the exhaust profile.
[Para 44]                   Combustion Efficiency: A gasoline-based fuel-air mixture creates
an exhaust profile that is fundamentally different when ignited in the presence
of a conventional spark plug as compared to a plasma field. The increased
effect exerted by plasma fields on combustion dynamics results primarily from
the molecular dissociation that is induced on the long-chain hydrocarbon
molecules comprising the fuel by the plasma. Conventional combustion relies
on the combination of (a) heat, (b) pressure, (c) effective homogeneous mixing
of fuel and air molecules, and (d) an ignition source to oxidize hydrocarbon
molecules by combustion. The burning of petroleum-based fuels in a
pressurized environment typically creates cylinder-head pressures in the range
of 450-550 psi during conventional internal combustion engine operation. In
contrast, plasma-induced fuel combustion has been shown by the Russian
Academy of Science to create cylinder-head pressures in the range of 1120 psi
under identical conditions.
[Para 45]                  The advantage of the use of a plasma-induced combustion cycle is
that in some forms half the fuel mass normally combusted in a typical internal
combustion engine-system can be oxidized to create the same work-function
output values, all other variables remaining unchanged.
                                                    16
                                                                                          PCT APP
                                                                                    SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

[Para 46]                  The inventive plasma ignition plug may also include mono atomic
gold super conductors or orbitally reordered monotonic elements (ORME) within
the emitter. Such ORME may comprise mono atomic transitional group eleven
metallic powders, i.e., copper, silver, and gold. These powders exhibit type two
super conductivity in the presence of high voltage in EM fields and induce type
one super conductivity in contiguous copper and copper alloys.
[Para 47]                  The control of switching rates relies on maximum switching speeds
of up to one hundred thousand cycles per minute at six hundred nanoseconds
per pulse. In some forms, achievable switching rates include fifty nanosecond
rise time plasma field propagation, two hundred nanosecond plasma field
persistence, fifty nanosecond shutoff discriminator, fifty nanosecond rise time
combustion arc, two hundred nanosecond combustion arc duration at one
hundred times surface area, and fifty nanosecond shutoff discriminator. The
increased electrical discharge levels in some forms have an operating range of
 13.5 volts DC at one hundred amps up to seventy-five thousand volts DC at 7.5
amps. The plasma field is in some forms less than or equal to 13.5 volts DC at
forty-one thousand, six hundred sixty amps pulsed at two hundred
nanoseconds. The combustion arc is in some forms less than or equal to
seventy five thousand volts DC at 7.5 amps pulsed at two hundred
nanoseconds. The air:fuel ratio is preferably adjusted from 14:7-1 up to
 14:40-1. The ignition timing adjustment is in some forms digitally controlled
to forty degrees before top dead center.
                                                    17
                                                                                         PCT APP
                                                                                   SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

[Para 48]                   In conjunction with the inventive plasma ignition plug, the electrical
discharge cycle is also improved by advances in the ignition switching, the
transformer coil, and the spark plug wiring harness. The transformer coil
includes a novel electromagnetic core made from a nano-crystalline
electromagnetic core material. Such nano-crystalline material exhibits zero
percent hysteresis under load regardless of current levels. Vitroperm TM
manufactured by Vacuum Schmelze GmbH & Co. of Hanau, Germany is a
preferred example of the nano-crystalline material used.
[Para 49]                   In combination with the nano-crystalline electromagnetic core
material, the system designed for the electrical discharge cycle in combination
with the inventive plasma ignition plug uses a special type of cable or wire
designed to carry both alternating and direct currents. The wire is constructed
so as to reduce "skin effect" or "proximity effect" losses in conductors used at
frequencies up to about one megahertz. Such dual current wires consist of
many thin wire strands individually insulated and twisted or woven together in
one of several specifically prescribed patterns often involving several layers or
levels. The several levels or layers of wire strands refers to groups of twisted
wires that are themselves twisted together. Such a specialized winding pattern
may equalize the proportion of the overall length over which each strand is laid
across the outside surface of the conductor. While such dual current wires are
not superconductive, they operate with extremely low resistance to rapid pulses
of VDC current in the ranges discussed herein. When used as the primary
winding material for transformer coils, this dual current wire in some forms
                                                      18
                                                                                             PCT APP
                                                                                       SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

almost completely eliminates resistance losses, back eddy currents, and other
losses related to transforming VDC circuits. Such dual current wire is often
referred to as litz wire and is primarily used in electronics to carry alternating
current.
[Para 50]                  Another novel material used in the inventive system that impacts
the electrical discharge cycle is a dense core wire that incorporates intercalated
tellurium 128 with highly pure copper windings - an alloyed solid core
Tellurium-Copper wire. A particular version of this product goes by the brand
name Tellurium-Q* manufactured by Tellurium-Q Ltd. out of England. This
dense core wire was originally developed for use in high performance audio file
systems to reduce or eliminate phase distortion between the amplifier and
speaker components. When used as a replacement for spark plug wires such
dense core wire provides current delivery from the transformer and switching
system to the inventive plasma ignition plugs with virtually zero resistance and
virtually complete absence of phase distortion. This means that the signal
produced at the source can be delivered without degradation to the plasma
ignition plug on a continuous basis.
[Para 51]                  When a nano-crystalline electromagnetic core material such as
VitropermTM and litz wire are combined to transform the current delivered by
the alternator, they make it possible to create an integrated wire harness
designed to incorporate the ignition transformer coil directly into each wire.
Each wire has a separate ignition coil and switching module attached directly to
its end just before it is connected to each plasma ignition plug. These
                                                     19
                                                                                          PCT APP
                                                                                    SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

integrated wire harness components are only possible because the heat losses
due to resistance and hysteresis effects are virtually eliminated by the
components themselves. Previous attempts to do something similar, i.e., drag
racers and high performance engines used in Formula 1*, sometimes connect
each spark plug wire to a separate ignition coil using digital output controllers
to ensure that the output parameters do not overload the spark plugs. They
also include feedback circuits and sensors tied to wireless monitoring systems.
In the inventive system, each plasma ignition plug is tied to its own transformer
and switching module built right into the wire itself.
[Para 52]                   In addition, a novel wire harness sheathing is utilized in the
inventive system to cover the wire harness, in-line transformers, and in-line
switching systems. Fibers extruded from molten lava (basalt) in 0.5 micron
diameter cross-sections are collected on spools, woven together, and used for
various high-tech applications. The advantage of basalt fiber materials is that
they have a softening temperature of twelve hundred degrees centigrade, which
is the melting point of lava rock. Such materials are three times stronger than
boron-doped graphite fibers of the same diameter and can be bonded together
to create insulating materials that are flexible, exhibit extremely high resistance
to electrical saturation, and cannot be degraded by heat. Such material is also
absolutely non-conductive and exhibits zero static electricity when exposed to
magnetic fields. Such basalt fiber encasement makes the wire harness
components, including the dense core wire, in-line transformers, and digital
                                                       20
                                                                                              PCT APP
                                                                                        SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

switching modules virtually indestructible and extremely durable in persistent
use.
[Para 53]                   FIGURE 5 schematically illustrates a system on an original
equipment manufacture (OEM) engine using the inventive plasma ignition plug
10. The OEM system 30 includes the vehicle battery 32 electrically connected
to a fuse 34 which is in turn electrically connected to the ignition switch 36.
The ignition switch 36 is connected to the alternator 38 which supplies power
to the distributor module 40. Up to this point, the OEM system 30 very closely
resembles prior art designs. An output from the distributor module 40
connects to a spark controller 42 which in turn connects to a timing controller
44 that routes through a plug wire 46 to the plasma ignition plug 10. The
spark controller 42, timing controller 44, and plug wire 46 are as described
herein. All components of this OEM system 30 have appropriate grounding
connections 48 as shown.
[Para 54]                   FIGURE 6 schematically illustrates an integrated plug and wire
retrofit system 50 for use with the inventive plasma ignition plug 10. In this
retrofit system 50, a plug wire 46 extends from the distributor module 40.
Integral with the plug wire 46 is an integrated circuit board (ICB) switching
element 52 and a transformer 54. The ICB switching element 52 is a high
speed digitally controlled switch that is connected to the transformer 54. The
transformer 54 consists of a nano-crystalline material EM torus 56 and primary
and secondary windings 58 of dual current wires, i.e., litz wire. The switching
element 52 and transformer 54 combine to output a pulse that is initially high
                                                      21
                                                                                             PCT APP
                                                                                       SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

amperage and then switched to high voltage. The output from the transformer
54 connects to a plug cap 60 configured to connect directly to the plasma
ignition plug 10. Again each of the components has an appropriate grounding
connection 48 as shown. In some forms, the ICB switching element 52 is
controllable by a programmable microprocessor. The programmable
microprocessor may be integrated with the ICB switching element 52 or a
separate component that is connected to the ICB switching element 52 and
capable of controlling the same.
[Para 55]                  Typically, the pulse switching discussed above will convert the
output from the distributor module 40 first into a high amperage pulse, i.e.,
 13.5 volts DC at 30 amps, and then into a high voltage pulse, i.e., 50,000
75,000 volts DC at 0.0036 amps, with a total pulse duration of 200 n-sec. The
purpose of the switched pulse is to take full advantage of the plasma ignition
plug 10. When the plasma ignition plug 10 is pulsed with a very fast (50 n-sec)
high-rise burst of high amperage (square wave at 200 n-sec duration), the air
fuel mixture is molecularly dissociated into individual radicals and ions in a
plasma field. The plasma field is persistent even when the source of charge has
been terminated. The rate at which the source charge is fully terminated is
critical to the effectiveness of the dissociation function, so the switch must
convert the plasma field into an ignition field very quickly (50-100 n-sec).
While the constituent radicals and individual ions are still in a dissociated
plasma state, the introduction of the high voltage ignition source serves to
excite the oxidation reaction with extremely high efficiency. This operates
                                                    22
                                                                                           PCT APP
                                                                                     SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

without a flame front because the entire field now operates as a single ignition
point in a plasma.
[Para 56]                  That all constituents are temporarily suspended in a plasma field
creates a unique circumstance. Instead of just mixing finely divided fuel
droplets with intact air molecules which are by definition separated by
distances in the double-digit micron range during compression, the constituent
ions and radicals are held in atomic proximity. This brings then into a spatial
relationship that is between 5 and 6 orders of magnitude closer than prior art
fuel/air mixtures, while at the same time increasing surface area contact by a
similarly exponential increase. This is one factor contributing to the conditions
for complete combustion, i.e., all the ions and radicals of all the constituents.
Such results in all of these constituents reacting instantaneously upon the
introduction of high voltage while the plasma field continues to persist. When
the constituents interact to oxidize the fuel, the amount of energy released is
higher than with a prior art spark plug and ignition system because the ignition
conditions have been fundamentally altered. These improvements have
experimentally demonstrated a reduction in the amount of fuel to drive a load
by 68%-73%, a reduction in engine operating temperature by as much as 800 F,
fundamental alteration of exhaust profile, and high durability of plasma ignition
plug 10.
[Para 57]                  An alternate retrofit system 62 is shown in FIG. 7. This alternate
retrofit system 62 has a similar construction to that shown in the earlier
systems including the battery 32, fuse 34, ignition switch 36, alternator 38 and
                                                      23
                                                                                           PCT APP
                                                                                     SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

distributor module 40. This system also includes an ignition module 64
electrically connected to the alternator 38. The ignition module 64 acts as a
power transistor. In the alternate retrofit system 62 the plug wire 46 extends
directly from the distributor module 40 and includes an inline spark
transformer 66 and an inline digital switch 68 connected to the inventive
plasma ignition plug 10. Again appropriate components have grounding
connections 48 as shown. The retrofit replaces the original spark plug wires
with the new plug wire 46 including the inline transformer 66 and digital switch
68, along with the plasma ignition plug 10.
[Para 58]                   In a particularly preferred embodiment, the inventive plasma
ignition plug used in a four-cycle engine provides the following dynamics. The
fuel is atomized to 0.4 micrometer diameter droplets mixed with air in a fuel
injector/carburetor jet diameter of 0.056 centimeters. The air and fuel is
injected into the cylinder and a ratio of 14:7-1 mixture. Plasma propagation
occurs at an ignition point of twenty-two degrees before top dead center with
the plasma field propagated at fifty nanosecond rise time, two hundred
nanosecond duration, and fifty nanosecond shutoff duration at 13.5 volts DC at
forty-one thousand, six hundred sixty amps. At these values, the plasma field
disassociates long chain hydrocarbon molecules to individual ions, evenly
distributed at atomic scale proximity under pressure. The following ignition arc
occurs fifty nanoseconds after the collapse of the plasma field with an injection
ignition impulse at seventy-five thousand volts DC at 7.5 amps for two hundred
nanoseconds followed by a fifty nanosecond shutoff duration. The power
                                                      24
                                                                                            PCT APP
                                                                                      SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

stroke is driven by recombination and oxidation of the carbon fuel and oxygen
ions up to sixty percent higher than conventional combustion. The exhaust
stroke emissions exhibit up to forty-two percent lower carbon (2.5 PPMs),
regularized N02, regularized S02, and virtual elimination of carbon monoxide
and carbon dioxide. This plasma ignition plug produces more complete
combustion with nanosecond timing intervals to reduce cylinder head
temperatures by about eighty to one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit and
exhaust temperatures by about sixty to eighty degrees Fahrenheit. When the
ignition timing is adjusted to between thirty-five degrees and thirty-eight
degrees before top dead center, horsepower increases by about fifteen to
twenty-two percent depending upon the engine type and the fuel blend. When
the air to fuel ratio is adjusted to 40:1, the break horsepower output increases
with a reduction in fuel consumption by up to 62.1 percent overall.
[Para 59]                  The inventive plasma ignition plug produces similar benefits in a
two-stroke engine. Two stroke exhaust emissions typically include benzene,
 1,3-butadiene, benzo (a) pyrene, formaldehyde, acrolein, and other aldehydes.
Carcinogenic agents exacerbate the irritation and health risks associated with
such emissions. Two-stroke engines do not have a dedicated lubrication
system such that the lubricant is mixed with the fuel resulting in a shorter duty
cycle and life expectancy. Using the inventive plasma ignition plug, a two
stroke engine experiences ignition amplification where the normal magneto
output (fifteen thousand volts DC at ten amps) is amplified about four times to
sixty thousand volts at fourteen amps by virtue of the thorium-alloyed
                                               25
                                                                                          PCT APP
                                                                                   SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

Tungsten anode. The spark discharge surface area is increased from a single
spark bar (0.0181 square inches) to the halo emitter (0.0745 square inches)
an increase of 4.169 times. The total spark discharge density increase is
23.251 times. The exhaust emissions profile in a two-stroke engine shows a
decrease in hydrocarbon particulates by about eighty-seven percent,
elimination of carbon monoxide, conversion of NOX to N02, conversion of SOX
to S02, elimination of benzene, reduction of 1,3 butadiene by eighty-four
percent, elimination of formalins, and elimination of aldehydes. In some forms
the disclosure results in a reduction of those emissions. The horsepower is
increased by 12.4 percent and the engine temperature is decreased from two
hundred sixty degrees Fahrenheit to about one hundred eighty-seven degrees
Fahrenheit at six thousand RPM.
[Para 60]                  A test series of the inventive plasma ignition plug was designed to
(a) create a controlled vacuum with deliberately induced attributes, (b) visually
observe and empirically measure the results of the tests, (c) conduct a series of
tests based on incrementally controlled amounts of vaporized water, and (d)
digitally record the test results at each segment. A testing rig consistent with
the design of the plasma ignition plug 10 was constructed. In a test of a proto
type plasma ignition plug, a fly-back transformer producing 75,000 volts AC at
3.0 amps created a clearly visible plasma field. Cold ionized water vapor
generated by a conventional nebulizer was vented into the plasma field in open
air. The water vapor was dissociated, ionized, and detonated in open air.
                                                      26
                                                                                           PCT APP
                                                                                     SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

[Para 61]                  Although an embodiment has been described in detail for purposes
of illustration, various modifications may be made without departing from the
scope and spirit of the disclosure. Accordingly, the disclosure is not to be
limited, except as by the appended claims.
In the claims which follow and in the preceding summary except where the
context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication,
the word "comprising" is used in the sense of "including", that is, the features
as above may be associated with further features 30 in various embodiments.
                                             27
                                                                                        PCT APP
                                                                                  SVMTEC-5621 2
10257019 1 (GHMatters) P102818.AU.1

       1. A plasma ignition plug for an internal combustion engine, the plasma ignition plug
             comprising:
             a generally cylindrical insulating body having a proximal end and a distal end;
             a central anode co-axially disposed within the insulating body and generally co
extensive therewith;
             a generally semi-spherical emitter disposed in the distal end of the insulating
body and electrically connected to the central anode;
             a terminal disposed in the proximal end of the insulating body and electrically
connected to the central anode; and
             a generally cylindrical cathode sleeve co-axially disposed around the distal end
of the insulating body and having a torus-shaped ring encircling and immediately
adjacent to the emitter, wherein the ring and emitter form an annular spark gap opening
from the distal end of the insulating body without obstruction.
      2. The plasma ignition plug of claim 1, wherein the insulating body comprises a
             vitreous machinable ceramic powder.
      3. The plasma ignition plug of claim 2, wherein the vitreous machinable ceramic
              powder comprises a compressed machinable composition of boron-nitride.
      4. The plasma ignition plug of claim 1, wherein the central anode comprises a
             thorium-alloyed tungsten.
      5. The plasma ignition plug of claim 1, wherein the emitter comprises titanium and
              is press fitted on the central anode.
      6. The plasma ignition plug of claim 1, wherein the cathode sleeve comprises a
              beryllium-alloyed copper or a vanadium-alloyed copper.
      7. The plasma ignition plug of any of claims 1-6, wherein an equatorial diameter of
             the emitter is approximately equal to an inner diameter of the insulating body.
                                                 28
10267704 1 (GHMatters) P106833.AU.1

      8. The plasma ignition plug of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the cathode sleeve is
             threaded for compatibility with a threaded port on an internal combustion engine.
      9. The plasma ignition plug of any one of claims 1-6, wherein an arc of the semi
             spherical emitter extends beyond the distal end of the cathode sleeve.
       10.The plasma ignition plug of any one of claims 1-6, wherein the insulating body
             electrically insulates the central anode from the cathode sleeve along its length.
                                                 29
10267704 1 (GHMatters) P106833.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
