ABSTRACT
        A collection of data stored in a computer-readable storage medium is
provided, and a plurality of portions of the collection are associated with
corresponding identifiers that are associated with positions of an object to be
rendered. User selections of positions on the surface of the object are received.
The portions associated with the user selected position are determined, and the
portions are displayed at their respective position on the surface of the object. The
selected portions can be displayed as being connected by graphical elements.

                                          -1
                                         TITLE
  GRAPHICALLY REPRESENTING CONTENT RELATIONSHIPS ON A
                      SURFACE OF GRAPHICAL OBJECT
Cross Reference to Related Applications
[0001] This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. §19(e) to
U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/102,663, filed on October 3, 2008, the entire
contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.
                      BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
[0002] Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no
way be considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms
part of common general knowledge in the field.
[0003] The present invention generally relates to a method of organizing
information, and more particularly to a method of organizing information to
capture and graphically portray relationships among multiple pieces of
information of various types.
[0004] Efforts in the field of information architecture have been, and continue to
be, directed to finding methods to organize and access large amounts of
information in a cohesive manner. Large groupings or collections of information
often have interrelated pieces of information, which are not easily discoverable
due to the size or complexity of the groupings or collections. In addition to the
contents of the information itself, the relationships between portions of the
information can also provide valuable insight into the groupings or collections.
                         SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00051 It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least
one of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.

                                            -2
[0006] A collection of content, such as a collection of text documents is
associated with a graphical object, such as polyhedron having a plurality of
surfaces. The text collection is divided into a number of portions. A portion can
be a book, a chapter, a sub-chapter, a section, a sentence, or a term. Each portion
is associated with a position on one of the surfaces of the graphical object; in one
embodiment each portion is associated with a position identifier that maps the
portion to a specific location on one of the surfaces of the object. A given surface
can thus be associated with multiple portions of text, for example, the multiple
sentences within a chapter, and each sentence would have a distinct position on
the surface.
[0007]     The graphical object can be displayed, and can be graphically
manipulated, such as by rotation, tilt, and zoom operations, to display the various
surfaces, and the text thereon. A user inputs selections of locations on the
surfaces of the object. For each selected location, the text portion (e.g., term or
sentence) indexed to that location is determined. Multiple location selections can
be grouped together in a graphical arrangement displayed on the surfaces of the
object. For example, a user selection of three different locations can be shown as
connected by graphical elements, such as lines extending between selected
locations to form a triangle, over or through the surfaces of the object. The
graphical elements connecting the selected points can form a complex, irregular
shape depending on the selected locations.
[0008] In one embodiment, a grouped selection of locations and their associated
text portions is called a "facet." In this fashion, the user can more easily see the
relationships between the selected portions of text by observing different facets
that the user or others have created. In a typical use, a user may select multiple
locations where the term "Truth" appears in the text, and form a "facet" linking
these portions, thereby exposing an underlying semantic relationship between the
otherwise unrelated portions of the text.
[0009] Multiple facets can be further selected and grouped together to form a
more complex collection of related text; in one embodiment, a group of facets is
called a "diamond." The user can select the text portions either directly by
selecting specific locations on the surfaces of the object, or by searching for

                                           -3
keywords or phrases in the text, which then are displayed at their respective
locations. In one embodiment, facets and diamonds created by one or more
users can be shared in a community of users. Facets and diamonds can be ranked
according to frequency of access, popularity, or other measures of significance or
importance.
[0010] One embodiment provides a web server comprising a central processing
unit coupled to a memory storing a program that, when executed by the central
processing unit, causes the web server to provide an Internet-accessible website
that graphically presents a collection of data, wherein the website is controlled by
the central processing unit to:
          via an Internet communication cause a rendered 3D object to be
displayed on a user device used to access the website, the object representing a
collection of text data stored in the memory, wherein the collection of text data
includes indexed content portions, with each portion being associated with a
respective position on a surface of the object;
          enable at least three selections of the indexed content portions to be
identified to the central processing unit;
          based on determinations by the central processing unit of positions on
the surface of the object associated with the selections, via an Internet
communication cause the user device to rotate and tilt the object automatically in
order to display as many of the selections as possible and to form a facet
representing the selections, wherein the facet is formed of lines connecting each
selection with at least two other selections, and wherein each of the lines extends
from one of the positions on the surface of the object determined by the central
processing unit to another of the positions on the surface of the object determined
by the central processing unit; and
          via an Internet communication cause the user device to display text
associated with at least one of the selections.
[0011] One embodiment provides a non-transitory computer-readable storage
medium storing computer code that, when executed by a central processing unit
of a computer, causes the computer to act as a web server that performs a method

                                           -4
of a website for graphically presenting a collection of data, the method
comprising steps of:
          causing, via an Internet communication, a rendered 3D object to be
displayed on a user device used to access the website, the object representing a
collection of text data stored in a memory coupled to the central processing unit,
wherein the collection of text data includes indexed content portions, with each
portion being associated with a respective position on a surface of the object;
          receiving at least three selections of the indexed content portions to be
processed by the central processing unit;
          determining positions on the surface of the object associated with the
selections;
          causing, via an Internet communication, the user device to rotate and tilt
the object automatically in order to display as many of the selections as possible
and to form a facet representing the selections, wherein the facet is formed of
lines connecting each portion of the selection with at least two other selections,
and wherein each of the lines extends from one of the positions on the surface of
the object determined in the determining step with another of the positions on the
surface of the object determined by the central processing unit; and
          causing, via an Internet communication, the user device to display text
associated with at least one of the selections.
[00121 One embodiment provides a computer-implemented method of a website
for graphically presenting a collection of data, the method being performed by a
web server that includes a central processing unit coupled to a memory storing a
program for implementing the method when executed by the central processing
unit, the method comprising steps of:
        causing, via an Internet communication, a rendered 3D object to be
displayed on a user device used to access the website, the object representing a
collection of text data stored in the memory, wherein the collection of text data
includes indexed content portions, with each portion being associated with a
respective position on a surface of the object;
        receiving at least three selections of the indexed content portions to be
processed by the central processing unit;

                                           -5
         determining positions on the surface of the object associated with the
selections;
         causing, via an Internet communication, the user device to rotate and tilt
the object automatically in order to display as many of the selections as possible
and to form a facet representing the selections, wherein the facet is formed of
lines connecting each portion of the selection with at least two other selections,
and wherein each of the lines extends from one of the positions on the surface of
the object determined in the determining step with another of the positions on the
surface of the object determined in the determining step; and
         causing, via an Internet communication, the user device to display text
associated with at least one of the selections.
[00131 Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description
and the claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be
construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense;
that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not limited to".
[0014] The features and advantages described in this summary and the following
detailed description are not all-inclusive. Many additional features and
advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the
drawings, specification, and claims hereof
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0015] Fig. I depicts a display screen showing a rendering of a three
dimensional object, in accordance with an aspect of the invention.
[0016] Fig. 2 depicts a display screen showing the object of Fig. 1 along with
identifying information, in accordance with an aspect of the invention.
[0017] Fig. 3 depicts a display screen showing the object of Fig. I together with
a verse associated with identifying information of Fig. 2, in accordance with an
aspect of the invention.
[0018] Fig. 4 depicts a display screen showing the object of Fig. I and the verse
of Fig. 3 moved to another area of the display screen.
[0019] Fig. 5 depicts a display screen in which the verse of Figs. 3 and 4 is
added to a facet list and in which other identifying information is displayed.

                                          -6
[0020] Fig. 6 depicts a version of the display screen of Fig. 5 with an additional
second verse associated with the other identifying information.
[0021] Fig. 7 depicts a version of the display screen of Fig. 6 with the second
verse added to the facet list.
[0022] Fig. 8A depicts a version of the display screen of Fig. 7 with a third verse
displayed and added to the facet list.
[0023] Fig. 8B depicts a word diamond in the display screen on Fig. 1.
[0024] Fig. 9 depicts a display screen showing search results and identifying
information for a search term, in accordance with an aspect of the invention.
[0025] Fig. 10 depicts a version of the display screen of Fig. 9 with a first verse
associated with the identifying information displayed in Fig. 9.
[0026] Fig. II depicts a display screen showing the first verse of Fig. 10 added
to a facet list and also showing other identifying information associated with at
least a second verse.
[0027] Fig. 12 depicts a version of the display screen of Fig. 11 with second and
third verses displayed and added to the facet list.
[0028] Fig. 13 depicts a display screen showing a verse and information about a
portion of the verse.
[0029] Fig. 14 depicts schematically an embodiment of an information
organizing system in accordance with an aspect of the invention.
[0030] Fig. 15 depicts schematically an embodiment of a computer system in
accordance with an aspect of the invention.
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0031] In an aspect of the invention, a computer-implemented method of
organizing and presenting a collection of data is provided. Examples of
collections of data include encyclopedias, books, periodicals, speeches, libraries,
films, musical recordings, etc.
[0032] The method includes providing the collection of data and associating a
plurality of portions of the collection with corresponding position identifiers,
each of which references a position on a surface of a graphical object. (In this
disclosure, the terms "position" and "location" are used interchangeably.) The

                                          -7
graphical object can be a regular Platonic object, having surfaces with uniform
shape and size (e.g., cube, tetrahedron, octahedron, dodecahedron, icosahedron,
or the like), or irregular polyhedron with surfaces of various shapes and sizes
(e.g., diamond, geodesic, or the like).
[0033] The collection of data is preferably stored in a computer database, which
can be accessed and searched via a programmed server computer. Such a server
computer may be preferably connected to other computers in a conventional
client/server relationship. Alternatively, the collection can be stored on a
computer-readable storage medium that can be accessed by a client computer
either locally or remotely, and need not be limited to client/server
communication. Such a client computer can execute a computer program, which
can access and process the stored information in accordance with various aspects
and embodiments described herein. For example, in an embodiment, a client
computer connected to a server via a network, such as the Internet, can be
accessed by a user via an Internet web browser displayed on a client computer
display device. The user can access the collection through a webpage viewable
on the client computer display device. In addition, the user can input queries via
the webpage and send them to the server via the client computer and the Internet.
The server is configured to receive a user request, access the collection, execute
the request, and send a reply containing results of the request to the client
computer.
[0034] The method also includes receiving user selections of a plurality of
portions of the collection. The two portions are discrete parts of the data of the
collection, which has been divided into the plurality of portions. The collection
may be divided into portions based upon existing content divisions, format,
themes, publication information, or the like. For example, a book could be
divided by its chapters and sub-chapters; an encyclopedia by its lettered sections
or themes; a periodical publication by its volumes and issues; a technical manual
by its topics, and forth. It should be noted that, in dividing the collection into
portions, the portions can be, but need not necessarily be, of the same size. The
method also includes comparing the identifiers associated with the first portion
and the second portion, and graphically displaying a result of the comparison.

                                            -8
[0035] For example, the Bible is a large text with many discrete sections or
books. These books may include chapters and verses relating to themes or terms
such as "neighbor", "brother", and "father". Such terms or themes may be used
in different contexts in the various portions of the Bible, and the ability to
investigate the relationship(s) between such portions can produce a new
theological insight when those portions are taken together. For instance,
connected scripture passages may complement or contradict each other, or may
show threads of thought common to both the Old and New Testaments of the
Bible. However, because such phrases or themes may be spread out throughout
the Bible, the connections to the various parts of the Bible may be difficult to
identify, especially for readers who have not extensively studied the Bible. The
reader is therefore limited in his or her ability to efficiently study the Bible.
[0036] In Fig. 1, a web page 102 is shown, in accordance with an example
embodiment of the invention. The web page 102 includes a text-search field 104,
which is used to input a text item to be searched in a collection (described
below). Also, a graphical representation or rendering of a three-dimensional
object 106 is shown. The object 106 may be a diamond with multiple faces,
whose surfaces are associated with portions of the collection. In this example
embodiment, the collection includes the text of the Bible, which is divided into
portions (e.g., books, chapters, and verses). In one embodiment, the portions of
the collection are indexed in a database as being associated with positions or
other identifiers identifying the position of the portion on the surface of the
diamond. For example, an inverted index may be used, where each term of the
collection is mapped to a list of the portions of the collection in which the term
appears (each portion identified by book, chapter, and verse), and a secondary
index, which maps each portion to a position on the object. The position identifier
can be in the form of an identifier of a specific surface of the object, and a
location (absolute or relative) on that surface. For example, each surface can be
assigned a unique numerical ID (e.g., 0 to N, where there are N surfaces on the
object). The offset can be specified in (X,Y) coordinates relative to a given origin
(e.g., vertex) of the surface, or as a relative percentage of distance between an
origin vertex (e.g., upper left corner) and an ending vertex (e.g., bottom right

                                           -9
corner) of the surface, or other equivalent formulations. As will be appreciated
by persons skilled in the art, other database and indexing schemes may be used to
associate different sets of data with each other.
[0037] The collection can be searched, either by entering a text item to search for
a term or phrase, or by searching a surface of the object 106 using a pointer (e.g.,
cursor (not shown)) for locations on the surface that are associated with an
identifier corresponding to that portion of the collection. Where a text search is
performed, an input text search string is matched against the index to identify
those portions of the text that correspond to the input text (the correspondence
can be a literal Boolean string match, or a similarity match, or the like). The
locations of the corresponding text portions on the surface of the diamond are
determined. One or more of the matching portions are preferably shown
graphically on the diamond, with the diamond being automatically oriented by
rotation and tilt to show as many of the matching portions as possible. Of course,
other portions of the object 106 in addition to its surfaces, such as its interior, can
be used to index portions of the collection.
[0038] For instance, in the case of this example embodiment where the
collection includes the text of the Bible, the positions on the surfaces of the object
 106 can be searched for a specific verse associated with a portion of the Bible.
Conversely, the portions of the Bible, such as verse or verses, can be associated
with identifiers corresponding to a position on a multi-dimensional object other
than a diamond, such as a polyhedron, for example. In one embodiment, each
surface or face of the diamond is associated with a single book of the Bible and
the location of the text within the respective book of the Bible linearly
corresponds to the location of the text on the respective face of the diamond,
reading from a top left corner to the bottom right corner. In an embodiment, with
reference to Fig. 2, a face of the diamond 106, for example, is associated with the
book of John and the location of the text within that book linearly corresponds to
the location of the text on that face. As shown in Fig. 2, an exploded view of the
face associated with the book of John shows the first verse of the first chapter
(John 1:1) begins at the upper left of the surface, and is followed by John, chapter
 1, verse 2 (John 1:2), and so on, to the right and down to chapter 21, verse 25

                                          - 10
(John 21:25). By virtue of this arrangement, each face of the diamond
completely organizes one book of the Bible and the various positions on the
surface of that face are indexed to correspond to specific portions of the Bible.
Each portion of the Bible can be further indexed to facilitate searching by terms,
themes, titles, and keywords. For example, Genesis 1:1, may be a portion of the
Bible which is associated with the upper left vertex of a face of the diamond 106,
whereas Genesis 2:1 may be another portion of the Bible associated with another
position of the same face of the diamond 106. Moreover, in another example,
text within each indexed portion can be tagged, or otherwise associated with one
or more of a term, theme, title, and keyword, such that a user can later search for
the portion by inputting one or more of such fields. In the embodiment, the
books of the Bible are graphically associated with circumferentially adjacent
faces of the diamond so that they follow in a counterclockwise (or alternatively,
clockwise) fashion around the diamond in the order they follow in the Bible (e.g.,
Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, etc.). The arrangement
used here for indexing the Bible, dividing a text collection into a hierarchical
arrangement of levels-such as books, chapters, and verses-can be applied to
other text collections as well, such as encyclopedia, text books, instruction or
technical manuals, and the like.
[0039] The object 106 is graphically displayed on a display device, such as a
display screen of a client computer, a television monitor, a telephone screen, a
personal digital assistant, and the like. Such a display device may be connected
to an input device, such as, for example, a keyboard, a keypad, a mouse, a digital
tablet, a digital pen, and the like, which can be communicatively connected in a
known manner to a computer. Moreover, the display device may be a touch
screen display device that can receive manual input from a user via direct input
on the display device. A viewer using the input device can position a pointer or
other indicator over a position on the object 106 to reveal identifying information
associated with that portion of the collection (i.e., the Bible in this example
embodiment), such as, for example, the name of the book, the chapter, and the
verse, as shown in Fig. 2. In an embodiment, the object 106 is rendered to appear
in a three-dimensional environment using Flash® technology (Adobe Systems,

                                          - 11
Inc.) Flash® technology simulates a three-dimensional environment by using
mathematical algorithms to animate two-dimensional objects onto a three
dimensional space. Thus, the object 106 may be rendered to appear as a rotating
three-dimensional object via Flash® technology.
[0040] Fig. 2 shows a text box 202 that displays identifying information in front
of the object 106. (In this sample embodiment the terms "object 106" and
"diamond 106" are used interchangeably.) As discussed, with respect to the
embodiment, the displayed text in the text box 202 is an indexed portion of the
collection corresponding to the position of the surface of the object 106 that is
being searched. For example, the text box 202 appears when the surfaces of the
diamond 106 are graphically searched, such as when the aforementioned
graphical pointer is positioned at or pointing to a location of the diamond 106.
The text box 202 includes the identifying information associated with the specific
position on the diamond 106 that is pointed to, which in the example embodiment
corresponds to a verse of the Bible. Thus, as shown in Fig. 2, the location on the
diamond 106 indicated by the text box 202 is associated with a certain verse of
the Bible, namely, the book of John, at chapter 16, verse 20. In the example
embodiment, each verse of a chapter of a book of the Bible is associated with a
unique position on a surface 204 of the diamond 106. In one aspect of the
example embodiment, each book of the Bible is associated with a single surface
204, such that all verses corresponding to that book are likewise associated with
positions on that single surface 204. As shown in Fig. 2, a pointer can be
positioned over a location on the diamond 106, in order to reveal the
identification information in the text box 202 corresponding to that position of
the diamond 106. The identification information in the text box 202 can be made
to appear in response to the movement of the pointer at or over a certain position
of the diamond 106. The diamond 106 can also be visually rotated or otherwise
moved around by use of the pointer, such as, for example, using Flash®
technology. Such movement of the diamond 106 permits the pointer to thereby
traverse or search all surfaces of the diamond 106, including surfaces that
otherwise would be obstructed by a particular viewing perspective.

                                           - 12
[0041] When a user wishes to view a particular passage of the Bible, the user can
move the pointer over the diamond 106 to a desired verse, as indicated by the
identifier information in the text box 202, and click or otherwise select that
portion of the diamond 106 associated with that verse, to display the text of the
verse 302, as shown in Fig. 3.
[0042] As shown in Fig. 3, in addition to the displayed text of the verse 302,
scroll controls 304 are displayed adjacent to the displayed verse 302, and can be
used to search for and display the text of verses preceding or following the
originally selected verse 302 that are within the same chapter of the book of the
Bible (e.g., scrolling from verse 16:20 to verse 16:19 or 16:21, etc.). Moreover,
the scroll controls 304 also permit scrolling ahead and back by chapters in the
same book of the Bible (e.g., scrolling from chapter 16 to chapter 15 or chapter
 17).
[0043] The displayed text of the verse 302 can graphically appear over or
adjacent to the diamond 106. The text of the verse 302 can be translated and/or
rotated within the web page using the input device (e.g., the computer mouse), as
shown in Fig. 4 with respect to the position of the verse 302 in Fig. 3. In addition
to being displayed for viewing, the text of the verse 302 can be added to a list 402
for later retrieval and viewing. In Fig. 4, while the text of the verse 302 is
displayed, that text can be caused to be stored by a user. For example, a button
marked "Add Scripture" 404 is selected to add the text of the verse 302 to the list
402 located in a field below the diamond 106, as shown in Fig. 5. The addition
of the text of verses to the facet list 402 builds a group or set of verses referred to
herein as a "facet" 804. As shown in Fig. 5, a facet can include up to 5 verses in
the present sample embodiment, although in other embodiments the facet can
include another number of verses. In the case of the list 402 shown in Fig. 4,
additional facets can be created and also contain up to 5 verses in the present
sample embodiment.
[0044] As described above with respect to Figs. 1-5, in Fig. 6 the text of a
second verse 602 (e.g., Luke 12:40) is searched for and displayed. The text of the
second verse 602 may be added to the list 402 (see Fig. 7) in the same manner as
that of the text of the first verse 302.

                                         - 13
[0045] In Fig. 8A, the text of a third verse 802 (e.g., John 1:11) is shown
displayed and added to the facet list 402 in like manner as with the first verse 302
and the second verse 602. Fig. 8A also shows a graphical depiction of a facet
804, as a relationship between the three verses 302, 602, and 802 listed on the
facet list 402 and shown on the diamond 106. A facet 804 is represented by
graphical elements, such as lines, connecting the locations on the diamond 106
associated with the three listed verses 302, 602, and 802. The facet 804 is formed
when three or more verses are listed on a list 402, such that the lines connecting
the locations on the diamond 106 form the facet 804.
[0046] The facet 804 is represented by a graphical indicator 805 positioned
below the list 402. The graphical indicator 805 is preferably a polygon having a
number of sides corresponding to the number of verses associated with the facet
804. The facet 804 is selected by selecting (e.g., pointing to) the graphical
indicator 805. A dot positioned in the polygonal indicator 805 indicates that the
facet 804 associated with the respective indicator 805 is selected. Therefore, as
shown in Fig. 8A, the facet 804 is a facet associated with three verses and is
represented by a triangle with a dot inside the triangle indicating that the facet
804 is selected. When the facet 804 is selected the verses associated with the
facet 804 are displayed in the list 402 and the graphical depiction of the facet 804
is shown on the diamond 106.
[0047] Another facet 808 can be added by selecting a button marked "Add facet"
806 (Figs. 8A and 8B). In one embodiment, upon selecting the "Add facet"
button 806 a triangular indicator 805 can initially be displayed below the list 402
with a dot in the triangular indicator 805 to indicate that the second facet 804 has
been added and is selected. In one embodiment, the indicator 805 defaults
initially to a three sided polygon because a facet graphically has a minimum of
three linear sides. Also, upon selecting the button marked "Add facet" 806,
thelist 402 is reset and is blank. A user can select and add verses to the list 402
corresponding to the second face 804 in similar fashion to that described above
with respect to the facet 804 associated with verses 302, 602, and 802. As shown
in Fig. 8B, facet 808 is associated with four verses and is represented by a four

                                          - 14
sided polygon. The user can select among facets (e.g., 804, 808) by selecting
(e.g., pointing to) the associated indicators 805.
[0048]    As shown in Fig. 8B, a plurality of facets 804 can be grouped together
to form a compilation hereinafter referred to as a "word diamond." (Although the
term "word diamond" is used herein to refer to the compilation, the graphical
representation of a "word diamond" need not be shaped as a diamond.) For
example, in Fig. 8B, there are two graphical indicators, one triangular and one
square, indicating that there are two facets, 804 and 808, associated with a total of
seven verses. Also, shown graphically are facets 804 and 808 displayed with the
diamond 806. Selecting the facet (e.g., 804 or 808) causes the respective facet to
be highlighted on the diamond 106, such as, for example, by becoming brighter
than the other facet(s) of the word diamond. Moreover, selecting the facet (e.g.,
804 or 808) causes the display of the associated verses in the facet list 402, and
causes the text of those verses to be displayed in the foreground on or around the
diamond 106. Of course, in other embodiments, other numbers and combinations
of verses and facets may be used and are within the scope of the invention; the
specific numbers mentioned in the above embodiments are merely exemplary.
[0049] A verse (e.g., 302, 602, 802) in the list 402 can be removed by using the
pointer to select a button or other control displayed. For example, indicators are
shown in Fig, 8B as circles positioned to the left of the respective verses in the
list 402. Removing the verse (e.g., 302, 602, 802) from the facet list 402 will
also remove the verse 302 shown displayed with the diamond 106.
[0050] Furthermore, one or more facets (e.g., 804, 808) can be removed from the
word diamond by selecting the facet, as described above, and subsequently
selecting a button marked "Remove facet" 807. Removing the facet 804 will
delete the list 402 associated with the facet 804 and will also delete the associated
graphical indicator 805.
[0051] In creating a word diamond or searching for a previously created word
diamond, a user can include further information in addition to the facet list, which
may facilitate indexing and searching for the word diamond. For example, in one
embodiment, the user can input a user-selected title of the word diamond, as well
as keywords, phrases, or descriptive terms or tags that describe the contents of the

                                         - 15
facets or the theme of the word diamond. Such included text can be stored and
indexed with the word diamond for searching and retrieval by the author or
another user. For example, an author can create a word diamond whose theme is
"family." In that example, the user can include the word "family" as a tag or
keyword, which can be used as a search term for searching a collection of word
diamonds.
[0052] Portions of the collection can also be searched using a word search. By
searching for terms or words, instead of searching for a verse by graphically
using the object or diamond 106, a user who is less knowledgeable about the
location of a verse of the Bible, as represented by the diamond 106, can more
efficiently search by inputting a term or word known to be included in the verse.
[00531 For example, as shown in Fig. 9, a search term "brother" is input into the
search field 104 as a text item to be searched. The term can be input using an
input device, including a keyboard, a keypad, a mouse, a touchscreen interface of
the display device, and any combination thereof, and the like. The search can be
for fields including terms, themes, titles, and keywords of a collection of text,
such as verses of the Bible. As shown in Fig. 9 search results are shown as dots
902 on the surfaces of the diamond 106. The diamond 106 can be rotated around
its horizontal and vertical axis to show dots 902 that may be obstructed due to the
orientation of the diamond 106 currently displayed. In Fig. 9, each of the dots
902 represents a position on the diamond 106 associated with a corresponding
verse of the Bible in which the term appears. Information about a specific verse
can be displayed by moving a pointer, such as a mouse pointer, over the dot of
interest, which causes the corresponding information to be displayed in a text box
904, similar to the text box 202 described above with respect to Fig. 2.
Moreover, as discussed above with respect to the text box 202 and Figs. 2 and 3,
text of the verse 1002 associated with the information displayed in the text box
904 can, in like manner, be displayed by selecting the text box 904, as shown in
Fig. 10. Further, as shown in Fig. 11, the verse 1002 can be added to the list 402
by selecting the "Add Scripture" button 404, as described above.
[0054] In Fig. 12, text of a second verse 1202 (e.g., Acts 9:17) and text of a third
verse 1204 (e.g., Acts 12:2) are displayed, by selecting their respective dots 902

                                          - 16
from the search results, and are added to the list 402 along with the first verse.
As discussed earlier with respect to the facet 804 shown in Fig. 8, the relationship
between the three verses 1002, 1202, and 1204 is shown by a triangular facet
 1206, which is formed by connecting the locations on the diamond 106 associated
with the respective verses. Facets and word diamonds can be created in a manner
similar to that described above.
[0055] It should be noted that searching a collection using a word search and a
graphical search of an object 106 associated with that collection can be used
together, such as to construct the facets of a word diamond. For example, a user
can begin to create a facet by first entering the search term "brother" in the search
field 104, as shown in Fig. 9, and then selecting a verse from the search results
and storing the verse in the list 402. Thereafter, a user can clear the search results
from searching for the term "brother" and subsequently graphically search the
diamond 106. A verse found from the graphical search may be saved in the list
402. Alternatively, successively different verses can be added to the list 402 as a
result of successive text searches being entered and cleared. Such use of
successive search terms may be useful when text that is displayed in verses are, in
turn used as entered search terms for successive searches.
[0056] Moreover, in an embodiment shown in Fig. 13, at least one word 1302
within a displayed verse 1304 can be highlighted or otherwise selected using at
least one of the aforementioned input devices to display further information
related to the word 1302. For example, as shown in Fig. 13, the verse Acts 9:31
is displayed with the word "enjoyed" highlighted. A text box 1306 that includes
a definition of the word "enjoyed" 1302, as well as the Greek spelling of that
word and a phonetic pronunciation of that Greek spelling, is displayed for the
highlighted (i.e., selected) word. Of course, in addition to a further display of a
definition or a translation, in other embodiments, highlighting sub-portions (i.e.
word 1302) of the displayed portion (i.e., verse 1304) can be used to generate an
aural recitation of the sub-portion to the user, such as to provide a phonetic
pronunciation, which can be transmitted to an audio device, such as a speaker.
Moreover, in another embodiment, certain words of the verse can be selected to
be used a search term for generating new search results.

                                          - 17
[0057] Created word diamonds can be configured to be used as inputs to other
applications. For example in one embodiment, data associated with the created
word diamond can be stored for later retrieval of the word diamond in a same or
in another computer program. Word diamond data can be used for example in a
printing program to print or otherwise reproduce the word diamond on another
media, such as paper, textile, or ceramic. In one case the word diamond data can
be printed on a poster, an article of clothing, such as a shirt, or on a cup or mug.
[0058] In an embodiment, a user can create an account at the website in order to
view and share word diamonds with other members of the website community.
Moreover, the website may be configured to allow users of the website to import
word diamond data and to upload that data to a storage location on a server.
[0059] Moreover, word diamonds created by users can be made visible or public
to allow other users to view the facets and verses and to copy diamonds created
by others. Such copied word diamonds can then be saved to a personal storage
area on the website for later viewing and/or editing. Users of the website can
select whether to make their word diamonds publicly viewable or make them
privately viewable only by the author and/or selected parties. Users can also
select and save as "favorites" word diamonds created by others as well as their
own word diamonds for ease of later retrieval and viewing. The favorites may be
saved as dynamic links to saved and indexed word diamonds.
[0060] The website may be configured to allow authenticated members to post
publicly viewable comments and ratings for posted (i.e., publicly viewable) word
diamonds. For example, members can rate the diamond on a numerical scale and
can leave comments about the word diamond that can be viewed by other users
viewing the word diamond.
[0061] Moreover, the website may be configured to track statistics on the
number of times a word diamond is viewed, the age of the word diamond, the
number of times a word diamond is copied and/or commented on, and the
percentage of reviews at various numerical values on the numerical rating scale.
The word diamonds can also be ranked based on the statistics compiled, such as
ranking by user rating and by the number of views. Further, statistics may also
be compiled about the author of the word diamond, such as the number of word

                                          - 18
diamonds created by the user. When viewing a word diamond, the viewer can
also select, such as with a pointer, the author's name to view other word
diamonds created by the author.
[0062] The website may also be configured to present a randomly generated
selection of publicly available word diamonds. A user can then view one or more
of the presented word diamonds as described above.
[0063] In another embodiment, co-occurrence information is maintained (e.g., in
a co-occurrence matrix) to track which portions of the collection co-occur in
facets and/or diamonds created by the users. Over time, the co-occurrence
information can be used to identify which verses most frequently co-occur in
facets/diamonds, and particularly co-occurrences that exceed an expected or
average co-occurrence rate. Statistical analysis (e.g., information gain) can be
used to identify naturally occurring facets that are hidden within the overall
patterns of usage. For example, if verses A and B co-occur in facets significantly
more frequently than expected, and verses B and C likewise co-occur in facets
more frequently than expected, the system can identify a hidden facet or diamond
in the grouping of verses A, B, and C, even if no user has created such a facet or
diamond in fact. The identification of such hidden facets and diamonds may be
used to reveal deep or fundamental relationships within the collection that may
otherwise escape notice by users. In addition, vector models can be used to
represent terms, verses, facets, and diamonds (using vector superposition) in the
text collection. In this fashion, given a first facet or diamond, one or more similar
facets or diamonds can be automatically identified using vector comparison
operations (e.g., dot product).
[0064] The website may also be configured to permit a user to order, for
purchase or for free, customized items, such as clothing and stationery that
include the word diamond or variations of the word diamond. A secure checkout
system for electronic commerce can be employed to process user orders and
payment information.
[0065] FIG. 14 schematically shows a system diagram of an exemplary
information organizing system 1400, according to embodiments of the present
invention. The system 1400 includes one or more user computers 1402 for

                                          - 19
enabling users to input and receive/view information, and an information
coordinator 1406, all of which are connected to a communication network 1408.
The information coordinator 1406 may be formed of a plurality of servers or a
single server equipped with one or more processors (not shown) for processing
communications to and from each of the user computers 1402 via the
communication network 1408. The information coordinator 1406 includes a
storage device 1410 storing a control program that is executable by the one or
more processors.
[00661 The communication network 1408 may be the Internet, a dedicated or
private communication network, a satellite communication network, or a
combination thereof, or any other means of communication between the user
computers 1402 and the information coordinator 1406.
[0067] Each of the user computers 1402 may include a personal computer, a
workstation, or any other communication device that is able to transmit
information to and receive information from the information coordinator 1406 via
the communication network 1408.
[0068] The control program, when executed by the information coordinator
 1406, provides a platform for implementing an interactive organization method.
The control program contains computer-executable code for providing a user
interface (e.g., a website) at which the user can create a word diamond based on a
collection of information. The collection of information is preferably stored on
the storage device 1410 along with a database which organizes indexes portions
of the collection with at least one of a positional identifier associated with the
object 106, such as, for example, a position on the surface of an object 106.
[0069] The control program may be written using a conventional computer
programming language that is able to render a user interface for a website.
Modules or routines of the computer program can be used to provide the
functionality for performing each of the steps described above.
[0070] As schematically shown in FIG. 14, the user computers 1402 transmit the
messages to the information coordinator 1406.
[0071] The systems and methods of the present invention (or any part(s) or
function(s) thereof) may be implemented using hardware, software, or a

                                         - 20
combination thereof and may be implemented in one or more computer systems
or other processing systems. Although some of the features of aspects of the
present invention are described in terms that may be associated with mental
operations performed by a human operator, no such capability of a human
operator is necessary or is even desirable. Rather, such features are machine
operations performed by machines such as computer processors or similar
devices.
[00721 More specifically, embodiments of the present invention may be
implemented by one or more computer systems configured or programmed to
carry out the functionality described herein. An example of such a computer
system 1500 is shown in Figure 15. As will be appreciated by persons skilled in
the art of computer operations, the computer system 1500 may utilize
programming modules (not shown) for implementing various features and
functions described herein.
[00731 The computer system 1500 may includes one or more processors, such as
processor 1504. The processor 1504 is connected to a communication
infrastructure 1506 (e.g., a communications bus, cross-over bar, or network).
Various software embodiments are described in terms of this computer system
 1500. However, after reading the descriptions provided herein, it will become
apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement embodiments of
the present invention using other computer systems and/or architectures.
[0074] The computer system 1500 may include a display interface 1502 that
forwards graphics, text, and other data from the communication infrastructure
 1506 (or from a frame buffer not shown) for display on a display unit 1530.
[0075] The computer system 1500 also may include a main memory 1508,
preferably random access memory (RAM), and further may include a secondary
memory 1510. The secondary memory 1510 may include, for example, a hard
disk drive 1512 and/or a removable storage drive 1514, representing a floppy disk
drive, a magnetic tape drive, an optical disk drive, a flash memory drive, etc. The
removable storage drive 1514 reads from and/or writes to a removable storage
unit 1518 in a well known manner. As will be appreciated, the removable storage

                                          -21
unit 1518 includes a computer-readable storage medium storing computer
software (i.e., program code) and/or data.
[0076] In alternative embodiments, the secondary memory 1510 may include
other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be
loaded into the computer system 1500. Such devices may include, for example, a
removable storage unit 1522 and an interface 1520. Examples of such may
include a program cartridge and a cartridge interface (such as that found in video
game devices), a removable memory chip (such as an erasable programmable
read only memory (EPROM) or a programmable read only memory (PROM)),
and an associated socket, as well as other removable storage units 1522 and other
interfaces 1520 that allow software and data to be transferred from the removable
storage unit 1522 to the computer system 1500.
[0077] The computer system 1500 also may include a communications interface
 1524, which allows software and data to be transferred between the computer
system 1500 and external devices. The communications interface 1524 may be,
for example, a modem, a network interface (such as an Ethernet card), a
communications port, a Personal Computer Memory Card International
Association (PCMCIA) slot and card, and the like. Software and data transferred
via communications interface 1524 are in the form of signals 1528 which may be
electronic, electromagnetic, optical, or other types of signals capable of being
received by communications interface 1524. These signals 1528 are provided to
the communications interface 1524 via a communications path (e.g., a channel)
 1526. The path or channel 1526 carries the signals 1528 and may be implemented
using an one or a combination of: wire and/or cable; fiber optics; a telephone
line; a cellular link; a radio frequency (RF) link; and other types of
communications channels or paths.
[0078] The term "computer-readable medium" and similar such terms as used
herein are intended to refer generally to a tangible storage medium, such as the
removable storage drive 1514, a hard disk installed in hard disk drive 1512, a
flash-type memory unit, and the like.
[0079] The computer programs (also referred to herein as computer control logic
and computer code) may be stored in the main memory 1508 and/or the

                                         - 22
secondary memory 1510. The computer programs also may be received via the
communications interface 1524. Such computer programs, when executed, enable
the computer system 1500 to perform the features and functions of various
embodiments of the present invention, as discussed herein. In particular, the
computer programs, when executed, enable the processor 1504 to perform or
implement the features and functions of various embodiments of the present
invention. Accordingly, such computer programs may be considered to represent
controllers of the computer system 1500.
[0080] In an embodiment where the present invention is implemented using
software, the software may be stored in a computer program product (e.g., a
computer-readable storage medium) and loaded into the computer system 1500
using removable storage drive 1514, the hard drive 1512, or the communications
interface 1524. The control logic (software), when executed by the processor
 1504, causes the processor 1504 to implement various functions described herein.
[00811 In another embodiment, the present invention may be implemented
primarily in hardware using, for example, hardware components such as
application specific integrated circuits (ASICs). Implementation of such a
hardware-based machine so as to implement various ones of the functions
described herein will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant arts and, as
such, is not described in detail herein.
[0082] In yet another embodiment, the present invention may be implemented
using a combination of both hardware and software.
[0083] While various embodiments of the present invention have been described
above, it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example,
and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art(s) that
various changes in form and detail can be made to the described embodiments
without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus, the
present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary
embodiments, but should be defined only in accordance with the following
claims and their equivalents.
[0084] In addition, it should be understood that the figures illustrated in the
attached drawings, which show operations and functions of embodiments of the

                                         - 23
present invention, are presented schematically for example purposes only. The
architectures of embodiments of the present invention are sufficiently flexible
and configurable such that they may be utilized (and navigated) in ways other
than those shown in the figures.
[00851 Further, the purpose of the Abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office and the public generally, and especially the scientists,
engineers, and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal
terms or phraseology, to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature
and essence of the technical disclosure of the specification. The Abstract is not
intended to be limiting as to the scope of the present invention in any way.
[0086] Additionally, it is to be understood that the steps and processes recited in
the claims need not be performed in the order presented.

                                          - 24
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
        1.      A web server comprising a central processing unit coupled to a
memory storing a program that, when executed by the central processing unit,
causes the web server to provide an Internet-accessible website that graphically
presents a collection of data, wherein the website is controlled by the central
processing unit to:
        via an Internet communication cause a rendered 3D object to be displayed
on a user device used to access the website, the object representing a collection of
text data stored in the memory, wherein the collection of text data includes indexed
content portions, with each portion being associated with a respective position on a
surface of the object;
        enable at least three selections of the indexed content portions to be
identified to the central processing unit;
        based on determinations by the central processing unit of positions on the
surface of the object associated with the selections, via an Internet communication
cause the user device to rotate and tilt the object automatically in order to display
as many of the selections as possible and to form a facet representing the
selections, wherein the facet is formed of lines connecting each selection with at
least two other selections, and wherein each of the lines extends from one of the
positions on the surface of the object determined by the central processing unit to
another of the positions on the surface of the object determined by the central
processing unit; and
        via an Internet communication cause the user device to display text
associated with at least one of the selections.
        2.      The web server according to claim 1, wherein the website is further
controlled by the central processing unit to:
        enable a plurality of selections of portions to be identified to the central
processing unit, the selections of portions enabling a plurality of facets to be
formed;
        via an Internet communication cause a polyhedron to be displayed on the
user device, the polyhedron being formed of the facets; and

                                           - 25
         enable a title of the polyhedron to be inputted to the central processing unit,
the title being used by the central processing unit to index the polyhedron.
         3.      The web server according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the
collection of text data corresponds to one of:
         a collection of music-related text data,
         a collection of film-related text data,
         a collection of speech-related text data,
         a collection of encyclopedia-related text data,
         a collection of periodical-related text data,
         a collection of Bible-related data, and
         a collection of book-related data.
         4.      The web server according to any one of claims I to 3, wherein the
website is controlled by the central processing unit to enable a search term to be
identified to the central processing unit, to cause a search of the collection of text
data to be performed, wherein the search identifies portions of the indexed content
portions of the collection of text data corresponding to the search term, and
         wherein the portions identified in the search are utilized by the central
processing unit as the selections.
         5.      A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing
computer code that, when executed by a central processing unit of a computer,
causes the computer to act as a web server that performs a method of a website for
graphically presenting a collection of data, the method comprising steps of:
         causing, via an Internet communication, a rendered 3D object to be
displayed on a user device used to access the website, the object representing a
collection of text data stored in a memory coupled to the central processing unit,
wherein the collection of text data includes indexed content portions, with each
portion being associated with a respective position on a surface of the object;
         receiving at least three selections of the indexed content portions to be
processed by the central processing unit;

                                          - 26
        determining positions on the surface of the object associated with the
selections;
        causing, via an Internet communication, the user device to rotate and tilt the
object automatically in order to display as many of the selections as possible and to
form a facet representing the selections, wherein the facet is formed of lines
connecting each pet4iei-ef-the selection with at least two other selections, and
wherein each of the lines extends from one of the positions on the surface of the
object determined in the determining step with another of the positions on the
surface of the object determined by the central processing unit; and
        causing, via an Internet communication, the user device to display text
associated with at least one of the selections.
        6.      The storage medium according to claim 5, wherein the method
further comprises steps of:
        receiving a plurality of selections of portions to be processed by the central
processing unit, the selections of portions enabling a plurality of facets to be
formed;
        causing, via an Internet communication, a polyhedron to be displayed on
the user device, the polyhedron being formed of the facets; and
        indexing the polyhedron with a title inputted via the user device.
        7.      The storage medium according to claim 5 or claim 6, wherein the
collection of text data corresponds to one of:
        a collection of music-related text data,
        a collection of film-related text data,
        a collection of speech-related text data,
        a collection of encyclopedia-related text data,
        a collection of periodical-related text data,
        a collection of Bible-related data, and
        a collection of book-related data.

                                          - 27
        8.       The storage medium according to any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein
the method further comprises steps of:
        performing a search of the collection of text data based on a search term
inputted to the central processing unit via the user device, wherein the search
identifies portions of the indexed content portions of the collection of text data
corresponding to the search term; and
        utilizing the portions identified in the search as the selections to be
processed by the central processing unit.
        9.      A computer-implemented method of a website for graphically
presenting a collection of data, the method being performed by a web server that
includes a central processing unit coupled to a memory storing a program for
implementing the method when executed by the central processing unit, the
method comprising steps of:
        causing, via an Internet communication, a rendered 3D object to be
displayed on a user device used to access the website, the object representing a
collection of text data stored in the memory, wherein the collection of text data
includes indexed content portions, with each portion being associated with a
respective position on a surface of the object;
        receiving at least three selections of the indexed content portions to be
processed by the central processing unit;
        determining positions on the surface of the object associated with the
selections;
        causing, via an Internet communication, the user device to rotate and tilt the
object automatically in order to display as many of the selections as possible and to
form a facet representing the selections, wherein the facet is formed of lines
connecting each pet4iena-efthe selection with at least two other selections, and
wherein each of the lines extends from one of the positions on the surface of the
object determined in the determining step with another of the positions on the
surface of the object determined in the determining step; and
        causing, via an Internet communication, the user device to display text
associated with at least one of the selections.

                                          - 28
         10.     The method according to claim 9, further comprising steps of:
        receiving a plurality of selections of portions to be processed by the central
processing unit, the selections of portions enabling a plurality of facets to be
formed;
        causing, via an Internet communication, a polyhedron to be displayed on
the user device, the polyhedron being formed of the facets; and
        indexing the polyhedron with a title inputted via the user device.
         11.     The method according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the
collection of text data corresponds to one of:
        a collection of music-related text data,
        a collection of film-related text data,
        a collection of speech-related text data,
        a collection of encyclopedia-related text data,
        a collection of periodical-related text data,
        a collection of Bible-related data, and
        a collection of book-related data.
         12.     The method according to any one of claims 9 to 11, further
comprising steps of:
        performing a search of the collection of text data based on a search term
inputted via the user device, wherein the search identifies portions of the indexed
content portions of the collection of text data corresponding to the search term; and
        utilizing the portions identified in the search as the selections to be
processed by the central processing unit.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
