   ABSTRACT
   A method of gaming comprises initiating a jackpot event
   responsive to receiving an event trigger; determining
 5 whether to award a prize to a player in the jackpot event,
   the probability of awarding the prize in the jackpot event
   being dependent on a value of a jackpot evaluation
   parameter accumulated over a plurality of games; and
   awarding the prize in response to making a positive
10 determination.

                       5/7
       CL                 a
       Cl)                  E
       (DD
CDC
co   0
              0)
             to
        CL ~              0
  CD              c
              (LO a OL

                               - 1
               A GAMING SYSTEM AND METHOD OF GAMING
   Related Application
 5 This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn>, which, in turn, is a
   divisional of 2013228042, which, in turn, is a divisional
   of 2009200202, the disclosure of   all of which is
   incorporated herein by reference. Most of the disclosure
10 of these applications is also included herein, however,
   reference may be made to the specifications of application
   nos. <removed-apn>,  2013228042 and 2009200202 as filed and
   accepted to gain further understanding of the invention
   claimed herein.
15
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to a gaming system and a
   method of gaming, and particularly, but not exclusively,
20 to a system and method for awarding a jackpot prize.
   Background of the Invention
   It is known to provide a gaming system which comprises a
25 game controller arranged to randomly display several
   symbols from a predetermined set of symbols and to
   determine a game outcome such as a game win based on the
   displayed symbols.   Such gaming systems may commonly be
   implemented as a stepper machine provided with reels with
30 each reel carrying several  symbols of the set, or a video
   machine wherein selected symbols are displayed on virtual
   reels on a video display.   Win outcomes can occur based on

                              - 2
   symbols appearing in one or more horizontal lines,
   diagonal lines, or any other predetermined way.
   Gaming systems are known which implement jackpot outcomes.
 5 A jackpot outcome may depend on a particular combination
   of symbols being selected in a base game.   Alternatively,
   a jackpot outcome may depend on a random factor, such as a
   predetermined amount of turnover.  Such a jackpot is
   termed a "mystery" jackpot, because it is not known to the
10 player when the jackpot will be triggered.   In either
   case, as far as a player of the gaming machine is
   concerned, the event trigger is invariable.   That is, it
   is either triggered by a predetermined symbol combination,
   or by an event which the player has no control over.
15 While such gaming systems and implementations for awarding
   jackpots provide users with enjoyment, the need exists for
   alternative gaming systems in order to maintain or
   increase player enjoyment.
20 Summary of the Invention
   In accordance with a first aspect, the present invention
   provides a method of gaming, comprising:
        initiating, using a processor, a jackpot event
   responsive to receiving an event trigger;
25      determining, using a processor, whether to award a
   prize to a player in the jackpot event, the probability of
   awarding the prize in the jackpot event being dependent on
   a value of a jackpot evaluation parameter accumulated over
   a plurality of base games based on outcomes of each one of
30 the plurality od base games, the probability of awarding
   the prize being one of a plurality of different
   probabilities depending on a temporal related parameter;
   and

                               - 3
        awarding the prize in response to making a positive
   determination.
   In an embodiment the jackpot evaluation parameter is
 5 associated with credits awarded in each of the plurality
   of base games.
   In an embodiment the probability is proportional to the
   value of credits awarded.
10 In an embodiment the accumulated value of the jackpot
   evaluation parameter is associated with a total value or
   number of special symbols detected in each of the
   plurality of base games. In an embodiment the jackpot
   evaluation parameter is associated with a total value or
15 number of special symbol combinations detected in each of
   the plurality of base games.
   In an embodiment different special symbols have different
   associated values. One or more special symbols can have
20 negative associated values.
   In an embodiment the event trigger is instructed by the
   player.
25 In an embodiment the value of the jackpot evaluation
   parameter is determined when the jackpot event is
   initiated.
   In an embodiment the method comprises the further step of
30 displaying a jackpot indicator providing an indication of
   the value of the jackpot evaluation parameter.

                              - 4
   In an embodiment the probability of being awarded the
   prize is displayed in association with the jackpot
   indicator.
 5 In an embodiment the prize comprises at least one of a
   primary and secondary prize and wherein there is a random
   probability for determining which of the at least one
   primary and secondary prize is awarded.
10 In accordance with a second aspect the present invention
   provides a jackpot controller comprising a:
        jackpot event module arranged to initiate a jackpot
   event responsive to detecting an event trigger;
        determination module arranged to determine whether to
15 award a prize to a player in the jackpot event, the
   probability of awarding the prize being dependent on a
   value of a jackpot evaluation parameter accumulated over a
   plurality of base games based on outcomes of each one of
   the plurality of base games, the probability of awarding
20 the prize being one of a plurality of different
   probabilities depending on a temporal related parameter;
   and
        award module arranged to award the prize in response
   to a positive determination being made by the
25 determination module.
   In an embodiment the jackpot evaluation parameter is
   associated with a value or number of special symbols
   detected in each of the plurality of base games.   In an
30 embodiment the jackpot evaluation parameter is associated
   with a total value or number of special symbol
   combinations detected in each of the plurality of base
   games.

                              - 5
   In an embodiment the jackpot controller comprises a
   display module arranged to display a jackpot indicator
 5 providing an indication of the value of the jackpot
   evaluation parameter.
   In an embodiment the probability of awarding the prize is
   displayed in association with the jackpot indicator.
10
   In a third aspect the present invention provides a gaming
   system, the gaming system comprising a:
        jackpot controller in accordance with the second
   aspect; and
15       a display module operable to display the awarded
   prize to the player.
   In an embodiment the gaming system is implemented on a
   stand alone gaming device.
20
   In accordance with a fourth aspect, the present invention
   provides computer program code which when executed by a
   processor implements the above methods.
25 In accordance with a fifth aspect, the present invention
   provides a computer readable medium providing a computer
   program in accordance with the fourth aspect.
30

                               - 6
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   Features and advantages of the present invention will
   become apparent from the following description of
 5 embodiments thereof, by way of example only, with
   reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
   Figure 1 is a schematic block diagram of core components
   of a gaming system, according to an embodiment of the
10 present invention;
   Figure 2 is a perspective view of a gaming machine
   arranged to implement the gaming system of Figure 1,
   according to an embodiment;
15
   Figure 3 is a schematic block diagram of operative
   components of the gaming machine shown in Figure 2;
   Figure 4 is a schematic block diagram representing the
20 structure of a memory of the gaming machine shown in
   Figure 2;
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a networked gaming
   system;
25
   Figure 6 is a further schematic block diagram of the
   gaming system;
   Figure 7 is a representation of an example jackpot
30 indicator displayed by a gaming system in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present invention; and

   Figure 8 is a flow diagram illustrating operation of a
   gaming system in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention.
 5 Detailed Description
   In an embodiment a gaming system is provided which
   comprises a jackpot controller arranged to initiate a
   jackpot event responsive to receiving an event trigger,
10 such as a player instructed trigger.  Once a jackpot event
   is initiated, a determination is made as to whether to
   award a prize to a player in the jackpot event, whereby
   the probability of awarding the prize is dependent on a
   value of a jackpot evaluation parameter accumulated over a
15 plurality of games.  For example, the probability of
   awarding the prize may be dependent on an accumulated
   value of credits bet or wagered in each of the plurality
   of games.  In response to making a positive determination,
   a prize is awarded to the player.
20
   General construction of a gaming system
   The gaming system can take a number of different forms.  In
   a first form, a stand alone gaming machine is provided
25 wherein all or most components required for implementing
   the game are present in a player operable gaming machine.
   In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing
30 the game are present in a player operable gaming machine
   and some of the components required for implementing the
   game are located remotely relative to the gaming machine.

                              - 8
   For example, a "thick client" architecture may be used
   wherein part of the game is executed on a player operable
   gaming machine and part of the game is executed remotely,
   such as by a gaming server; or a "thin client"
 5 architecture may be used wherein most of the game is
   executed remotely such as by a gaming server and a player
   operable gaming machine is used only to display audible
   and/or visible gaming information to the player and
   receive gaming inputs from the player.
10
   However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
   envisaged.  For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server
   and the respective functions of the gaming machine and the
15 gaming server are selectively modifiable.  For example,
   the gaming system may operate in stand alone gaming
   machine mode, "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode
   depending on the game being played, operating conditions,
   and so on. Other variations will be apparent to persons
20 skilled in the art.
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system comprises
   several core components. At the broadest level, the core
   components are a player interface 50 and a game controller
25 60 as illustrated in Figure 1. The player interface is
   arranged to enable manual interaction between a player and
   the gaming system and for this purpose includes the
   input/output components required for the player to enter
   instructions and play the game.
30
   Components of the player interface may vary from
   embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a

                                - 9
   credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
   and receive payouts, one or more displays 54,     a game play
   mechanism 56 that enables a player to input game play
   instructions   (e.g. to place bets),   and one or more
 5 speakers 58.
   The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
   player interface and typically includes a processor 62
   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
10 with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the
   display. Typically, the game play instructions are stored
   as program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
   Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
15 accordance with game play rules and may include:     a
   microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
    (e.g. a PC) or a server.
20 A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming
   machine 10 is illustrated in Figure 2. The gaming machine
   10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which are
   displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played
   by a player.    A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
25 houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during
   game play.   The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin input
   chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.      Other credit input
30 mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
   reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
   card.   A player marketing module    (not shown) having a

                               - 10
   reading device may also be provided for the purpose of
   reading a player tracking device, for example as part of a
   loyalty program.  The player tracking device may be in the
   form of a card, flash drive or any other portable storage
 5 medium capable of being read by the reading device.
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28,   including for example
   pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.    Further
10 artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
   panel 29 of the console 12.    A coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
   from the gaming machine 10.
15 The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.  Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
   display unit, or the visible portion of an
20 electromechanical device.    The top box 26 may also include
   a display, for example a video display unit, which may be
   of the same type as the display 14,   or of a different
   type.
25 Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of
   a typical gaming machine which may be the same as or
   different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
   The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
30 having a processor 102.   Instructions and data to control
   operation of the processor 102 are stored in a memory 103,
   which is in data communication with the processor 102.

                              - 11
   Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both
   volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each
   type of memory, with such memories being collectively
   represented by the memory 103.
 5
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
   including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
   player credit, an input/output  (I/O) interface 105 for
   communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming
10 machine 100.  The input/output interface 105 and/or the
   peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with their
   own memory for storing associated instructions and data
   for use with the input/output interface or the peripheral
   devices.  A random number generator module 113 generates
15 random numbers for use by the processor 102.   Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that the reference to
   random numbers includes pseudo-random numbers.
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
20 includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 comprise one or more displays 106, a touch
   screen and/or buttons 107, a card and/or ticket reader
   108, a printer 109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input
   mechanism 110 and a coin output mechanism 111.   Additional
25 hardware may be included as part of the gaming machine
   100, or hardware may be omitted as required for the
   specific implementation.
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
30 communications interface, for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information

                              - 12
   to a central controller, server or database and receive
   data or commands from the central controller, server or
   database.
 5 Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of
   an exemplary memory 103.  The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.   The RAM
   103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the processor 102 and related data.   The
10 EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.  The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
   integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
   the processor 102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B
15 or elsewhere.
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
   gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
20 provided remotely from the game controller 101.
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
   alternative embodiment.  The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
25 Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of
   two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the
   network 201.  The gaming machines 202 provide a player
   operable interface and may be the same as the gaming
   machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have
30 simplified functionality depending on the requirements for
   implementing game play.  While banks 203 of two gaming

                              - 13
   machines are illustrated in Figure 5, banks of one, three
   or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
   One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
 5 network 201.  For example, the displays 204 may be
   associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations
   associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
10 promotional or informational material.
   In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   part of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
   202 and the gaming machine 202 implements part of the
15 game. With this embodiment, as both the game server and
   the gaming device implement part of the game, they
   collectively provide a game controller. A database
   management server 206 may manage storage of game programs
   and associated data for downloading or access by the
20 gaming devices 202 in a database 206A. Typically, if the
   gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
   game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to perform
   accounting functions for the Jackpot game.  A loyalty
   program server 212 may also be provided.
25
   In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements
   most or all of the game played by a player using a gaming
   machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially
   provides only the player interface.  With this embodiment,
30 the game server 205 provides the game controller. The
   gaming machine will receive player instructions, pass
   these to the game server which will process them and

                               - 14
   return game play outcomes to the gaming machine for
   display.   In a thin client embodiment, the gaming machines
   could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running software
   that provides a player interface operable using standard
 5 computer input and output components.
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200,   including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208,   and a
10 licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
   relating to particular games.    An administrator terminal
   210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
15 The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
   network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet,
   for example through a firewall 211.
20 Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   accordance with known techniques, functionality at the
   server side of the network may be distributed over a
   plurality of different computers.    For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one server or a
25 separate server may be provided.    For example, the game
   server 205 could run a random generator engine.
   Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
   could be provided.   Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
30 provided to run different games or a single game server
   may run a plurality of different games as required by the
   terminals.

                                - 15
   Persons skilled in the art will also appreciate that the
   method of the preferred embodiment could be embodied in
   program code. The program code could be supplied in a
 5 number of ways, for example on a computer readable medium,
   such as a disc or a memory    (for example, that could
   replace part of memory 103)    or as a data signal  (for
   example, by downloading it from a server).
10 Embodiments may be implemented in relation to a spinning
   reel type game. Gaming systems    for implementing games that
   involve a display of spinning reels as part of the display
   of the outcome of a game have either a video display or a
   mechanical display, these later machines most usually
15 being "stepper" machines which have a separate motor for
   each reel. However, persons skilled in the art will
   appreciate that the invention can be implemented in
   respect of other forms of games, including; card games;
   ball draw games   (e.g. bingo or keno); dice games;   and pin
20 and ball games.
   In some implementations the game controllers of such
   gaming machines select symbols by employing a stop
   determining function that randomly determines the stop
25 position for each reel.    For example, if there are five
   reels, each having twenty symbols, the stop determining
   function might determine that the stop positions are
   positions:  3, 13,  7, 9 and 17.   The spinning of the reels
   is then controlled so that each symbol comes to a stop in
30 the same row, typically a predetermined row in a "window"
   visible to the player on the display that which
   corresponds  to a player playing a single win line.      When a

                              - 16
   reel stops, the symbols will be in one of a plurality of
   possible symbol positions for that reel relative to the
   stop position.
 5 Spinning reel type games typically allow a player to
   select how many win lines of a plurality of win lines they
   will play in each game - i.e. a minimum of one win line up
   to the maximum number of win lines allowed by the game.
   Persons, skilled in the art, will appreciate that in other
10 embodiments, the player may select a number of reels to
   play. Each win line is formed by a set of symbol positions
   consisting of one symbol position from each reel.    That
   is, a predetermined symbol position of each reel is
   assigned to a win line.  The symbol positions that
15 constitute each of the win lines are usually advertised to
   the player by markings on the display or diagrams showing
   the symbol positions that correspond to each win line.
   Some of the win lines will be horizontal or diagonal lines
   but others may be non-linear combinations of symbols.
20 Typically, the win lines will be constituted by symbol
   positions in the visible window.   A game outcome is
   determined based on the symbols on the win lines and a
   prize table that specifies awards.
25 The game controller 60 of an embodiment is shown in more
   detail in Figure 6.  For simplicity, only those modules
   needed to carry out embodiments of the invention are
   illustrated in Figure 6.  Other standard and/or non
   standard modules may also be implemented for carrying out
30 operation of normal and feature game play functionality.

                              - 17
   Referring to Figure 6, the game controller 60 includes a
   jackpot controller 61 which is arranged to carry out
   functions associated with initiating jackpot events and
   awarding prizes therein.  Specifically, the processor 62
 5 of the jackpot controller 62 implements a number of
   modules, namely a jackpot event module 621, determination
   module 622, award module 624 and display controller
   module 623 based on data stored in memory 64.  Persons
   skilled in the art will appreciate that not all modules
10 need be implemented by processor 62.  For example, the
   jackpot event module 621 could be implemented by a
   separate circuit or by a jackpot event module server.
   In an embodiment, the jackpot event module 621 is arranged
15 to initiate a jackpot event responsive to detecting an
   event trigger instructed by a player.  The event trigger
   can be entered by the player using one or more of the
   buttons 22 located on the console of the gaming machine
   10.  Preferably, the event trigger is entered before or
20 after play of a base game such that the jackpot event is
   carried out independently of the base game for increasing
   player interest.  Once the jackpot event is initiated, the
   determination module 622 determines whether to award a
   prize to a player in the jackpot event, whereby the
25 probability of awarding the prize is dependent on a value
   of a jackpot evaluation parameter accumulated over a
   plurality of games.  Responsive to the determination
   module 622 making a positive determination, the award
   module 624 awards a prize to the player.
30

                               - 18
   An example of game play according to an embodiment will
   now be described with reference to the example display
   screen shot of Figure 7 and flow chart of Figure 8.
 5 Referring to Figure 7, a jackpot indicator 700 is
   displayed by the display controller module 623.    The
   jackpot indicator 700 is represented in the form of a
   pressure gauge 702 arranged to provide a player with an
   indication of a jackpot evaluation parameter.    In the
10 embodiment described herein, the jackpot evaluation
   parameter is the amount of credits wagered/bet in each
   game of a base game, such as the spinning reel game
   discussed in preceding paragraphs.    In such an embodiment,
   the value of the jackpot evaluation parameter, upon which
15 the determination is based, is therefore the accumulated
   value of credits bet in each game up until the jackpot
   event is triggered.  In the illustrated embodiment, the
   pressure level depicted by the gauge 702 increases after
   each game by an amount corresponding to the amount of
20 credits bet in that game.    For example, in one
   implementation, if the player bets 100 credits the
   pressure will increase by 100 increments, whereas if the
   player bets 10 credits the pressure will only rise by 10
   increments.  It will be understood, however, that the
25 specific level of the incrementation and association
   between credits bet and probability may vary depending on
   the implementation.
   As discussed above, the probability of awarding a prize in
30 the jackpot event is dependent on the value of the jackpot
   evaluation parameter  (i.e. in this embodiment, the
   accumulated value of credits bet in each of the games)

                                - 19
   when the jackpot event is initiated.     In Figure 7, this
   probability is displayed in association with the pressure
   gauge 702 of the jackpot indicator 700.     According to this
   embodiment, three probability level indicators 704,     706,
 5 708 are provided representing a low, medium and high
   probability of being awarded the prize, respectively.      In
   an embodiment, when the pressure gauge is full     (i.e. when
   the level of pressure has reached the high level indicator
   708),  the jackpot event module 621 will instruct the
10 player to enter the event trigger.     Alternatively, the
   jackpot event module 621 will automatically trigger the
   jackpot event.
   A strike meter 710 is also displayed by the display
15 controller module 623 for showing the progress and outcome
   of the jackpot event.    The strike meter 710 is in the form
   of an elongate tube 711 having a ball 712 and striker 714
   located at one end of the tube 711 and a jackpot prize
   area 716 located at the other.     Responsive to the jackpot
20 event being initiated, the striker 714 contacts the ball
   712 so as to shoot it towards the jackpot prize area 716.
   If, based on the associated probability, it is determined
   by the determination module 622 to award a prize, then the
   ball will be shot through the jackpot tube 711 and then
25 into the jackpot prize area 716,    thereby indicating to the
   player that a prize is to be awarded.     If a negative
   determination is made   (i.e. that no prize is to be
   awarded),  the ball does not reach the jackpot prize area
   716 and is returned to its    start position.  In both cases,
30 upon completion of the jackpot event, the pressure within
   the gauge 702 is re-set to zero.     In other words, the

                               - 20
   accumulated value of the jackpot evaluation parameter is
   re-set to have a zero value.
   In the illustrated embodiment, there are three potential
 5 awards that can be awarded to the player, each having a
   different associated prize value.    The primary   ("maxi" in
   Figure 7) award is denoted by reference numeral 720 and
   has the highest prize value, whereas the two secondary
   awards  ("mini" and "minor"),  denoted by reference numerals
10 722 and 724, have lesser prize values.    According to the
   illustrated embodiment, there is a random probability as
   to which of the three potential awards 720,    722, 724 is
   provided to the player.   However, in alternative
   embodiments, different probabilities may apply depending
15 on the specific implementation.    For example, a higher
   probability for achieving the maxi prize may apply at
   advertised times, during special bonus periods, etc.
   Operation of the illustrated embodiment will now be
20 described with additional reference to the flow diagram of
   Figure 8.   At step 802 the jackpot event module 621
   receives an event trigger for triggering a jackpot event.
   Responsive to detecting the event trigger, at step 804,
   the jackpot event module 621 initiates the jackpot event.
25 The determination module 622 subsequently determines
   whether to award a prize to the player    (step 806),  whereby
   the determination is dependent on a value of a jackpot
   evaluation parameter accumulated over a plurality of
   games.   At step 808, responsive to a positive
30 determination, the award module 624 awards the prize.
   In an alternative embodiment, the jackpot event is
   initiated in response to a non-player triggering technique

                              - 21
   which is based, at least in part, on a value of the
   jackpot parameter.  For example, the jackpot event may
   trigger automatically when the value reaches a designated
   value. In another example, the jackpot event may be
 5 initiated in response to detecting a particular
   combination of symbols occurring in a base game, or
   responsive to a predetermined amount of turnover being
   detected by the jackpot controller   (i.e. a "mystery"
   jackpot scenario).  Further, in a mystery jackpot
10 scenario, the trigger may be received from an external
   system, such as a jackpot system or the like.    Still
   further, the jackpot evaluation parameter may
   alternatively be associated with an amount of credits
   awarded to the player during play of the base game.
15
   In yet another alternative embodiment, the value of the
   jackpot evaluation parameter may be associated with a
   number or value of symbols or symbol combinations detected
   in the plurality of games.   For example, the jackpot
20 evaluation parameter may be representative of an
   accumulated value or number of "special"   symbols detected
   in the plurality of games. In other words, the occurrence
   of special symbols may cause the value of the jackpot
   evaluation parameter to either increase or decrease by a
25 specified amount.  The special  symbols may be any symbol
   designated by the game controller 60.    The amount by which
   the evaluation parameter increases or decreases   for a
   detected number/value of special symbols may be determined
   from a look-up table stored in memory 64.
30
   In an embodiment, different special   symbols may have
   different associated values.   In another embodiment, the

                               - 22
   accumulated value of the jackpot evaluation parameter may
   directly correspond with the number of detected symbols.
   For example, if five special symbols are detected over the
   plurality of games, the value of the jackpot evaluation
 5 parameter may also be five   (which may represent a high
   probability of being awarded a prize, depending on the
   actual implementation).
   Furthermore, rather than the actual value of the jackpot
10 evaluation parameter being represented as a pressure
   level, the value could instead be represented by a
   corresponding number of balls on offer for shooting for
   the jackpot.  For example, the greater the jackpot
   evaluation parameter the greater the number of balls, and
15 therefore probability, that one of the balls will reach
   the jackpot prize area 716.    The jackpot evaluation
   parameter could be represented in other ways.
   In the previously described embodiments, a player's
20 interest in the game may be heightened by providing the
   player with an opportunity to be awarded with a jackpot
   prize having a probability dependent on a value of a
   jackpot evaluation parameter, such as the accumulated
   value of credits bet by the player in successive games of
25 a base game.  Further, such an arrangement provides a
   closer link between the player contribution and
   probability of being awarded with a prize thereby adding
   to sense of satisfaction felt by the player upon being
   awarded with a prize.
30
   It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that
   numerous variations and/or modifications may be made to

                               - 23
   the invention as shown in the specific embodiments without
   departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as
   broadly described.   The present embodiments are,
   therefore, to be considered in all respects as
 5 illustrative and not restrictive.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication
   is referred to herein, such reference does not constitute
   an admission that the publication forms a part of the
10 common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any
   other country.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   description of the invention, except where the context
15 requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or " comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
   not to preclude the presence or addition of further
20 features in various embodiments of the invention.

                              - 24
   CLAIMS:
   1.   A method of gaming, comprising:
        initiating, using a processor, a jackpot event
 5 responsive to receiving an event trigger;
        determining, using a processor, whether to award a
   prize to a player in the jackpot event, the probability of
   awarding the prize in the jackpot event being dependent on
   a value of a jackpot evaluation parameter accumulated over
10 a plurality of base games based on outcomes of each one of
   the plurality of base games, the probability of awarding
   the prize being one of a plurality of different
   probabilities depending on a temporal related parameter;
   and
15      awarding the prize in response to making a positive
   determination.
   2.   A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the
   jackpot evaluation parameter is associated with credits
20 awarded in each of the plurality of base games.
   3.   A method in accordance with claim 2, wherein the
   probability is proportional to the value of credits
   awarded.
25
   4.   A method in accordance with claim 1, wherein the
   accumulated value of the jackpot evaluation parameter is
   associated with a value or number of special symbols
   detected in outcomes of each of the plurality of base
30 games.

                              - 25
   5.   A method in accordance with claim 4, wherein
   different special symbols have different associated
   values.
 5 6.   A method in accordance with claim 5, wherein one or
   more special symbols have negative associated values.
   7.   A method in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 6,
   wherein the event trigger is instructed by the player.
10
   8.   A method in accordance with any one of the preceding
   claims, wherein the value of the jackpot evaluation
   parameter is determined when the jackpot event is
   initiated.
15
   9.   A method in accordance with any one of the preceding
   claims, further comprising displaying a jackpot indicator
   which provides an indication of the value of the jackpot
   evaluation parameter to the player.
20
   10.  A method in accordance with claim 9, wherein the
   probability of being awarded the prize is displayed in
   association with the jackpot indicator.
25 11.  A method in accordance with any one of the preceding
   claims, wherein the prize comprises at least one of a
   primary and secondary prize and wherein there is a random
   probability for determining which of the at least one
   primary and secondary prize is awarded.
30
   12.  A jackpot controller comprising a:

                               - 26
         jackpot event module arranged to initiate a jackpot
   event responsive to detecting an event trigger;
        determination module arranged to determine whether to
   award a prize to a player in the jackpot event, the
 5 probability of awarding the prize being dependent on a
   value of a jackpot evaluation parameter accumulated over a
   plurality of base games based on outcomes of each one of
   the plurality of base games, the probability of awarding
   the prize being one of a plurality of different
10 probabilities depending on a temporal related parameter;
   and
        award module arranged to award the prize in response
   to a positive determination being made by the
   determination module.
15
   13.  A jackpot controller in accordance with claim 12,
   wherein the jackpot evaluation parameter is associated
   with credits awarded in each of the plurality of base
   games.
20
   14.  A jackpot controller in accordance with claim 13,
   wherein the probability is proportional to the value of
   accumulated credits awarded.
25 15.  A jackpot controller in accordance with claim 12,
   wherein the jackpot evaluation parameter is associated
   with a value or number of special symbols detected in
   outcomes of each of the plurality of base games.
30 16.  A jackpot controller in accordance with claim 15,
   wherein different special symbols have different
   associated values.

                              - 27
   17.  A jackpot controller in accordance with claim 16,
   wherein one or more special symbols have negative
   associated values.
 5
   18.  A jackpot controller in accordance with any one of
   claims 12 to 17, wherein the event trigger is instructed
   by the player.
10 19.  A jackpot controller system or jackpot controller in
   accordance with claims 12 to 18, wherein the prize
   comprises at least one of a primary and secondary prize
   and wherein there is a random probability for determining
   which of the at least one primary and secondary prize is
15 awarded.
   20.  A gaming system comprising:
        a jackpot controller in accordance with any one of
   preceding claims 12 to 19;  and
20      display module operable to display the determined
   prize.
   21.  A gaming system in accordance with claim 20, wherein
   the display module is additionally arranged to display a
25 jackpot indicator providing an indication of the
   accumulated value of the jackpot evaluation parameter.
   22.  A gaming system in accordance with claim 20 or 21,
   wherein the gaming system is implemented on a stand alone
30 gaming device.

                             - 28
  23.  Computer program code which when executed by a
  processor implements the method of any one of claims 1 to
  11.
5 24.  A computer readable medium comprising the program
  code of claim 23.
  25.  A data signal comprising the program code of claim
  23.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>            "      &    ''
              ! " #
<removed-apn>
               $%                           !
                                                $(
              ( )' #   * +,       &
                                        0
                       (& (&)* $-(''
               (&                           (& %* )*
                            )
                                             !            .
                !             %!
                                                     /(

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                -
&                                 0
           1(
       '
      ('   ''
2 3

                               <removed-apn> <removed-date>
( )' # & ''
                     4   ) / &
                     "  *'
            "(& ( & "  *'
                "   *'

                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                         0
                        0
                0
0       0
                                             0
                    0
        0
    0       0   0                        0
                             0

<removed-date>           (/ )' #
                         (..
<removed-apn>    &( (            5     )
                         / &
                     "(&           + +
                                  ) (6 (&
              + 5         )         / &
                     ) & (/
                     )     ( (/
                "(& ( &7

