                                              ABSTRACT
            Various aspects of the present disclosure are directed toward methods and
   apparatuses for interacting a first liquid and a second liquid in one or more fluidic channels
 5 of a capillary structure. The methods and apparatuses can include providing at least one
   capillary barrier that positions a meniscus of the first liquid at a fluid-interface region using
   capillary forces within the capillary structure. Additionally, a path is provided along one of
   the channels for the second liquid to flow toward the fluid-interface region. Additionally,
   gas pressure is released, via a gas-outflow port, from the fluid-interface region while flow of
10 the first liquid is arrested. Further, the first liquid and the second liquid contact in the fluid
   interface region with the capillary barrier holding the first liquid at the fluid-interface
   region.

                                                     1
                             CAPILLARY BARRIERS FOR STAGED
                            LOADING OF MICROFLUIDIC DEVICES
               FEDERALLY-SPONSORED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 5         This invention was made with Government support under contract HROO1 1-12-C
   0080 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The U.S. Government
   has certain rights in this invention.
                                             OVERVIEW
10         Loading microfluidic chips with multiple liquids is challenging in many ways. For
   example, loading can be challenging due to limited access to a microfluidic chip based on
   few sample ports. Additionally, channel dimensions can be on the order of 100 tm. For
   such implementations, surface forces can become important because aqueous liquids will
   not advance into hydrophobic channels unless driven by an external pressure, and bubbles
15 can become trapped if channels are loaded from multiple directions. Certain applications of
   the microfluidic chips include creating a liquid-to-liquid interface between multiple liquids.
   In these instances, the liquids to be loaded may have limited availability, such as liquids
   involving a rare cell or scarce DNA or RNA samples. It is therefore desirable to minimize
   fluid loss when creating the liquid-to-liquid interface.
20         Various aspects of the present disclosure are provided to allow liquid interfaces
   created in microfluidic channels without loss of sample liquid. In connection with these and
   other aspects, the present disclosure is directed toward apparatuses and methods for
   interacting a first liquid and a second liquid in one or more fluidic channels. Such
   apparatuses and methods can involve a capillary barrier that positions a meniscus of the first
25 liquid at a fluid-interface region using capillary forces. Additionally, an escape path or
   channel for the second liquid permits flow of the second liquid toward the fluid-interface
   region, where a path is provided for fluid to exit. Further, means, within the escape path, is
   provided for limiting volume flow rate of escaping fluid.
           Certain other embodiments of the present disclosure are directed towards
30 apparatuses and methods for interacting a first liquid and a second liquid in a capillary
   structure having a fluid-interface region. Such methods include providing a capillary
   structure that includes a first microfluidic channel for guiding the first liquid toward the
   fluid-interface region and a second microfluidic channel for guiding the second liquid
   toward the fluid-interface region. The fluid-interface region has a capillary barrier to arrest

                                                      2
   flow of the first liquid flowing toward the fluid-interface region at a nominal fluid pressure
   along the first microfluidic channel. An upstream portion of the capillary barrier provides a
   meniscus barrier for the first liquid. Additionally, these methods involve causing the first
   liquid to flow in the first microfluidic channel until a state in which the capillary barrier has
 5 arrested flow of the first liquid in the first microfluidic channel. While in the state in which
   the capillary barrier has arrested flow of the first liquid in the first microfluidic channel, gas
   pressure is released from the fluid-interface region via a gas-outflow port. This release
   occurs due to and while the second liquid is flowing in the second microfluidic channel
   toward the fluid-interface region.
10          Consistent with many of the above aspects, examples of related apparatuses include
   a capillary structure having a first microfluidic channel for guiding a first liquid toward a
   fluid-interface region and a second microfluidic channel for guiding a second liquid toward
   the fluid-interface region. The fluid-interface region includes a capillary barrier that arrests
   the first liquid flowing toward the fluid-interface region at a nominal fluid pressure along
15 the first microfluidic channel. The upstream portion of the capillary barrier provides a
   meniscus barrier for the first liquid. This type of apparatus can also include a gas-outflow
   port, constructed to reduce or prevent a loss of fluid, that releases gas pressure in the fluid
   interface region. This port is useful during a state in which the capillary barrier has arrested
   flow of the first liquid in the first microfluidic channel, and in which the second liquid flows
20 in the second microfluidic channel toward the fluid-interface region.
            The above discussion/summary is not intended to describe each embodiment or
   every implementation of the present disclosure. The figures and detailed description that
   follow also exemplify various embodiments.
25                                              FIGURES
            Various example embodiments may be more completely understood in consideration
   of the following detailed description in connection with the accompanying drawings, in
   which:
            FIG. 1 shows an example capillary structure and state diagram, consistent with
30 various aspects of the present disclosure;
            FIG. 2A shows an example capillary structure including a first liquid flowing
   towards a fluid-interface region, consistent with various aspects of the present disclosure,

                                                     3
            FIG. 2B shows an example capillary structure including a first liquid arrested, and a
   second liquid flowing towards a fluid-interface region, consistent with various aspects of the
   present disclosure,
            FIG. 2C shows a liquid-to-liquid interface of a first liquid and a second liquid in a
 5 capillary structure, consistent with various aspects of the present disclosure,
            FIG. 2D shows example images of a first liquid and a second liquid in a capillary
   structure, consistent with various aspects of the present disclosure;
            FIG. 3A shows a first example capillary barrier, consistent with various aspects of
   the present disclosure,
10          FIG. 3B shows a second example capillary barrier, consistent with various aspects of
   the present disclosure; and
            FIG. 4 shows an example capillary structure, consistent with various aspects of the
   present disclosure.
            While the disclosure is amenable to various modifications and alternative forms,
15 specifics thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described
   in detail. It should be understood, however, that the disclosure is not limited only to the
   particular embodiments described. On the contrary, the disclosure is to cover all
   modifications, equivalents, and alternatives falling within the scope of the disclosure
   including aspects defined in the claims. In addition, the term "example" as used throughout
20 this application is only by way of illustration, and not limitation.
                                           DESCRIPTION
            Aspects of the present disclosure are believed to be applicable to a variety of
   different types of devices, systems and arrangements involving the creation of fluid-to-fluid
25 interfaces via capillary barriers in order to stop advancing liquids at the interface points.
   The capillary barriers, consistent with various aspects of the present disclosure, utilize
   surface forces to hold or pin the liquid meniscus of a fluid in a desired and stationary
   location. Once the meniscus of the fluid is pinned at a junction, different liquids are loaded,
   and backfilled to the meniscus of the first fluid. The liquid-to-liquid interface created aids
30 in, for example, finite injection of cell lysate for highly efficient extraction of nucleic acids
   by isotachophoresis (ITP). While the present disclosure is not necessarily so limited,
   various aspects of the disclosure may be appreciated through a discussion of examples using
   this context.

                                                     4
             Various example embodiments are directed to methods and apparatus for interacting
   a first liquid and a second liquid in a capillary structure having a fluid-interface region. In
   the capillary structure, a first microfluidic channel is provided for guiding the first liquid
   toward the fluid-interface region, and a second microfluidic channel is provided for guiding
 5 the second liquid toward the fluid-interface region. The fluid-interface region includes a
   capillary barrier that arrests the flow of the first liquid as it moves toward the fluid-interface
   region at a nominal fluid pressure along the first microfluidic channel. An upstream portion
   of the capillary barrier provides a meniscus barrier for the first liquid. The first liquid flows
   in the first microfluidic channel until a state in which the capillary barrier arrests the flow of
10 the first liquid. While in the state in which the capillary barrier has arrested flow of the first
   liquid in the first microfluidic channel, gas pressure is released. Gas pressure is released
   from the fluid-interface region via a gas-outflow port (due to and) while the second liquid is
   flowing in the second microfluidic channel toward the fluid-interface region. In certain
   embodiments, after the flow of the first liquid is arrested, the second liquid flows into the
15 second microfluidic channel until a liquid-to-liquid interface is created between the first
   liquid and the second liquid.
             Various aspects of the present disclosure are provided to allow liquid interfaces
   created in microfluidic channels without loss of sample liquid. Such apparatuses and
   methods can involve a capillary barrier that positions a meniscus of the first liquid at a
20 fluid-interface region using capillary forces, while using an escape path to permit flow of
   the second liquid toward the fluid-interface region. Means, within the escape path, is
   provided for limiting volume flow rate of escaping fluid; with structures therefor
   exemplified in connection with FIG. 4 and related discussion infra, examples include a low
   volume channel, a constricted channel and/or abrupt changes along the way.
25           In certain other embodiments, a microfluidic chip is provided to support the
   capillary structure. A protrusion can be included, e.g., in the form of a post, near or at an
   upstream portion of the fluid-interface region and on a wall of the path for the first liquid to
   flow toward the fluid-interface region; the protrusion is configured and arranged for limiting
   by presenting a force to oppose the volume flow rate of the (second) liquid. The
30 microfluidic chip also includes circuitry that receives data indicative of an interaction
   between the first liquid and the second liquid. In certain other embodiments, consistent
   with various aspects of the present disclosure, a first fluid introduction port is provided on
   the microfluidic chip to present the first fluid to the first microfluidic channel, and a second

                                                      5
   fluid introduction port is provided on the microfluidic chip to present the second fluid to the
   second microfluidic channel.
            One or more of the first microfluidic channel and the second microfluidic channel,
   in certain embodiments of the present disclosure, respectively include hydrophobic surfaces
 5 in order to assist in arresting the liquid flow in the fluid-interface region. In certain
   embodiments, the first microfluidic channel and the second microfluidic channel are formed
   from polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS). Additionally, in certain embodiments of the present
   disclosure, the upstream portion of the capillary barrier is at least in part defined by a
   change in a cross-sectional area for the first liquid flowing in the capillary structure. In
10 these embodiments, cross-sectional area change is sufficient to arrest the first liquid flow in
   the fluid-interface region. Further, in these embodiments, the capillary barrier assists in
   arresting the first liquid when it is flowing in the first microfluidic channel. Additionally, in
   other embodiments of the present disclosure, surface forces arresting fluid flow in the first
   microfluidic channel is approximately equal to surface forces arresting fluid flow in the
15 capillary barrier. In this manner, the capillary barrier at the upstream portion of the
   capillary barrier is defined by a change in cross-sectional area for the first liquid flowing in
   the capillary structure, which assists in arresting of the first liquid when it is flowing in the
   first microfluidic channel. In certain embodiments of the present disclosure, an intersection
   of the first microfluidic channel and the second microfluidic channel form a T-junction.
20 Various embodiments of the present disclosure load the first fluid and the second fluid
   without using a vacuum.
            In certain embodiments of the present disclosure, at least one of the first fluid and
   the second fluid is a fluid that includes DNA, RNA, proteins and/or cells. Additionally,
   certain embodiments of the present disclosure also include a microfluidic chip that supports
25 the capillary structure and circuitry that receives data indicative of an interaction between
   the first liquid and the second liquid. In various embodiments, the circuitry performs
   microfluidics analysis of quantification and quality control of DNA, RNA, proteins and/or
   cells that are present in the first fluid or the second fluid. Additionally, in other
   embodiments, the circuitry on the microfluidic chip performs preparative electrophoresis
30 analysis of separation and extraction of DNA fragments present in the first fluid or the
   second fluid. In other embodiments, circuitry analyzes target nucleic acid enrichment in at
   least one of the first fluid and the second fluid. The circuitry, in other embodiments, is
   provided to perform genetic analysis of aspects of the first fluid or the second fluid based on
   the polymerase chain reaction. As illustrated by the various embodiments and applications

                                                     6
   of circuitry, the capillary structure, as arranged on a microfluidic chip, is useful to numerous
   different applications.
            The capillary structure is compatible with various systems and apparatus that
   analyze and/or process the interactions between two liquids. Further, embodiments of the
 5 capillary structure arranged on the microfluidic chip and having circuitry that analyzes
   quantification and quality control of DNA, RNA, proteins and/or cells is compatible with
   various apparatus and systems such as, for example, Qiagen's Qiaxcel; Agilent Bioanalyzer;
   Bio-Rad's Experion; Shimadzu - MCE-202 MultiNA; and Perkin Elmer's LabChip GX II.
   Additionally, embodiments of the capillary structure arranged on the microfluidic chip and
10 having circuitry that performs preparative electrophoresis analysis of separation and
   extraction of DNA fragments is compatible with various apparatus and systems such as, for
   example, Sage Science's Pippin Prep and BluePippen Prep; and Perkin Elmer's Labchip
   XT. Further, embodiments of the capillary structure arranged on the microfluidic chip and
   having circuitry that analyzes target nucleic acid enrichment is compatible with various
15 apparatus and systems such as, for example, Fluidigm's Access Array. The capillary
   structure is also useful in loading of reagents and/or sample volumes as would occur in
   microfluidic thermocylers (e.g., Qiagen's LabDisk Player).
            Turning now to the Figures, FIG. 1 shows an example capillary structure and state
   diagram, consistent with various aspects of the present disclosure. FIG. 1 shows a capillary
20 structure 100 including a first microfluidic channel 105 and a second microfluidic channel
   115. The first microfluidic channel 105 is provided for guiding a first liquid toward a fluid
   interface region 110, and the second microfluidic channel 115 is provided for guiding a
   second liquid toward the fluid-interface region 110. The fluid-interface region 110 includes
   a capillary barrier 120 that arrests the flow of the first liquid in response to the first liquid
25 flowing toward the fluid-interface region 110 at a nominal fluid pressure. An upstream
   portion of the capillary barrier 120 provides a meniscus barrier 125 for the first liquid. The
   first liquid flows in the first microfluidic channel 105 until a state in which the capillary
   barrier 120 arrests the flow. While in this state, gas pressure may be released from the
   fluid-interface region 110 via a fluid-gas-outflow port 130, while the second liquid is
30 flowing in the second microfluidic channel 115 toward the fluid-interface region 110.
            As shown in the state diagram of FIG. 1, after the first liquid hits the meniscus
   barrier, the second microfluidic channel 115 is filled with the second liquid until the second
   liquid contacts the first liquid at the meniscus barrier. At this stage, the wetting between the
   first and second liquids can lead to fluid loss via the gas-outflow port 130, which is

                                                    7
   designed to limit (by presenting an opposing force relative to) the volume flow rate of the
   (second) fluid by blocking or reducing fluid flow through a path that permits gas to outflow.
   Interface-based analysis is then performed at the interface of the first liquid and the second
   liquid.
 5         FIGs. 2A-2D show exemplary capillary structures, consistent with various aspects of
   the present disclosure. FIG. 2A shows one such capillary structure 200 including a first
   liquid 205 flowing in a microfluidic channel. The fluid flow stops at a barrier 210 as
   indicated by dashed lines in FIG. 2B which show the capillary structure 200 including a first
   liquid 205 arrested and a second liquid 215 flowing in a second channel 220 of the capillary
10 structure 200. The second liquid 215 flows up to and until a liquid-to-liquid interface is
   created at the point (or barrier 210) where the first liquid was arrested. The liquid-to-liquid
   interface is shown separating at the liquid barrier 210 in FIG. 2C. Common to each of
   FIGs. 2A, 2B and 2C is out flow port 230 (denoted to relate to port 130 of FIG.1).
           FIG. 2D shows example images of a similarly constructed capillary structure,
15 consistent with various aspects of the present disclosure, where in the first liquid is blood
   lysate, and the second liquid is electrophoresis buffer. Additionally, the capillary structure
   in which the liquids are loaded is a polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) chip. As is shown in the
   upper left corner of FIG. 2D, blood lysate is loaded from the left by applying a vacuum at
   the bottom right portion of the chip. The upper right portion of FIG. 2D shows the lysate
20 pinned at the barrier. The lower left portion of FIG. 2D shows the leading electrolyte (the
   electrophoresis buffer) for ITP loaded from the top capillary. A sharp interface of the
   electrolyte and the blood lysate volume is then formed. The lower right portion of FIG. 2D
   shows a snapshot at the point in which the lysate and leading electrolyte meet. After these
   liquids meet, pressure-driven flow will occur and disrupts the interface. However, due to
25 the design of the chip, consistent with various aspects of the present disclosure, the blood
   lysate volume is wasted by flowing into an outlet waste channel.
           FIG. 3 shows example capillary barriers, consistent with various aspects of the
   present disclosure. For instance, FIG. 3A shows a first example capillary barrier. In FIG.
   3A, a capillary barrier is created based on an advancing liquid contact line (advancing into a
30 region occupied by some gas) encountering a liquid capillary or chamber geometry. The
   capillary forces arrest the motion of the liquid, and form a stationary liquid front even in the
   presence of applied pressure differences between the liquid and gas sides. As can be seen in
   FIG. 3A, fluid-flow is arrested due to surface forces at the upstream portion of capillary
   based on a change in cross-sectional area, which is shown based on the representative angle

                                                     8
   differences (* and (D)between the upstream portion of the capillary and the downstream
   portion of the capillary. In certain embodiments, * and (Dare equal, and in other
   embodiments * and (Dare unequal.
            FIG. 3B shows a second example fluid-flow capillary barrier, consistent with
 5 various aspects of the present disclosure. The capillary barrier shown in FIG. 3B is the
   result of a series of posts inside the capillary. The structures allow for fabrication with high
   resolution, but without the ability to make fully 3-dimensional structures. For example,
   polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) poured on a SU-8 mask can easily be used to create posts
   with sharp edges, but the capillaries are limited to a single mask thickness. In the
10 embodiment shown in FIG. 3B, the capillary barrier includes a series of small (e.g., 120 tm
   in length) triangular posts situated along the capillary. As a first liquid flows into the device
   along one capillary, and it becomes pinned at the capillary barrier, thereby forming a
   meniscus. This meniscus remains stationary as a second fluid (e.g., electrophoresis buffer)
   is filled from the connecting capillary (not shown), and air escapes through a narrow side
15 channel (e.g., as shown in FIG. 1). As a liquid reaches the capillary barriers, the first liquid
   comes into contact with the second liquid. The capillary barrier structure shown in FIG. 3B
   is a ramp structure. In other embodiments, ramp structures are used to create capillary
   barriers inside of the capillary channels.
            Such a ramp structure can be implemented and manufactured using thermoplastic
20 molding, where the 3D molds are machined. The capillary barrier structure decreases the
   effective channel dimensions, and then allows expansion. The liquid meniscus is stopped by
   the increase in surface area needed to cross the expansion.
            FIG. 4 shows an example capillary structure consistent with various aspects of the
   present disclosure. The capillary structure 400 in FIG. 4 includes a first microfluidic
25 channel 405 and a second microfluidic channel 410. The first microfluidic channel 405 is
   provided for guiding a first liquid toward a fluid-interface region 415, and the second
   microfluidic channel 410 is provided for guiding a second liquid toward the fluid-interface
   region 415. The first microfluidic channel 405 and the second microfluidic channel 410
   include respective barrier structures 420 and respective expansions (or expansion regions)
30 425 in the capillaries thereafter. These barrier structures 420 and expansions 425 assist in
   creating a capillary barrier 430 that arrests flow of the first liquid in response to the first
   liquid flowing toward the fluid-interface region 415 (at a nominal fluid pressure). An
   upstream portion of the capillary barrier 430 provides a meniscus barrier, for example, at
   the expansion 425 in the first microfluidic channel 405. The first liquid flows in the first

                                                      9
   microfluidic channel 405 until a state in which the capillary barrier 430 arrests the flow of
   the first liquid at least in part based on the barrier structures 420, and expansions 425.
   While in the state in which the capillary barrier 430 has arrested flow of the first liquid in
   the first microfluidic channel 405, gas pressure is released, via a gas-outflow port 435, from
 5 the fluid-interface region 415 while the second liquid is flowing in the second microfluidic
   channel 410 toward the fluid-interface region 415. The barrier structure 420 and the
   expansion 425 are arranged near the second microfluidic channel 410 to mitigate loss of
   liquids via the gas-outflow port 435. As illustrated, the gas-outflow port 435 has a
   constricted volume area (per illustrated abrupt changes in channel dimensions) so as to
10 provide a passive means by which fluid loss would occur.
            Various aspects of the present disclosure are directed toward capillary barriers that
   control fluid flow, without the use of a vacuum, by utilizing surface hydrophobicity of a
   microfluidic channel, and/or abrupt changes in channel dimension to create capillary valves
   to halt flow. As an advancing liquid enters a region of the channel which expands to a
15 wider cross-section, the surface area of the liquid-air interface increases to allow for the
   liquid to continue advancing. This expanded surface area results in a force that limits
   volume flow rate (by way of a force that opposes the flow of the liquid). If the surface
   expansion is large enough, the liquid will stop advancing. Various embodiments of the
   present disclosure also form capillary barriers based on regions of hydrophobic surfaces,
20 barriers such as one or more ramps or posts in the channel configured and arranged for
   presenting a force to oppose the flow of the liquid, and/or other methods of achieving
   sudden expansions in microfluidic capillaries with sudden contractions in microfluidic
   capillaries.
            For further details regarding microfluidic chips, reference is made to U.S.
25 Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/785,255, to which this document claims
   priority benefit of, filed on March 14, 2013; this patent document is fully incorporated
   herein by reference.
            Based upon the above discussion and illustrations, those skilled in the art will
   readily recognize that various modifications and changes may be made to the present
30 disclosure without strictly following the exemplary embodiments and applications
   illustrated and described herein. Such modifications do not depart from the true spirit and
   scope of the present disclosure, including that set forth in the following claims.

                                                    10
   What is Claimed is:
   1.       A method for interacting a first liquid and a second liquid in one or more fluidic
   channels of a capillary structure, the method comprising:
 5          providing a capillary barrier configured and arranged to position a meniscus of the
   first liquid at a fluid-interface region using capillary forces;
            providing a path along one of the channels for the second liquid to flow toward the
   fluid-interface region;
            providing an escape path through which liquid can escape from the fluid-interface
10 region, the escape path including limiting means, connected to a gas-outflow port, for
   limiting a volume flow rate of fluid;
            releasing gas pressure, via the escape path and the gas-outflow port, while flow of
   the first liquid is arrested; and
            causing the first liquid and the second liquid to contact in the fluid-interface region
15 with the capillary barrier holding the first liquid at the fluid-interface region.
   2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the second liquid is driven toward the fluid
   interface region by air pressure gradients, and the path for the first liquid to flow and the
   path for the second liquid to flow are microfluidic channels supported by a microfluidic
20 chip that includes circuitry configured and arranged for receiving data indicative of an
   interaction between the first liquid and the second liquid, and wherein the limiting means is
   for mitigating fluid loss through a path in which the gas-outflow port permits gas to
   outflow.
25 3.       The method of claim 1, further including a protrusion in the form of a triangular post
   configured and arranged at an upstream portion of the fluid-interface region and on a wall of
   the path for the first liquid to flow toward the fluid-interface region.
   4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the path for the first liquid to flow and the path for
30 the second liquid to flow are microfluidic channels, and an intersection of the microfluidic
   channels form a junction near the gas-outflow port.

                                                    11
   5.       The method of claim 1, wherein while in a state in which the capillary barrier has
   arrested flow of the first liquid, releasing gas pressure, via the gas-outflow port, from the
   fluid-interface region while the second liquid is flowing toward the fluid-interface region.
 5 6.       The method of claim 1, wherein the capillary barrier arrests flow of the first liquid
   while the first liquid is moving toward the fluid-interface region under a nominal degree of
   fluid pressure, wherein the capillary barrier is configured and arranged to provide a
   meniscus barrier for the first liquid for and relative to the nominal degree of fluid pressure.
10 7.       The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first liquid and the second liquid
   includes at least one of DNA, RNA, proteins and cells.
   8.       The method of claim 1, wherein the capillary structure is secured to a microfluidic
   chip that includes circuitry that receives data indicative of an interaction between the first
15 liquid and the second liquid and that performs microfluidics analysis of quantification and
   quality control of one or more of DNA, RNA, proteins and cells in at least one of the first
   liquid and the second liquid.
   9.       The method of claim 1, further including a microfluidic chip supporting the capillary
20 structure and including circuitry that receives data indicative of an interaction between the
   first liquid and the second liquid, wherein the circuitry performs preparative electrophoresis
   analysis of separation and extraction of DNA fragments in at least one of the first liquid and
   the second liquid.
25 10.      The method of claim 1, further including a microfluidic chip supporting the capillary
   structure and including circuitry that receives data indicative of an interaction between the
   first liquid and the second liquid, wherein the circuitry is configured and arranged to target
   nucleic acid enrichment in at least one of the first liquid and the second liquid.
30

                                                     12
   11.      An apparatus comprising:
            a capillary structure including a first microfluidic channel or reservoir presenting a
   first liquid near a fluid-interface region and including a second microfluidic channel for
   guiding a second liquid toward the fluid-interface region,
 5          a capillary barrier configured and arranged to position a meniscus of the first liquid
   at the fluid-interface region using capillary forces;
            a gas-outflow port configured and arranged to release gas pressure while flow of the
   first liquid is arrested; and
            an escape path through which liquid can escape from the fluid-interface region, the
10 escape path including limiting means, connected to the gas-outflow port, for limiting a
   volume flow rate of fluid.
   12.      The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the first fluid and the second fluid are loaded
   without using a vacuum.
15
   13.      The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the first microfluidic channel and the second
   microfluidic channel are formed from polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS).
   14.      The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the first microfluidic channel and the second
20 microfluidic channel respectively include hydrophobic surfaces.
   15.      The apparatus of claim 11, wherein an upstream portion of the capillary barrier is at
   least in part defined by a change in cross-sectional area for the first liquid flowing in the
   capillary structure, the change being sufficient to arrest flow of the first liquid flowing
25 toward the fluid-interface region.
   16.      The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the surface forces at an upstream portion of the
   capillary barrier are defined by a change in cross-sectional area for the first liquid flowing in
   the capillary structure.
30
   17.      The apparatus of claim 11, further including a microfluidic chip secured as part of
   the capillary structure, the microfluidic chip including circuitry configured and arranged to
   receive data indicative of an interaction between the first liquid and the second liquid and to

                                                    13
   perform microfluidics analysis of quantification and quality control of one or more of DNA,
   RNA, proteins and cells in at least one of the first liquid and the second liquid.
   18.      The apparatus of claim 11, further including a microfluidic chip supporting the
 5 capillary structure and including circuitry configured to receive data indicative of an
   interaction between the first liquid and the second liquid, wherein the circuitry is further
   configured to perform preparative electrophoresis analysis of separation and extraction of
   DNA fragments in at least one of the first liquid and the second liquid.
10 19.      The apparatus of claim 11, further including a microfluidic chip supporting the
   capillary structure and including circuitry configured to receive data indicative of an
   interaction between the first liquid and the second liquid, wherein the circuitry is configured
   and arranged to target nucleic acid enrichment in at least one of the first liquid and the
   second liquid.
15
   20.      A method for interacting a first liquid and a second liquid in one or more fluidic
   channels, the method comprising:
            providing a capillary barrier configured and arranged to position a meniscus of the
   first liquid at a fluid-interface region using capillary forces;
20          providing a path along one of the channels for the second liquid to flow toward the
   fluid-interface region;
            providing an escape path for escaping fluid to exit from the region between the first
   and second liquid;
            providing, within the escape path, means for limiting the volume flow rate of the
25 escaping fluid; and
            causing the first liquid and the second liquid to contact in the fluid-interface region.
   21.      The method of claim 20, further including a gas-outflow port connected to the
   escape path, wherein the first liquid and the second liquid merge in the fluid-interface
30 region with the capillary barrier holding the first liquid at the fluid-interface region and with
   gas pressure being released via the gas-outflow port.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
