ABSTRACT
A hand hygiene compliance benchmark is determined for a target institution based on observations
of hand hygiene opportunities in a studied institution and relationships between the number of
observed hand hygiene opportunities and characteristics of the studied institution. The benchmark
for the target institution is determined based on target institution characteristics and the
relationships between institution characteristics and observed hand hygiene opportunities of the
studied institution. The benchmark for the target institution may be adjusted based on direct
observation of hand hygiene opportunities in the target institution.

WO 2013/070596                                                       PCT/US2012/063697
            METHOD FOR DETERMINING HAND HYGIENE COMPLIANCE
               STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED
                           RESEARCH OR DEVELOPMENT
[0001]         Not applicable.
                 CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0002]         The present application makes reference to, claims benefit of, and
claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/556,680, filed November
7, 2011, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety.
                         BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003]         Hand hygiene is essential for certain activities and services, including
particularly healthcare and food preparation and service. The invention concerns
determining the compliance by workers with hand hygiene guidelines.
[0004]         For healthcare providers, the spread of healthcare acquired infections
also known as HAl's has been an ever increasing challenge in healthcare facilities.
HAls can result from transmission of bacteria, viruses and other disease causing
micro-organisms from various sources such as a patient or environmental surfaces
to another patient or surface via the hands of healthcare workers. Such transmission
can result in an infection of a patient who was previously not infected. Health care
facilities have battled MRSA (methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus) and VRSA
(vancomycin-resistant staphylococcus aureus) and other drug resistant micro
organisms for many years. These problems have been more apparent in recent
years. It is estimated that approximately 2,000,000 such HAls occur annually in the
U.S. alone resulting in about 100,000 deaths. The extra costs associated with these
infections are estimated in the billions of dollars.
                                             1

WO 2013/070596                                                        PCT/US2012/063697
[0005]          Healthcare institutions seek to prevent and control the spread of HAls.
One important aspect of such efforts is seeking to ensure that health care
professionals comply with hand hygiene best practices.           Hand hygiene can be
accomplished by washing with soap and water and by using liquids such as a
sanitizing product which does not require water or rinsing of the product.
[0006]          Hand hygiene is also recognized as essential in the food industry to
prevent the spread of foodborne bacteria and/or viruses including Norovirus, the
Hepatitis A virus, Salmonella Typhi, Shigella spp., and Escherichia coli (E. coli)
0157:H7      or    other   Enterohemorrhagic     or Shiga toxin-producing E. coli,
Staphylococcus aureus, Salmonella spp. and Streptococcus pyogenes. Hand
washing by food employees is essential after activities that contaminate hands and
before activities during which pathogens may be spread to food.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007]          An aspect of the invention concerns assuring that workers conform to
best practices for hand hygiene.
[0008]          Another aspect of the invention concerns determining the compliance
of workers with hand hygiene guidelines within a facility that requires hand hygiene.
[0009]          Yet another aspect of the invention concerns determining the
compliance of healthcare workers with hand hygiene guidelines within a healthcare
institution.
[0010]          An additional aspect of the invention concerns determining the
compliance of workers with hand hygiene guidelines within individual areas of a
facility in which different activities that require hand hygiene occur at different
locations within that facility.
[0011]          Still another aspect of the invention concerns determining the
compliance of healthcare workers with hand hygiene guidelines within individual
areas of a healthcare institution.
                                            2

WO 2013/070596                                                        PCT/US2012/063697
[0012]         Yet an additional aspect of the invention concerns determining the
amount of hand hygiene activity within a facility that is consistent with hand hygiene
guidelines.
[0013]         Another aspect of the invention concerns determining the amount of
hand hygiene activity within an area of a healthcare facility that is consistent with
hand hygiene guidelines.
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0014]         Fig. 1 is a sketch showing the five moments for hand hygiene in a
healthcare setting.
[0015]         Fig. 2 is a graph of the observed number of observed hand hygiene
opportunities per patient day vs. the average number of patients per nurse and a
linear relationship between them based on regression analysis.
[0016]         Fig. 3 is a graph of the observed number of hand hygiene opportunities
per 24 hour period and a comparison showing that the video monitoring benchmark
and the benchmark based on the original HOW2 study are statistically equivalent.
[0017]         Fig. 4 is a graph of hand hygiene compliances based on direct
observation, video observation and on dispenser usage utilizing a calculated
benchmark.
          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0018]          The invention concerns monitoring compliance with hand hygiene
guidelines by workers. In one aspect, the invention concerns estimating the number
of hand hygiene events that should occur within an area during a period of time. The
present invention is described hereinafter by reference to the accompanying
drawings and the following description that disclose embodiments of the invention.
This invention may, however, be embodied in many different forms and should not
be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein or to any aspect of that
embodiment. Rather, this embodiment is an example of the invention, which has the
full scope indicated by the claims.
                                            3

WO 2013/070596                                                        PCT/US2012/063697
[0019]         The World Health Organization has identified five moments of hand
hygiene in a healthcare setting. Those five moments for hand hygiene actions are
shown generally by Fig. 1 at 10. Specifically, the five moments for hand hygiene
actions are before patient contact 12, before performing an aseptic task 14, after
body fluid exposure risk 16, after patient contact 18 and after contact with patient
surroundings 20. Hand hygiene actions can be sanitizing with a sanitizing product
which does not require water or rinsing off or alternatively it can be washing with
soap and water. These five moments provide guidelines for hand hygiene within a
healthcare setting.
[0020]         The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recommends that food
workers should wash hands when entering a food preparation area; before putting
on gloves, including between glove changes; before engaging in food preparation;
before handing clean equipment and serving utensils; when changing tasks an
switching between handling raw foods and working with ready to eat (RTE) foods;
after handling soiled dishes, equipment, or utensils; after touching bare human body
parts, for example parts other than clean hands and clean, exposed portions of
arms; after using a toilet; after coughing sneezing, blowing his or her nose, using
tobacco, eating, or drinking; and after caring for or handling services animals or
aquatic animals such as molluscan shellfish or crustacean in display tanks. Food
workers should also wash their hands after any activity that contaminates their
hands. These recommendations provide bases for guidelines for hand hygiene in
food facilities in which these activities occur.   Other national food safety agencies
similarly recommend good hand hygiene practices, including the Food Standards
Agency of the United Kingdom, the European Commission, and Food Standards
Australia and New Zealand.
[0021]         Food    safety   agencies,    including  the    FDA   have    developed
recommendations for managing facilities based on Hazard Analysis and Critical
Control Point (HACCP) systems. Hand hygiene guidelines have been included in
systems that are based on HACCP analysis. HACCP is based on seven principles,
the fourth of which is monitoring critical control points.     Where hand hygiene is
essential, HACCP principles call for monitoring of hand hygiene.
                                           4

WO 2013/070596                                                           PCT/US2012/063697
[0022]        Other government, health and safety organizations have developed
other recommendations for practices to prevent spread of bacteria, viruses and
microorganisms within facilities. Hand hygiene guidelines can be important in clean
room and sterile environments for pharmaceutical and other manufacturing for which
pathogens and contaminants must be minimized. Hand hygiene is also important to
maintaining safe and healthy environments. Hand hygiene recommendations for all
such activities and facilities can form bases of desired best practices hand hygiene
guidelines.
[0023]        After developing such guidelines and informing and educating workers
concerning the guidelines, monitoring compliance with such guidelines is desirable to
achieve the goals that the guidelines were developed to reach.
[0024]        Hand hygiene compliance is generally considered to be the number of
times that hand hygiene occurs as compared to the number of times that it should
occur. If a worker only washes or sanitizers his or her hands 6 out of the 10 times
that they should have, they are said to exhibit a compliance rate of 60%.
[0025]        Measuring healthcare worker adherence to hand hygiene guidelines is
not a simple matter. There are no proven standards or benchmarks that may be
used.    The Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations
(JCAHO) requires monitoring hand hygiene compliance for accreditation yet
prescribes no specific way to do so. There is a very clear need to measure hand
hygiene compliance in healthcare facilities, and therefore a need to determine
whether or not a hand hygiene action occurred when there was an indication for a
hand hygiene action.
[0026]        Measuring food worker adherence to hand hygiene guidelines is also
not straightforward.   While activities have been identified before which and after
which a worker should wash his or her hands, methods for determining compliance
with guidelines that are based on such activities have not been developed for food
handling, preparing or serving activities or facilities. Similarly, other facilities in which
hand hygiene is important, such as food service and processing facilities, share the
need to determine whether hand hygiene guidelines are complied with. Again, there
                                           5

WO 2013/070596                                                           PCT/US2012/063697
is a clear need to develop hand hygiene guidelines based on these activities for
which hand hygiene is required and to measure compliance with those guidelines.
[0027]        There are a number of ways to measure hand hygiene compliance
namely direct observation, remote observation, self-reporting and dispenser usage
data or product usage data. Each way has its own benefits and challenges.
[0028]         Direct observation can determine compliance directly by observing
both whether hand hygiene should occur and whether it does.                However, direct
observation is both time consuming and costly. Generally direct observation data is
only collected for a small sample of the total of hand hygiene opportunities and thus
has a typically low level of statistical reliability. The data is subject to bias from over
or under sampling of certain shifts and units. As well, it has been shown that there
are also issues regarding inter-rater (observer) reliability and therefore it is difficult to
compare the results from one observer or rater with another.
[0029]        Further, it has been shown that when people know they are being
watched or studied there is a greater likelihood that their compliance will be higher
than it would be otherwise.       This is known as the Hawthorne Effect.           Evidence
supporting this is found in a 2009 German study that compared product usage data
with direct observation data and found that the direct observation compliance rate
was 2.75 times higher than that for product usage.            Scheithauer S, Haefner H,
Schwanz T, Schulze-Steinen H, Schiefer J, Koch A, Engels A, Lemmen SW.,
Compliance with Hand Hygiene on Surgical, Medical, and Neurologic Intensive Care
Units: Direct Observation Versus Calculated Disinfectant Usage, Am. J. Infect.
Control. 2009 Dec; 37(10):835-41.
[0030]         Remote observation such as by video can operate at any time of day or
night and in any location. Remote observation is less subject to bias from over or
under sampling of certain shifts and units than direct observation by an observer or
rater. Remote observation is less apparent than direct observation by an observer
and is therefore less likely to affect workers' practices. Data collection by remote
observation is expensive because it requires installation and maintenance of the
video equipment as well as the time to review the video. Remote observation can be
subject to bias based on the video location within the facility. Review is subject to
                                              6

WO 2013/070596                                                        PCT/US2012/063697
the same lack of inter-rater reliability as direct observation. Further, remote video
observation raises privacy concerns.
[0031]         Product usage is gaining acceptance by professionals as a more
accurate measure of true rate of compliance with hand hygiene guidelines. In typical
commercial and professional environments, hand hygiene liquids are stored and
dispensed onto hands from dispensers, therefore there is a direct correlation
between dispenser usage or activations and hand hygiene events being performed.
Monitoring dispenser usage has the advantage of being less costly than direct or
remote observation of hand hygiene. Further, dispenser usage provides an overall
measure of use and it is not subject to selection bias.
[0032]         There are a number of further advantages to monitoring dispenser
usage. Specifically, in addition to being less costly, monitoring dispenser usage is
less resource intense and therefore more efficient than observation.         Dispenser
usage can be monitored manually or electronically. Dispenser usage monitoring
allows organization-wide trends to be tracked over time. It can be unobtrusive and
designed to take up little additional space. Dispenser usage can be easily measured
across all shifts, twenty-four hours a day, and seven days a week.           It requires
minimal staff training.    Dispenser usage monitoring can easily be done in many
different settings. However, dispenser usage data does not provide feedback for
indications or technique. Further, it does not identify low-performing individual staff
members.
[0033]         Dispenser usage does not directly provide a measure of hand hygiene
compliance as does direct observation.        Dispenser usage identifies the number of
times that hand hygiene occurred.       In order to determine compliance with a hand
hygiene guidelines based on dispenser usage data, the number of times that hand
hygiene should have occurred for the guideline to be complied with must be known.
This number of hand hygiene events required for compliance with hand hygiene
guidelines is referred to as a benchmark.
[0034]         In one embodiment of the present invention, a predetermined
benchmark and dispenser usage in an area of interest alone is used to calculate a
compliance rate based on dispenser usage.                 In another embodiment,       a
                                            7

WO 2013/070596                                                         PCT/US2012/063697
predetermined benchmark is adjusted based on direct observation data and survey
data that is relevant to the area of interest. For example in a healthcare facility, self
reported data or patient survey data may be used to provide consolidated hand
hygiene information. In a healthcare facility, dispenser usage data can be used with
facility and activity information to determine the product volume used per patient day
or the number of times the dispenser was used per patient day.
[0035]         To determine the measure of hand hygiene guideline compliance by
dispenser usage, the facility being monitored is provided with a plurality of
dispensers. The facility may be divided into predetermined groups of interest. The
facility may be a healthcare facility including a teaching hospital, a non-teaching
hospital, a long term care facility, a rehabilitation facility, a free standing surgical
center, a health care professional office, a dental office, a veterinarian facility and a
community care facility as well as other health care settings in which hand hygiene
compliance is an important issue. The facility may be another facility in which hand
hygiene is important and should be maintained such as at various stages in food
preparation    and service including abattoirs, preparing precooked          foods and
restaurants.
[0036]         In order to determine compliance with hand hygiene guidelines based
on dispenser usage one needs the number of hand hygiene events that actually
occurred and a benchmark.           The number of actual hand hygiene events and
predetermined benchmark may be for a predetermined area or group and for a
predetermined time.        The usage may be measured for each dispenser in the
predetermined group in practically real time and the captured data is transmitted
electronically. The number of hand hygiene events within a predetermined time
period equals a number of times the dispenser has been activated and wherein
multiple activations within a predetermined activation period are considered a single
dispenser usage event. It is not uncommon that when someone uses a dispensing
system that rather than merely activating once, they activate the dispenser multiple
times. Accordingly to accurately determine the correct number of dispenser usage
events the number of times the dispenser is activated is determined.             However
where there are multiple activations within a predetermined activation period that is
                                            8

WO 2013/070596                                                        PCT/US2012/063697
considered a single dispenser usage event. The benchmark is the number of times
the dispenser should have been used for a predetermined group over a
predetermined time period.
[0037]          The dispenser usage compliance rate is the number of dispenser
usage events divided by a predetermined             benchmark.     The   predetermined
benchmark may be particular to the predetermined group and activity of the group.
To determine the benchmark for the predetermined area and time, one needs to
determine the hand hygiene occurrences that should occur. For a healthcare facility,
the benchmark number of hand hygiene occurrences that should occur may depend
on the number of patients for the predetermined area and time and on the nature of
the activity in the predetermined area.
[0038]          Benchmarks for dispenser usage in a facility may be predetermined for
the facility and for each area of interest in a facility by direct or remote video
observation.      Determining benchmarks this way is time consuming and requires
significant effort.   Rather than predetermine benchmarks for each facility and for
each area of a facility, benchmarks are predetermined based on a selected hand
hygiene guideline by observation within areas of a facility in which activities occur for
which the guidelines apply. Benchmark relationships are determined between the
benchmarks determined by observation and characteristics and activity of the facility.
Based on these benchmark relationships, benchmarks may be predetermined for
other facilities in which activities occur for which the guidelines apply based on the
characteristics and activity of the other facility for which benchmark relationships
have been determined.
[0039]          For example, the number of hand hygiene occurrences that are
consistent with the WHO five moments can be correlated with hospital conditions
and activities which may include the case mix index (CMI), the ratio of the number of
healthcare workers to the number of patients, and the nature of the specific unit of a
healthcare facility. By use of such correlative relationships, a benchmark number of
hand hygiene opportunities can be predetermined for units of a hospital based on
observed numbers of hand hygiene opportunities for a different hospital.
                                             9

WO 2013/070596                                                        PCT/US2012/063697
[0040]         A benchmark for a healthcare facility may be predetermined based on
the number of hand hygiene events that occurred in two hospitals that were directly
observed to identify the occurrences of the five moments of hand hygiene identified
by the World Health Organization. One hospital was a teaching hospital and tertiary
care center and the other was a community hospital.            In each hospital, direct
observations were made in three different types of nursing units, an adult medical
surgical intensive care unit, an adult medical inpatient ward, and an emergency
department. Observations were made for all week days and all shifts during a three
month period.     These observations identified 6,640 hand hygiene opportunities
during 436.7 hours of observations. These observations are described in more detail
by "Hospital Hand Hygiene Opportunities: Where and when (HOW2)?               The How2
Benchmark Study", Steed et al., Am. J. Infect. Control 2011; 39:19-26, which is
incorporated herein by reference. That paper reports the number of observed hand
hygiene opportunities based on each of the WHO five moments. This paper reports
observation of hand hygiene opportunities, rather than observed compliance. These
observations provide the number instances during the observations when hand
hygiene should occur.
[0041]         The number of times that hand hygiene should occur as shown by this
data obtained by direct observation can be correlated to conditions that existed in the
hospitals in which the observations were made, and can be correlated to number of
occurrences of one or more of the conditions under which hand hygiene should
occur.   Fig. 2 shows an example of a relationship that can provide the number of
hand hygiene opportunities in a hospital based on the ratio the number of patients to
the number of nurses. Fig. 2 shows that a strong correlation exists between the
number of hand hygiene opportunities and the average number of patients per nurse
within the observed hospital units that are the basis of that graph.     Fig. 2 shows a
linear relationship that was determined by regression analysis between hand
hygiene opportunities per patient day and the average number of patients per nurse.
[0042]         The patient nurse ratio was the basis for two relationships were derived
using linear regression analysis. For intensive care units, the relationship between
                                          10

WO 2013/070596                                                        PCT/US2012/063697
the number of hand hygiene opportunities per patient day and the average number
of patients per nurse is given by:
         HH=199.01-33.03*PNR
Where
         HH is the number of hand hygiene opportunities per patient day.
         PNR is the average number of patients per nurse.
For non-intensive care medical units, the relationship between the number of hand
hygiene opportunities per patient day and the average number of patients per nurse
is given by:
         HH=1 19.53-15.03*PNR
Where HH and PNR are as identified above. These relationships may be used to
determine the denominator for determining hand hygiene compliance in ICU and
non-ICU medical units.
[0043]          A hand hygiene benchmark may be predetermined for a healthcare
institution based on studies in which hand hygiene activities were observed and on
correlations that are determined between conditions that exist in the studied
institution and the observed hand hygiene activities. The identified correlations may
be used to calculate a hand hygiene benchmark for a healthcare institution based on
conditions in that institution.   Benchmarks determined by such methods can be
validated or adjusted based on observations in the healthcare institution or in a
specific unit of the institution. Direct observations may be made to determine the
validity of benchmarks determined by these relationships in that facility or unit.
Should observations fall within the interval of twice the 95 percent confidence level,
the relationship should be considered valid. If observations do not fall within that
range, the relationship would be adjusted to conform to the specific unit.
[0044]          Figure 3 shows the results of a validation study in which hand hygiene
opportunities were observed via videotaping for eight patients and the average
number of hand hygiene opportunities per 24 hour period determined. The average
number of hand hygiene opportunities per 24 hour period was determined for all
                                           11

WO 2013/070596                                                           PCT/US2012/063697
patient observations and compared to the prediction based on the HOW2 study
referred to supra. As shown by Fig. 3, the predicted number of hand hygiene
opportunities and the observed number are statistically equivalent.
[0045]          Figure 4 shows the observed hand hygiene compliance rates for a
period of one year for thirteen patents with the 95 % confidence range. Figure 4
shows compliance rate based on dispenser usage data and calculated benchmarks
(DebMed GMS), compliance rate based on video observations and compliance rate
based on direct observation. As shown by Fig. 4, the hand hygiene compliance rate
determined based         on dispenser usage and calculated benchmark                 closely
approximates the video observed data while the direct observation shows that direct
observation overestimates compliance.
[0046]          Other observed factors can be a basis for determining a hand hygiene
benchmark based on direct observation data.            A strong relationship has been
demonstrated between the number of hand hygiene opportunities in a healthcare
facility and the patient nurse ratio. As is apparent from the formulas set out above,
the nature of the unit within a healthcare facility is a significant factor for the number
of hand hygiene opportunities.          However, the differences between healthcare
institutions were not a significant factor.     This relationship should therefore be
appropriate for hospitals of many sizes and care levels. Such relationships may also
be demonstrated for other characteristics.
[0047]          It is evident that this method both determines a benchmark and the
compliance rate with reasonable accuracy. The more regular the activities within a
facility in which hand hygiene is a concern, the more accuracy can be expected of
the benchmarks and hand hygiene compliance ratios determined by this method.
                                            12

WO 2013/070596                                                              PCT/US2012/063697
                                           CLAIMS
I claim:
         1.      A method for predetermining the benchmark number of hand hygiene
opportunities for a target facility:
        determining a study benchmark number of hand hygiene opportunities in a
        studied facility during an observation period;
        identifying studied facility characteristics of the studied facility during the
        observation period;
        identifying study relationships between studied facility characteristics and the
        study number of hand hygiene opportunities;
        determining target facility characteristics for the target facility; and
        determining a benchmark number of hand hygiene opportunities for the target
        facility based on study relationships and target facility characteristics.
        2.       The method for predetermining the benchmark number of hand
hygiene opportunities for a target facility of claim 1 wherein the studied facility and
the target facility are healthcare facilities.
        3.       The method for predetermining the benchmark number of hand
hygiene opportunities for a target facility of claim 1 wherein study relationships are
identified based on linear regression analysis.
        4.       The method for predetermining the benchmark number of hand
hygiene opportunities for a target facility of claim 2 wherein studied facility
characteristics include a ratio of the number of patients in the studied facility during
the observation period to the number of nurses responsible for patient care during
the observation period.
        5.       The method for predetermining the benchmark number of hand
hygiene opportunities for a target facility of claim 2 wherein the study benchmark
number of hand hygiene opportunities are based on one or more of the five moments
of hand hygiene identified by the World Health Organization.
        6.       The method for predetermining the benchmark number of hand
hygiene opportunities for a target facility of claim 1 wherein the studied facility and
the target facility are food preparation facilities.
                                               13

WO 2013/070596                                                       PCT/US2012/063697
       7.       The method for predetermining the benchmark number of hand
hygiene opportunities for a target facility of claim 6 wherein the study benchmark
number of hand hygiene opportunities are based on one or more of the FDA
recommended circumstances when a food worker should wash his or her hands.
       8.       The method for predetermining the benchmark number of hand
hygiene opportunities for a target facility of claim 2 wherein studied facility
characteristics include a case mix characterization of the healthcare activity during
the observation period.
       9.       The method for predetermining the benchmark number of hand
hygiene compliance benchmark for a target facility of claim 1 further comprising:
       determining by direct observation the number of hand hygiene opportunities in
       the target facility;
       comparing the observed number of hand hygiene opportunities in the target
       facility to the determined benchmark number of hand hygiene opportunities for
       the target facility; and
       adjusting the benchmark to be consistent with the observed number of hand
       hygiene opportunities in the target institution.
                                          14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
