                                        ABSTRACT
           An approach for detecting a transient error in a body fluid sample based on
   the shape of a response curve of a sensor is provided. The response curve is
   represented by an equation including at least one coefficient describing a curvature
 5 or slope of the response curve. The approach includes comparing the coefficient to a
   range of coefficients which includes coefficients of response curves corresponding
   to known analyte concentrations. The approach further includes detecting a
   transient error based on the comparison. In some examples of the approach, the
   comparison and detection are performed by a processing transient error detector
10 executing computer readable instructions embodied in a non-transitory computer
   readable medium. Other examples of the approach determine a concentration of the
   analyte based on the equation. Advantageously, various examples of the approach
   can expedite detection of transient errors at the time of measuring and before
   reporting sample result.

          DETECTING A TRANSIENT ERROR IN A BODY FLUID SAMPLE
                                 RELATED APPLICATION
            The present application is a divisional application of Australian patent
   application number <removed-apn> (filing date 1 March 2016), the entire disclosure of
 5 which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention relates generally to a quality assurance program for
   detecting errors during a testing process. More specifically, the present invention
   relates to an approach for detecting a transient error in a body fluid sample that is
10 based on the shape of a response curve of a sensor.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Since primary users of point-of-care (POC) devices are health professionals
   from a non-laboratory background, POC clinical analyzers should be designed for
   ease of use, low maintenance, and well-controlled. A key requirement in developing
15 such a system is having a total quality assurance (QA) program with the capability
   to detect errors during each stage of the testing process, that is, pre-analytical,
   analytical and post analytical.
            The Intelligent Quality Management (iQM) in the GEM Premier line of
   automated clinical analyzers for measurement of blood gases, electrolytes,
20 metabolites and CO-Oximetry produced by Instrumentation Laboratory of Bedford,
   Massachusetts is an example of such comprehensive QA program. The primary
   method of error detection is based on monitoring sensor drift by the process control
   solutions and using drift limit as control parameter for detecting errors. The source
   of error, such as interfering substances and blood clots, is detected through
25 identifying specific known drift patterns.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           According to an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a system,
   comprising: an automated clinical analyzer, comprising: a processing transient error
   detector; a memory in communication with the processing transient error detector,
30 the memory storing a range of coefficients library and a transient error detecting
   application, the transient error detecting application including a comparison module;

   and an interface coupled to the automated clinical analyzer, the interface configured
   for receiving a mathematical expression representing a response curve of a sensor
   coupled to the automated clinical analyzer, the equation including at least one
   coefficient; wherein the comparison module is executable by the processing
 5 transient error detector to compare the at least one coefficient to a range of
   coefficients in the range or coefficients library, the range of coefficients including
   coefficients of response curves of the sensor corresponding to known concentrations
   of the analyte.
           According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided an
10 automated clinical analyzer comprising: a transient error detector comprising a
   comparison module communicatively coupled to a detection module; and, an
   interface for receiving equations representing sensor response curves, wherein the
   interface receives the equations as they are determined by an analyte concentration
   measurement application.
15         Also disclosed herein is a system for detecting a transient error in a body
   fluid sample includes memory having computer executable instructions thereupon
   and at least one interface for receiving an equation representing a response curve of
   a sensor and for determining a concentration of an analyte in a body fluid sample.
   The equation includes at least one coefficient describing any one of a curvature of
20 the response curve and a slope of the response curve. The system further includes a
   transient error detector coupled to the memory and the at least one interface. The
   transient error detector is configured to execute the instructions and compare the at
   least one coefficient to a range of coefficients. The range of coefficients includes
   coefficients of response curves corresponding to known concentrations of the
25 analyte. The transient error detector detects a transient error in the body fluid
   sample based on the comparison.
           In other examples of the system, the equation representing the response
   curve is any one of logarithmic equation and quadratic equation.
           In some examples of the system, the range of coefficients for a given
30 concentration of analyte includes a mean coefficient determined from a mean of
   coefficients of response curves corresponding to the given concentration of analyte.
   The range of coefficients further includes a lower limit defined by a negative

   number of standard deviations from the mean coefficient and an upper limit defined
   by a positive number of standard deviations from the mean coefficient.
           Also disclosed herein is a tangible non-transitory computer-readable storage
   medium having computer readable instructions stored therein for detecting a
 5 transient error in a body fluid sample is provided. When the instructions are
   executed by one or more processors that are provided with an equation representing
   a response curve of a sensor and for determining a concentration of an analyte in a
   body fluid sample, and the equation including at least one coefficient describing any
   one of a curvature of the response curve and a slope of the response curve, the one
10 or more processors are caused to compare the at least one coefficient to a range of
   coefficients, the range of coefficients including coefficients of response curves
   corresponding to known concentrations of the analyte. The one or more processors
   are further caused to detect a transient error in the body fluid sample based on the
   comparison.
15         In other examples of the tangible non-transitory computer-readable storage
   medium, the equation representing the response curve is any one of logarithmic
   equation and quadratic equation.
           In some examples of the tangible non-transitory computer-readable storage
   medium, the range of coefficients for a given concentration of analyte includes a
20 mean coefficient determined from a mean of coefficients of response curves
   corresponding to the given concentration of analyte. The range of coefficients
   further includes a lower limit defined by a negative number of standard deviations
   from the mean coefficient and an upper limit defined by a positive number of
   standard deviations from the mean coefficient.
25         Also disclosed herein is a method for detecting a transient error in a body
   fluid sample taken from a patient includes, in a clinical analyzer provided with an
   equation representing a response curve of a sensor and for determining a
   concentration of an analyte in a body fluid sample, and the equation including at
   least one coefficient describing any one of a curvature of the response curve and a
30 slope of the response curve, comparing the at least one coefficient to a range of
   coefficients, the range of coefficients including coefficients of response curves
   corresponding to known concentrations of the analyte. The method further includes
   detecting a transient error in the body fluid sample based on the comparison. The

   comparison and the detection are performed by a processing transient error detector
   executing computer readable instructions embodied in a non-transitory computer
   readable medium.
           In some examples of the method, the equation representing the response
 5 curve is any one of logarithmic equation and quadratic equation.
           In other examples of the method, the equation is associated with the analyte
   being sensed by the sensor.
           In some examples of the method, comparing includes comparing a
   coefficient describing the curvature of the response curve to the range of coefficients
10 and comparing a coefficient describing the slope of the response curve to a second
   range of coefficients different than the range of coefficients. In these examples,
   detecting includes detecting the transient error in the body fluid sample based on the
   comparison of the coefficient describing the curvature of the response curve and the
   comparison of the coefficient describing the slope of the response curve.
15         In other examples of the method, the range of coefficients for a given
   concentration of analyte includes a mean coefficient determined from a mean of
   coefficients of response curves corresponding to the given concentration of analyte.
   The range of coefficients further includes a lower limit defined by a negative
   number of standard deviations from the mean coefficient and an upper limit defined
20 by a positive number of standard deviations from the mean coefficient.
           In some examples of the method, an absolute value of the negative number
   of standard deviations from the mean coefficient and an absolute value of the
   positive number of standard deviations from the mean coefficient are different
           In other examples of the method, the lower limit and the upper limit of the
25 range of coefficients are invariant to changes in concentration of the analyte.
           In some examples of the method, at least one of the lower limit and the upper
   limit of the range of coefficients varies with changes in concentration of the analyte.
           Another example of the method further includes revising the range of
   coefficients based on the coefficient of the response curve corresponding to the
30 concentration of the analyte in the body fluid sample.
                                               A

            In some examples of the method, the known concentrations of the analyte are
   determined from at least one of previously collected body fluid samples and
   standardized solutions.
            In other examples of the method, the range of coefficients depends on a
 5 matrix of the body fluid sample.
           Another example of the method further includes based on a result of the
   detection, determining the concentration of the analyte in the body fluid sample
   based on the equation.
            Yet another example of the method further includes determining the
10 concentration of the analyte in the body fluid sample based the equation. In this
   example, detecting the transient error includes detecting the transient error in the
   determined concentration of the analyte based on the comparison.
            Still yet another example of the method further includes based on the
   detection, reporting to a user of the analyzer that a transient error is detected in the
15 body fluid sample.
            In some examples, reporting includes to providing a visual alarm, an audible
   alarm or a combination thereof to the user.
           Another example of the method further includes based on the detection,
   stopping a sample measurement process including determining the concentration of
20 the analyte.
            Yet another example of the method further includes based on the detection,
   reporting to a user of the analyzer that the body fluid sample may be compromised
   by a transient error; and continuing a sample measurement process including
   determining the concentration of the analyte.
25                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            These embodiments and other aspects of this invention will be readily
   apparent from the detailed description below and the appended drawings, which are
   meant to illustrate and not to limit the invention, and in which:
            Figures 1a and lb show an exemplary block diagram of an automated
30 clinical analyzer according to one embodiment of the invention.

           Figure 2 shows an exemplary plot of voltage versus time for experimental
   data generated by a sensor for measuring the concentration of glucose according to
   one embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 3 shows an exemplary plot of voltage versus logarithmic function of
 5 time using a portion of the experimental data of Figure 2 according to one
   embodiment of the invention;
           Figure 4 is an exemplary logical flow diagram for predicting the end point
   response of the sensor according to one embodiment of the invention;
           Figures 5a and 5b are exemplary logical flow diagram for analysis of
10 samples according to embodiments of the invention;
           Figures 6a and 6b are exemplary logical flow diagram for determining and
   improving usefulness of the curve fitting equation according to embodiments of the
   invention;
           Figures 7a and 7b are other exemplary logical flow diagram for determining
15 and improving usefulness of the curve fitting equation according to exemplary
   embodiments of the invention; and
           Figures 8a, 8b and 8c show an exemplary graphical representations of
   voltage versus time for experimental data generated by a sensor for measuring the
   concentration of sodium according to one embodiment of the invention.
20         Figure 9 shows an exemplary block diagram of a processing transient error
   detector according to one embodiment of the invention.
           Figure 10 is exemplary logical flow diagram for detecting a transient error in
   a body fluid sample according to one embodiment of the invention.
           Figures 1la-c show an exemplary graphical representations of range of
25 coefficients created from previously collected samples according to one embodiment
   of the invention.
                                       DESCRIPTION
           The present invention will be more completely understood through the
   following description, which should be read in conjunction with the attached
30 drawings. In this description, like numbers refer to similar elements within various
   embodiments of the present invention. Within this description, the claimed

   invention will be explained with respect to embodiments. The skilled artisan will
   readily appreciate that the methods and systems described herein are merely
   exemplary and that variations can be made without departing from the spirit and
   scope of the invention.
 5         Figures 1a and lb show an example of an automated clinical analyzer 102 for
   measuring analytes, such as potassium, chloride, sodium, glucose, lactate, creatinine,
   creatine, urea, 02, C02, and the like, in a body fluid sample (e.g., whole blood)
   taken from a patient. The automated clinical analyzer is generally configured to
   communicate with one or more sensors 140A-N, generally referred to hereinafter as
10 sensors 140. In various examples of the automated clinical analyzer, the sensors 140
   may be electrochemical sensors that generate voltmetric or amperometric signals in
   response to being exposed to analytes. In various examples, a first sensor 140A may
   be responsive to a first analyte within a body fluid sample, a second sensor 140B
   may be responsive to a second analyte within the body fluid sample, and an nth
15 sensor 140N may be responsive to an nth analyte within the body fluid sample, and
   so forth. Further details regarding the sensors 140 are provided below.
           An operator (e.g., a health professional) loads a body fluid sample into the
   automated clinical analyzer 102 and starts a sample measurement process (analysis)
   for a particular analyte. In particular, the operation uses a user interface 170, such as
20 a keyboard and/or mouse, communicatively coupled to the automated clinical
   analyzer 102 to start the process. In analyzing the body fluid sample for the analyte,
   the automated clinical analyzer 102 can detect transient errors in the body fluid
   sample. Transient errors, such as an air bubble, a blood clot or other interfering
   substance in the body fluid sample, can lead to errors in sample measurements, for
25 example, an erroneous analyte concentration. An approach to detecting transient
   errors in the body fluid sample that is based on the shape of a response curve of the
   sensor is described below.
           The senor 140 generates signals in response to sensing the analyte in the
   body fluid sample. The generated signals can be used to create the response curve
30 of the sensor (described in more detail below). The response curve can be
   mathematically represented by an equation including logarithmic and quadratic
   equations. Examples of the equation can include a coefficient describing a curvature

   of the response curve, a coefficient describing the slope of the response curve or
   both.
           When the equation coefficient(s) falls inside a range of coefficients, the
   response curve is defined as having a "good" shape. When the equation
 5 coefficient(s) falls outside a range of coefficients, the response curve is defined as
   having a "bad" shape. The automated clinical analyzer 102 determines there is no
   transient error in the body fluid sample when the response curve of the sensor 140
   has a good shape. The automated clinical analyzer 102 determines there is transient
   error in the body fluid sample when the response curve of the sensor 140 has a bad
10 shape. The automated clinical analyzer 102 notifies the operator whether there is a
   transient error in the body fluid sample. For example, the notification is presented to
   the operator using a display 172 communicatively coupled to the automated clinical
   analyzer 102.
           In analyzing the analyte, the automated clinical analyzer 102 can also
15 determine the concentration of the analyte based on the signals generated by the
   sensor 140. In a convenient example, the concentration of the analyte is determined
   according an approach for increasing sample throughput, as described below in
   greater detail. The automated clinical analyzer 102 notifies the operator of the
   concentration of the analyte, for example, through the display 172. In some cases,
20 when the automated clinical analyzer 102 detects a transient error in the body fluid
   sample, the automated clinical analyzer 102 stops the sample measurement process
   and does not determine the concentration of the analyte.
           Continuing with Figures la and 1b, the automated clinical analyzer 102
   includes a processor 104, a memory 106, a processing transient error detector 108,
25 an analyte concentration measurement application 110, a transient error detection
   application 128, and a range of coefficients library 130. In some examples of the
   automated clinical analyzer 102, the processor 104 includes the processing transient
   error detector 108. The memory 106 stores the analyte concentration measurement
   application 110, the transient error detection application 128, and the range of
30 coefficients library 130. Operation of the automated clinical analyzer 102 is
   described below in greater detail starting with a discussion of the processing
   transient error detector 108 and the transient error detection application 128. The

   analyte concentration measurement application 110 is discussed in the second half of
   the disclosure.
           The processing transient error detector or simply "transient error detector"
   108 runs the transient error detection application 128. As shown, an example of the
 5 transient error detection application 128 includes a comparison module 150 and a
   detection module 152 configured to perform specific functions or tasks in order to
   detect a transient error in a body fluid sample that is based on the shape of a
   response curve of a sensor. Other examples include more or fewer modules.
   Operation of the transient error detector 108 is described below with reference to the
10 functional block diagram of Figure 9 and the flow diagram of Figure 10.
           Figure 9 shows an example of the transient error detector 108. The transient
   error detector 108 includes the comparison module 150 and the detection module
   152 communicatively coupled as shown. The transient error detector 108 further
   includes an interface 154 for receiving equations 156 representing senor response
15 curves. In some use cases, the interface 154 receives the equations 156 as they are
   determined by the analyte concentration measurement application 110.
   Advantageously, this enables real or near real-time detection of transient errors in
   body fluid samples. For example, the automated clinical analyzer 102 notifies the
   operator of a detected transient error during the sample measurement process. In
20 other use cases, the interface 154 receives equations previously determined.
   Asynchronous detection of transient errors can be beneficial when batch (i.e., more
   than one) processing of samples is desirable. For example, equations determined by
   a separate instrument are sent to the automated clinical analyzer 102 to detect
   transient errors. As shown, the range of coefficients library provides a range of
25 coefficients 158 for a particular analyte used to detect a transient error in the body
   fluid sample.
           Figure 10 shows an example routine 500 for detecting transit errors in body
   fluid samples. The routine 500 starts at operation 502 with the comparison module
   150 being provided with the equation 156 representing a response curve. The
30 response curve is for a sensor sensing a particular analyte in a body fluid sample and
   for ease of reference is called a "response curve under test." The equation 156 may
   include a coefficient describing a curvature of the response curve under test, a
   coefficient describing a slope of the response curve under test or both.

           At operation 504, a convenient example of the comparison module 150
   compares the coefficient (describing curvature or slope) against the range of
   coefficients 158. The comparison operation 504 is described in greater detail with
   reference to Figure Ila. The figure shows a graphical representation of an example
 5 range of coefficients 602, specifically, for a sensor sensing oxygen in the body fluid
   sample. Coefficient values are on shown on the horizontal axis of the graph and
   oxygen concentration values are on shown on the vertical axis of the graph. The
   range of coefficients 602 includes a lower limit 604 and an upper limit 606 that both
   vary with a changing in oxygen concentration.
10         As shown, point A has a coefficient value below the lower limit 604 and is
   outside the range of coefficients 602. Point B has a coefficient value above the
   upper limit 606 and is outside the range of coefficients 602. Because point A and
   point B are outside the range of coefficients 602 the comparison module 150
   determines that the response curve under test having a coefficient value of either
15 these points has a bad shape. Point C has a coefficient value between the lower
   limit 604 and the upper limit 606, and is within the range of coefficients 602.
   Because point C is within the range of coefficients 602 the comparison module 150
   determines that the response curve under test having a coefficient value of point C
   has a good shape.
20          Returning to Figures 9 and 10, at operation 506, based on a result of the
   comparison 160 (i.e., the response curve under test has a good shape or has a bad
   shape), the detection module 152 detects whether there is a transient error in the
   body fluid sample and returns a detection 162 (i.e., transient error detected or no
   transient error detected). A convenient example of the detection module 152
25 identifies no transient error in the body fluid sample when the coefficient of the
   response curve under test is within the range of coefficient. The detection module
   152 identifies there is a transient error in the body fluid sample when the coefficient
   of the response curve under test is outside the range of coefficient. The routine 500
   end at operation 508 with the detection module 152 returning a detection 162 (i.e.,
30 transient error detected or no transient error detected).
            The usefulness of the transient error detector 108 can be further enhanced by
   considering two or more coefficients when determining whether the response curve
   under test has a good shape or bad shape. In a convenient example of the transient
                                                1 I\

   error detector 108, the comparison module 150 compares a coefficient describing the
   curvature of the response curve under test to a first range of coefficients and
   compares a coefficient describing the slope of the response curve under test to a
   second range of coefficients. The detection module 152 determines whether there is
 5 a transient error in the body fluid sample based on the result of comparing the
   curvature (first comparison) and the result of comparing the slope (second
   comparison). The detection module 152 combines the results, for example by
   weighting them equally or differently. Including additional determinants or factors
   in the detection process is advantageous because it enables transient errors to be
10 detected with greater granularity.
           Upon detecting the transient error in the body fluid sample, a convenient
   example of the automated clinical analyzer 102 terminates the sample measurement
   process and reports to the technician (operator) by means of a visual and/or audible
   alarm (e.g., through the monitor 172 of Figure. 1). The alarm informs the technician
15 that the transient error detector 108 has detected a transient error for that body fluid
   sample for that analyte. Another example of the automated clinical analyzer 102
   continues with the sample measurement process and notifies the technician
   (operator) by means of a visual and/or audible alarm (e.g., through the monitor 172
   of Figure. 1) that the body fluid sample result for that analyte is potentially
20 compromised by a transient error.
           Upon determining there is no transient error in the body fluid sample,
   another convenient example of the automated clinical analyzer 102 determines the
   concentration of the analyte in the body fluid sample based on the equation 156, as
   described in greater detail below. Advantageously, this can save on processing time
25 and resources by only computing the concentration when there is no transient error
   that could cause the concentration to be computed incorrectly.
           Another example of the automated clinical analyzer 102 determines both the
   concentration of the analyte in the body fluid sample based on the equation 156
   (described in greater detail below) and detects whether there is a transient error in
30 the body fluid sample. Advantageously, this example of the automated clinical
   analyzer 102 identifies whether there is transient error in the determined
   concentration improving the usefulness automated clinical analyzer 102.
                                               11

           An example of a procedure for creating a range of coefficients from
   previously collected samples is now described with reference to Figures 1 la through
   1 Ic. The previously collected samples include body fluid samples and standardized
   aqueous solutions of a particular analyte at varied concentrations. The analyte
 5 concentration of each of the previously collected samples is measured. The sample
   measurements are then verified to be within an allowable analyte accuracy limit. It
   should be readily apparent that the verifying can be performed according to any one
   of a number of well-known techniques, for example, testing the same sample using a
   number of identical analyzers. Examples of the procedure are not limited to any one
10 particular verification technique.
           Response curves generated while measuring analyte concentrations of the
   previously collected samples are analyzed, including determining equations
   representing the response curves. For equation coefficients associated with
   previously collected samples having similar or the same measured analyte
15 concentration (e.g., samples having a concentration plus or minus 5 percentage are
   considered similar), a mean coefficient is determined. The mean coefficients for
   different measured analyte concentrations are used to determine a lower limit and an
   upper limit of a response curve.
           Referring to Figure 11 a, each data point shown in the figure is a mean
20 coefficient for a particular analyte concentration. As an example, for a mean
   coefficient 608 for a particular analyte concentration, a lower limit point 610 of the
   range of coefficients 602 is defined as a selected first number of negative standard
   deviations 612 from the mean coefficient 608. An upper limit point 614 of the range
   of coefficients 602 is defined as a selected second number of standard deviations
25 616 from the mean coefficient 608. In some examples, the selected number of
   standard deviations (or sigmas) can be between four to six. The selected first
   number and the selected second number of standard deviations (612, 616) can be the
   same (i.e. have the same magnitude) or can be different (i.e. have different
   magnitudes) depending on the analyte. For each of the different analyte
30 concentrations, a lower limit point and an upper limit point of the range of
   coefficients 602 at a subject concentration is determined in a similar fashion.
           The lower limit 604 of the range of coefficients 602 is determined by
   computing a best-fit line through the lower limit points. The upper limit 606 of the

   range of coefficients 602 is determined by computing a best-fit line through the
   upper limit points. As can be seen, the lower limit 604 and the upper limit 606
   varies with oxygen concentration. For example at an oxygen concentration of 100,
   the lower limit is -30 and the upper limit is +45. The lower limit of the range of
 5 coefficients changes to -85 and the upper limit changes to +10 when the oxygen
   concentration changes to 500.
           Depending on an analyte, a lower limit and/or an upper limit of a range of
   coefficients may be invariant to changes in analyte concentration (i.e., the limit does
   not change with analyte concentration). For example, Figure 1 lb shows an example
10 range of coefficients for sodium 640 in which a lower limit 642 and an upper limit
   644 do not vary with sodium concentration. The lower limit 642 is fixed at -1.75
   and the upper limit 644 is fixed at 3 for all concentrations of sodium. Figure 1 Ic
   shows an example range of coefficients for glucose 660. A lower limit 662 of the
   range of coefficients 660 does not vary with glucose concentration and is fixed at -2.
15 An upper limit 664 of the range of coefficients 660 varies with glucose
   concentration. The upper limit 664 of the range of coefficients 660 increases
   (approximately) linearly with an increase in glucose construction.
           Turing now to the approach for increasing sample throughput in an
   automated clinical analyzer, the approach includes predicting the end point response
20 time of a sensor for the analysis of an analyte in a sample, such as a body fluid
   sample, and for improving measurement reliability by detecting outliers and
   qualifying parameters in curve fitting equations. According to various embodiments
   described herein, the present invention describes techniques for extrapolating an end
   point response of a sensor by determining a curve fitting equation derived from data
25 signals generated by the sensor in response to being exposed to a sample. In various
   embodiments, the curve fitting equation will be a second degree logarithmic
   polynomial having a general form of s(t) = a(log(t)) 2 + b(log(t)) + c, where a, b, and
   c are the polynomial coefficients that are determined based on the converted data
   points, and s(t) is the calculated sensor output at a particular time t. In this way, a
30 sample analysis system may no longer need to wait the entire duration of the sensor
   end point response time to analyze a sample and provide a determination of the
   concentration of the analyte measured by the sensor in the sample. Moreover, by
   reducing the sensor response time, and therefore, the sample exposure time, the

   sensor recovery time, which is the time the sensor takes to recover is also reduced,
   allowing for greater throughput.
            In order to further elucidate the present teachings, the following definitions
   are provided.
 5          "Critical points," as used herein, refers to local extremum points and
   inflection points.
            A "local extremum point," as used herein, refers to a point in a function at
   which the first derivative exists and is zero.
            An "inflection point," as used herein, refers to a point in a function at which
10 the second derivative changes sign.
            An "outlier," as used herein, refers to a sample data point that is numerically
   distant from the rest of the data.
            A "residual," as used herein, is the difference between a sample data point
   and the estimated function value as obtained by a curve fitting equation.
15          A "Studentized residual," as used herein, is the quantity resulting from the
   division of a residual by an estimate of its standard deviation.
            "DFFITS," as used herein, is an expression that quantifies how influential a
   point is in a statistical regression. In its classical definition, DFFITS equals the
   Studentized residual times        hi/ (1   -        , where kI is the leverage for the
20 point; leverage, hii, is defined as elements hii of the Hat Matrix, H, which identifies
   the amount of leverage exerted by the ith observation yi on the ith fitted value.
   Another version of an expression that quantifies how influential a point is in a
   statistical regression is a measure that indicates the change at an extrapolated point
   caused by removing an individual point from the regression fit.; examples of such
25 measure, where 55 is the time corresponding to the extrapolated point are
                                     [1    logo 55] * A * [        10     *R
                    Delta55. =                                   l1
                                                      1-    Hu
   For a linear fit in log(t) (where A is a matrix related to the Hat Matrix and defined
   as
   A = (XT*X)-i)
                                                  1A

   and
                              [1   log1 0 55 (logo 55) 2 ] A      log10 t     Ri
                 Deltagi =                         1 -    iii 19(log 1 0 t)21
   For a quadratic fit in log(t). The above expressions are variations of the classical
   DFITTS or DFFITS2 .
 5         "DFFITS," as used herein, refers to the classical definition or the measure
   that indicates the change at an extrapolated point caused by removing an individual
   point from the regression fit.
           The "hat matrix, H," as used herein, sometimes also called projection matrix,
   is a matrix that maps the vector of observed values to the vector of fitted values.
10         Returning to Figure 1a, the analyte concentration measurement application
    110 may generally be configured to communicate with the sensors 140. The analyte
   concentration measurement application 110 may include one or more modules
   configured to perform specific functions or tasks in order to determine the
   concentration of an analyte within a sample. In various embodiments, the analyte
15 concentration measurement application 110 may include a sensor communication
   module 112, a data point reporting module 114, a data point selection module 116, a
   curve fitting module 118, an extrapolation module 120, a validation module 122, an
   analyte concentration reporting module 124 and a curve fit quality module 126. It
   should be appreciated that in various embodiments, the analyte concentration
20 measurement application 110 may include additional modules for performing
   additional tasks, or may include only some of the modules listed above.
           The analyte concentration measurement application 110 may generally be
   configured to receive data signals generated by a sensor upon being exposed to an
   analyte within a sample, record data points extracted from the data signals, evaluate
25 the data points on a function of time scale, a logarithmic function of time scale in
   one embodiment, determine a curve that matches the evaluated data points,
   determine a curve fitting equation that can be utilized to extrapolate an end point
   response of the sensor, and accurately estimate the concentration of the analyte
   based on the extrapolated end point response of the sensor.
                                                1CZ

           In various embodiments, the sensor communication module 112 may be
   configured to receive data signals from the sensors 140. In some embodiments
   where the sensors may be electrochemical sensors, the data signals may represent an
   amperometric output that may be measured in Amperes, or a voltmetric output that
 5 may be measured in Volts. In various embodiments, these data signals may vary
   over time, and typically may generate an output value that eventually stabilizes over
   time. The stabilized output value may typically be the end point response of the
   sensor. It should be appreciated that any type of sensor that can generate a data
   output signal in response to being exposed to an analyte may be utilized as a sensor
10 140.
           The data point recording module 114 may be configured to capture and
   record data points from the generated data signals. The data points may be stored in
   the memory of the automated clinical analyzer 102, or at any other storage medium
   accessible by the analyte concentration measurement application 110. In various
15 embodiments, the data point recording module 114 may record a measurement of the
   data signal after every nth fixed period of time. The fixed period of time may be
   predefined by the analyte concentration measurement application 110. It should be
   appreciated that the fixed period of time may be defined by the technological
   limitations of existing systems and is not intended to be limited to any particular
20 range. However, in some embodiments, the fixed period of time may range from a
   millisecond to a few seconds. In alternate embodiments, the data point recording
   module 114 may record a measurement of the data signal after random or variable
   periods of time.
           The data point selection module 116 may be configured to select pertinent
25 data points from the recorded data points. In various embodiments, the data point
   selection module 116 may select data points that when plotted on a function of time
   scale, a logarithmic function of time scale in one embodiment, may allow the analyte
   concentration measurement application to determine a curve that closely fits the
   selected data points and also results in predicting an end point response of the sensor
30 that is within acceptable limits. In various embodiments, data points that may
   provide the most accurate results may be selected from a time range that is
   empirically determined, and may vary depending on characteristics of the sensor and
   the analyte.

           In various embodiments, the data point selection module 116 may select a
   series of data points corresponding to a kinetic region time range from the recorded
   data points. The kinetic region time range refers to any time range in which the data
   points are within the kinetic region of a sensor response. Typically, the kinetic
 5 region occurs from a first time when the sensor is exposed to the analyte, to a second
   time when the data signals generated by the sensor are not substantially similar to
   the end point response of the sensor i.e. before the sensor response reaches
   equilibrium. In other words, once the data signals generated by the sensor become
   substantially similar to the end point response of the sensor, the data signals are
10 being generated in an equilibrium region. In various embodiments, the data point
   selection module 116 may select a series of data points corresponding to a portion of
   a kinetic region time range. In one embodiment, the time range may begin at about
   fifteen seconds after the sensor is exposed to the analyte. Moreover, the time range
   may end at about thirty seconds after the sensor is exposed to the analyte.
15 Additional details regarding which data points to select are provided below with
   respect to Figure 4.
           The curve fitting module 118 may be configured, in one embodiment, to
   convert the selected data points to a function of time scale, a logarithmic function of
   time scale in one embodiment, such that the converted data points can be evaluated
20 on a function of time scale. The curve fitting module may then determine a curve
   that closely matches the evaluated data points. The curve fitting module may use
   conventional curve fitting methods such as regression analysis or least square
   methods.
           In various embodiments, the equation describing the curve (also referred to
25 as the curve fitting equation) is a polynomial in a function of time, in one
   embodiment, a logarithm of time (log (t)), and a predetermined value of the function
   of time (in one embodiment, a logarithm of time) at which a critical point occurs is
   provided, the predetermined value providing a relationship between polynomial
   coefficients.
30         In various embodiments, the curve fitting module 118 may plot the selected
   data points on a logarithmic function of time scale, and determine a curve that
   closely matches or fits the plotted data points.
                                               1 I

            Upon determining the curve, the curve fitting module may determine a curve
   fitting equation corresponding to the curve. In various embodiments, the curve
   fitting equation is of the form s(t) = a*(log(t))A2 + b*log(t) + c, wherein t represents
   time and a, b and c are fit parameters for a second order polynomial, the critical
 5 point is an extremum point, and the predetermined value (V) provides a relationship
   between the fit parameters b and a of the form b=-2aV; the fit parameters a and c
   being determined based on the initial sensor response. The precise values of a, b, and
   c, which are determined empirically for each sensor configuration used, depend in
   part upon the concentration of the analyte, the size of the sample, the temperature,
10 the geometry of the sensor apparatus setup, and other parameters.
            In one instance, the invention not been limited to that instance, the
   predetermined value of the time at which time at which a critical point occurs is
   selected to be the time at which the end point is desired. In other instances, not a
   limitation of the invention, times beyond the endpoint time can be selected as the
15 predetermined time.
            The extrapolation module 120 may be configured to extrapolate an end point
   response of the sensor by solving the curve fitting equation for a time within the
   equilibrium region of the curve. In various embodiments, the analyte concentration
   measurement application 102 may utilize empirical methods to determine a time that
20 is within the equilibrium region of the curve, and then store the determined
   equilibrium region time as a predefined time with which to solve the curve fitting
   equation.
            The validation module 122 may be configured to validate the calculated end
   point response by determining the coefficient of variation (CV) and the coefficient
25 of determination (R2 ). The following formulas for determining the coefficient of
   variation (CV) and the coefficient of determination (R2 ) are well known in the art
   and may be used by the validation module 122 to validate the calculated end point
   response.
            CV = standard deviation(yi)/mean(yi); and
30          R2= 1-(sum((yi-fi) 2)/(sum((yi-mean(yi)) 2);
            where yi and fi are the observed and calculated values at a specified time,
   respectively.

            The curve fit quality module 126 may be configured to determine and
   improve usefulness of the curve fitting equation corresponding to the analyte. In one
   or more embodiments, the curve fit quality module 126 may be configured to, after
   the curve fitting equation has been obtained, to perform the analysis described herein
 5 below. The curve fit quality module 126 may be configured to determine an outlier
   candidate with a largest residual. Conventional methods for determining an outlier
   candidate with a largest residual, such as the Studentized residual or Dixon methods,
   can be used. Once the outlier candidate with largest residual is selected, the residual
   of the outlier candidate is compared to a residual limit. The residual limit can be
10 predetermined from past experience, analytical considerations or other approaches.
   If the residual of the outlier candidate exceeds the residual limit, the outlier
   candidate is classified as an outlier. If the residual of the outlier candidate, which
   had the largest residual, is less than or equal to the residual limit, the curve fit
   quality module 126 can pass operation to another module since other residual
15 candidates with similar residuals will also be within the residual limit. If the outlier
   candidate has been classified as an outlier, the curve fit quality module 126 is
   configured to obtain a measure of the effect of the outlier on the parameters of the
   curve fitting equation. Conventional methods for obtaining a measure of the effect of
   the outlier such as, but not limited to, Cook distance, DFFITS and DFBETAS, may
20 be used. The measure of the effect of the outlier is compared to a predetermined
   measure limit. The measure limit can be predetermined from past experience,
   analytical considerations or other approaches. If the measure of the effect of the
   outlier exceeds the predetermined measurement limit, an outlier count, initially set to
   zero, is incremented, the outlier count is compared to a predetermined outlier limit,
25 and the outlier is removed from the data points. A modified set of data points is
   obtained by removing the outlier or the outlier candidate from the data points and
   the above analysis is performed again.
            It should be appreciated that by way of the present disclosure, the sample
   exposure time is reduced as the sensor response time is reduced. As a result of the
30 reduced sample exposure time, the sensors, and in particular, enzymatic sensors,
   including but not limited to sensors for measuring glucose and lactate, may have
   shortened sensor recovery times. As the sensors can recover faster, a greater
   throughput can be achieved.

   EXEMPLIFICATION
           The following exemplary embodiments are presented to further elucidate the
   invention but it should be noted that the invention is not limited only to the
   exemplary embodiments.
 5         The analyte concentration recording module 124 determines the
   concentration of the analyte within the sample using the calculated end point
   response and report the analyte concentration with a flag if the validation module
   122 determines that the CV and R 2 are not within acceptable limits. Conversely, if
   the CV and R 2 are within acceptable limits, then the analyte concentration recording
10 module 124 may report the concentration of the analyte without a flag. Analytes
   that may be measured according to the method of the invention include, but are not
   limited to for example, hematocrit, the ion concentration of calcium, potassium,
   chloride, sodium, glucose, lactate, creatinine, creatine, urea, partial pressure of 02
   and/or C02, or any other analyte for which a sensor exists. In various embodiments,
15 the flag may be a data bit that may be represented visually as a flag, a symbol, or
   aurally, as a beep, a tone, or in any other manifestation that may indicate to a user
   that the either the CV or the R 2 is not within acceptable limits.
           Referring now to Figure 2, an exemplary plot of voltage versus time for
   experimental data generated by a sensor for measuring the concentration of glucose
20 is shown. In particular, the plot shows a series of data points 202A-N that are
   captured from a data signal generated by the sensor 140. The data points indicate an
   output value, such as a voltage, current, or charge. In various embodiments, data
   points from the generated signal may be recorded over time and plotted against time.
   The plot shown in Figure 2 is generated by plotting the recorded data points 202A-N
25 against time. In the present embodiment, the data points are recorded every second.
   However, in various embodiments, data points may be recorded at time intervals that
   are less than or more than a second.
           It should be appreciated that by recording data points at time intervals less
   than a second, more data is generated, which may allow for a more accurate plot, but
30 may also utilize additional computing resources, which may be undesirable,
   depending on system resources. Alternatively, data points that are recorded at time
   intervals substantially exceeding a second may provide a less accurate plot. In any
   event, the length of the time intervals between data points is an implementation

   choice that may be determined based on various factors, such as the end point
   response time of the sensor, limitations with respect to computing resources, the
   nature of the sensor and analyte, and the like.
            Referring now to Figure 3, an exemplary plot of voltage versus a logarithmic
 5 function of time using a portion of the experimental glucose data of Figure 2 is
   shown. As described above, once the data points corresponding to the data signals
   received from the sensor are recorded, the data point selection module 116 may
   select pertinent data points from the recorded data points. The selected data points
   may then be converted to a logarithmic scale, such as base 10 or natural log. Upon
10 converting the data points to the logarithmic scale, the converted data points 302A-N
   are plotted as voltage values versus logarithmic function of time.
            As shown in Figure 3, once the converted data points302A-N are plotted on
   the voltage versus logarithmic function of time scale, the plot 300 may be shown.
   This allows the curve fitting module 118 to determine a curve 306 that closely
15 matches the converted data points 302A-N. Then, the curve fitting module 118 may
   determine a curve fitting equation based on the curve 306 that is simpler than
   existing curve fitting equations utilized in sensor technologies. Existing curve
   fitting equations require finding roots of non-linear equations, whereas the
   techniques disclosed herein do not require finding such roots. Finding roots of non
20 linear equations is computationally intensive, and when dealing with systems that
   have high throughputs, the severity of the problem becomes even more apparent. As
   a result, by utilizing curve fitting equations that do not require finding roots of non
   linear equations, the automated clinical analyzer 10 requires fewer computational
   resources than existing systems. This translates to various advantages over existing
25 systems, including but not limited to increased throughputs, reduced costs of
   manufacture, and a smaller physical and energy footprint. Further, it should be
   appreciated that the display step may not be necessary as the curve fitting equation
   may be determined without having to plot data points or draw a curve that fits the
   data points.
30          According to various embodiments, the curve fitting equation may typically
   be a second degree logarithmic equation that has a general form of
            s(t) = a(log(t)) 2 + b(log(t)) + c,

            where a, b, and c are the polynomial coefficients that are determined based
   on the converted data points, and s(t) is the calculated sensor output at a particular
   time t. In one embodiment, a predetermined value of the logarithm of time at which
   a critical point occurs is provided, the predetermined value providing a relationship
 5 between polynomial coefficients. The precise values of a, b, and c. which are
   determined experimentally or analytically (for example, using regression analysis)
   for each sensor configuration used, depend in part upon the concentration of the
   analyte, the size of the sample, the temperature, the geometry of the sensor
   transducer setup, and other parameters. In one instance, the critical point is an
10 extremum point, and the predetermined value (V) provides a relationship between
   the fit parameters b and a of the form b=-2aV; the fit parameters a and c being
   determined based on the sensor response by curve fitting techniques (such as, but
   not limited to, regression analysis and least square methods). Once the values of a,
   b, and c have been determined for a sensor configuration, the curve fitting equation
15 may be used to rapidly estimate the concentration of the analyte in the sample.
   According to the invention, there is no need to wait for the sensor to provide its final
   reading to determine the analyte concentration.
            It should be appreciated that the selection of the data points to be converted
   plays an important role in determining the accuracy of the curve fitting equation.
20 Although conventional wisdom would suggest that the greater the number of data
   points utilized for determining the curve fit, the better.
            The present invention discloses that such wisdom is not necessarily true.
   Rather, the range from which the data points are selected may play an even more
   important role. In various embodiments, the data points selected to be converted to
25 the logarithmic function of time scale were the data points generated from 15-30
   seconds after the analyte was first exposed to the sensor. In other embodiments,
   data points from 15-35 seconds after the analyte was first exposed to the sensor were
   used without significant improvements in accuracy. Similarly, data points from 10
   25 seconds after the analyte was first exposed to the sensor were used but produced
30 some results that were not accurate enough. It should be appreciated that the data
   points selected may vary based on the type of sensor and analyte, end point response
   time, amongst other factors. In various embodiments, the time range for selecting
   the data points may be determined through empirical methods.

           As described above, the end point response value of the sensor may be
   calculated by solving the equation for a time that is within the equilibrium region of
   the sensor response curve. Once the end point analyte related value is calculated
   using the curve fitting equation, the end point response value is converted to a value
 5 corresponding to the concentration of the analyte, using, for example, a method
   comprising a calibration value (e.g. a ration, a calibration point, a difference value,
   etc.).
           Referring now to Figure 4, an exemplary logical flow diagram for estimating
   the concentration of an analyte within a sample is shown. A routine 400 begins at
10 operation 402, where the sensor 140 is exposed to a sample containing the analyte.
   As described above, the electrochemical sensor 140 may be responsive to the levels
   of concentration of an analyte within the sample.
           From operation 402, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 404, where the
   sensor 140 may generate one or more data signals in response to the exposure to the
15 analyte. In various embodiments, the data signals may be in the form of a voltage,
   current, charge, or any other type of measurable output. These data signals are
   continuously being generated by the sensor 140 while being exposed to the analyte.
           From operation 404, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 406, where the
   data point recording module 114 may record data points from the data signals. The
20 granularity at which these data points are recorded may be determined by the type of
   sensor, the amount of analyte, the size of the sample, the temperature, amongst other
   factors. In one embodiment, the data signals are recorded every second. However,
   it should be appreciated that the frequency at which these data points are recorded
   may be greater than or less than one data point per second. The data points may be
25 stored within the memory of the automated clinical analyzer 102, or may be stored
   remotely at a location that is accessible by the analyte concentration measurement
   application 110.
           From operation 406, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 408, where the
   data point selection module 116 may select a portion of the data points recorded by
30 the data point recording module 114. In various embodiments, the data point
   selection module 116 may select data points that, when plotted, may help determine
   a curve that has an equation, which, when extrapolated to a time in the future,
   generates a result that is proximate to the actual result of the sensor 140. In various

   embodiments, the data point selection module 116 may select any number of data
   points. There is a countervailing balance that the data point selection module 116
   has to consider when selecting data points. Selecting too many data points may also
   increase the number of outliers, which may adversely affect the accuracy of the
 5 curve being fitted, as well as selecting data points that are too far ahead in time may
   delay the time in which the automated clinical analyzer 102 may determine the
   analyte concentration. In particular, selecting the first few data points that are
   recorded may cause the automated clinical analyzer 102 to produce inaccurate
   results. This is because the sensors 140, when initially exposed to the analyte, may
10 generate noise signals, amongst other undesirable affects. Accordingly, based on
   empirical methods, data points selected from the kinetic region but after the initial
   response of the sensor 140 may generate the most accurate results, while balancing
   the need to determine the concentration of analyte in the shortest time, without
   significantly compromising on accuracy.
15          From operation 408, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 410, where the
   curve fitting module 118 converts the selected data points having an output value
   corresponding to a particular time to a unit of logarithmic function of time. In
   various embodiments, the base of the logarithmic scale may be base 10, or natural
   log (ln e). By doing so, a curve generated by the plotted converted data points may
20 be more accurate and utilizes less data points than existing curve fitting equations.
            From operation 410, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 412, where the
   curve fitting module 118 may plot the converted data points on a graph. In various
   embodiments, the Y-axis is an output value gathered from the data signal generated
   by the sensor 140, and the X-axis is a logarithmic function of time. From operation
25 412, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 414, where the curve fitting module 118
   may determine a curve fitting equation for the plotted graph. In various
   embodiments, the curve fitting module 118 may determine a curve fitting equation
                                                                                      2
   that is a second degree logarithmic polynomial having the form s(t) = a(log(t)) +
   b(log(t)) + c, where a, b, and c are the polynomial coefficients that are determined
30 based on the converted data points, and s(t) is the calculated sensor output at a
   particular time t. The precise values of a, b, and c. which are determined
   experimentally or analytically for each sensor configuration used, depend in part
   upon the concentration of the analyte, the size of the sample, the temperature, the

   geometry of the setup, and other parameters. It should be appreciated that the curve
   fitting module may not necessarily plot the data points to determine a curve that fits
   the data points. In some embodiments, the curve fitting module 118 may be able to
   determine a curve that fits the data points without having to plot the data points.
 5 Commercially available curve fitting software may be utilized to determine a curve
   and a corresponding equation that fits the selected data points.
             From operation 414, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 416, where the
   extrapolation module 120 extrapolates the calculated end point response of the
   sensor 140 by solving the curve fitting equation for a time that falls within the
10 equilibrium region. From operation 416, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 418,
   where the validation module 122 validates the end point response for accuracy.
   According to some embodiments, the validation process includes determining the
   coefficient of variation (CV) and the coefficient of determination (R2) using the
   formulas of CV and R2 that are presented above.
15           From operation 418, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 420, where the
   validation module 122 determines whether the CV and the R2 are within acceptable
   limits predefined by the automated clinical analyzer 102. In various embodiments,
   these limits may allow for the CV and R2 to fall within an acceptable range, which
   may be known by those persons having ordinary skill in the art. In one embodiment,
20 the limits may allow for the R2 to fall between 0.98 and 1. The coefficient of
   determination (R2 ) indicates how well the data and the curve fit function match. The
   closer the value of R2 , the better the match.
             If, at operation 420, the validation module 122 determines that either the CV,
       , or both the CV and R2 not within the acceptable limit, the routine 400 proceeds
25 to operation 422, where the analyte concentration reporting module 124 determines
   the concentration of the analyte using the extrapolated end point response, and
   reports the analyte concentration with a flag indicating that the result does not fall
   within the acceptable limits.
             However, if at operation 420, the validation module 122 determines that both
30 the CV and R 2 are within the acceptable limit, the routine 400 proceeds to operation
   424, where the analyte concentration reporting module 124 determines the
   concentration of the analyte using the extrapolated end point response, and reports

   the analyte concentration without a flag. From operation 422 and 424, the routine
   400 ends at operation 426.
            According to various embodiments, it may be desirable to provide a system
   for calibration of the sensors 140. A self-calibration system for measuring the
 5 analyte concentration may be used to correct for imprecision in the manufacturing of
   the sensor, thus reducing the time and cost of manufacture. In addition, the self
   calibration system may be used to compensate for small magnitudes of noise
   generated by the sensor or other components of the automated clinical analyzer 102.
            Referring to Figure 5a, an exemplary flow diagram for determining and
10 improving the usefulness of the curve fitting equation is shown therein. Another
   examples of routine 400 begins at operation 402, where the sensor 140 is exposed to
   a sample containing the analyte. As described above, the electrochemical sensor
   140 may be responsive to the levels of concentration of an analyte within the
   sample.
15          From operation 402, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 404, where the
   sensor 140 may generate one or more data signals in response to the exposure to the
   analyte. In various embodiments, the data signals may be in the form of a voltage,
   current, charge, or any other type of measurable output. These data signals are
   continuously being generated by the sensor 140 while being exposed to the analyte.
20 The routine 400 then proceeds through operations 406 to 410, as described herein
   above.
            From operation 410, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 415 in which a
   curve fitting equation is determined for the selected data points. The curve fitting
   equation may be determined by conventional methods such as, but not limited to,
25 regression analysis or the least square methods. According to various embodiments,
   the curve fitting equation may typically be a second degree logarithmic equation that
   has a general form of
            s(t) = a(log(t)) 2 + b(log(t)) + c,
   where a, b, and c are the polynomial coefficients that are determined based on the
30 converted data points, and s(t) is the calculated sensor output at a particular time t.
   In one embodiment, a predetermined value of the logarithm of time at which a
   critical point occurs is provided, the predetermined value providing a relationship
   between polynomial coefficients. The precise values of a, b, and c. which are

   determined experimentally or analytically (for example, using regression analysis)
   for each sensor configuration used, depend in part upon the concentration of the
   analyte, the size of the sample, the temperature, the geometry of the sensor
   transducer setup, and other parameters. In one instance, the critical point is an local
 5 extremum point, and the predetermined value (V) provides a relationship between
   the fit parameters b and a of the form b=-2aV, the fit parameters a and c being
   determined based on the sensor response.
            From operation 415, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 416, where the
   extrapolation module 120 extrapolates the calculated end point response of the
10 sensor 140 by solving the curve fitting equation for a time that falls within the
   equilibrium region. From operation 416, the routine 400 proceeds to operation 430
   in which the curve fit quality module 126 determines and improves the usefulness of
   the curve fitting equation. Embodiments of the logic flow diagram for operation 430
   are shown in Figures 6a, 6b, 7a, 7c.
15          Another embodiment of the logic flow diagram for analyzing data for an
   analyte is presented in Figure 5b. As stated above, embodiments in which only some
   of the modules in the automated clinical analyzer 102 shown in Figure 1 are used are
   within the scope of this invention. There are numerous automated clinical analyzers
   in which a curve describing a fit for the data points can be used even if the curve
20 fitting equation is not used for extrapolation. In the embodiment shown in Figure 5b,
   operation 416 is omitted to emphasize that embodiments in which extrapolation is
   not present are also within the scope of these teachings.
            One embodiment of the logic flow diagram for determining and improving
   the usefulness of the curve fitting equation is shown in Figures 6a and 6b. Referring
25 to Figure 6a, the logic flow diagram shown therein starts from the curve fit and data
   points obtained from the flow diagram shown in Figures 5a or 5 b or equivalently
   obtained from the data point recording module 114, data point selection module 116
   and curve fitting module 118 in Figure 1. The outlier count is initially set to zero. An
   outlier candidate with the largest residual is determined (operation 440). The logic
30 flow diagram then proceeds to comparing the residual of the outlier candidate with a
   predetermined residual limit (operation 444). The residual of the outlier candidate is
   then compared to a predetermined residual limit. If the residual of the outlier
   candidate with the largest residual is less than or equal to the predetermined residual

   limit, the operation stops since any other outlier candidate will have a smaller
   residual and would be within the predetermined residual limit. If the residual of the
   outlier candidate is greater than the predetermined residual limit, the outlier
   candidate with the largest residual is classified as an outlier (operation 448). The
 5 logic flow diagram then proceeds to obtain a measure of the effect of the outlier on
   the parameters of the curve fitting equation (operation 450). The logic flow diagram
   is continued in Figure 6b. Referring to Figure 6b, the measure of the effect of the
   outlier on the parameters of the curve fitting equation, obtained in operation 450, is
   compared to the predetermined measure limit. If the comparison of the measure of
10 the effect of the outlier on the parameters of the curve fitting equation with the
   predetermined measure limit indicates that the outlier has a significant effect on the
   parameters of the curve fitting equation, the outlier count is incremented by one
   (operation 454), the outlier count is compared to a predetermined outlier numbers
   limit (operation 458) and the outlier is removed from the data points (operation 460).
15 If the outlier count is greater than the outlier number, the data set is identified for
   review. The logic flow diagram then forms a new set of data points with the outlier
   removed (operation 464). In one instance, a new set of curve fit parameters for the
   curve fitting equation are obtained using the new set of data points in the curve
   fitting module 118. The logic flow diagram then returns to determining a new outlier
20 candidate with largest residual for the new data set of data points (operation 440,
   Fig. 6a). If the comparison of the measure of the effect of the outlier on the
   parameters of the curve fitting equation with the predetermined measure limit
   indicates that the outlier does not have a significant effect on the parameters of the
   curve fitting equation, the logic flow diagram proceeds to forming a new data set of
25 points with the outlier candidate removed (operation 464). In one instance, a new set
   of curve fit parameters for the curve fitting equation are obtained using the new set
   of data points in the curve fitting module 118. The logic flow diagram then returns
   to determining a new outlier candidate with largest residual for the new data set of
   data points (operation 440, Fig. 6a). Another examples of the routine 400 proceeds
30 until all outliers have been identified although it could be stopped if the outlier count
   exceeds the predetermined outlier number limit.
            An exemplary embodiment of the logic flow diagram for determining and
   improving the usefulness of the curve fitting equation is shown in Figures 7a and 7b.
   Referring to Figure 7a, the logic flow diagram shown therein starts from the curve fit

   and data points obtained from the flow diagram shown in Figures 5a or 5 b or
   equivalently obtained from the data point recording module 114, data point selection
   module 116 and curve fitting module 118 in Figure 1. The outlier count is initially
   set to zero. The outlier count is initially set to zero. An outlier candidate with the
 5 largest Studentized residual is determined (operation 470). The logic flow diagram
   then proceeds to comparing the Studentized residual of the outlier candidate with a
   predetermined Studentized residual limit (operation 474). If the Studentized residual
   of the outlier candidate with the largest Studentized residual is less than or equal to
   the predetermined Studentized residual limit, the operation stops since any other
10 outlier candidate will have a smaller Studentized residual and would be within the
   predetermined residual limit. If the Studentized residual of the outlier candidate is
   greater than the predetermined Studentized residual limit, the outlier candidate with
   the largest Studentized residual is classified as an outlier (operation 478). The logic
   flow diagram then proceeds to obtain a DFFITS value for the outlier (operation
15 480). The logic flow diagram is continued in Figure 6b. Referring to Figure 7b, the
   DFFITS value for the outlier, obtained in operation 480, is compared to the
   predetermined DFFITS limit. If the comparison of the DFFITS value for the outlier
   with the predetermined DFFITS limit indicates that the outlier has a significant
   effect on the parameters of the curve fitting equation, the outlier count is
20 incremented by one (operation 484), the outlier count is compared to a
   predetermined outlier numbers limit (operation 488) and the outlier is removed from
   the data points (operation 490). If the outlier count is greater than the outlier
   number, the data set is identified for review. The logic flow diagram then forms a
   new data set of points with the outlier removed (operation 494). In one instance, a
25 new set of curve fit parameters for the curve fitting equation are obtained using the
   new set of data points in the curve fitting module 118. The logic flow diagram then
   returns to determining a new outlier candidate with largest Studentized residual for
   the new data set of data points (operation 470, Fig. 7a). If the comparison of the
   DFFITS value for the outlier with the predetermined DFFITS limit indicates that the
30 outlier does not have a significant effect on the parameters of the curve fitting
   equation, the logic flow diagram proceeds to forming a new data set of points with
   the outlier candidate removed (operation 494). In one instance, a new set of curve fit
   parameters for the curve fitting equation are obtained using the new set of data
   points in the curve fitting module 118. The logic flow diagram then returns to

   determining a new outlier candidate with largest residual for the new data set of data
   points (operation 470, Fig. 7a). Another examples of the routine 400 proceeds until
   all outliers have been identified although the routine 400 could be stopped if the
   outlier count exceeds the predetermined outlier number limit.
 5          An exemplary graphical representation of voltage versus time for
   experimental data generated by a sensor measuring sodium concentration is shown
   in Figure 8a. The exemplary graphical representation shows a series of data points
   capture from a data signal generated by a sodium sensor 140. The data points shown
   therein indicate an output value which for the exemplary graphical representation is
10 shown in mVolts. A curve fitting equation, of the type ax 2 +bx + c with a=0, is
   obtained from a curve fitting module 118. For the exemplary graphical
   representation shown there in the curve fitting equation is -0.1 126x - 280.24. In the
   exemplary embodiment disclosed herein below determining an outlier candidate
   with the largest residual is performed by determining a data point with a largest
15 Studentized residual and obtaining a measure of the effect of the outlier is performed
   by obtaining a DFFITS value (DFFITS, in this exemplary embodiment, refers to the
   measure that indicates the change at an extrapolated point caused by removing an
   individual point from the regression fit.) The absolute value Studentized residual
   limit is 5; Studentized residuals having an absolute value higher than the one we
20 consider outliers. The absolute value of the DFFITS limit is 0.04; any DFFITS
   absolute value higher than this limit will indicate that the outlier has a significant
   effect on the parameters of the curve fitting equation and should be removed. The
   maximum number of outliers is set equal to 2. Is the sample has more than two
   outliers, the sample will be set aside for review since it may be considered to be in
25 error. Table 1 below displays the sensor output, Studentized residuals and DFFITS
   values for each update times in which the measurement was taken.
            Table 1
    Time                   sensor output         Studentized       DFFIT
    (S)         Log time   (mV)                 Res.               (delta55)
     15         1.176091   -280.41814            -0.167969237      0.02924
     16         1.20412    -280.55               -0.584557754      0.07786
     17         1.230449   -280.38466            -0.031943123      0.00324
     18         1.255273   -280.36149            0.048486072       -0.00351
     19         1.278754   -280.34518            0.105178236       -0.00484
    20          1.30103    -280.33188            0.151657918       -0.00331

    21         1.322219     -280.30999          0.223545623       0.00016
    22         1.342423     -280.29411          0.277612041       0.00612
    23         1.361728     -280.27652          0.337580624       0.01431
    24         1.380211     -280.26493          0.380544209       0.02363
    25         1.39794      -280.24605          0.447273738       0.03632
    26         1.414973     -280.23704          0.485403754       0.04858
    27         1.431364     -280.22931          0.521192884       0.06190
    28         1.447158     -281.55             -33.69556139      -0.49856
    29         1.462398     -280.20571          0.625390089       0.09754
    30         1.477121     -280.18897          0.698680225       0.12198
           As can be seen from Table 1, the Studentized residual at time 28 seconds has
   the maximum absolute value, -33.7, and the Studentized residual with the maximum
   absolute value is higher than the Studentized residual absolutely limit. The value at
   time 28 seconds is classified as an outlier. The DFFITS value for the Studentized
 5 residual with the maximum absolute value is 0.499 and is outside the DFFITS limit.
   The outlier is then removed. The outlier count is set to 1.
           Figure 8b shows the exemplary graphical representation of the data in Figure
   8a with the outlier at time 28 seconds removed. A curve fitting equation, of the type
   ax 2 +bx + c with a=0, is obtained from a curve fitting module 118 for the data set
10 with the outlier at time 28 seconds removed. For the exemplary graphical
   representation shown there in the curve fitting equation is 0.9299x -281.55. As can
   be seen from Table 2 below, the Studentized residual at time 16 seconds has the
   maximum absolute value, -38.7, and the Studentized residual with the maximum
   absolute value is higher than the Studentized residual absolutely limit. The value at
15 time 16 seconds is classified as an outlier. The DFFITS value for the Studentized
   residual with the maximum absolute value is -0.5 and is outside the DFFITS limit.
   The outlier is then removed. The outlier count is set to 2.
           Table 2
   Time      Log time      sensor output       Studentized      DFFIT
   (S)                     (mV)                Res.             (delta55)
   15         1.176091     -280.41814          1.302207232      -0.02519
   16         1.20412      -280.55             -38.75323932     0.05453
   17         1.230449     -280.38466          0.659093643      -0.00758
   18         1.255273     -280.36149          0.646980468      -0.00515
   19         1.278754     -280.34518          0.480296708      -0.00232
   20         1.30103      -280.33188          0.271488649      -0.00051
   21         1.322219     -280.30999          0.329904217      0.00029

   22         1.342423     -280.29411         0.250562512        0.00088
   23         1.361728     -280.27652         0.241429866        0.00146
   24         1.380211     -280.26493         0.090161186        0.00077
   25         1.39794      -280.24605         0.156690447        0.00172
   26         1.414973     -280.23704         -0.030955726       -0.00041
   27         1.431364     -280.22931         -0.242884222       -0.00383
   28         1.447158
   29         1.462398     -280.20571         -0.406073413       -0.00749
   30         1.477121     -280.18897         -0.322605674       -0.00679
           Figure 8c shows the exemplary graphical representation of the data in Figure
   8a with the outlier at time 28 seconds removed and the outlier at time 16 seconds
   removed .A curve fitting equation, of the type ax 2 +bx + c with a=0, is obtained
   from a curve fitting module 118 for the data set with the outlier at time 28 seconds
 5 removed and the outlier at time 16 seconds removed. For the exemplary graphical
   representation shown there in the curve fitting equation is 0.7705x-281.33. As can
   be seen from Table 3 below, all the Studentized Residual values are within the limit
   and no DFFITS calculation are required. The outlier count is not higher than the
   outlier number limit.
10         Table 3
    Time                    sensor output       Studentized       DFFIT
    (S)        Log time     (mV)               Res.               (delta55)
    15         1.176091     -280.41814         -0.355455044       not required
    16         1.20412                                            not required
    17         1.230449     -280.38466         0.170223356        not required
    18         1.255273     -280.36149         -0.082739835       not required
    19         1.278754     -280.34518         0.02875639         not required
    20         1.30103      -280.33188         0.27049187         not required
    21         1.322219     -280.30999         -0.077578419       not required
    22         1.342423     -280.29411         -0.097178392       not required
    23         1.361728     -280.27652         -0.267056658       not required
    24         1.380211     -280.26493         -0.101176941       not required
    25         1.39794      -280.24605         -0.427747325       not required
    26         1.414973     -280.23704         -0.170357329       not required
    27         1.431364     -280.22931         0.136120199        not required
    28         1.447158                                           not required
    29         1.462398     -280.20571         0.155631715        not required
    30         1.477121     -280.18897         -0.181933585       not required
           After the outlier detection is completed, each fit parameter from the last
   group of fit parameters, a =0, b = 0.7705 and c = -281.33, is compared to the

   corresponding fit parameter limits. If any one of the parameters is outside the fit
   parameter limits for that parameter, the sample will be set aside for review since it
   may be considered to be in error. If all of the three parameters are within the
   corresponding fit parameter limit, extrapolation will take place and the results for the
 5 sample will be reported. For the exemplary embodiment shown in Figures8a-8c, the
   fit parameter limits for parameter "b" are from 0.6 to 1.0 and the fit parameter limits
   for parameter "c" are from -290 to -260. Comparing each of the fit parameters from
   the last group of fit parameters, a =0, b = 0.7705 and c = -281.33, to the fit
   parameter limits, each one of the each of the fit parameters from the last group of fit
10 parameters is within the corresponding fit parameter limit. The sample value would
   be then reported. It should be noted that if the fit parameters from the first two
   groups of fit parameters had been compared to the corresponding fit parameter
   limits, they fit parameters would have been found to be outside of the fit parameter
   limits
15          According to various embodiments, the disclosure presented herein may be
   utilized to reduce the time for determining an important response time of
   electrochemical sensors. In some embodiments, the electrochemical sensors may be
   used in a diffusion control response environment such as to calculate concentration
   levels of p02, pCO2, glucose and lactate. In addition, the methodology may also be
20 used for the end point detection of ion selective electrodes, such as and Na, K, Cl
   and Ca. Although some sensors typically exhibit fast responses and therefore an
   endpoint sensor response prediction may not be necessary, a curve fit may still be
   useful and the determination and improvement of the curve fit equation is still of
   importance.
25          Reference herein to background art is not an admission that the art forms a
   part of the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
            In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
   except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising"
30 is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not
   to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of
   the invention.

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.      A system, comprising:
           an automated clinical analyzer, comprising:
 5         a processing transient error detector;
           a memory in communication with the processing transient error detector, the
   memory storing a range of coefficients library and a transient error detecting
   application, the transient error detecting application including a comparison module;
   and
10         an interface coupled to the automated clinical analyzer, the interface
   configured for receiving a mathematical expression representing a response curve of
   a sensor coupled to the automated clinical analyzer, the equation including at least
   one coefficient;
           wherein the comparison module is executable by the processing transient
15 error detector to compare the at least one coefficient to a range of coefficients in the
   range or coefficients library, the range of coefficients including coefficients of
   response curves of the sensor corresponding to known concentrations of the analyte.
   2.      The system of claim 1,
20         wherein the transient error detecting application comprises a detection
   module, the detection module executable by the processing transient error detector
   to determine a concentration of an analyte in a body fluid sample; and
           wherein the comparison module is executable by the processing transient
   error detector to detect a transient error in the body fluid sample based on the
25 comparison.
   3.      The system of claim 1, wherein the mathematical expression comprises any
   one of a logarithmic relationship and a quadratic relationship.
30 4.      The system of claim 1, wherein the comparing includes comparing a
   coefficient describing the curvature of the sample response curve to the range of
   coefficients and comparing a coefficient describing the slope of the sample response
   curve to a second range of coefficients different than the range of coefficients; and

   wherein the detecting includes detecting the transient error in the body fluid sample
   based on the comparison of the coefficient describing the curvature of the sample
   response curve and the comparison of the coefficient describing the slope of the
   sample response curve.
 5
   5.      The system of claim 1, wherein the range of coefficients for a given
   concentration of analyte includes a mean coefficient determined from a mean of
   coefficients of the predetermined response curves corresponding to the given
   concentration of analyte;
10         a lower limit defined by a negative number of standard deviations from the
   mean coefficient; and
           an upper limit defined by a positive number of standard deviations from the
   mean coefficient.
15 6.      The system of claim 5, wherein an absolute value of the negative number of
   standard deviations from the mean coefficient and an absolute value of the positive
   number of standard deviations from the mean coefficient are different.
   7.      The system of claim 5, wherein the lower limit and the upper limit of the
20 range of coefficients are invariant to changes in concentration of the analyte.
   8.      The system of claim 5, wherein at least one of the lower limit and the upper
   limit of the range of coefficients varies with changes in concentration of the analyte.
25 9.      The system of claim 5, wherein the transient error detection application is
   executable by the processing transient error detector to revise the range of
   coefficients based on the coefficient of the sample response curve corresponding to
   the concentration of the analyte in the body fluid sample.
30 10.     The system of claim 1, wherein the known concentrations of the analyte are
   determined from at least one of previously collected body fluid samples and
   standardized solutions.

   11.     The system of claim 1 wherein the range of coefficients depends on a matrix
   of the body fluid sample.
   12.     An automated clinical analyzer comprising:
 5         a transient error detector comprising a comparison module communicatively
   coupled to a detection module; and,
           an interface for receiving equations representing sensor response curves,
   wherein the interface receives the equations as they are determined by an analyte
   concentration measurement application.
10
   13.     The automated clinical analyzer of claim 12, further comprising a range of
   coefficients library, said library provides a range of coefficients for a particular
   analyte used to detect a transient error in the body fluid sample.
15 14.     The automated clinical analyzer of claim 12, further comprising a processor.
   15.     The automated clinical analyzer of claim 12, further comprising a memory,
   said memory stores the analyte concentration measurement application.
20 16.     The automated clinical analyzer of claim 12, further comprising an alarm
   mechanism.
   17.     The automated clinical analyzer of claim 12, further comprising one or more
   sensors, said sensors configured to communicate with the analyte concentration
25 measurement application.
   18.     The automated clinical analyzer of claim 17, wherein said one or more
   sensors are electrochemical sensors.
30 19.     The automated clinical analyzer of claim 12, wherein said analyte
   concentration measurement application further comprises one or more of a sensor
   communication module, a data point reporting module, a data point selection
   module, a curve fitting module, an extrapolation module, a validation module, an
   analyte concentration reporting module or a curve fit quality module.

  20.     The automated clinical analyzer of claim 19, wherein the data point
  recording module records a measurement of the data signal after random or variable
  periods of time.
5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
