                                        ABSTRACT
Mice having a restricted immunoglobulin heavy chain locus are provided, wherein the locus
is characterized by a single polymorphic human    VH gene segment, a plurality of human  DH
gene segments and a plurality of JH gene segments. Methods for making antibody
sequences that bind an antigen (e.g., a viral antigen) are provided, comprising immunizing a
mouse with an antigen of interest, wherein the mouse comprises a single human      VH gene
segment, a plurality of human  DH gene segments and a plurality of JH gene segments, at the
endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus.

RESTRICTED IMMUNOGLOBULIN HEAVY CHAIN MICE
RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]        This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, in turn
a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2012326283, the entire contents of which are
herein incorporated by reference.
FIELD
[0001A]       Non-human animals that are genetically engineered at an immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable (V) region locus (or in a transgene) to make antibodies from a restricted number of
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable        (VH) segments (or a single VH segment) and/or variants
thereof. Non-human animals that have a human heavy chain variable domain derived from a single
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene segment, e.g., human immunoglobulin VHi-69 gene
segment or human VH1-2 gene segment. Methods for making antibody sequences in non-human
animals that are useful for binding pathogens, including human pathogens.
BACKGROUND
[0002]       Non-human animals, e.g., mice, have been genetically engineered to be useful tools in
methods for making antibody sequences for use in antibody-based human therapeutics. Mice with
humanized variable region loci (e.g.,     VH, DH, and JH genes, and VL and JL genes) are used to
generate cognate heavy and light chain variable domains for use in antibody therapeutics. Other
mice are available that generate fully human antibodies with cognate heavy and light chains.
[0003]       Human antibody therapeutics are engineered based on desired characteristics with
respect to certain pre-selected antigens. Humanized mice are immunized with the pre-selected
antigens, and the immunized mice are used to generate antibody populations from which to identify
high-affinity cognate heavy and light variable domains with desired binding characteristics. Some
humanized mice, such as those having a humanization of just variable regions at endogenous
mouse loci, generate populations of B cells that are similar in character and number to wild-type
mouse B cell populations. As a result, an extremely large and diverse population of B cells is
available in these mice from which to screen antibodies, reflecting a large number of different
immunoglobulin rearrangements, to identify heavy and light variable domains with the most
desirable characteristics.
[0004]       But not all antigens provoke an immune response that exhibits a very large number of
rearrangements from a wide selection of variable (V) segments. That is, the human humoral
immune response to certain antigens is apparently restricted. The restriction is reflected in clonal
selection of B cells that express only certain V segments that bind that particular antigen with
sufficiently high affinity and specificity. Some such antigens are clinically significant, i.e., a number
are well-known human pathogens. A presumption arises that the V segment expressed in the
human immune response is a V segment that, in combination with a human D and a human J
segment, is more likely to generate a useful high affinity antibody than a
                                                      1

randomly selected V segment that has not been observed in a human antibody response to
that antigen.
[0005]       It is hypothesized that natural selection, over millennia, has selected the most
efficient foundation or base from which to design a most effective weapon for neutralizing
human pathogens-a clonally selected V segment. There is a need in the art for more and
superior antibodies that bind and/or neutralize antigens such as the pathogens discussed
above. There is a need to more rapidly generate useful sequences from selected V segments,
including polymorphic and/or somatically mutated selected V segments and to more rapidly
generate useful populations of B cells having rearrangements of the V segments with various D
and J segments, including somatically mutated versions thereof, and in particular
rearrangements with unique and useful CDR3s. There is a need for biological systems, e.g.,
non-human animals (such as, e.g., mice, rats, rabbits, etc.) that can generate therapeutically
useful antibody variable region sequences from pre-selected V segments in increased number
and diversity than, e.g., can be achieved in existing modified animals. There is a need for
biological systems engineered to have a committed humoral immune system for clonally
selecting antibody variable sequences derived from restricted, pre-selected V segments,
including but not limited to cognate human heavy and light chain variable domains, useful in the
manufacture of human antibody-based therapeutics against selected antigens, including certain
human pathogens.
[0006]       There is a need in the art for therapeutic antibodies that are capable of neutralizing
viral antigens, e.g., HIV and HCV, including antigen-specific antibodies containing heavy chains
derived from a single human variable segment, and for a system that produces a diverse
source of antibodies from which to select therapeutic antibody sequences. There is also a
need for further methods and non-human animals for making useful antibodies, including
antibodies that comprise a repertoire of heavy chains derived from a single human       VH segment
and having a diverse set of CDR sequences, and including such heavy chains that express with
cognate human light chain variable domains. Methods are needed for selecting CDRs for
immunoglobulin-based binding proteins that provide an enhanced diversity of binding proteins
from which to choose, and enhanced diversity of immunoglobulin variable domains, including
compositions and methods for generating somatically mutated and clonally selected
 immunoglobulin variable domains for use, e.g., in making human therapeutics.
SUMMARY
 [0007]      Genetically modified immunoglobulin loci are provided that comprise a restricted
 number of different heavy chain variable region gene segments (i.e., V genes,      VH genes, VH
gene segments, or V gene segments), e.g., no more than one, two, or three different V genes;
                                                    2

or no more than one V gene segment family member present, e.g., in a single copy or in
multiple copies and/or comprising one or more polymorphisms.
[0008]       Loci are provided that are capable of rearranging and forming a gene encoding a
heavy chain variable domain that is derived from a    VH gene repertoire that is restricted, e.g.,
that is a single VH gene segment or selected from a plurality of polymorphic variants of the
single VH gene segment. Modified immunoglobulin loci include loci that comprise human
immunoglobulin sequences are provided, e.g., a human V segment operably linked to a human
or (or human/non-human chimeric) non-human immunoglobulin constant sequence (and in
operable linkage with, e.g., a D and/or a J segment). Modified loci that comprise multiple
copies of a single VH gene segment, including wherein one or more of the copies comprises a
polymorphic variant, are provided. Modified loci that comprise multiple copies of a single     VH
segment, operably linked with one or more D segments and one or more J segments, operably
linked to a non-human immunoglobulin constant sequence, e.g., a mouse or rat sequence, are
provided. Non-human animals comprising such humanized loci are also provided.
[0009]       Non-human animals are provided that have a reduced immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable gene segment complexity (i.e., a limited number of heavy chain variable gene
segments, or a limited heavy chain variable gene repertoire), wherein the reduced
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene segment complexity is characterized by the
presence of no more than one or no more than two heavy chain variable gene segments, and
wherein the heavy chain variable genes present are operably linked to a human or non-human
constant region sequence.
[00010]      Non-human animals are provided that have a reduced immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable gene segment complexity (e.g., a single    VH gene segment, or a limited number of VH
gene segments that are polymorphic variants of a single VH gene segment), wherein the
reduced immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene segment complexity is characterized by the
 presence of a single VH gene segment or a plurality of VH gene segments that are polymorphic
forms of a single VH gene segment (e.g.,   VH  gene segments associated with high copy number
and/or polymorphism in humans), and wherein the heavy chain variable genes present are
 operably linked to a human or non-human constant region sequence. In various embodiments,
the heavy chain variable genes present are operably linked to one or more D and/or one or
 more J gene segments in the germline of the non-human animal.
 [00011]     Non-human animals are provided that comprise an immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable locus (e.g., on a transgene or as an insertion or replacement at an endogenous non
 human animal heavy chain variable locus) that comprises a single VH segment operably linked
to a D and/or J gene segment. In various embodiments, the single      VH gene segment is
 operably linked to one or more D and/or one or more J gene segments at the endogenous
 immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene locus of the non-human animal.
                                                 3

[00012]     Non-human animals are provided that are modified at their immunoglobulin heavy
chain variable region loci to delete all or substantially all (e.g., all functional segments, or nearly
all functional segments) endogenous immunoglobulin VH segments and that comprise a human
                                     2 segment) operably linked to a D and J segment or a J
VH1-69 segment (or a human VH1-
segment at the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region locus of the non
human animal.
[00013]     Non-human animals are also provided that are modified at their immunoglobulin
heavy chain variable region loci to render the endogenous variable region loci incapable of
rearranging to form a functional heavy chain comprising endogenous variable region gene
segments; wherein the non-human animals comprise a single human variable gene segment (a
human VH1-2 or a human VH1-      69 gene segment) operably linked to a D and a J segment or a J
segment at the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region locus of the non
human animal.
[00014]     Non-human animals are provided that comprise a restricted number (e.g., no more
than one, or no more than two) of heavy chain gene segments operably linked to a human or
non-human constant region sequence. In one embodiment, the no more than one or no more
than two heavy chain gene segments linked to the constant region sequence are on a
transgene, e.g., are at a position other than an endogenous heavy chain locus.
[00015]     Methods are provided for making human immunoglobulin sequences in non-human
animals. In various embodiments, the human immunoglobulin sequences are derived from a
repertoire of immunoglobulin V sequences that consist essentially of a single human V
segment, e.g., VH -69 or VH1- 2 , and one or more D and J segments or one or more J
segments. Methods for making human immunoglobulin sequences in non-human animals,
tissues, and cells are provided, wherein the human immunoglobulin sequences bind a
pathogen.
[00016]      Methods are provided for making mice characterized by a restricted immunoglobulin
heavy chain locus, wherein the restriction is with respect to the number of immunoglobulin VH
gene segments. In various aspects, the restriction is to one or no more than two, or a single VH
gene family member (e.g., one or more VH alleles, variants, or polymorphic variants thereof). In
various aspects, the heavy chain locus further comprises one or more DH gene segments and
one or more    JH gene segments. In various aspects, the VH, DH and         JH gene segments are
 human. In various aspects, the VH, DH and     JH gene segments are operably linked to a non
 human constant region (e.g., an IgM and/or an IgG). In various aspects, the constant region is
 a mouse or rat constant region.
 [00017]     In one aspect, a method for making a mouse having a restricted immunoglobulin
 heavy chain locus is provided, comprising introducing a nucleic acid construct as described
                                                   4

herein into a mouse embryonic stem (ES) cell, and isolating or identifying a mouse ES cell that
comprises the nucleic acid construct.
[00018]      In one embodiment, the nucleic acid construct comprises a single human   VH gene
segment, one or more human       DH gene segments, and one or more human     JH gene segments.
In one embodiment, the nucleic acid construct comprises one or more site-specific
recombination sites (e.g., a loxP or a Frt site).
[00019]      In one aspect, a mouse made using a targeting vector, nucleic acid sequence, or
cell as described herein is provided. In various embodiments, the targeting vector, nucleic acid
sequence or cell comprises a DNA sequence that contains a single human       VH gene segment
(or polymorphic variants thereof), one or more human     DH gene segments, and one or more
human    JH gene segments operably linked to a non-human constant gene.
[00020]      In one aspect, a method for making a mouse comprising a restricted
immunoglobulin heavy chain locus is provided, comprising replacing a mouse immunoglobulin
heavy chain locus with a human genomic sequence comprising a single human         VH gene
segment (or polymorphic variants thereof), one or more human      DH gene segments, and one or
more human JH gene segments, wherein the human          VH, DH and JH gene segments are capable
of rearranging to form a chimeric heavy chain that contains a human variable domain operably
linked to a non-human constant region. In one embodiment, the non-human constant region is
a mouse or rat constant region.
[00021]      In various aspects, the non-human animals are rodents. In various aspects, the
rodents are mice and/or rats.
[00022]      In one aspect, a modified immunoglobulin heavy chain locus is provided that
comprises a heavy chain V segment repertoire that is restricted with respect to the identity of
the V segment, and that comprises one or more D segments and one or more J segments, or
one or more J segments. In one embodiment, the heavy chain V segment is a human
segment. In one embodiment, the one or more D segments are human D segments. In one
embodiment, the one or more J segments are human J segments. In one embodiment, the one
or more D segments and one or more J segments are human D and human J segments.
[00023]      In one embodiment, the modified locus is a non-human locus. In one embodiment,
the non-human locus is modified with at least one human immunoglobulin sequence.
[00024]      In one embodiment, the restriction is to one V segment family member. In one
embodiment, the one V segment family member is present in two or more copies. In one
embodiment, the one V segment family member is present as two or more variants (e.g., two or
more polymorphic forms of the V segment family member). In one embodiment, the one V
segment is a human V segment family member. In one embodiment, the one V segment family
member is present in a number of variants as is observed in the human population with respect
to that variant. In one embodiment, the V segment family member is selected from Table 1. In
                                                  5

one embodiment, the V segment family member is present in a number of variants as shown,
for each V segment, in a number of alleles from 1 allele to the number of alleles shown in the
right column of Table 1.
[00025]      In one embodiment, the restriction is to a human VHi-69 gene segment. In one
embodiment, the human VH1-69 gene segment is present in two or more copies. In one
embodiment, the human VHi-69 gene segment is present as two or more variants (e.g., two or
more polymorphic forms the human VH1-69 gene). In one embodiment, the human VH1-69
gene segment is present in a number of variants as is observed in the human population with
respect to the human VHi-69 gene segment. In one embodiment, the human VH1-69 gene
segment is selected from Table 2. In one embodiment, the human VH1-69 gene segment is
present in a number of variants as shown, for each VH1-69 gene segment, in a number of
alleles from one allele to the number of alleles shown in Table 2.
[00026]      In one embodiment, the restriction is to a human VHi- 2 gene segment. In one
embodiment, the human VHi-2 gene segment is present in two or more copies. In one
embodiment, the human VH1-2 gene segment is present as two or more variants (e.g., two or
more polymorphic forms the human VH1-2 gene). In one embodiment, the human VH1-2 gene
segment is present in a number of variants as is observed in the human population with respect
to the human VH1-    2 gene segment. In one embodiment, the human VH1-            2 gene segment is
selected from Table 3. In one embodiment, the human VH1-2 gene segment is present in a
number of variants as shown, for each VH1-2 gene segment, in a number of alleles from one
allele to the number of alleles shown in Table 3.
[00027]      In one aspect, a heavy chain immunoglobulin locus is provided that comprises a
single functional human V segment. In one embodiment, the single functional human V
segment is selected from a VH1- 2 , VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18, VH1-      2 4 , VH1-45,
                                                                                   VH1-46, VH1-58, VH1
69, VH2-5, VH2-26, VH2 -70, VH3 -7, VH3 -9, VH3 -11, VH3-13, VH3-15, VH3-16, VH3- 2 0, VH3- 2 1,
VH3- 2 3, VH3- 3 0, VH3-30-3, VH3-30-5, VH3-33, VH3-35, VH3-38, VH3-43, VH3-48, VH3-49, VH3-53,
VH3-64, VH3- 6 6 , VH3-7 2 , VH3-73, VH3-74, VH4- 4 , VH4 -2 8, VH4-30-1, VH4-30-2, VH4-30-4, VH4
31, VH4-34, VH4 -39, VH4-59, VH4-61, VH5-51, VH6-1, VH7-4-1, and a VH7-81 segment. In one
embodiment, the single functional human V segment is a VH1-69 segment; in a specific
embodiment, the single functional human V segment is present in 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, or 13 polymorphic forms found in the human population. In one embodiment, the single
functional human V segment is a VH1-2 segment; in a specific embodiment, the single
functional human V segment is present in 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 polymorphic forms found in the human
population.
[00028]      In one embodiment, the heavy chain immunoglobulin locus is a modified locus of a
non-human animal. In one embodiment, the modified non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain
locus is present in the non-human animal at a position in the genome in which the
                                                   6

corresponding unmodified non-human locus is found in the wild-type non-human animal. In
one embodiment, the modified non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain locus is present on a
transgene in a non-human animal.
[00029]      In one embodiment, the single functional human V gene segment is a VH1-69 gene
segment. In one embodiment, the VH1-69 gene segment comprises SEQ ID NO: 34. In one
embodiment, the VH1-   69  gene segment is derived from SEQ ID NO: 34. In one embodiment,
the VH1-6  9 gene segment is at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or at least
98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 34.
[00030]      In one embodiment, the single functional human V gene segment is encoded by the
nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 34.
[00031]      In one embodiment, the single functional human V gene segment is a VHl- 2 gene
segment. In one embodiment, the VH1-2 gene segment comprises SEQ ID NO: 60. In one
embodiment, the VH1-2 gene segment is derived from SEQ ID NO: 60. In one embodiment, the
VH1-2 gene segment is at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or at least 98%
identical to SEQ ID NO: 60.
[00032]      In one embodiment, the single functional human V gene segment is encoded by the
nucleotide sequence of SEQ ID NO: 60.
[00033]      In one embodiment, the single functional human V segment is operably linked to
one or more D segments and one or more J segments, or one or more J segments. In one
embodiment, the V segment and one or more D and/or J segments are operably linked to an
immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region sequence. In one embodiment the
immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region sequence is selected from a CH1 , a hinge, a CH2      ,
     3                                                                    1                 3
a CH sequence, and a combination thereof. In one embodiment, the CH , hinge,        CH
                                                                                      2
                                                                                        , OH , or
combination thereof are each non-human endogenous constant sequences. In one
embodiment, at least one of the CHI, hinge, OH2 , OH3 , or combination thereof is a human
sequence. In a specific embodiment, the CH1 and/or hinge are human sequences.
[00034]      In one aspect, a modified endogenous non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain
locus is provided, comprising a replacement of all functional V gene segments with a single
human V gene segment (or a single human V gene segment present in multiple polymorphic
forms or copy number), wherein the non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain locus is incapable
of rearrangement to form a heavy chain variable gene that is derived from a V gene segment
other than the single human V gene segment (or one of the polymorphic forms or copies).
[00035]      In one embodiment, the single human V gene segment is VH1-69. In one
embodiment, the single human V gene segment is VH1- 2 .
[00036]      In one embodiment, the locus comprises at least one human or non-human DH gene
segment, and one human or non-human       JH gene segment. In a specific embodiment, the locus
comprises a human DH gene segment and a human         JH gene segment. In a specific
                                                 7

embodiment, the locus comprises a human                    JH  gene segment. In another specific embodiment,
the locus comprises a human VH1-              69   gene segment (present as a single copy or multiple
copies of different polymorphic variants), all functional human                     DH  gene segments, and all
functional human         JH gene segments. In another specific embodiment, the locus comprises a
human VH1-      2 gene segment (present as a single copy or multiple copies of different
polymorphic forms), all functional human                DH  gene segments, and all functional human              JH gene
segments. In one embodiment, the human V, D, and J gene segments (or V and J gene
segments) are operably linked to a mouse constant region gene at an endogenous mouse
heavy chain locus. In a specific embodiment, the mouse heavy chain locus comprises a wild
type repertoire of mouse immunoglobulin constant region sequences.
[00037]        In one aspect, a genetically modified non-human animal is provided, wherein the
only functional immunoglobulin heavy chain V gene segment of the non-human animal is
selected from a human VH1-            2 , VH1- 3 ,                  8 , VH1- 2 4,                4 6 , VH1-58,
                                                   VH1-8,   VH1-1                  VH1-45, VH1-                  VH1-69,
VH2 -5, VH2 - 2 6 , VH2 - 7 0, VH3 -7, VH3 - 9 , VH3-1 1, VH3-l3, VH3-15, VH3-16,            VH3 - 2 0,  VH3-2l, VH3-23,
VH3 - 3 0, VH3 - 3 0- 3 , VH3 - 3 0-5, VH3 -3 3 , VH3 - 3 5 , VH3 - 3 8 , VH3 -4 3 , VH3-48, VH3 - 4 9 , VH3 -53, VH3-64,
VH3 - 6 6 , VH3 -72 , VH3 -7 3 , VH3 -74, VH4-4, VH4- 2 8 , VH4 - 3 0-1, VH4- 3 0-2, VH4- 3 0-4, VH4-31, VH4
34, VH4 - 3 9 , VH4 - 5 9 , VH4 - 6 1, VH5-51, VH6 -1, VH7-4-1, and VH7-81 gene segment. In one
embodiment, the heavy chain V gene segment is a human VHi- 6 9 gene segment. In one
                                                                                      2
embodiment, the heavy chain V gene segment is a human VH1-                              gene segment.
[00038]        In one aspect, a genetically modified non-human animal is provided, wherein the
non-human animal comprises a single functional human VH gene segment (present as a single
copy or multiple copies of different polymorphic forms), and wherein the non-human animal is
substantially incapable of forming a rearranged immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domain
gene that lacks the single functional human VH gene segment (or one of the polymorphic forms
or copies).
[00039]        In one aspect, a genetically modified non-human animal is provided, wherein the
only immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region expressed in the non-human animal is
derived from one of a human segment selected from a human VH1- 2 , VH1-3, VH1-8, VH1-18,
VH1-  2 4 , VH1-4 5 , VH1- 4 6 , VH1-58,    VH1-   6 9 , VH2 -5,  VH2 - 2 6 , VH2 -70, VH3-7, VH3 -9, VH3-11, VH3 -l 3 ,
VH3-15, VH3 -16 , VH3 - 2 0, VH3-21, VH3 - 23 , VH3 - 3 0, VH3 - 3 0- 3 , VH3 - 3 0-5, VH3 - 33 , VH3-35, VH3-38,
VH3 - 4 3 , VH3-4 8 , VH3 -49 , VH3-5 3 , VH3 - 6 4, VH3 - 6 6 , VH3 -72 , VH3 -73 , VH3 -74 , VH4-4, VH4 - 2 8 , VH4
30-1, VH4-30- 2 , VH4- 3 0- 4 , VH4-3l, VH4- 3 4, VH4- 3 9 , VH4-5 9 , VH4- 6 1, VH5-51, VH6-1, VH7-4-l,
and VH7-81 gene segment. In one embodiment, the human segment is a VH1-69 segment. In
one embodiment, the human segment is a VH1-                     2  segment. In one embodiment, the only
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region expressed by the mouse is derived from a single V
segment family member, and in one embodiment the only immunoglobulin heavy chain variable
 region is derived from a polymorphic variant of the single V segment family member.
                                                                8

[00040]     In one aspect, a non-human animal comprising a restricted immunoglobulin heavy
chain V gene segment repertoire is provided, wherein the non-human animal further comprises
one or more human immunoglobulin K light chain variable segments (Vi). In one embodiment,
the one or more VK segments are operably linked to one or more human J segments. In a
specific embodiment, the J segments are human JK segments. In another specific
embodiment, the non-human animal does not express an immunoglobulin k light chain. In
another specific embodiment, the non-human animal does not comprise a functional human or
functional endogenous immunoglobulin k light chain variable locus.
[00041]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a rodent. In one embodiment, the
rodent is a mouse.
[00042]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement at the
endogenous non-human immunoglobulin VK locus of all or substantially all functional
endogenous VK segments with one or more functional human Vi segments. In a further
specific embodiment, the replacement is with all or substantially all functional human
immunoglobulin VK segments.
[00043]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement at the
endogenous non-human immunoglobulin VK locus of all or substantially all functional
endogenous Vi gene segments with human VK gene segments selected from V4-1, Vx5-2,
VK7-3, VK2-4, VK1-5, VK1-6, VK3-7, VK1-8, VK1-9, VK2-10, VK3-11, VK1-12, VK1-13, VK2-14,
VK3-15, VK1-16, Vx1-17, VK2-18, VK2-19, VK3-20, VK6-21, VK1-22, VK1-23, VK2-24, VK3-25,
VK2-26, VK1-27, VK2-28, VK2-29, VK2-30, VK3-31, VK1-32, VK1-33, VK3-34, VK1-35, VK2-36,
VK1-37, VK2-38, VK1-39, VK2-40, and a combination thereof.
[00044]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement at the
endogenous non-human immunoglobulin JK locus of all or substantially all functional
endogenous non-human immunoglobulin JK segments with one or more functional human
immunoglobulin Jx segments. In a further specific embodiment, the replacement is with all or
substantially all functional human immunoglobulin JK segments.
[00045]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement at the
endogenous non-human immunoglobulin JK locus of all or substantially all functional
endogenous non-human immunoglobulin Jx gene segments with human Jx gene segments
selected from JK1, JK2, JK3, Jx4, JK5, and a combination thereof.
[00046]     In a specific embodiment, the non-human animal comprises an immunoglobulin
heavy chain variable region locus that comprises a repertoire of V segments consisting
essentially of a single V segment and/or polymorphic variants thereof. In one embodiment, the
single immunoglobulin heavy chain V segment is a human VH1-69 segment, and the non
                                               9

human animal further comprises a replacement of all functional non-human        DH  segments with
all functional human   DH  segments, and further comprises a replacement of all functional non
human    JH segments with all functional human  JH  segments, and wherein the immunoglobulin
heavy chain variable region locus is operably linked to a human or non-human constant region
gene sequence. In a specific embodiment, the constant region gene sequence is an
endogenous non-human constant region gene sequence. In a specific embodiment, the non
human animal rearranges segments at the non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain locus to
form a gene encoding heavy chain variable region comprising a human VH1-69 sequence, a
human    DH sequence, a human     JH sequence, and a mouse constant region sequence.
[00047]      In a specific embodiment, the non-human animal comprises an immunoglobulin
heavy chain variable region locus that comprises a repertoire of V segments consisting
essentially of a single V segment and/or polymorphic variants thereof. In one embodiment, the
single immunoglobulin heavy chain V segment is a human VH1-2 segment, and the non-human
animal further comprises a replacement of all functional non-human      DH segments with all
functional human    DH  segments, and further comprises a replacement of all functional non
human    JH segments with all functional human  JH  segments, and wherein the immunoglobulin
heavy chain variable region locus is operably linked to a human or non-human constant region
gene sequence. In a specific embodiment, the constant region gene sequence is an
endogenous non-human constant region gene sequence. In a specific embodiment, the non
human animal rearranges segments at the non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain locus to
form a gene encoding heavy chain variable region comprising a human VH1-2 sequence, a
human    DH  sequence, a human    JH sequence, and a mouse constant region sequence.
[00048]      In one embodiment, a B cell is provided that comprises the rearranged gene. In a
specific embodiment, the B cell is from a mouse as described that has been immunized with an
antigen of interest, and the B cell encodes an antibody that specifically binds the antigen of
interest. In one embodiment, the antigen of interest is a pathogen. In a specific embodiment,
the pathogen is selected from an influenza virus, a hepatitis virus (e.g., hepatitis B or hepatitis
C virus), and a human immunodeficiency virus. In a specific embodiment, the B cell encodes a
somatically mutated, high affinity (e.g., about 10~9 KD or lower) antibody comprising a human
light chain variable region (e.g., a human K light chain variable region) that specifically binds the
antigen of interest.
 [00049]     In one aspect, a non-human animal comprising a restricted immunoglobulin heavy
chain V segment repertoire is provided, wherein the non-human animal comprises one or more
human k light chain variable (V)      segments. In one embodiment, the one or more human VX
segments are operably linked to one or more human J segments. In a specific embodiment,
the J segments are human JX segments. In another specific embodiment, the non-human
                                                 10

animal does not express a     K light chain. In another specific embodiment, the non-human
animal does not comprise a functional human or non-human          K light chain variable locus.
[00050]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement of all or
substantially all functional non-human immunoglobulin VA segments with one or more
functional human immunoglobulin VA segments. In a further specific embodiment, the
replacement is with all or substantially all functional human immunoglobulin VA segments.
[00051]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement of all or
substantially all functional non-human VX segments with a fragment of cluster A of the human k
light chain locus. In a specific embodiment, the fragment of cluster A of the human k light chain
locus comprises human VA gene segments Vk3-27 through V3-1.
[00052]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement of all or
substantially all functional non-human VX segments with a fragment of cluster B of the human k
light chain locus. In a specific embodiment, the fragment of cluster B of the human k light chain
locus comprises human VX gene segments Vk5-52 through Vk1-40.
[00053]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement of all or
substantially all functional non-human VX segments with a fragment of cluster A and a fragment
of cluster B of the human k light chain locus, wherein as a result of the replacement comprise
human VA gene segments Vk5-52 through V3-1.
[00054]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement of all or
substantially all functional non-human VA segments with at least 12 human VX gene segments,
at least 28 human VX gene segments, or at least 40 human VX gene segments.
[00055]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a replacement of all or
substantially all functional non-human immunoglobulin JX gene segments with one or more
functional human immunoglobulin JA gene segments. In a further specific embodiment, the
replacement is with all or substantially all functional human immunoglobulin JX gene segments.
In various embodiments, the functional human JR gene segments include Jk1, JR2, JR3 and
JR7.
[00056]      In a specific embodiment, the non-human animal comprises an immunoglobulin
heavy chain variable    (VH) region locus that comprises only a single VH segment, wherein the
single  VH segment is a human VH1 -69 segment or a human VH1-          2 segment, and further
comprises a replacement of all functional non-human       DH segments with all functional human   DH
segments, and further comprises a replacement of all functional non-human         JH segments with
all functional human    JH segments, and wherein the VH region locus is operably linked to a
human or non-human constant region gene sequence. In a specific embodiment, the constant
region gene sequence is a non-human constant region gene sequence, e.g., an endogenous
                                                   11

non-human constant gene sequence. In a specific embodiment, the non-human animal
rearranges segments at the non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain locus to form a gene
encoding an immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region comprising a human VH1-69
sequence (or a human VH1-2 sequence), a human            DH sequence, a human   JH sequence, and an
endogenous non-human constant region sequence.
[00057]      In one embodiment, a B cell is provided that comprises the rearranged gene. In a
specific embodiment, the B cell is from a non-human animal as described that has been
immunized with an antigen of interest, and the B cell encodes an antibody that specifically
binds the antigen of interest. In one embodiment, the antigen is a human protein selected from
a ligand, a cell surface receptor and an intracellular protein. In one embodiment, the antigen of
interest is a pathogen. In a specific embodiment, the pathogen is selected from an influenza
virus, a hepatitis virus (e.g., hepatitis B or hepatitis C virus), and a human immunodeficiency
virus. In a specific embodiment, the B cell encodes a somatically mutated, high affinity (e.g.,
about 10~9   KD or lower) antibody comprising a human light chain variable region (e.g., a human
X light chain variable region) that specifically binds the antigen of interest.
[00058]      In one aspect, a non-human animal comprising a restricted immunoglobulin       VH
segment repertoire is provided, wherein the non-human animal comprises a human VH1-69
segment (or a human VH1-       2 segment) on a transgene, wherein the human VH1-69 segment is
operably linked on the transgene to a human or non-human           DH segment, and/or a human or
non-human J segment, and the transgene further comprises a human or non-human constant
region gene, or a chimeric human/non-human constant region (e.g., a CH1 , hinge, CH2 , CH3 or
combination thereof wherein at least one sequence is non-human, e.g., selected from hinge,
CH2 , and CH3 and/or hinge). In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a mouse or rat and
the non-human D, J, and/or constant region gene is a mouse or rat gene or chimeric
human/mouse or rat.
[00059]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a transgene that comprises
an immunoglobulin light chain variable region locus that comprises one or more human
immunoglobulin VX gene segments and JX gene segments, or one or more human
immunoglobulin VK gene segments and JK gene segments, and a human immunoglobulin              K  or
X light chain constant region gene, such that the transgene rearranges in the non-human
animal to form a rearranged immunoglobulin K or X light chain gene. In various embodiments,
the human VK and JK gene segments are those described herein. In various embodiments, the
human VX and JX gene segments are those described herein.
[00060]      In a specific embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a transgene having an
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable locus that comprises a single V segment that is a human
       9                              2  segment), one or more human D segments, one or more
VH1-6    segment (or a human VH1-
                                                   12

human J segments, and a human constant gene operably linked to the heavy chain variable
locus, such that the mouse expresses from the transgene a fully human antibody derived from
the VH1- 69  segment (or the VH1-2 segment). In one embodiment, the non-human animal does
not comprise a functional endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region locus. In a
specific embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a nonfunctional endogenous
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region locus that comprises a deletion of an endogenous
non-human     DH and/or endogenous non-human      JH segment, such that the non-human animal is
incapable of rearranging the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region locus to
form a rearranged non-human antibody gene. In a specific embodiment, the non-human
animal comprises a deletion of a switch sequence operably linked to an endogenous mouse
heavy chain constant region. In a specific embodiment, the switch sequence is a non-human
(e.g., mouse) t switch sequence. In another embodiment, the non-human animal further
comprises a lack of a functional endogenous light chain variable locus selected from an
immunoglobulin K locus and an immunoglobulin k locus. In a specific embodiment, the non
human animal comprises a deletion of a JK and/or a JX sequence, such that the non-human
animal is incapable of rearranging an endogenous non-human immunoglobulin K light chain
and/or an endogenous non-human immunoglobulin k light chain variable region to form a
rearranged endogenous non-human immunoglobulin K light chain and/or a rearranged
endogenous non-human immunoglobulin k light chain gene.
[00061]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises a deletion of an endogenous
non-human immunoglobulin K light chain sequence that results in a functional knockout of the
endogenous non-human immunoglobulin K light chain. In one embodiment, the non-human
animal comprises a deletion of an endogenous non-human immunoglobulin k light chain
sequence that results in a functional knockout of the endogenous non-human immunoglobulin k
light chain.
[00062]      In one aspect, the non-human animal comprises a functionally silenced endogenous
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene locus, and comprises a restricted repertoire of
human heavy chain variable gene segments (e.g., no more than one, or no more than two). In
one embodiment, the functional silencing comprises a modification of an endogenous non
human heavy chain variable gene locus selected from a deletion, an insertion, an inversion,
and a combination thereof.
[00063]      In one aspect, a rodent is provided that comprises an immunoglobulin VH repertoire
derived from no more than one human       VH segment or one or more polymorphs thereof, from a
D segment selected from a repertoire of one or more D segments, and from a J segment
derived from a repertoire of one or more J segments. In one embodiment, the rodent
rearranges the human     VH segment, a human D segment, and a human J segment and forms a
                                                  13

rearranged human heavy chain sequence that is operably linked to a human or a rodent
constant region sequence. In one embodiment, the human and/or rodent constant region
sequence is selected from a CH1 , a hinge, a CH2 , a   CH 3 , and a combination thereof. In one
embodiment, the rodent expresses an immunoglobulin light chain that comprises a human
variable domain, wherein the light chain is cognate with a human heavy chain domain derived
from the rearranged human heavy chain sequence. In one embodiment, the rodent does not
express a polypeptide sequence selected from a non-human heavy chain variable domain, a
non-human light chain variable domain, and a combination thereof.
[00064]     In one embodiment, the human      VH  segment is present in 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, or 19 or more polymorphic variants, wherein each polymorphic
variant is operably linked to a D and/or J segment such that each polymorphic variant is
capable for rearranging and forming a rearranged heavy chain variable domain with any of the
one or more D segments and any of the one or more J segments. In one embodiment, the
rodent is a mouse or a rat, In one embodiment, the repertoire of D segments comprises two or
more D segments. In one embodiment, the repertoire of J segments comprises two or more J
segments. In one embodiment, the D and/or J segments are human segments.
[00065]     In one aspect, a nucleic acid construct is provided that comprises a sequence
encoding a single human immunoglobulin       VH  segment and/or polymorphic variants thereof and
one or more DH and one or more J sequences, wherein the construct comprises at least one
homology arm homologous to a non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable locus, or a
recombinase recognition site (e.g., a lox site). In one embodiment, the V segment is a VH1-69
segment or a VH1-2 segment.
[00066]     In one aspect, a nucleic acid construct is provided; comprising a nucleic acid
sequence encoding a single human immunoglobulin heavy chain V segment, wherein the
single VH segment is a VH1-69 (or VH1-2) segment. In one embodiment, the construct
comprises a site-specific recombinase recognition site. In one embodiment, the construct
comprises a first mouse homology arm upstream of the VH1-69 (or VH1-2) segment and a
second mouse homology arm downstream of the VH1-69 (or VH1-2) segment, and wherein the
first mouse homology arm is homologous to a region of a mouse chromosome immediately
upstream of a mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region but not including a functional
mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain variable segment. In one embodiment, the construct
comprises SEQ ID NO: 3. In one embodiment, the construct comprises SEQ ID NO: 70.
[00067]     In one aspect, the restricted single  VH segment is in a non-human animal, or the
restricted VH  segment is at a non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (e.g., in situ or in a
transgene), and the non-human animal or non-human immunoglobulin heavy chain locus is
selected from a mouse, rat, rabbit, pig, bovine (e.g., cow, bull, buffalo), deer, sheep, goat,
                                                   14

chicken, cat, dog, ferret, primate (e.g., marmoset, rhesus monkey) locus or animal. In a
specific embodiment, the non-human animal or locus is a mouse or a rat locus.
[00068]      In one aspect, a cell or tissue is provided, wherein the cell or tissue is derived from a
non-human animal as described herein, and comprises a restricted        VH  segment repertoire. In
one embodiment, the     VH segment repertoire is restricted to a single  VH segment family member
and/or polymorphic variants thereof. In a specific embodiment, the single        VH segment is a
human VH1-69 segment or a human VH1-2 segment. In one embodiment, the cell or tissue is
derived from spleen, lymph node or bone marrow of the non-human animal.
[00069]      In one embodiment, the cell is an ES cell. In one embodiment, the cell is a B cell.
In one embodiment, the cell is a germ cell.
[00070]      In one embodiment, the tissue is selected from connective, muscle, nervous and
epithelial tissue. In a specific embodiment, the tissue is reproductive tissue.
[00071]      In one embodiment, the cell and/or tissue derived from a mouse as described herein
are isolated for use in one or more ex vivo assays. In various embodiments, the one or more
ex vivo assays include measurements of physical, thermal, electrical, mechanical or optical
properties, a surgical procedure, measurements of interactions of different tissue types, the
development of imaging techniques, or a combination thereof.
[00072]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a mouse.
[00073]      In one aspect, a non-human embryo is provided comprising a restricted heavy chain
VH  segments as described herein. In one embodiment, the embryo comprises an ES donor cell
that comprises the restricted   VH  segment, and host embryo cells.
[00074]      In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a mouse.
[00075]      In one aspect, a non-human cell comprising a chromosome or fragment thereof of a
non-human animal as described herein. In one embodiment, the non-human cell comprises a
nucleus of a non-human animal as described herein. In one embodiment, the non-human cell
comprises the chromosome or fragment thereof as the result of a nuclear transfer.
[00076]      In one aspect, a nucleus derived from a non-human animal as described herein is
provided. In one embodiment, the nucleus is from a diploid cell that is not a B cell.
[00077]      In one aspect, a pluripotent, induced pluripotent, or totipotent cell derived from a
non-human animal as described herein is provided. In a specific embodiment, the cell is a
mouse embryonic stem (ES) cell.
[00078]       In one aspect, a non-human induced pluripotent cell comprising a restricted     VH
segment repertoire is provided. In one embodiment, the induced pluripotent cell is derived from
a non-human animal as described herein.
[00079]       In one aspect, a hybridoma or quadroma is provided, derived from a cell of a non
human animal as described herein. In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a mouse or
rat.
                                                   15

[00080]     In one aspect, a lymphocyte of a non-human animal as described herein is provided.
In one embodiment, the lymphocyte is a B cell.
[00081]     In one aspect, mouse cells and mouse embryos are provided, including but not
limited to ES cells, pluripotent cells, and induced pluripotent cells, that comprise genetic
modifications as described herein. Cells that are XX and cells that are XY are provided. Cells
that comprise a nucleus containing a modification as described herein are also provided, e.g., a
modification introduced into a cell by pronuclear injection.
[00082]     In one aspect, an antibody variable domain sequence made in a non-human animal
as described herein is provided.
[00083]     In one aspect, a human therapeutic is provided, comprising an antibody variable
domain comprising a sequence derived from a non-human animal as described herein.
[00084]     In one aspect, a method of obtaining an antibody variable region sequence from a
non-human animal is provided, wherein the antibody variable region sequence is derived from
a human VH1-69 segment or a VH1-2 segment, wherein the method comprises (a) immunizing a
non-human animal with an antigen of interest, wherein the non-human animal comprises a
replacement at the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus of all or substantially all
non-human variable segments with a single human variable segment, wherein the single
human variable segment is a VH1-69 segment or a VHi-2 segment, and wherein the non-human
animal is substantially incapable of forming a immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region
sequence that is not derived from a human VH1-69 segment or a VH1-2 segment; (b) allowing
the non-human animal to mount an immune response with respect to the antigen of interest;
and, (c) identifying or isolating an immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region sequence of the
non-human animal, wherein the antibody binds the antigen of interest.
[00085]     In one embodiment, the single human variable segment is a VH1-69 segment.
[00086]     In one embodiment, the antibody variable region sequence is derived from SEQ ID
NO: 34. In one embodiment, the antibody variable region sequence is at least 75%, at least
80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 34. In
one embodiment, the antibody variable region sequence comprises SEQ ID NO: 34.
[00087]     In one embodiment, the single human variable segment is a VHl-2 segment.
[00088]     In one embodiment, the antibody variable region sequence is derived from SEQ ID
NO: 60. In one embodiment, the antibody variable region sequence is at least 75%, at least
80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or at least 98% identical to SEQ ID NO: 60. In
one embodiment, the antibody variable region sequence comprises SEQ ID NO: 60.
[00089]     In one embodiment, the immune response to the antigen is characterized by an
antibody titer that is about 6x1 04 to about 5x1 0' times greater than two times background as
determined in an ELISA assay. In a specific embodiment, the antibody titer is about 1x105 to
about 2x10 5 times greater than two times background as determined in an ELISA assay. In a
                                                   16

specific embodiment, the antibody titer is about 1.5x1 05 times greater than two times
background as determined in an ELISA assay. In one embodiment, the antigen is a human cell
surface receptor.
[00090]      In one aspect, a method for generating a repertoire of human antibody variable
regions in a non-human animal is provided, wherein the human heavy chain variable regions of
the repertoire are derived from the same VH gene family member and one of a plurality of DH
segments and one of a plurality of    JH segments, wherein the repertoire is characterized by
having heavy chain immunoglobulin FR1 (framework 1), CDR1, FR2, CDR2, and FR3
sequences from a single VH gene family member. In one embodiment, the repertoire is further
characterized by having a plurality of different CDR3 + FR4 sequences.
[00091]      In one embodiment, the single VH gene family is selected from VH family 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, and 7. In a specific embodiment, the single VH gene family is VH family 1. In one
embodiment, the single VH gene family member is selected from VH1-2, VH1- 6 9, VH2-26, VH2
70, and VH3 - 2 3 . In a specific embodiment, the single VH gene family member is VH1-69. In a
specific embodiment, the single VH gene family member is VH1-2.
[00092]      In one embodiment, the repertoire comprises heavy chain FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2
and FR3 sequences derived from a VH1- 6 9 segment. In a specific embodiment, the repertoire
comprises heavy chain FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2 and FR3 sequences derived from SEQ ID NO:
35. In a specific embodiment, the repertoire comprises heavy chain FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2
and FR3 sequences of SEQ ID NO: 35.
[00093]      In one embodiment, the repertoire comprises heavy chain FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2
and FR3 sequences derived from a VH1-        2 segment. In a specific embodiment, the repertoire
comprises heavy chain FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2 and FR3 sequences derived from SEQ ID NO:
61. In a specific embodiment, the repertoire comprises heavy chain FR1, CDR1, FR2, CDR2
and FR3 sequences of SEQ ID NO: 61.
[00094]      In one aspect, a biological (i.e., in vivo) system is provided for generating a plurality
of different human CDR3 sequences reflecting a plurality of rearrangements of a single human
VH gene segment with a plurality of human D and J segments, wherein the system generates
human heavy chain variable domains characterized by having human FR1-CDR1-FR2-CDR2
FR3 sequences that are identical but for somatic hypermutations, wherein the heavy chain
variable domains are characterized by being somatically hypermutated and derived from a
single human VH gene segment and a plurality of human D and J segments; wherein the
system comprises a genetically modified non-human animal (e.g., a rodent, e.g., a mouse or
rat) as described herein.
 [00095]     In one embodiment, the single human VH gene segment is selected from VH1-2,
VH1-69, VH2-2 6 , VH2-70, and VH3-23. In one embodiment, the single human VH gene segment
is VH1-69. In one embodiment, the single human VH gene segment is VH1-2. In one
                                                    17

embodiment, the single human     VH  gene segment is identified in Table 1. In one embodiment,
the single human    VH gene segment is identified in Table 2. In one embodiment, the single
human    VH gene segment is identified in Table 3.
[00096]     In one aspect, an in vivo method for generating a plurality of heavy chain CDR
sequences derived from rearrangements of a single human       VH  gene segment with a plurality of
human D and J segments is provided, wherein the method generates human heavy chain
variable domains characterized by having human FR1-CDR1-FR2-CDR2-FR3 sequences that
are identical but for somatic hypermutations, wherein the heavy chain variable domains are
characterized by being somatically hypermutated and derived from a single human        VH gene
segment and a plurality of human D and J segments; wherein the system comprises a
genetically modified non-human animal (e.g., a rodent, e.g., a mouse or rat) as described
herein.
[00097]     In one embodiment, the method comprises exposing a non-human animal as
described herein to an antigen of interest, allowing the non-human animal to develop an
immune response to the antigen, wherein the immune response generates the plurality of
heavy chain CDR sequences derived from rearrangements of the single human           VH gene
segment with one of the human D and one of the human J segments, and identifying a set of
heavy chain CDRs that bind the antigen. In one embodiment, the method comprises isolating
from the animal a nucleic acid sequence that encodes a human       VH   domain that comprises the
heavy chain CDRs.
[00098]      In one embodiment, the heavy chain CDR sequences are derived from a
rearrangement of a human VH1-     69  gene segment. In one embodiment, the heavy chain CDR
sequences are derived from a rearrangement of a human VHI-2 gene segment.
[00099]      In one aspect, a method for generating a plurality of different CDR3 and FR4
sequences in a non-human animal is provided, comprising exposing a non-human animal that
comprises an immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene locus with a VH segment repertoire
restricted to a single VH segment family member to an antigen of interest, allowing the non
human animal to develop an immune response to the antigen, wherein the immune response
generates a B cell repertoire whose heavy chain variable domains are each derived from the
single VH segment family member and that comprise a plurality of different CDR3 and FR4
sequences.
[000100]     In one embodiment, the singe   VH segment family member is human. In one
embodiment, the non-human animal is selected from a mouse, a rat, and a rabbit. In one
embodiment, the antigen of interest is selected from a ligand, a receptor, an intracellular protein
and a secreted protein. In one embodiment, the antigen of interest is a human pathogen as
described herein.
                                                 18

[000101]      In one embodiment, the single human VH gene family member is selected from VH1
2, VH1-6  9 , VH2- 2 6, VH2-70, and VH3-23. In one embodiment, the single human VH gene family
member is VH1-69. In one embodiment, the single human VH gene family member is VH1-2. In
one embodiment, the single human VH gene family member is identified in Table 1. In one
embodiment, the single human VH gene family member is identified in Table 2. In one
embodiment, the single human VH gene family member is identified in Table 3.
[000102]      In one aspect, a nucleotide sequence encoding an immunoglobulin variable region
made in a non-human animal as described herein is provided.
[000103]      In one aspect, an immunoglobulin heavy chain or immunoglobulin light chain
variable region amino acid sequence of an antibody made in a non-human animal as described
herein is provided.
[000104]      In one aspect, an immunoglobulin heavy chain or immunoglobulin light chain
variable region nucleotide sequence encoding a variable region of an antibody made in a non
human as described herein is provided.
[000105]      In one aspect, an antibody or antigen-binding fragment thereof (e.g., Fab, F(ab) 2 ,
scFv) made in a non-human animal as described herein is provided.
[000106]      In one aspect, a mouse having a restricted immunoglobulin heavy chain locus
characterized by the presence of a single human VH gene segment, one or more human DH
gene segments, and one or more human         JH gene segments is provided, wherein the single
human    VH   gene segment is at an endogenous mouse locus and the VH gene segment is
operably linked to the one or more human DH gene segments, the one or more human          JH gene
segments, and to an endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain constant gene.
[000107]      In one embodiment, the mouse further comprises a humanized immunoglobulin light
chain locus comprising one or more human VL gene segments, and one or more human JL
gene segments, wherein the human VL gene segments and the human JL gene segments are
operably linked to a non-human immunoglobulin light chain constant region gene. In a specific
embodiment, the human VL and JL gene segments are at an endogenous mouse light chain
locus, and wherein the non-human immunoglobulin light chain constant region gene is a mouse
gene.
[000108] In one embodiment, the humanized immunoglobulin light chain locus is on a
transgene, and the constant region gene is selected from mouse, rat, and human.
[000109]      In one embodiment, the human VL and JL gene segments are V and        JK gene
segments. In one embodiment, the human VL and JL gene segments are VX and JX gene
segments
[000110]      In one aspect, a non-human animal is provided, wherein the non-human animal has
a B cell repertoire that expresses immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domains derived from a
                                                  19

single V segment family member. In one embodiment, at least 10%, at least 20%, at least
30%, at least 40%, at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90, or at
least 95% of the B cell repertoire of the non-human animal immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable domain expressed in the B cell repertoire is derived from the same V segment family
member. In a specific embodiment, the percentage is at least 90%. In one embodiment, the B
cell repertoire consists essentially of peripheral (blood) B cells. In one embodiment, the B cell
repertoire consists essentially of splenic B cells. In one embodiment, the B cell repertoire
consists essentially of bone marrow B cells. In one embodiment, the B cell repertoire consists
essentially of peripheral B cells, splenic B cells, and bone marrow B cells.
[000111]     In one aspect, a genetically modified non-human animal is provided, wherein more
than 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, or more than 90% of the B cells of the non
human animal that express a heavy chain immunoglobulin variable domain express a heavy
chain immunoglobulin variable domain derived from a single VH gene segment family member.
In one embodiment, at least 75% of the B cells of the non-human animal that express an
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domain express an immunoglobulin heavy chain variable
domain derived from the single    VH  gene segment family member. In a specific embodiment,
the percentage is at least 90%. In one embodiment, all of the B cells that express a heavy
chain domain that is derived from the single VH gene family member.
[000112]     In one aspect, a genetically modified mouse is provided that makes an antigen
specific B cell population in response to immunization with an antigen of interest, wherein at
least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, or more than 90%, of said antigen-specific
B cell population expresses immunoglobulin heavy chains that are all derived from the same       VH
gene segment. In one embodiment, at least 75% of the antigen-specific B cell population
expresses immunoglobulin heavy chains derived from the same          VH gene segment. In one
embodiment, all of the antigen-specific B cells express a heavy chain that is derived from the
same   VH  gene segment.
[000113]     In one aspect, a non-human animal comprising a restricted     VH gene segment
repertoire is provided, wherein the restriction is to a human VH1-69 gene segment or a VH1-6    9
gene segment that is at least about 75.5%, 76.5%, 86.7%, 87.8%, 94.9%, 96.9%, 98%, or 99%
identical to a VH1-6  9 *01 gene segment. In a specific embodiment, the restricted repertoire is
selected from one or more of the VH1 -69 variants of FIG. 15.
[000114]     In one aspect, a non-human animal comprising a restricted     VH gene segment
repertoire is provided, wherein the restriction is to a human VH1-2 gene segment or a VH1-2
gene segment that is at least about 94.9%, 95.9%, 96.9%, 98%, or 99% identical to a VH1-2
gene segment. In a specific embodiment, the restricted repertoire is selected from one or more
of the VH1- 2  variants of FIG. 18.
 [000115]    In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a mouse.
                                                  20

[000116]     In one embodiment, the mouse exhibits an immunophenotype having a
characteristic of a higher ratio of mature B cells to immature B cells as compared to a wild type
mouse. In a specific embodiment, the ratio is calculated from B cells harvested from spleen. In
one embodiment, the mouse exhibits a population of mature B cells of about 1x10 7. In one
embodiment, the mouse exhibits a population of immature B cells of about 0.5x1 07. In one
embodiment, the mouse exhibits a ratio of mature B cells to immature B cells in the spleen of
the mouse that is about 1.5-fold to about 2-fold higher than exhibited by a wild type mouse.
[000117]     In one embodiment, the ratio is calculated from B cells harvested from bone marrow.
In a specific embodiment, the mouse exhibits a population of mature B cells of about 3x1 05. In
one embodiment, the mouse exhibits a population of immature B cells of about 7x1 05. In one
embodiment, the mouse exhibits a ratio of mature B cells to immature B cells in the bone
marrow of the mouse that is about 3-fold, or about 3.3-fold higher than exhibited by a wild type
mouse.
[000118]     In one embodiment, the mouse exhibits an immunophenotype having a
characteristic of a higher number of pro B cells in the bone marrow as compared to a wild type
mouse. In a specific embodiment, the mouse exhibits a population of pro B cells in the bone
marrow of the mouse that is about 2.5-fold to about 3-fold higher than exhibited in the bone
marrow of a wild type mouse. In a specific embodiment, the mouse exhibits a population of pro
B cells in the bone marrow of the mouse that is about 2.75-fold higher than exhibited in the
bone marrow of a wild type mouse.
[000119]     In one embodiment, the mouse exhibits an immunophenotype having a
characteristic selected from the group consisting of a CD1 9' splenic B cell population that is
about 80% of a wild-type B cell, a CD3* splenic T cell population that is about the same as a
wild type mouse, and a combination thereof.
[000120]     In one embodiment, the mouse comprises a lymphocyte population whose % CD19*
B cells in spleen are about the same as a wild-type mouse. In one embodiment, the number of
CD1 9* B cells per spleen of the mouse is at least about 50% of the number of CD1 9* B cells
per spleen of a wild-type mouse.
[000121]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal comprises at least about 75% to about
80% of CD1 9' B cells in bone marrow as compared with a wild-type mouse.
[000122]     In one embodiment, the total number of CD19* bone cells per femur of the mouse is
non less than about 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, or 75% of the total number of CD1 9+ bone marrow
cells in a wild-type mouse.
[000123]     In one embodiment, the mouse expresses IgD and IgM at about the same level as
observed in a wild-type mouse.
[000124]     In one aspect, a mouse comprising a restricted human VH segment repertoire is
provided, further comprising a humanized immunoglobulin light chain variable segment locus,
                                                  21

wherein the ratio of X to K light chains expressed in the mouse is about the same as in a wild
type mouse.
[000125]    In one aspect, a mouse is provided, comprising a restricted immunoglobulin heavy
chain locus characterized by the presence of a single VH gene segment, one or more DH gene
segments, and one or more      JH gene segments, wherein the single VH gene segment is a
polymorphic VH gene segment.
[000126]    In one embodiment, the polymorphic VH gene segment is a human VH gene
segment that is associated with a high copy number in human populations. In one
embodiment, the human VH gene segment is selected from VH1-2, VH1-69, VH2-26, VH2 -70,
VH3-23, or a polymorphic variant thereof. In a specific embodiment, the human VH gene
segment is a VH1-69 gene segment. In another specific embodiment, the human VH gene
segment is a VH1-2 gene segment.
[000127]    In one embodiment, the single VH gene segment is operably linked to a human,
mouse, or chimeric human/mouse immunoglobulin constant region gene. In a specific
embodiment, the immunoglobulin constant region gene is a mouse constant region gene. In
one embodiment, the immunoglobulin constant gene comprises a human sequence selected
from a human CH1, a human hinge, a human CH2, a human CH3 , and a combination thereof. In
one embodiment, the mouse constant gene is at an endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain
locus.
[000128]    In one embodiment, the mouse further comprises a human immunoglobulin VL gene
segment operably linked to a J gene segment and a light chain constant gene. In a specific
embodiment, the VL gene segment and/or the J gene segment are selected from a human K
gene segment and a human X gene segment. In one embodiment, the VL and/or J gene
segments are human K gene segments.
[000129]    In various embodiments, the mouse comprises a deletion of all or substantially all
endogenous VH gene segments.
[000130]    In various embodiments, the non-human animal comprises an inactivated
endogenous heavy chain variable gene locus. In various embodiments, the inactivated
endogenous heavy chain variable gene locus is not operably linked to an endogenous heavy
chain constant region gene.
[000131]    In one aspect, a mouse is provided, wherein the mouse is characterized by the
expression of serum immunoglobulin, wherein greater than 80% of the serum immunoglobulin
comprises a human heavy chain variable domain and a cognate human light chain variable
domain, wherein the human heavy chain variable domain is derived from a VH gene segment
repertoire consisting essentially of a single human VH gene segment and/or polymorphic
variants thereof.
                                                 22

[000132]     In one embodiment, the single human VH gene segment is a human VH1-69 gene
segment and/or polymorphic variants thereof. In one embodiment, the single human VH gene
segment is a human VH1- 2 gene segment and/or polymorphic variants thereof.
[000133]     In one aspect, a mouse is provided, comprising, in its germline, a replacement at an
endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus of all or substantially all endogenous VH gene
segments with a single human VH gene segment and/or polymorphic variants thereof. In one
embodiment, the single human VH gene segment is a human VHi-69 gene segment and/or
polymorphic variants thereof. In one embodiment, the single human      VH  gene segment is a
human VH1-    2 gene segment and/or polymorphic variants thereof.
[000134]     In one embodiment, the mouse further comprises a replacement at an endogenous
immunoglobulin light chain locus of all or substantially all endogenous VL gene segments with
one or more human VL gene segments. In a specific embodiment, the mouse further comprises
one or more human JL gene segments operably linked to the human VL gene segments.
[000135]     In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to make an immunoglobulin
variable region nucleotide sequence is provided. In one embodiment, the sequence comprises
a rearranged VH1-   69 gene segment. In one embodiment, the sequence comprises a
rearranged VH1- 2 gene segment.
[000136]     In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin variable region nucleotide sequence is at
least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or at least 98% identical with a human VH1
69 gene segment. In a specific embodiment, the immunoglobulin variable region nucleotide
sequence is at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or at least 98% identical
with SEQ ID NO: 34. In various embodiments, the human VH1- 6 9 gene segment is identified
from Table 2.
[000137]     In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin variable region nucleotide sequence
encodes an amino acid sequence that is at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%,
or at least 98% identical with SEQ ID NO: 35.
[000138]     In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin variable region nucleotide sequence is at
least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or at least 98% identical with a human VH1
2 gene segment. In a specific embodiment, the immunoglobulin variable region nucleotide
sequence is at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%, or at least 98% identical
with SEQ ID NO: 60. In various embodiments, the human VH1-2 gene segment is identified
from Table 3.
[000139]     In one embodiment, the immunoglobulin variable region nucleotide sequence
encodes an amino acid sequence that is at least 80%, at least 85%, at least 90%, at least 95%,
or at least 98% identical with SEQ ID NO: 61.
[000140]     In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to make a fully human Fab or a
fully human F(ab) 2 is provided. In one embodiment, the fully human Fab or fully human F(ab)2
                                                23

comprises a heavy chain variable region that comprises a rearranged human VH1-69 gene
segment. In one embodiment, the fully human Fab or fully human F(ab)2 comprises a heavy
chain variable region that comprises a rearranged human VHl- 2 gene segment.
[000141]    In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to make an immortalized cell line
is provided.
[000142]    In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to make a hybridoma or
quadroma is provided.
[000143]    In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to make a phage library
containing human heavy chain variable regions and human light chain variable regions is
provided.
[000144]    In one embodiment, the human heavy chain variable regions are derived from a
human VH1-69 gene segment that comprises a sequence selected from SEQ ID NO: 34, SEQ
ID NO: 36, SEQ ID NO: 38, SEQ ID NO: 40, SEQ ID NO: 42, SEQ ID NO: 44, SEQ ID NO: 46,
SEQ ID NO: 48, SEQ ID NO: 50, SEQ ID NO: 52, SEQ ID NO: 54, SEQ ID NO: 56 and SEQ ID
NO: 58.
[000145]    In one embodiment, the human heavy chain variable regions are derived from a
human VH1-69 gene segment that comprises a sequence selected from SEQ ID NO: 35, SEQ
ID NO: 37, SEQ ID NO: 39, SEQ ID NO: 41, SEQ ID NO: 43, SEQ ID NO: 45, SEQ ID NO: 47,
SEQ ID NO: 49, SEQ ID NO: 51, SEQ ID NO: 53, SEQ ID NO: 55, SEQ ID NO: 57 and SEQ ID
NO: 59.
[000146]    In one embodiment, the human heavy chain variable regions are all derived from a
human VH1-   2 gene segment that comprises a sequence selected from SEQ ID NO: 60, SEQ ID
NO: 62, SEQ ID NO: 64, SEQ ID NO: 66 and SEQ ID NO: 68.
[000147]    In one embodiment, the human heavy chain variable regions are derived from a
human VH1-2 gene segment that comprises a sequence selected from SEQ ID NO: 61, SEQ ID
NO: 63, SEQ ID NO: 65, SEQ ID NO: 67 and SEQ ID NO: 69.
[000148]    In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to generate a variable region
sequence for making a human antibody is provided, comprising (a) immunizing a mouse as
described herein with an antigen of interest, (b) isolating a lymphocyte from the immunized
mouse of (a), (c) exposing the lymphocyte to one or more labeled antibodies, (d) identifying a
lymphocyte that is capable of binding to the antigen of interest, and (e) amplifying one or more
variable region nucleic acid sequence from the lymphocyte thereby generating a variable region
sequence.
[000149]    In one embodiment, the lymphocyte is derived or isolated from the spleen of the
mouse. In one embodiment, the lymphocyte is derived or isolated from a lymph node of the
mouse. In one embodiment, the lymphocyte is derived or isolated from the bone marrow of the
mouse. In one embodiment, the lymphocyte is derived or isolated from the blood of the mouse.
                                                24

[000150] In one embodiment, the labeled antibody is a fluorophore-conjugated antibody. In
one embodiment, the one or more fluorophore-conjugated antibodies are selected from an IgM,
an IgG, and/or a combination thereof.
[000151] In one embodiment, the lymphocyte is a B cell.
[000152] In one embodiment, the one or more variable region nucleic acid sequence
comprises a heavy chain variable region sequence. In one embodiment, the one or more
variable region nucleic acid sequence comprises a light chain variable region sequence. In a
specific embodiment, the light chain variable region sequence is an immunoglobulin           K light
chain variable region sequence. In one embodiment, the one or more variable region nucleic
acid sequence comprises a heavy chain and a         K  light chain variable region sequence.
[000153]      In one embodiment, use of a mouse as described herein to generate a heavy and a
K  light chain variable region sequence for making a human antibody is provided, comprising (a)
immunizing a mouse as described herein with an antigen of interest, (b) isolating the spleen
from the immunized mouse of (a), (c) exposing B lymphocytes from the spleen to one or more
labeled antibodies, (d) identifying a B lymphocyte of (c) that is capable of binding to the antigen
of interest, and (e) amplifying a heavy chain variable region nucleic acid sequence and a K light
chain variable region nucleic acid sequence from the B lymphocyte thereby generating the
heavy chain and K light chain variable region sequences.
[000154]      In one embodiment, use of a mouse as described herein to generate a heavy and a
K  light chain variable region sequence for making a human antibody is provided, comprising (a)
immunizing a mouse as described herein with an antigen of interest, (b) isolating one or more
lymph nodes from the immunized mouse of (a), (c) exposing B lymphocytes from the one or
more lymph nodes to one or more labeled antibodies, (d) identifying a B lymphocyte of (c) that
is capable of binding to the antigen of interest, and (e) amplifying a heavy chain variable region
nucleic acid sequence and a      K light chain variable region nucleic acid sequence from the B
lymphocyte thereby generating the heavy chain and          K  light chain variable region sequences.
[000155]      In one embodiment, use of a mouse as described herein to generate a heavy and a
K  light chain variable region sequence for making a human antibody is provided, comprising (a)
immunizing a mouse as described herein with an antigen of interest, (b) isolating bone marrow
from the immunized mouse of (a), (c) exposing B lymphocytes from the bone marrow to one or
more labeled antibodies, (d) identifying a B lymphocyte of (c) that is capable of binding to the
antigen of interest, and (e) amplifying a heavy chain variable region nucleic acid sequence and
a K light chain variable region nucleic acid sequence from the B lymphocyte thereby generating
the heavy chain and     x light chain variable region sequences. In various embodiments, the one
or more labeled antibodies are selected from an IgM, an IgG, and/or a combination thereof.
 [000156] In various embodiments, the antigen of interest is a pathogen that afflicts human
                                                    25

subjects including, e.g., a viral antigen. Exemplary viral pathogens include, e.g., mainly those
of the families of Adenoviridae, bacteria Picornaviridae, Herpesviridae, Hepadnaviridae,
Flaviviridae, Retroviridae, Orthomyxoviridae, Paramyxoviridae, Papovaviridae, Polyomavirus,
Rhabdoviridae, and Togaviridae. Such exemplary viruses typically range between 20-300
nanometers in length. In various embodiments, the antigen of interest is a viral antigen
selected from a hepatitis virus (e.g., HCV, HBV, etc.), a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV),
or an influenza virus (e.g., H1N1).
[000157]     In various embodiments, use of a mouse as described herein to generate a heavy
and K light chain variable region sequence for making a human antibody is provided, further
comprising fusing the amplified heavy and light chain variable region sequences to human
heavy and light chain constant region sequences, expressing the fused heavy and light chain
sequences in a cell, and recovering the expressed heavy and light chain sequences thereby
generating a human antibody.
[000158]     In various embodiments, the human heavy chain constant regions are selected from
IgM, IgD, IgA, IgE and IgG. In various specific embodiments, the IgG is selected from an IgG1,
an IgG2, an IgG3 and an IgG4. In various embodiments, the human heavy chain constant
region comprises a    CH 1 , a hinge, a CH2 , a CH3 , a CH4 , or a combination thereof. In various
embodiments, the light chain constant region is an immunoglobulin 1Cconstant region. In
various embodiments, the cell is selected from a HeLa cell, a DU145 cell, a Lncap cell, a MCF
7 cell, a MDA-MB-438 cell, a PC3 cell, a T47D cell, a THP-1 cell, a U87 cell, a SHSY5Y
(human neuroblastoma) cell, a Saos-2 cell, a Vero cell, a CHO cell, a GH3 cell, a PC12 cell, a
human retinal cell (e.g., a PER.C6TM cell), and a MC3T3 cell. In a specific embodiment, the cell
is a CHO cell.
[000159]     In one aspect, a method for generating a reverse-chimeric rodent-human antibody
specific against an antigen of interest is provided, comprising the steps of immunizing a mouse
as described herein with the antigen, isolating at least one cell from the mouse producing a
reverse-chimeric mouse-human antibody specific against the antigen, culturing at least one cell
producing the reverse-chimeric mouse-human antibody specific against the antigen, and
obtaining said antibody.
[000160]     In one embodiment, the reverse-chimeric mouse-human antibody comprises a
human heavy chain variable domain fused with a mouse or rat heavy chain constant gene, and
a human light chain variable domain fused with a mouse or rat or human light chain constant
gene. In a specific embodiment, the human heavy chain variable domain contains a
rearranged human VH1-69 or human VH1-          2 gene segment.
[000161]     In one embodiment, culturing at least one cell producing the reverse-chimeric
rodent-human antibody specific against the antigen is performed on at least one hybridoma cell
                                                    26

generated from the at least one cell isolated from the mouse.
[000162]    In one embodiment, the antigen of interest is a pathogen that afflicts human subjects
as described herein.
[000163]    In one aspect, a method for generating a fully human antibody specific against an
antigen of interest is provided, comprising the steps of immunizing a mouse as described
herein with the antigen, isolating at least one cell from the mouse producing a reverse-chimeric
rodent-human antibody specific against the antigen, generating at least one cell producing a
fully human antibody derived from the reverse-chimeric rodent-human antibody specific against
the antigen, and culturing at least one cell producing the fully human antibody, and obtaining
said fully human antibody.
[000164]    In various embodiments, the at least one cell isolated from the mouse producing a
reverse-chimeric rodent-human antibody specific against the antigen is a splenocyte or a B cell.
[000165]    In various embodiments, the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.
[000166]    In various embodiments, the antibody comprises a heavy chain variable domain that
contains a rearranged human VH1-69 or human VHl-2 gene segment.
[000167]    In various embodiments, immunization with the antigen of interest is carried out with
protein, DNA, a combination of DNA and protein, or cells expressing the antigen. In one
embodiment, the antigen of interest is a pathogen that afflicts human subjects as described
herein.
[000168]    In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to make a nucleic acid sequence
encoding an immunoglobulin variable region or fragment thereof is provided. In one
embodiment, the nucleic acid sequence is used to make a human antibody or antigen-binding
fragment thereof. In one embodiment, the mouse is used to make an antigen-binding protein
selected from an antibody, a multi-specific antibody (e.g., a bi-specific antibody), an scFv, a bi
specific scFv, a diabody, a triabody, a tetrabody, a V-NAR, a    VHH, a VL, a F(ab), a F(ab) 2, a
DVD (i.e., dual variable domain antigen-binding protein), a an SVD (i.e., single variable domain
antigen-binding protein), or a bispecific T-cell engager (BiTE).
[000169]    In one aspect, a method for making a human antigen-binding protein is provided,
comprising exposing a genetically modified non-human animal as described herein to an
antigen of interest, allowing the genetically modified non-human animal to mount an immune
response to the antigen, obtaining from the genetically modified non-human animal a heavy
chain variable domain nucleic acid sequence encoding a human heavy chain variable domain
that specifically binds the antigen of interest, cloning the heavy chain variable domain nucleic
acid sequence to a human constant region sequence, and expressing in a mammalian cell an
antibody comprising the human heavy chain variable domain sequence and the human
constant region sequence. In one embodiment, the mammalian cell is a CHO cell. In one
embodiment the genetically modified non-human animal comprises a human           VH  gene segment
                                                   27

repertoire that consists essentially of a single human   VH gene segment, optionally present in
two or more polymorphic variants thereof, operably linked to one or more human D and/or J
segments. In one embodiment, the human         VH gene segment repertoire is at an endogenous
non-human     VH segment locus. In one embodiment, the human      VH gene segment repertoire is
at a locus that is not an endogenous    VH segment locus. In one embodiment, the human        VH
gene segment rearranges with a human D segment and a human J segment to form a
rearranged human VDJ gene operably linked to a constant region sequence, wherein the
constant region sequence is selected from a human sequence and a rodent sequence (e.g., a
mouse or rat or hamster sequence). In one embodiment, the constant region sequence
comprises a sequence selected from a CH1 , a hinge, a CH2 , a CH3 , and a combination thereof;
in a specific embodiment, the constant region sequence comprises a CH1 , a hinge, a CH2 , and
a CH3 . In one embodiment, the human variable domain and the constant sequence are
expressed in the mammalian cell with a cognate human light chain variable domain obtained
from the same mouse (e.g., sequence obtained from the same B cell as the human variable
domain sequence); in one embodiment the sequence encoding the human light chain variable
domain obtained from the mouse is then fused with a sequence encoding a human light chain
constant sequence, and the light chain sequence and the heavy chain sequence are expressed
in the mammalian cell.
[000170]     In one embodiment, the antigen of interest is a pathogen that afflicts human subjects
as described herein.
[000171]     In one aspect, a method for making an antibody heavy chain variable domain that
binds an antigen of interest is provided, comprising expressing in a single cell (a) a first VH
sequence of an immunized non-human animal as described herein, wherein the first VH
sequence is fused with a CH gene sequence; and (b) a VL gene sequence of an immunized
non-human animal as described herein, wherein the VL gene sequence is fused with a human
CL gene sequence; maintaining the cell under conditions sufficient to express an antibody; and,
isolating the antibody heavy chain variable domain. In one embodiment, the VL gene sequence
is cognate with the first VH sequence.
 [000172]    In one embodiment, the cell comprises a second VH gene sequence of an
immunized non-human animal as described herein, wherein the second        VH  gene sequence is
fused with a CH gene sequence, wherein the first     VH  gene sequence encodes a VH domain that
specifically binds a first epitope, and the second  VH  gene sequence encodes a VH domain that
specifically binds a second epitope, wherein the first epitope and the second epitope are not
 identical.
 [000173]    In one embodiment, the constant region sequences are all human constant region
sequences. In one embodiment, the antigen of interest is a pathogen that afflicts human
subjects as described herein.
                                                  28

[000174]     In one aspect, a method for making a human bispecific antibody is provided,
comprising making the bispecific antibody using human variable region gene sequences of B
cells of a non-human animal as described herein.
[000175]     In one embodiment, the method comprises (a) identifying a clonally selected
lymphocyte of the non-human animal, wherein the non-human animal has been exposed to an
antigen of interest and allowed to develop an immune response to the antigen of interest, and
wherein the lymphocyte expresses an antibody that specifically binds the antigen of interest, (b)
obtaining from the lymphocyte or the antibody a nucleotide sequence that encodes a human
heavy chain variable region that specifically binds the antigen of interest, and (c) employing the
nucleotide sequence that encodes the human heavy chain variable region that specifically
binds the antigen of interest in making the bispecific antibody. In a specific embodiment, the
human heavy chain variable region comprises a rearranged VH1-2 or VH1-69 gene segment.
[000176]     In one embodiment, steps (a) through (c) are performed a first time for a first antigen
of interest to generate a first human heavy chain variable region sequence, and steps (a)
through (c) are performed a second time for a second antigen of interest to generate a second
human heavy chain variable region sequence, and wherein the first human heavy chain
variable region sequence is expressed fused with a first human heavy chain constant region to
form a first human heavy chain, the second human heavy chain variable region sequence is
expressed fused with a second human heavy chain constant region to form a second human
heavy chain, wherein the first and the second human heavy chains are expressed in the
presence of a single human light chain expressed from a rearranged human VK1-39 or a
human Vw3-20 gene segment. In a specific embodiment, the single human light chain
comprises a germline sequence.
[000177]     In one embodiment, the method comprises (a) cloning heavy chain variable regions
from B cells of a non-human animal as described herein which has been exposed to a first
antigen of interest, and the same non-human animal, or a different non-human animal which is
genetically the same and has been exposed to a second antigen of interest; and (b) expressing
in a cell the heavy chain variable regions of (a) with the same heavy chain constant region and
the same light chain to make a bispecific antibody.
[000178]     In one aspect, a use of a non-human animal as described herein is provided, to
obtain a nucleic acid sequence that encodes a human heavy chain variable domain. In one
embodiment, the heavy chain variable domain comprises a rearranged human          VH  gene
segment selected from VH1-2 and VH1-69.
[000179]     In one aspect, a use of a non-human animal as described herein is provided, to
obtain a cell that encodes a human heavy chain variable domain. In one embodiment, the
heavy chain variable domain comprises a rearranged human        VH gene segment selected from
                                                 29

     2 and VH -69.
VH1-
[000180]     In one aspect, use of a non-human animal as described herein to make a human
antibody variable domain is provided. In one embodiment, the variable domain comprises a
                                                            2
rearranged human VH gene segment selected from VH1-           and VH -69.
[000181]     In one aspect, use of a non-human animal as described herein to make a human
antibody is provided, comprising making the antibody using human variable region gene
sequences of B cells of a non-human animal as described herein. In one embodiment, the
human antibody is a human bispecific antibody. In a specific embodiment, the bispecific
antibody comprises one heavy chain variable domain derived from a rearranged human VHl-2
orVHl-69 gene segment. In one embodiment, the human variable region gene sequences
comprise a rearranged human VH1-2 or VH -69 gene segment.
[000182]     In one aspect, use of a non-human animal as described herein is provided to select
a human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domain. In one embodiment, the heavy chain
variable domain comprises a rearranged human VH gene segment selected from VH1-2 and
VHl-69.
[000183]     In one aspect, use of the mouse as described herein for the manufacture of a
medicament (e.g., an antigen-binding protein), or for the manufacture of a sequence encoding
a variable sequence of a medicament (e.g., an antigen-binding protein), for the treatment of a
human disease or disorder is provided. In one embodiment, the variable sequence of a
medicament comprises a polymorphic human VH gene segment. In one embodiment, the
                                                                 69  gene segment. In one
variable sequence of a medicament comprises a human VH1-
embodiment, the variable sequence of a medicament comprises a human VHl-2 gene segment.
[000184]     In one aspect, a nucleic acid construct encoding an immunoglobulin variable domain
made in a mouse as described herein is provided. In one embodiment, the variable domain is
a heavy chain variable domain. In a specific embodiment, the heavy chain variable domain
                                                                                 6 9 , VH2 -2 6,
comprises a rearranged human VH gene segment selected from VH1-2, VH1-                           VH2
70, or VH3 - 2 3 . In another specific embodiment, the heavy chain variable domain comprises a
rearranged human VH1- 2 gene segment. In another specific embodiment, the heavy chain
variable domain comprises a rearranged human VH1-69 gene segment.
[000185]     In one embodiment, the variable domain is a light chain variable domain. In a
specific embodiment, the variable domain is a    K light chain variable domain that is cognate with
a human heavy chain variable domain that comprises a rearranged human VHl-69 gene
segment. In a specific embodiment, the variable domain is a      K light chain variable domain that
is cognate with a human heavy chain variable domain that comprises a rearranged human VHl
2 gene segment.
[000186]     In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to make a nucleic acid construct
                                                 30

encoding a human immunoglobulin variable domain is provided. In one embodiment, the
variable domain is a light chain variable domain. In one embodiment, the variable domain is a
K  light chain variable domain that comprises a rearranged human VK gene segment selected
from VK4-1, VK5- 2 , VK7-3, VK2-4, VK1-5, VK1-6, VK3-7, VK1-8, VK1-9, VK2-10, VK3-11, Vx1-12,
VK1-13, VK2-14, VK3-15, VK1-16, VK1-17, VK2-18, VK2-19, VK3-20, VK6-21, VK1-22, VK1- 2 3,
VK2-24, VK3-25, VK2-26, Vx1-27, VK2-28, VK2-29, VK2-30, VK3-31, Vx1-32, Vx1-33, VK3-3 4 ,
VK1-35, VK2-36, VK1-37, VK2-38, VK1-39, and VK2-40.
[000187]      In one embodiment, the variable domain is a heavy chain variable domain. In a
specific embodiment, the heavy chain variable domain comprises a rearranged human            VH  gene
segment selected from VH1-2, VH1-69, VH2-26, VH2- 7 0, or VH3-2 3 . In a specific embodiment,
the heavy chain variable domain comprises a rearranged human VH1-69 gene segment. In a
specific embodiment, the heavy chain variable domain comprises a rearranged human VHl-2
gene segment.
[000188]      In one aspect, use of a mouse as described herein to make a human
immunoglobulin variable domain is provided. In one embodiment, the variable domain is a light
chain variable domain. In one embodiment, the variable domain is a        K light chain variable
domain that comprises a rearranged human VK gene segment selected from VK4-1, VK5-2,
VK7 -3, VK2-4, VK1-5, Vx1-6, VK3-7, VK1-8, Vx1-9, VK2-10, VK3-11, VK1-12, Vx1-13, VK2-14,
VK3-15, VK1-16, VK1-17, VK2-18, VK2-19, VK3-20, VK6-21, VO1-22, VK1-23, VK2-24, VK3-2 5 ,
VK2-2 6 , Vx1-27, VK2-2 8 , VK2-29, VK2-30, VK3-31, VK1-32, Vx1-33, VK3-34, V1-35, VK2-36,
VK1-37, VK2-38, VK1- 3 9, and VK2-40.
[000189]      In one embodiment, the variable domain is a heavy chain variable domain. In a
specific embodiment, the heavy chain variable domain comprises a rearranged human            VH  gene
segment selected from VH1-2, VH1-      6 9 , VH2-26,
                                                      VH2-70, orVH3-23. In a specific embodiment,
the heavy chain variable domain comprises a rearranged human VH1-69 gene segment. In a
specific embodiment, the heavy chain variable domain comprises a rearranged human VHl-2
gene segment.
[000190]      In one aspect, use of a non-human animal as described herein to make a nucleic
acid sequence encoding a human heavy chain variable domain is provided. In one
embodiment, the human heavy chain variable domain is characterized by having human FR1
CDR1-FR2-CDR2-FR3 sequences that are derived from a polymorphic human                VH gene
segment. In a specific embodiment, the human VH gene segment is selected from a human
VH1-2, VH1-6    9 , VH2-26, VH2-70, orVH3-23 gene segment. In one embodiment, the human          VH
gene segment is a human VH1-69 gene segment. In one embodiment, the human VH gene
segment is a human VH1-2 gene segment.
 [000191]     In one aspect, a method for making a nucleic acid sequence encoding a human VH
                                                     31

domain is provided, the method comprising immunizing a non-human animal as described
herein with an antigen of interest, allowing the non-human animal to mount an immune
response to the antigen of interest, and obtaining therefrom a nucleic acid sequence encoding
a human    VH  domain that binds the antigen of interest. In one embodiment, the method further
comprises making a nucleic acid sequence encoding a human VL domain that is cognate with
the human    VH  domain, comprising isolating a B cell encoding the human  VH  domain and the
human VL domain, and obtaining therefrom the sequence of the heavy and light chain variable
domains. In various embodiments, the human        VH domain is derived from a rearranged human
VH1-69 or human VHi-2 gene segment. In various embodiments, the human VL domain is
selected from a human VK or a human VX domain.
[000192]     In one aspect, use of a non-human animal as described herein to make a human
therapeutic is provided, comprising immunizing the non-human animal with an antigen of
interest, allowing the non-human animal to mount an immune response, and obtaining from the
animal a nucleic acid sequence encoding an immunoglobulin variable domain that binds the
antigen of interest, and employing the immunoglobulin variable domain in a human therapeutic.
In one embodiment, the variable domain is a heavy chain variable domain. In a specific
embodiment, the heavy chain variable domain is derived from a rearranged human VH1- 6 9 or a
human VH1-2 gene segment. In one embodiment, the variable domain is a light chain variable
domain. In a specific embodiment, the light chain variable domain is derived from a rearranged
human VK or human VX gene segment.
[000193]     In one aspect, a method for making a human therapeutic is provided, comprising
immunizing a non-human animal as described herein with an antigen of interest, allowing the
non-human animal to mount an immune response, and obtaining from the animal a nucleic acid
sequence encoding an immunoglobulin variable domain that binds the antigen of interest, and
employing the immunoglobulin variable domain in a human therapeutic. In one embodiment,
the variable domain is a heavy chain variable domain. In a specific embodiment, the heavy
chain variable domain is derived from a rearranged human VH1- 6 9 or a human VH1-2 gene
segment. In one embodiment, the variable domain is a light chain variable domain. In a
specific embodiment, the light chain variable domain is derived from a rearranged human VK or
human VX gene segment.
[000194]     In one aspect, a method for making a human antigen-binding protein is provided,
comprising immunizing a non-human animal as described herein with an antigen of interest,
allowing the animal to mount an immune response, obtaining from the mouse a nucleic acid
sequence encoding an immunoglobulin variable domain that specifically binds the antigen of
interest, cloning the nucleic acid sequence in a vector suitable for expression of the nucleic
acid, wherein the nucleic acid sequence is cloned in frame with a nucleic acid sequence
                                                  32

encoding a human immunoglobulin constant region or functional fragment thereof, and inserting
the vector in a mammalian cell, and maintaining the cell under conditions suitable for
expressing an antigen-binding protein that comprises the immunoglobulin variable domain and
the immunoglobulin constant region or functional fragment thereof. In one embodiment, the
antigen-binding protein is a human antibody. In a specific embodiment, the antibody comprises
a heavy chain variable domain and a light chain variable domain obtained from a mouse as
described herein. In a specific embodiment, the antibody comprises a heavy chain variable
domain obtained from a mouse as described herein. In various embodiments, the heavy chain
variable domain is derived from a rearranged human VH1-     69 or a human VH1- 2 gene segment.
[000195]    In one aspect, a nucleic acid sequence encoding a human antigen-binding domain
made in a non-human animal as described herein is provided. In one embodiment, the nucleic
acid sequence encodes a human immunoglobulin       VH  domain. In one embodiment, the nucleic
acid sequence encodes a human immunoglobulin       VH  domain and a cognate human VL domain.
In various embodiments, the human     VH domain is derived from a rearranged human VH1-    69 or
a human VH1- 2 gene segment.
[000196]    In one aspect, a method for preparation of a human antibody is provided, comprising
immunizing a non-human animal as described herein with an antigen of interest, allowing the
non-human animal to mount an immune response, harvesting a lymphocyte (e.g., a B cell) from
the immunized animal, fusing the lymphocyte with a myeloma cell to form a hybridoma cell,
obtaining from the hybridoma cell a nucleic acid sequence that encodes a human     VH  domain
and a human VL domain, cloning the nucleic acid sequence in frame (i.e., in operable linkage)
with a human constant region sequence to create an immunoglobulin heavy chain and an
immunoglobulin light chain, and expressing the heavy and light chains in a cell capable of
expressing the fully human antibody. In one embodiment, the cell is a CHO cell. In various
embodiments, the human     VH domain is derived from a rearranged human VH1-69 gene
segment or a human VH1-2 gene segment.
[000197]    In one aspect, a method for preparation of a human antibody is provided, comprising
immunizing a non-human animal as described herein with an antigen of interest, allowing the
non-human animal to mount an immune response, harvesting a lymphocyte (e.g., a B cell) from
the immunized animal, obtaining from the lymphocyte a nucleic acid sequence that encodes a
human   VH  domain and a human VL domain, cloning the nucleic acid sequence in frame (i.e., in
operable linkage) with a human constant region sequence to create an immunoglobulin heavy
chain and an immunoglobulin light chain, and expressing the heavy and light chains in a cell
capable of expressing the fully human antibody. In one embodiment, the lymphocyte is derived
from the spleen of the non-human animal. In one embodiment, the cell is a CHO cell.      In
various embodiments, the human      VH domain is derived from a rearranged human VH1-69 gene
segment or a human VH1-2 gene segment.
                                                33

[000198]    In various aspects, the antigen of interest is a pathogen that afflicts human subjects
as described herein. In various aspects, the antigen of interest is a virus that is capable of
infecting a human. Exemplary antigens that can be employed in the methods and uses
described herein include microbes or microorganisms such as a virus, bacterium, prion, or
fungus or any other pathogen that causes disease in humans. A person of skill, upon reading
the disclosure, will appreciate those human pathogens that will be applicable for the methods
and uses described herein. The various aspects and embodiments are capable of use together,
unless expressly noted otherwise or the context clearly prohibits use together.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
[000199]    FIG. 1 shows a general illustration, not to scale, of a series of targeting and
molecular engineering steps employed to make a targeting vector for construction of a modified
heavy chain locus containing a single human VH1-69 gene segment, twenty-seven human            DH
and six human   JH  gene segments at an endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus.
[000200]    FIG. 2 shows a general illustration, not to scale, of a series of targeting and
molecular engineering steps employed to make a targeting vector for construction of a modified
heavy chain locus containing a single human VH1-2 gene segment, twenty-seven human            DH
and six human   JH  gene segments at an endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus.
[000201]    FIG. 3 shows contour plots of splenocytes gated on single lymphocytes and stained
for CD1 9 (B cell) and CD3 (T cell) from a wild type mouse (WT) and a mouse homozygous for
a single human   VH  gene segment, twenty-seven human DH and six human          JH gene segments
at the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (1hVH HO).
[000202]    FIG. 4A shows, on the left, the percent of CD19* B cells in spleens harvested from
wild type mice (WT) and mice homozygous for a single human         VH gene segment, twenty-seven
human DH and six human      JH gene segments at the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain
locus (1hVH HO). On the right, the number of CD1 9* B cells per spleen is shown for both wild
type mice (WT) and mice homozygous for a single human         VH  gene segment, twenty-seven
human DH and six human      JH gene segments at the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain
locus (1hVH HO).
[000203]    FIG. 4B shows, on the left, the percent of CD19* B cells in bone marrow harvested
from femurs of wild type mice (WT) and mice homozygous for a single human          VH  gene
segment, twenty-seven human DH and six human         JH gene segments at the endogenous
immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (1hVH HO). On the right, the number of CD19* B cells per
femur is shown for both wild type mice (WT) and mice homozygous for a single human          VH gene
segment, twenty-seven human DH and six human         JH gene segments at the endogenous
immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (1hVH HO).
                                                 34

[000204]     FIG. 5 shows contour plots of splenocytes gated on CD1 9* B cells and stained for
lgk+ and lgx+ expression from a wild type mouse (WT) and a mouse homozygous for a single
human    VH gene segment, twenty-seven human DH and six human         JH gene segments at the
endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (1hVH HO).
[000205]     FIG. 6 shows contour plots of splenocytes gated on CD19* B cells and stained for
immunoglobulin D (IgD) and immunoglobulin M (IgM) from a wild type mouse (WT) and a
mouse homozygous for a single human       VH gene segment, twenty-seven human DH and six
human    JH gene segments at the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (1hVH HO).
[000206]     FIG. 7 shows the total number of transitional B cells (CD1 9+IgMhi gDint), mature B
cells (CD19+IgM"tlgDhi), and the ratio of mature to immature B cells in harvested spleens from
wild type mice (WT) and mice homozygous for a single human        VH  gene segment, twenty-seven
human DH and six human      JH gene segments at the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain
locus (1hVH HO).
[000207]     FIG. 8 shows contour plots of bone marrow gated on singlets stained for
immunoglobulin M (IgM) and B220 from a wild type mouse (WT) and a mouse homozygous for
a single human    VH gene segment, twenty-seven human DH and six human        JH gene segments
at the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (1hVH HO).
[000208]     FIG. 9 shows the total number of immature (B220"tlgM+) and mature (B220h'IgM+) B
cells in bone marrow isolated from the femurs of wild type mice (WT) and mice homozygous for
a single human    VH gene segment, twenty-seven human DH and six human        JH gene segments
at the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (1hVH HO).
[000209]     FIG. 10 shows contour plots of bone marrow gated on CD19* B cells and stained for
ckit* and CD43* from a wild type mouse (WT) and a mouse homozygous for a single human            VH
gene segment, twenty-seven human DH and six human          JH gene segments at the endogenous
immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (1hVH HO).
[000210]     FIG. 11A shows the percent of CD19* cells in populations of pro B
(CD19*CD43*ckit*) and pre B (CD19*CD43~ckit-) cells in bone marrow harvested from the
femurs of wild type mice (WT) and mice homozygous for a single human        VH  gene segment,
twenty-seven human DH and six human       JH gene segments at the endogenous immunoglobulin
heavy chain locus (1hVH HO).
[000211]     FIG. 11 B shows the absolute number of cells per femur in populations of pro B
(CD19*CD43*ckit*) and pre B (CD19*CD43-ckit-) cells in bone marrow harvested from wild type
mice (WT) and mice homozygous for a single human        VH  gene segment, twenty-seven human
DH  and six human    JH gene segments at the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus
(1hVH HO).
[000212]     FIG. 12 shows the relative mRNA expression (y-axis) in purified splenic B cells of
VH1-69-derived heavy chains in a quantitative PCR assay using a probe specific for the human
                                                 35

VHl-69 gene segment in mice homozygous for a replacement of the endogenous heavy chain
VH, DH,  JH,  and a replacement of the endogenous light chain Vc and JK gene segments with
human VH, DH,      JH, VK and JK gene segments (HK), wild type mice (WT), mice heterozygous for
a single human VH gene segment, twenty-seven human DH and six human                  JH  gene segments
at the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (1hVH HET) and mice homozygous for a
single human VH gene segment, twenty-seven human DH and six human                  JH gene segments at
the endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (1hVH HO). Signals are normalized to
expression of mouse CK.
[000213]      FIG. 13 shows the nucleotide alignment of the second exon for each of thirteen
reported alleles for the human VH1-69 gene. Lower case bases indicate germline nucleotide
differences among the alleles. Complementary determining regions (CDRs) are indicated with
boxes around the sequence. Dashes indicate artificial gaps for proper sequence alignment.
VH1-69*01 (SEQ ID NO: 34); VH1-69*02 (SEQ ID NO: 36); VH1-69*03 (SEQ ID NO: 38); VH1
69*04 (SEQ ID NO: 40); VH1-69*05 (SEQ ID NO: 42); VH1-            6 9 *06  (SEQ ID NO: 44); VHl-69*07
(SEQ ID NO: 46); VH1-6      9 *08  (SEQ ID NO: 48); VH1-69*09 (SEQ ID NO: 50); VH1-69*10 (SEQ
ID NO: 52); VH1-69*11 (SEQ ID NO: 54); VH1-6          9 *1 2 (SEQ ID NO: 56); VH1-6    9 *13 (SEQ ID NO:
58).
[000214]      FIG. 14 shows the protein alignment of the mature heavy chain variable gene
sequence for each of thirteen reported alleles for the human VH1-69 gene. Lower case amino
acids indicate germline differences among the alleles. Complementary determining regions
(CDRs) are indicated with boxes around the sequence. Dashes indicate artificial gaps for
proper sequence alignment. VH1-6          9 *01 (SEQ ID NO: 35); VH1-6    9 *02 (SEQ ID NO: 37); VHl
69*03 (SEQ ID NO: 39); VH1-6        9 *04  (SEQ ID NO: 41); VH1-6   9 *05  (SEQ ID NO: 43); VH1-69*06
(SEQ ID NO: 45); VH1-6      9 *07  (SEQ ID NO: 47); VH1-69*08 (SEQ ID NO: 49); VH1-69*09 (SEQ
ID NO: 51); VH1-69*10 (SEQ ID NO: 53); VH1-6          9 *1 1 (SEQ ID NO: 55); VH1-69*12 (SEQ ID NO:
57); VH1-6   9 *13  (SEQ ID NO: 59).
[000215]      FIG. 15 shows a percent identity/percent similarity matrix for the aligned protein
sequences of the mature variable gene for each of thirteen reported alleles for the human VH1
69 gene. Percent identity among the VH1-69 alleles is indicated above the shaded boxes and
percent similarity is indicated below the shaded boxes. Scores for percent identity and percent
similarity were scored by a ClustalW (v1.83) alignment tool using MacVector software
(MacVector, Inc., North Carolina).
[000216]      FIG. 16 shows the nucleotide alignment of the second exon for each of five reported
alleges for the human VH1-     2  gene. Lower case bases indicate germline nucleotide differences
among the alleles. Complementary determining regions (CDRs) are indicated with boxes
around the sequence. Dashes indicate artificial gaps for proper sequence alignment. VHl-2*01
                                                     36

(SEQ ID NO: 60); VH1- 2 *02 (SEQ ID NO: 62); VH1- 2 *03 (SEQ ID NO: 64); VH1-2*04 (SEQ ID
NO: 66); VH1-2*05 (SEQ ID NO: 68).
[000217]     FIG. 17 shows the protein alignment of the mature heavy chain variable gene
sequence for each of five reported alleles for the human VH1 -2 gene. Lower case amino acids
indicate germline differences among the alleles. Complementary determining regions (CDRs)
are indicated with boxes around the sequence. Dashes indicate artificial gaps for proper
sequence alignment. VH1-2*01 (SEQ ID NO: 61); VH1-2*02 (SEQ ID NO: 63); VH1- 2 *0 3 (SEQ
ID NO: 65); VH1- 2 *04 (SEQ ID NO: 67); VH1- 2 *05 (SEQ ID NO: 69).
[000218]     FIG. 18 shows a percent identity/percent similarity matrix for the aligned protein
sequences of the mature variable gene for each of five reported alleles for the human VH1-2
gene. Percent identity among the VH1-2 alleles is indicated above the shaded boxes and
percent similarity is indicated below the shaded boxes. Scores for percent identity and percent
similarity were scored by a ClustalW (v1.83) alignment tool using MacVector software
(MacVector, Inc., North Carolina).
[000219]     FIG. 19 shows the antibody titer from mice homozygous for human heavy and
human K light chain variable gene loci (HK; n=4) and mice homozygous for a single human VHl
69 gene segment, twenty-seven human       DH  and six human   JH gene segments at the
endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (1hVHHO; n=1 0) that were immunized with a
human cell surface receptor (Antigen A).
[000220]     FIG. 20 shows the antibody titer from mice homozygous for human heavy and
human K light chain variable gene loci (HK; n=5) and mice homozygous for a single human VH1
69 gene segment, twenty-seven human       DH  and six human   JH gene segments at the
endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus (1hVHHO; n=5) that were immunized with two
different influenza vaccines.
[000221]     FIG. 21 shows the percentage (y-axis) of IgM-primed heavy chains having a
specified amino acid length for the VH CDR3 region (x-axis) from mice homozygous for a single
human VH1-69 gene segment, twenty-seven human          DH and six human    JH gene segments at the
endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus and homozygous for a replacement of the
endogenous K light chain variable loci with human K light chain variable loci that were
immunized with a human cell surface receptor (Antigen A).
[000222]     FIG. 22 shows the percentage (y-axis) of IgG-primed heavy chains having a
specified amino acid length for the  VH  CDR3 region (x-axis) from mice homozygous for a single
human VH1-    69 gene segment, twenty-seven human      DH and six human    JH gene segments at the
endogenous immunoglobulin heavy chain locus and homozygous for a replacement of the
endogenous K light chain variable loci with human K light chain variable loci that were
immunized with a human cell surface receptor (Antigen A).
                                                 37

DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[000223] This invention is not limited to particular methods, and experimental conditions
described, as such methods and conditions may vary. It is also to be understood that the
terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is
not intended to be limiting, since the scope of the present invention is defined by the claims.
[000224]     Unless defined otherwise, all terms and phrases used herein include the meanings
that the terms and phrases have attained in the art, unless the contrary is clearly indicated or
clearly apparent from the context in which the term or phrase is used. Although any methods
and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or
testing of the present invention, particular methods and materials are now described. All
publications mentioned are hereby incorporated by reference.
[000225]     The phrase "substantial" or "substantially" when used to refer to an amount of gene
segments (e.g., "substantially all" V gene segments) includes both functional and non functional
gene segments and include, in various embodiments, e.g., 80% or more, 85% or more, 90% or
more, 95% or more 96% or more, 97% or more, 98% or more, or 99% or more of all gene
segments; in various embodiments, "substantially all" gene segments includes, e.g., at least
95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, or 99% of functional (i.e., non-pseudogene) gene segments.
[000226]     The term "replacement" includes wherein a DNA sequence is placed into a genome
of a cell in such a way as to replace a sequence within the genome with a heterologous
sequence (e.g., a human sequence in a mouse), at the locus of the genomic sequence. The
DNA sequence so placed may include one or more regulatory sequences that are part of
source DNA used to obtain the sequence so placed (e.g., promoters, enhancers, 5'- or 3'
untranslated regions, appropriate recombination signal sequences, etc.). For example, in
various embodiments, the replacement is a substitution of an endogenous sequence for a
heterologous sequence that results in the production of a gene product from the DNA sequence
so placed (comprising the heterologous sequence), but not expression of the endogenous
sequence; the replacement is of an endogenous genomic sequence with a DNA sequence that
encodes a protein that has a similar function as a protein encoded by the endogenous genomic
sequence (e.g., the endogenous genomic sequence encodes an immunoglobulin gene or
domain, and the DNA fragment encodes one or more human immunoglobulin genes or
domains). In various embodiments, an endogenous gene or fragment thereof is replaced with
a corresponding human gene or fragment thereof. A corresponding human gene or fragment
thereof is a human gene or fragment that is an ortholog of, a homolog of, or is substantially
identical or the same in structure and/or function, as the endogenous gene or fragment thereof
that is replaced.
[000227] A precise, in situ replacement of six megabases of the variable regions of the mouse
                                                 38

heavy chain immunoglobulin loci      (VH-DH-JH) with a restricted human immunoglobulin heavy
chain locus was performed, while leaving the flanking mouse sequences intact and functional
within the hybrid loci, including all mouse constant chain genes and locus transcriptional control
regions (FIG. 1 and FIG. 2). Specifically, a single human      VH, 27 DH, and Six JH gene segments
were introduced through chimeric BAC targeting vectors into mouse ES cells using
VELOCIGENE@ genetic engineering technology (see, e.g., US Pat. No. 6,586,251 and
Valenzuela etal., 2003, High-throughput engineering of the mouse genome coupled with high
resolution expression analysis, Nat Biotechnol 21:652-659).
Non-Human Animals With Restricted Immunoglobulin                VH Gene Segments
[000228]     Non-human animals comprising immunoglobulin loci that comprise a restricted
number of VH genes, and one or more D genes and one or more J genes, are provided, as are
methods of making and using them. When immunized with an antigen of interest, the non
human animals generate B cell populations with antibody variable regions derived only from the
restricted, pre-selected  VH  gene or set of VH genes (e.g., a pre-selected  VH  gene and variants
thereof). In various embodiments, non-human animals are provided that generate B cell
populations that express human antibody variable domains that are human heavy chain
variable domains, along with cognate human light chain variable domains. In various
embodiments, the non-human animals rearrange human heavy chain variable gene segments
and human light chain variable gene segments from modified endogenous mouse
immunoglobulin loci that comprise a replacement or insertion of the non-human unrearranged
variable region sequences with human unrearranged variable region sequences.
[000229]     Early work on the organization, structure, and function of the immunoglobulin genes
was done in part on mice with disabled endogenous loci and engineered to have transgenic loci
(randomly placed) with partial human immunoglobulin genes, e.g., a partial repertoire of human
heavy chain genes linked with a human constant gene, randomly inserted into the genome, in
the presence or absence of a human light chain transgene. Although these mice were
somewhat less than optimal for making useful high affinity antibodies, they facilitated certain
functional analyses of immunoglobulin loci. Some of these mice had as few as two or three, or
even just a single, heavy chain variable gene.
[000230]     Mice that express fully human immunoglobulin heavy chains derived from a single
human VHS-51 gene and 10 human          DH genes and six human     JH genes, with human t and y1
constant genes, on a randomly inserted transgene (and disabled endogenous immunoglobulin
loci) have been reported (Xu and Davis, 2000, Diversity in the CDR3 Region of VH Is Sufficient
for Most Antibody Specificities, Immunity 13:37-45). The fully human immunoglobulin heavy
chains of these mice are mostly expressed with one of just two fully mouse k light chains
                                                   39

derived from the endogenous mouse X light chain locus (VM1-J1 or VX2-JX2 only), and can
express no K light chain (the mice are Igi-). These mice exhibit severely abnormal dysfunction
in B cell development and antibody expression. B cell numbers are reportedly 5-10% of wild
type, IgM levels 5-10% of wild-type, and IgG1 levels are only 0.1-1% of wild-type. The
observed IgM repertoire revealed highly restricted junctional diversity. The fully human heavy
chains display largely identical CDR3 length across antigens, the same      JH (JH2) usage across
antigens, and an initial junctional Q residue, thus reflecting a certain lack of CDR3 diversity.
The fully mouse X light chains nearly all had a W96L substitution in JX1 as initial junctional
residue. The mice are reportedly unable to generate any antibodies against bacterial
polysaccharide. Because the human variable domains couple with mouse light chains, the
utility of the human variable regions is highly limited.
[000231]      Other mice that have just a single human VH3 - 2 3 gene, human DH and    JH genes,
and mouse light chain genes have been reported, but they exhibit a limited diversity (and thus a
limited usefulness) due in part to mispairing potential between human      VH and mouse VL
domains (see, e.g., Mageed et al., 2001, Rearrangement of the human heavy chain variable
region gene V3-23 in transgenic mice generates antibodies reactive with a range of antigens on
the basis of VHCDR3 and residues intrinsic to the heavy chain variable region, Clin. Exp.
Immunol. 123:1-5). Similarly, mice that bear two     VH  genes (3-23 and 6-1) along with human   DH
and   JH genes in a transgene containing the human p constant gene (Bruggemann et al., 1991,
Human antibody production in transgenic mice: expression from 100kb of the human IgH locus,
Eur. J. /mmmunol. 21:1323-1326) and express them in human IgM chains with mouse light
chains may exhibit a repertoire limited by mispairing (Mackworth-Young et al., 2003, The role of
antigen in the selection of the human V3-23 immunoglobulin heavy chain variable region gene,
 Clin. Exp. Immunol. 134:420-425).
[000232]      Other transgenic mice that express VH-restricted fully human heavy chains from a
human transgene randomly inserted in the genome, with a limited human X repertoire
expressed from a fully human randomly inserted transgene, have also been reported (see, e.g.,
Taylor et al., 1992, A transgenic mouse that expresses a diversity of human sequence heavy
and light chain immunoglobulins, Nucleic Acids Res. 20(23):6287-6295; Wagner et al., 1994,
Antibodies generated form human immunoglobulin miniloci in transgenic mice, Nucleic Acids
Res. 22(8):1389-1393). However, transgenic mice that express fully human antibodies from
transgenes randomly integrated into the mouse genome, and that comprise damaged
endogenous loci, are known to exhibit substantial differences in immune response as
compared with wild-type mice that affect the diversity of the antibody variable domains
 obtainable from such mice.
                                                  40

[000233]     Useful non-human animals that generate a diverse population of B cells that express
human antibody variable domains from a restricted       VH gene repertoire and one or more D
genes and one or more J genes will be capable of generating, preferably in some
embodiments, repertoires of rearranged variable region genes that will be sufficiently diverse.
In various embodiments, diversity includes junctional diversity, somatic hypermutation, and
polymorphic diversity in   VH gene sequence (for embodiments where       VH genes are present in
polymorphic forms). Combinatorial diversity occurs in the pairing of the VH gene with one of a
plurality of cognate human light chain variable domains (which, in various embodiments,
comprise junctional diversity and/or somatic hypermutations).
[000234]     Non-human animals comprising a restricted human       VH  gene repertoire and a
complete or substantially complete human VL gene repertoire will in various embodiments
generate populations of B cells that reflect the various sources of diversity, such as junctional
diversity (e.g., VDJ, VJ joining, P additions, N additions), combinatorial diversity (e.g., cognate
VH-restricted human heavy, human light), and somatic hypermutations. In embodiments
comprising a restriction of the  VH  repertoire to one human  VH  gene, the one human    VH  gene
can be present in two or more variants. In various embodiments, the presence of two or more
polymorphic forms of a VH gene will enrich the diversity of the variable domains of the B cell
population.
[000235] Variations in the germline sequences of gene segments (e.g., V genes) contribute to
the diversity of the antibody response in humans. The relative contribution to diversity due to V
gene sequence differences varies among V genes. The degree of polymorphism varies across
gene families, and is reflected in a plurality of haplotypes (stretches of sequence with
coinherited polymorphisms) capable of generating further diversity as observed in      VH  haplotype
differences between related and unrelated individuals in the human population (see, e.g.,
Souroujon et al., 1989, Polymorphisms in Human H Chain V Region Genes from the VHIII Gene
Family, J. Immunol. 143(2):706-711). Some have suggested, based on data from particularly
polymorphic human      VH gene families, that haplotype diversity in the germline is a major
contributor to  VH gene heterogeneity in the human population, which is reflected in the large
diversity of different germline VH  genes across the human population (see, Sasso et a/., 1990,
Prevalence and Polymorphism of Human          VH3  Genes, J. Immunol. 145(8):2751-2757).
[000236] Although the human population displays a large diversity of haplotypes with respect
to the VH  gene repertoire due to widespread polymorphism, certain polymorphisms are
reflected in prevalent (i.e., conserved) alleles observed in the human population (Sasso et al.,
 1990). VH polymorphism can be described in two principle forms. The first is variation arising
from allelic variation associated with differences among the nucleotide sequence between
alleles of the same gene segment. The second arises from the numerous duplications,
insertions, and/or deletions that have occurred at the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus. This
                                                    41

has resulted in the unique situation in which      VH  genes derived by duplication from identical
genes differ from their respective alleles by one or more nucleotide substitutions. This also
directly influences the copy number of VH genes at the heavy chain locus.
[000237]      Polymorphic alleles of the human immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene
segments     (VH genes) have largely been the result of insertion/deletion of gene segments and
single nucleotide differences within coding regions, both of which have the potential to have
functional consequences on the immunoglobulin molecule. Table 1 sets forth the functional            VH
genes listed by human      VH  gene family and the number of identified alleles for each VH gene in
the human immunoglobulin heavy chain locus. There are some findings to suggest that
polymorphic VH genes have been implicated in susceptibility to certain diseases such as, for
example, rheumatoid arthritis, whereas in other cases a linkage between           VH and disease has
been less clear. This ambiguity has been attributed to the copy number and presence of
various alleles in different human populations. In fact, several human        VH  genes demonstrate
copy number variation (e.g., VH1-     2 , VH1-69,  VH2 -2 6, VH2 -70, and VH3-23). In various
embodiments, humanized mice as described herein with restricted            VH repertoires comprise
multiple polymorphic variants of an individual VH family member (e.g., two or more polymorphic
variants of VH1- 2 , VH1-69, VH2-26, VH2 -70, or VH3-23, replacing all or substantially all functional
mouse   VH   segments at an endogenous mouse locus). In a specific embodiment, the two or
more polymorphic variants of mice described herein are in number up to and including the
number indicated for the corresponding        VH  family member in Table 1 (e.g., for VH -69, 13
variants; for VH1- 2 , five variants; etc.).
[000238]      Commonly observed variants of particular human          VH genes are known in the art.
For example, one of the most complex polymorphisms in the VH locus belongs to the VH1-69
gene. The human VH1-69 gene has 13 reported alleles (Sasso et al., 1993, A fetally expressed
immunoglobulin VH1 gene belongs to a complex set of alleles, Journal of Clinical Investigation
91:2358-2367; Sasso et a., 1996, Expression of the immunoglobulin            VH  gene 51p   is
proportional to its germline gene copy number, Journal of Clinical Investigation 97(9):2074
2080) and exists in at least three haplotypes that carry duplications of the VHi-69 gene, which
results in multiple copies of the    VH gene at a given locus. These polymorphic alleles include
differences in the complementarity determining regions (CDRs), which may dramatically
influence antigen specificity. Table 2 sets for the reported alleles for human VH1-69 and the
SEQ ID NOs for the DNA and protein sequences of the mature heavy chain variable regions.
Table 3 sets forth the reported alleles for human VH1-2 genes and the SEQ ID NOs for the DNA
and protein sequences of the mature heavy chain variable regions.
[000239]      Representative genomic DNA and full-length protein sequences of a VH1-69 gene
are set forth in SEQ ID NO: 1 and SEQ ID NO: 2, respectively. FIG. 13 and FIG. 14 set forth
DNA and protein alignments of thirteen reported VHi-69 alleles, respectively. Representative
                                                      42

DNA and protein sequences of a VH1-2 gene are set forth in SEQ ID NO: 60 and SEQ ID NO:
61, respectively. FIG. 16 and FIG. 17 set forth DNA and protein alignments of five reported
VH1-2 alleles, respectively. FIG. 15 and FIG. 18 set forth a percent identity/similarity matrix for
aligned protein sequences corresponding to thirteen reported human VH1-69 alleles and five
reported human VH1-2 alleles, respectively. In various embodiments, the modified locus of the
invention comprises a VH gene selected from Table 1, present in two or more copy number,
wherein the copy number includes up to and including the number of alleles shown in Table 1.
In one embodiment, the modified locus of the invention comprises a VH1-69 gene selected from
Table 2, present in two or more copy number, wherein the copy number includes up to and
including the number of alleles shown in Table 1. In one embodiment, the modified locus of the
invention comprises a VH1-2 gene selected from Table 3, present in two or more copy number,
wherein the copy number includes up to and including the number of alleles shown in Table 1.
[000240] Although embodiments employing a restricted human            VH repertoire in a mouse are
extensively discussed, other non-human animals that express a restricted human          VH repertoire
are also provided. Such non-human animals include any of those which can be genetically
modified to express a restricted human    VH repertoire as disclosed herein, including, e.g.,
mouse, rat, rabbit, pig, bovine (e.g., cow, bull, buffalo), deer, sheep, goat, chicken, cat, dog,
ferret, primate (e.g., marmoset, rhesus monkey), etc. For example, for those non-human
animals for which suitable genetically modifiable ES cells are not readily available, other
methods are employed to make a non-human animal comprising the genetic modification.
Such methods include, e.g., modifying a non-ES cell genome (e.g., a fibroblast or an induced
pluripotent cell) and employing nuclear transfer to transfer the modified genome to a suitable
cell, e.g., an oocyte, and gestating the modified cell (e.g., the modified oocyte) in a non-human
animal under suitable conditions to form an embryo. Methods for modifying a non-human
animal genome (e.g., a pig, cow, rodent, chicken, etc. genome) include, e.g., employing a zinc
finger nuclease (ZFN) or a transcription activator-like effector nuclease (TALEN) to modify a
genome to include a restricted human     VH repertoire. Thus, in one embodiment a method is
provided for editing a non-human animal genome to include a restricted human         VH  repertoire,
comprising a step of editing the genome employing a ZFN or a TALEN to include no more than
one, or no more than two, human     VH  gene segments (or polymorphic variants thereof), wherein
the no more than one or no more than two human         VH gene segments are operably linked to an
immunoglobulin constant gene sequence. In one embodiment, the constant gene sequence is
selected from a human heavy chain constant sequence and a non-human heavy chain constant
sequence. In one embodiment, the constant sequence is non-human and the no more than
one or no more than two human      VH  gene segments are operably linked to non-human constant
gene sequence at an endogenous non-human immunoglobulin locus.
                                                  43

[000241] In one aspect, the non-human animal is a small mammal, e.g., of the superfamily
Dipodoidea or Muroidea. In one embodiment, the genetically modified animal is a rodent. In
one embodiment, the rodent is selected from a mouse, a rat, and a hamster. In one
embodiment, the rodent is selected from the superfamily Muroidea. In one embodiment, the
genetically modified animal is from a family selected from Calomyscidae (e.g., mouse-like
hamsters), Cricetidae (e.g., hamster, New World rats and mice, voles), Muridae (true mice and
rats, gerbils, spiny mice, crested rats), Nesomyidae (climbing mice, rock mice, with-tailed rats,
Malagasy rats and mice), Platacanthomyidae (e.g., spiny dormice), and Spalacidae (e.g., mole
rates, bamboo rats, and zokors). In a specific embodiment, the genetically modified rodent is
selected from a true mouse or rat (family Muridae), a gerbil, a spiny mouse, and a crested rat.
In one embodiment, the genetically modified mouse is from a member of the family Muridae,
[000242] In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a rodent that is a mouse of a C57BL
strain. In one embodiment, the C57BL strain is selected from C57BL/A, C57BL/An,
C57BL/GrFa, C57BL/KaLwN, C57BL/6, C57BL/6J, C57BL/6ByJ, C57BL/6N, C57BL/6NJ,
C57BL/1 0, C57BL/1 OScSn, C57BL/1 OCr, and C57BL/Ola. In another embodiment, the mouse
is a 129 strain. In one embodiment, the 129 strain is selected from the group consisting of
129P1, 129P2, 129P3, 129X1, 129S1 (e.g., 129S1/SV, 129S1/Svlm), 129S2, 129S4, 129S5,
129S9/SvEvH, 129S6 (129/SvEvTac), 129S7, 129S8, 129T1, 129T2 (see, e.g., Festing et al.
(1999) Revised nomenclature for strain 129 mice, Mammalian Genome 10:836, see also,
Auerbach et al. (2000) Establishment and Chimera Analysis of 129/SvEv- and C57BL/6
Derived Mouse Embryonic Stem Cell Lines). In one embodiment, the genetically modified
mouse is a mix of an aforementioned 129 strain and an aforementioned C57BL strain (e.g., a
C57BL/6 strain). In another embodiment, the mouse is a mix of aforementioned 129 strains, or
a mix of aforementioned C57BL/6 strains. In one embodiment, the 129 strain of the mix is a
129S6 (129/SvEvTac) strain. In another embodiment, the mouse is a mix of a 129/SvEv- and a
C57BL/6-derived strain. In a specific embodiment, the mouse is a mix of a 129/SvEv- and a
C57BL/6-derived strain as described in Auerbach et al. 2000 BioTechniques 29:1024-1032. In
another embodiment, the mouse is a BALB strain, e.g., BALB/c strain. In another embodiment,
the mouse is a mix of a BALB strain (e.g., BALB/c strain) and another aforementioned strain.
[000243]     In one embodiment, the non-human animal is a rat. In one embodiment, the rat is
selected from a Wistar rat, an LEA strain, a Sprague Dawley strain, a Fischer strain, F344, F6,
and Dark Agouti. In one embodiment, the rat strain is a mix of two or more of a strain selected
from the group consisting of Wistar, LEA, Sprague Dawley, Fischer, F344, F6, and Dark Agouti.
                                                44

                         Table I
VH Family VH  Gene Alleles     VH Family VH Gene Alleles
              1-2      5                    4-4     7
              1-3     2                    4-28     6
              1-8     2                   4-30-1     1
             1-18      3                  4-30-2    5
   VH1       1-24      1          V4      4-30-4    6
             1-45      3                   4-31     10
             1-46      3                   4-34     13
             1-58      2                   4-39     7
             1-69     13                   4-59     10
                                           4-61     8
             2-5      10
   VH2      2-26       1          VH5      5-51     5
            2-70      13
                                  VH6       6-1     2
              3-7      3
              3-9      2          VH7      7-4-1    5
             3-11      4           H7-81            1
            3-13       4
             3-15      8
             3-16      2
             3-20      1
             3-21      4
             3-23      5
             3-30     19
           3-30-3      2
           3-30-5      1
   VH3-33              6
             3-35      1
             3-38      2
             3-43      2
             3-48      4
             3-49      5
             3-53      4
             3-64      5
             3-66      4
             3-72      2
             3-73      2
             3-74      3
                           45

                                               Table 2
                       IgHV1-69 Allele    Accession Number       NA/      N)
                                                                        otei
                         IgHV1-69*01            L22582              34/35
                         IgHV1-69*02            Z27506              36/37
                         IgHV1-69*03            X92340              38/39
                         IgHV1-69*04            M83132              40/41
                         IgHV1-69*05            X67905              42/43
                         IgHV1-69*06            L22583              44/45
                         IgHV1-69*07            Z29978              46/47
                         IgHV1-69*08            Z14309              48/49
                         IgHV1-69*09            Z14307              50/51
                         IgHV1-69*10            Z14300              52/53
                         IgHV1-69*11            Z14296              54/55
                         IgHV1-69*12            Z14301              56/57
                         IgHV1-69*13            Z14214              58/59
                                               Table 3
                        IgHV1-2 Allele   Accession Number        NAProeN)
                           IgHV1-2*01          X07448              60/61
                           IgHV1-2*02          X62106              62/63
                           IgHV1-2*03          X92208              64/65
                           IgHV1-2*04           Z12310             66/67
                           IgHV1-2*05        HM855674              68/69
Antigen-Dependent VH Gene Usage
[000244] Antigen-dependent preferential usage of VH genes can be exploited in the
development of human therapeutics targeting clinically significant antigens. The ability to
generate a repertoire of antibody variable domains using a particular VH gene can provide a
significant advantage in the search for high-affinity antibody variable domains to use in human
therapeutics. Studies on naive mouse and human VH gene usage in antibody variable domains
reveal that most heavy chain variable domains are not derived from any particular single or
dominantly used VH gene. On the other hand, studies of antibody response to certain antigens
reveal that in some cases a particular antibody response displays a biased usage of a
particular VH gene in the B cell repertoire following immunization.
[000245] Although the human VH repertoire is quite diverse, by some estimates the expected
frequency of usage of any given VH gene, assuming random selection of VH genes, is about 2%
(Brezinschek et al., 1995, Analysis of the Heavy Chain Repertoire of Human Peripheral B Cells
Using Single-Cell Polymerase Chain Reaction, J. Immunol. 155:190-202). But VH usage in
peripheral B cells in humans is skewed. In one study, functional V gene abundance followed
the pattern VH3  > VH4   >  VH1 > VH2 > VHS > VH6 (Davidkova et al., 1997, Selective Usage of VH
                                                  46

Genes in Adult Human Lymphocyte Repertoires, Scand. J. Immunol. 45:62-73). One early
study estimated that VH3 family usage frequency was about 0.65, whereas VH1 family usage
frequency was about 0.15; these and other observations suggest that the germline complexity
of the human VH repertoire is not precisely reflected in the peripheral B cell compartment in
humans that have a normal germline VH repertoire, a situation that is similar to that observed in
the mouse-i.e., VH gene expression is non-stochastic (Zouali and These, 1991, Probing VH
Gene-Family Utilization in Human Peripheral B Cells by In Situ Hybridization, J. Immunol.
146(8):2855-2864). According to one report, VH gene usage in humans, from greatest to least,
is VH3  > VH4 >  VH1  > VH5 > VH2  > VH6; rearrangements in peripheral B cells reveal that VH3
family usage is higher than to be expected based on the relative number of germline VH3 genes
(Brezinschek et al., 1995). According to another report VH usage in humans follows the pattern
VH3  > VH5  > VH2  > VH1  > VH4 > VH6, based on analysis of pokeweed mitogen-activated
peripheral small immunocompetent B cells (Davidkova et al., 1997, Selective Usage of VH
Genes in Adult Human B Lymphocyte Repertoires, Scand. J. Immunol. 45:62-73). One report
asserts that among the most frequently used VH3 family members are 3-23, 3-30 and 3-54
(Brezinschek et al., 1995). In the VH4 family, member 4-59 and 4-4b were found relatively more
frequently (Id.), as well as 4-39 and 4-34 (Brezinscheck et al., 1997, Analysis of the Human VH
Gene Repertoire, J. Clin. Invest. 99(10):2488-2501). Others postulate that the activated heavy
chain repertoire is skewed in favor of high VH5 expression and lower VH3 expression (Van Dijk
Hard and Lundkvist, 2002, Long-term kinetics of adult human antibody repertoires, Immunology
107:136-144). Other studies assert that the most commonly used VH gene in the adult human
repertoire is VH4-59, followed by VH3-23 and VH3-48 (Arnaout et al., 2001, High-Resolution
Description of Antibody Heavy-Chain Repertoires in Humans, PLoS ONE 6(8):108). Although
usage studies are based on relatively small sample numbers and thus exhibit high variance,
taken together the studies suggest that V gene expression is not purely stochastic. Indeed,
studies with particular antigens have established that-in certain cases-the deck is firmly
stacked against certain usages and in favor of others.
[000246]    Over time, it became apparent that the observed repertoire of human heavy chain
variable domains generated in response to certain antigens is highly restricted. Some antigens
are associated almost exclusively with neutralizing antibodies having only certain particular VH
genes, in the sense that effective neutralizing antibodies are derived from essentially only one
VH  gene. Such is the case for a number of clinically important human pathogens.
[000247] VH1-69-derived heavy chains have been observed in a variety of antigen-specific
antibody repertoires of therapeutic significance. For instance, VH1-69 was frequently observed
in heavy chain transcripts of an IgE repertoire of peripheral blood lymphocytes in young
children with atopic disease (Bando et al., 2004, Characterization of VHF gene expressed in
PBL from children with atopic diseases: detection of homologous VH1-69 derived transcripts
                                                 47

from three unrelated patients, Immunology Letters 94:99-106). VH1-69-derived heavy chains
with a high degree of somatic hypermutation also occur in B cell lymphomas (Perez et al.,
2009, Primary cutaneous B-cell lymphoma is associated with somatically hypermutated
immunoglobulin variable genes and frequent use of VH1- 6 9 and VH4-59 segments, British
Journal of Dermatology 162:611-618), whereas some VHi -69-derived heavy chains with
essentially germline sequences (i.e., little to no somatic hypermutation) have been observed
among autoantibodies in patients with blood disorders (Pos et al., 2008, VH1- 6 9 germline
encoded antibodies directed towards ADAMTS1 3 in patients with acquired thrombotic
thrombocytopenic purpura, Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis 7:421-428).
[000248]     Further, neutralizing antibodies against viral antigens such as HIV, influenza and
hepatitis C (HCV) have been found to utilize germline and/or somatically mutated VH1-69
derived sequences (Miklos et al., 2000, Salivary gland mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue
lymphoma immunoglobulin       VH  genes show frequent use of V1-69 with distinctive CDR3
features, Blood 95(12):3878-3884; Kunert et aL, 2004, Characterization of molecular features,
antigen-binding, and in vitro properties of IgG and IgM variants of 4E1 0, an anti-HIV type I
neutralizing monoclonal antibody, Aids Research and Human Retroviruses 20(7):755-762;
Chan et al., 2001, VH1- 6 9 gene is preferentially used by hepatitis C virus-associated B cell
lymphomas and by normal B cells responding to the E2 viral antigen, Blood 97(4):1023-1026;
Carbonari et al., 2005, Hepatitis C virus drives the unconstrained monoclonal expansion of VH1
69-expressing memory B cells in type Il cryoglobulinemia: A model of infection-driven
lymphomagenesis, Journal of Immunology 174:6532-6539; Wang and Palese, 2009, Universal
epitopes of influenza virus hemagglutinins?, Nature Structural & Molecular Biology 16(3):233
234; Sui et al., 2009, Structural and functional bases for broad-spectrum neutralization of avian
and human influenza A viruses, Nature Structural & Molecular Biology 16(3):265-273; Marasca
et al., 2001, Immunoglobulin Gene Mutations and Frequent Use of VH1- 6 9 and VH4- 3 4
Segments in Hepatitis C Virus-Positive and Hepatitis C Virus-Negative Nodal Marginal Zone B
Cell Lymphoma, Am. J. Pathol. 159(1):253-261).
[000249]     VH usage bias is also observed in the humoral immune response to Haemophilus
influenzae type b (Hib PS) in humans. Studies suggest that the VHIII family (the VHIIlb
subfamily in particular, VH9 .1) exclusively characterizes the human humoral response to Hib
PS, with diverse D and J genes (Adderson et al., 1991, Restricted Ig H Chain V Gene Usage in
the Human Antibody Response to Haemophilus influenzae Type b Capsular Polysaccharide, J.
Immunol. 147(5):1667-1674; Adderson et al., 1993, Restricted Immunoglobulin         VH  Usage and
VDJ Combinations in the Human Response to Haemophilus influenzae Type b Capsular
Polysaccharide, J. Clin. Invest. 91:2734-2743). Human        JH genes also display biased usage;
JH4  and  JH6 are observed at about 38-41% in peripheral B cells in humans (Brezinschek et al.,
 1995).
                                                  48

[000250]     VH  usage in HIV-1-infected humans is reportedly biased against VH3 usage and in
favor of VH1 and VH4 gene families (Wisnewski et al., 1996, Human Antibody Variable Region
Gene Usage in HIV-1 Infection, J. Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndromes & Human
Retroviology 11(1):31-38). However, cDNA analysis of bone marrow from affected patients'
revealed significant VH3 usage not expressed in the functional B cell repertoire, where Fabs
reflecting the  VH3  usage exhibited effective in vitro neutralization of HIV-1 (ld.). It might be
postulated that the humoral immune response to HIV-1 infection is possibly attenuated due to
the  VH restriction; modified non-human animals as described herein (not infectable by HIV-1)
might thus be useful for generating neutralizing antibody domains derived from particular          VH
genes present in the genetically modified animals described herein, but derived from different
VH  genes than those observed in the restricted repertoire of affected humans.
[000251] Thus, the ability to generate high affinity human antibody variable domains in           VH
restricted mice, e.g., (restricted, e.g., to a VH3  family member and polymorph(s) thereof)
immunized with HIV-1 might provide a rich resource for designing effective HIV-1 -neutralizing
human therapeutics by thoroughly mining the restricted (e.g., restricted to a        VH3  family member
or variant(s) thereof) repertoire of such an immunized mouse.
[000252]     Restriction of the human antibody response to certain pathogens may reduce the
likelihood of obtaining antibody variable regions from affected humans that can serve as
springboards for designing high affinity neutralizing antibodies against the pathogen. For
example, the human immune response to HIV-1 infection is clonally restricted throughout HIV-1
infection and into AIDS progression (Muller et al., 1993, B-cell abnormalities in AIDS: stable
and clonally restricted antibody response in HIV-1 infection, Scand. J. Immunol. 38:327-334;
Wisnewski et al., 1996). Further,    VH   genes are in general not present in all polymorphic forms
in any particular individual; certain individuals in certain populations possess one variant,
whereas individuals in other populations possess a different variant. Thus, the availability of a
biological system that is restricted to a single   VH  gene and its variants will in various
embodiments provide a hitherto unexploited source of diversity for generating antibody variable
regions (e.g., human heavy and light cognate domains) based on a restricted           VH   gene. Thus,
in one aspect, a genetically modified non-human animal is provided that comprises a plurality of
polymorphic variants of no more than one, or no more than two, human          VH    gene segment
family member. In one embodiment, the no more than one, or no more than two, human                VH
gene segments are operably linked to one or more human           DH  gene segments, one or more
human    JH gene segments, and a human or non-human constant region gene segment. In one
embodiment the constant region is at an endogenous non-human immunoglobulin constant
gene locus. In one embodiment, the non-human animal further comprises a nucleic acid
sequence derived from a human VL sequence, e.g., a rearranged or unrearranged human VL
gene segment or a rearranged human VL/JL sequence. In one embodiment, the nucleic acid
                                                     49

sequence derived from the human VL sequence is at an endogenous non-human VL gene
locus; in one embodiment, the nucleic acid sequence derived form the human VL sequence is
on a transgene. In a specific embodiment, the non-human animal is incapable of expressing an
immunoglobulin light chain variable domain that itself comprises an endogenous VL or JL gene
segment, and comprises no more than one, or no more than two, light chain genes that encode
rearranged human VL domains (i.e., from no more than one, or no more than two, rearranged
human VL/JL sequences).
[000253] Genetically modified mice that express human heavy chain variable regions with
restricted VH  gene segment usage are useful to generate a relatively large repertoire of
junctionally diverse, combinatorially diverse, and somatically mutated high affinity human
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable regions from an otherwise restricted repertoire. A
restricted repertoire, in one embodiment, refers to a predetermined limitation in the number
and/or identity of germline genes that results in the mouse being unable to form a rearranged
heavy chain gene that is derived from any V gene other than a preselected V gene. In
embodiments that employ a preselected V gene but not a preselected D and/or J gene, the
repertoire is restricted with respect to the identity of the V gene but not the D and/or J gene
(e.g., the repertoire consists essentially of no more than one, or no more than two,   VH  gene
segments (and/or polymorphs thereof); and a plurality of D gene segments and a plurality of J
gene segments)). The identity of the preselected V gene (and any preselected D and/or J
genes) is not limited to any particular V gene.
[000254]     Designing a mouse so that it rearranges a single    VH gene (present as a single
segment or a set of variants) with a variety of human D and J gene segments (e.g.,      DH  and JH
segments) provides an in vivo junctional diversity/combinatorial diversity/somatic hypermutation
permutation machine that can be used to iterate mutations in resulting rearranged heavy chain
variable region sequences (e.g., V/D/J or V/J, as the case may be). In such a mouse, the
clonal selection process operates to select suitable variable regions that bind an antigen of
interest that are based on a single preselected VH gene (or variants thereof). Because the
mouse's clonal selection components are dedicated to selection based on the single
preselected   VH gene segment, background noise (e.g., a wide variety of non antigen-binding      VH
domains derived from many germline gene segments) is largely eradicated. With judicious
selection of the VH   gene segment, a relatively larger number of clonally selected, antigen
specific antibodies can be screened in a shorter period of time than with a mouse with a large
diversity of V segments.
 [000255]    Preselecting limited repertoire and restricting a mouse to a single V segment
 provides a system for permuting V/D/J junctions at a rate that is in various embodiments higher
than that observed in mice that otherwise have up to 40 or more V segments to recombine with
 D and J regions. Removal of other V segments frees the locus to form more V/D/J
                                                   50

combinations for the preselected V segment than otherwise observed. The increased number
of transcripts that result from the recombination of the preselected V with one of a plurality of D
and one of a plurality of J segments will feed those transcripts into the clonal selection system
in the form of pre-B cells, and the clonal selection system is thus dedicated to cycling B cells
that express the preselected V region. In this way, more unique V region rearrangements
derived from the preselected V segment can be screened by the organism than would
otherwise be possible in a given amount of time.
[000256]     In various aspects, mice are described that enhance the junctional diversity of V/D/J
recombinations for the preselected V region, because all or substantially all recombinations of
the immunoglobulin heavy chain variable locus will be of the preselected V segment and the D
and J segments that are placed in such mice. Therefore, the mice provide a method for
generating a diversity of CDR3 segments using a base, or restricted       VH gene repertoire.
[000257]     In one aspect, a non-human animal is provided, wherein the B cell population of the
non-human animal expresses immunoglobulin heavy chains that are derived from no more than
one, or no more than two human       VH gene segments. In one embodiment, each of the no more
than one, or no more than two, human       VH gene segments are present in two or more
polymorphic forms. In one embodiment, the human          VH gene segment is present in three, four,
five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 or 20 polymorphic forms. In
one embodiment, the non-human animal expresses a human light chain variable domain
derived from a human VL gene segment.
[000258]     In one aspect, a method is provided for generating a B cell population in a non
human animal, wherein the B cell population expresses human heavy chains derived from a
single germline human     VH  gene segment and two or more human D gene segments and two or
more human J gene segments; the method comprising a step of immunizing a non-human
animal as described herein with an antigen of interest, and allowing the non-human animal to
mount an immune response to the antigen of interest, wherein the immune response comprises
expressing the human heavy chains on the surface of B cells in the B cell population In one
embodiment, the non-human animal is a rodent (e.g., a mouse or rat). In one embodiment, the
human    VH  gene segment, human      DH segment, and human     JH segment are operably linked to a
non-human constant region gene. In one embodiment, the non-human animal further
comprises a nucleic acid sequence encoding a human VL domain. In one embodiment, the
nucleic acid sequence encoding the human VL domain is linked to a non-human light chain
constant region gene sequence.
[000259]      In one aspect, a method for making a non-human animal that expresses an
immunoglobulin population characterized by the immunoglobulins having heavy chains that are
derived from a plurality of rearrangements of a single human      VH gene segment (or sing human
VH   gene family member) and one of a plurality of    DH gene segments and one of a plurality of JH
                                                   51

gene segments, is provided. In one embodiment, the human VH gene segment is a human
VH1-69 gene segment. In one embodiment, the human VH gene segment is a human VH1- 2
gene segment.
[000260]     In one aspect, a method is provided for generating a population of human
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domains whose CDR1 and CDR2 are derived from the
same germline    VH  gene segment, and whose CDR3 are derived from the germline gene
segment and two or more human D segments, and two or more human J segments; the
method comprising immunizing a non-human animal as described herein with an antigen of
interest, and allowing the non-human animal to mount an immune response to the antigen of
interest, wherein the immune response comprises expressing the human heavy chain variable
domains in the context of a light chain variable domain. In one embodiment, the non-human
animal is a rodent (e.g., a mouse or rat). In one embodiment, the human      VH gene segment,
human D segment, and human J segment are operably linked to a non-human constant region
gene. In one embodiment, the non-human animal further comprises a nucleic acid sequence
encoding a human VL domain. In one embodiment, the nucleic acid sequence encoding the
human VL domain is linked to a non-human light chain constant region gene sequence.
[000261]     In one aspect, a genetically modified non-human animal is provided, wherein the
non-human animal is incapable of expressing a non-human VH domain, and wherein each
immunoglobulin heavy chain of the heavy chain population expressed in the animal comprises
a human    VH  domain comprising a CDR1 and a CDR2 that are identical but for one or more
somatic hypermutations, and wherein the heavy chain population comprises a plurality of CDR3
sequences derived from a plurality of rearrangements with a plurality of D and J gene
segments.
[000262]     In one aspect, a biological system for generating variation in CDR3 identity and
length is provided, comprising a genetically modified non-human animal as described herein,
wherein the non-human animal comprises no more than or no more than two human           VH gene
segments, and two or more D gene segments and one or more J gene segments, wherein the
non-human animal further comprises a humanized immunoglobulin light chain locus. In various
embodiments, the non-human animal in response to immunization with an antigen of interest
generates an immune response that comprises expressing an immunoglobulin heavy chain
population characterized by each heavy chain having CDR1s and CDR2s that differ only by
somatic hypermutation, and CDR3s that differ by rearrangement and somatic hypermutation.
In one embodiment, the biological system is a mouse that is genetically modified as described
herein. In one embodiment, the human       VH gene segment and the human VL gene segment are
at endogenous mouse heavy and light immunoglobulin loci, respectively. In one embodiment,
one or more of the human     VH gene segment and the human VL gene segment are on
transgenes (i.e., at a locus other than an endogenous immunoglobulin locus).
                                                 52

EXAMPLES
[000263] The following examples are provided so as to describe to those of ordinary skill in
the art how to make and use methods and compositions of the invention, and are not intended
to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention. Unless indicated otherwise,
temperature is indicated in Celsius, and pressure is at or near atmospheric. In the foregoing
Examples, when the use of kits and/reagents from various suppliers is indicated, all procedures
were carried out according to manufacturer's specifications.
Example 1       Construction of Restricted Heavy Chain Loci
[000264] A uniquely engineered human heavy chain locus containing a single human          VH   gene
segment located upstream of all the human     DH and  JH gene segments was created by a series
of homologous recombination reactions in bacterial cells (BHR) using Bacterial Artificial
Chromosome (BAC) DNA. Several targeting constructs for creation of a single VH containing
heavy chain locus were constructed using VELOCIGENE@ genetic engineering technology
(see, e.g., US Pat. No. 6,586,251 and Valenzuela, D.M. et al. (2003) High-throughput
engineering of the mouse genome coupled with high-resolution expression analysis. Nature
Biotechnology 21(6): 652-659).
[000265]     Construction of a Human VH1-69 Restricted Heavy Chain Locus. Briefly, four
modifications were performed using human BAC DNA to create a targeting construct containing
a human VH1- 6 9 gene segment with all the human     DH  and JH  segments (FIG. 1). In the first
modification, a modified human BAC containing multiple distal (5') human    VH  gene segments,
including VH1- 6 9, an upstream hygromycin selection cassette and a 5' mouse homology arm
was targeted with a second spectinomycin cassette, which also contained a modified
recombination signal sequence (RSS; BHR 1, FIG. 1, top left). This modified recombination
signal sequence (RSS) introduced two point mutations (T to A and G to A) in the 3' RSS region
of the human VH1-69 gene changing the RSS nonamer to the optimal consensus sequence.
Thus, the first modification (BHR 1) created a human genomic fragment containing the human
VH1-69 gene segment with a modified 3' RSS, a unique AsiSI restriction site about 180 bp
downstream of the RSS and a spectinomycin cassette (FIG. 1, middle left).
 [000266] The second modification (BHR 2) included the use of a neomycin (Neo) cassette
flanked by Frt sites to delete the hygromycin cassette and 5' human   VH  gene segments
 upstream of the VH1-69 gene segment. This modification was targeted 5' to the human VH1-69
gene segment to leave intact about 8.2 kb of the promoter region of human VH1-69 and the 5'
 mouse homology arm (FIG. 1, bottom left).
 [000267] The third modification (BHR 3) included another spectinomycin cassette flanked by
 uniquely engineered 5' PI-Scel and 3' AsiSI sites targeted to a human genomic fragment
                                                 53

containing the first three functional human VH gene segments and all the human DH and        JH
gene segments (FIG. 1, middle right). The human genomic fragment was previously targeted
with a neomycin cassette and contained 5' and 3' homology arms containing the mouse
genomic sequence 5' and 3' of the endogenous heavy chain locus including the 3' intronic
enhancer and the IgM gene. This modification deleted the 5' mouse genomic sequence and
human VH gene segments, leaving about 3.3 kb of the VH-DH intergenic region upstream of the
human DH1-1 gene segment, all of the human DH and         JH segments, and the 3' mouse genomic
fragment containing the 3' intronic enhancer and the IgM gene (FIG. 1, bottom right).
[000268] The fourth modification was achieved by employing the unique PI-Scel and AsiSi
sites (described above) to ligate the two modified BACs from BHR 2 and BHR 3 (FIG. 1, bottom
center), which yielded the final targeting construct. The final targeting construct for the creation
of a modified heavy chain locus containing a single human VH gene segment and all the human
DH and   JH gene segments in ES cells contained, from 5' to 3', a 5' homology arm containing
about 20 kb of mouse genomic sequence upstream of the endogenous heavy chain locus, a 5'
Frt site, a neomycin cassette, a 3' Frt site, about 8.2 kb of the human VHi-69 promoter, the
human VH1-69 gene segment with a modified 3' RSS, 27 human DH gene segments, six human
JH  segments, and a 3' homology arm containing about 8 kb of mouse genomic sequence
downstream of the mouse       JH gene segments including the 3' intronic enhancer and IgM gene
(FIG. 1, bottom). The Human VH1-69 Targeting Vector (SEQ ID NO: 3) was linearized and
electroporated into mouse ES cells heterozygous for a deletion of the endogenous heavy chain
locus.
[000269] Construction of a Human VH1-          2 Restricted Heavy Chain Locus. Using the steps
described above, other polymorphic VH gene segments in the context of mouse heavy chain
constant regions are employed to construct a series of mice having a restricted number
immunoglobulin heavy chain V segments (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5), wherein the V segments are
polymorphic variants of a V gene family member. Exemplary polymorphic VH gene segments
are derived from human VH gene segments including, e.g., VH1-2, VH2 -26, VH2-70 and VH3-23.
Such human VH gene segments are obtained, e.g., by de novo synthesis (e.g., Blue Heron
Biotechnology, Bothell, WA) using sequences available on published databases. Thus, DNA
fragments encoding each VH gene are, in some embodiments, generated independently for
incorporation into targeting vectors, as described herein. In this way, multiple modified
immunoglobulin heavy chain loci comprising a restricted number of VH gene segments are
engineered in the context of mouse heavy chain constant regions. An exemplary targeting
strategy for creating a restricted humanized heavy chain locus containing a human VH1-      2 gene
segment, 27 human DH gene segments, and six human           JH gene segments is shown in FIG. 2.
[000270]     Briefly, a modified human BAC clone containing three human VH gene segments
(VH6-1, VH1- 2 , VH1-3), 27 human DH gene segments, and six human        JH gene segments (see
                                                  54

USSN 13/404,075; filed 24 February 2012, herein incorporated by reference) is used to create
a restricted humanized heavy chain locus containing a human VH1-2 gene segment. This
modified BAC clone functionally links the aforementioned human heavy chain gene segments
with the mouse intronic enhancer and the IgM constant region. The restricted human VH1-2
based heavy chain locus is achieved by two homologous recombinations using the modified
human BAC clone described above.
[000271]     For the first homologous recombination, 205 bp of the human VH6-1 gene segment
(from about 10 bp upstream (5') of the VH6-1 start codon in exon 1 to about 63 bp downstream
(3') of the beginning of exon 2) in the modified human BAC clone is deleted by bacterial
homologous recombination using a spectinomycin (aadA) cassette flanked by unique PI-Scel
restriction sites (FIG. 2, BHR 1). This allows for subsequent removal of the aadA cassette
without disrupting other human gene segments within the restricted heavy chain locus.
[000272]     For the second homologous recombination, the 5' end of the modified human BAC
clone including the entire human VH1-3 gene segment and about 60 bp downstream (3') of the
gene segment is deleted by homologous recombination using a hygromycin cassette containing
flanking 5' AsiSI and 3' AscI restriction sites (FIG. 2, BHR 2). As described above, the
spectinomycin cassette is optionally removed after confirmation of the final targeting vector
including deletion of the two human    VH  gene segments flanking the human VH1-2 gene
segment (FIG. 2, bottom). An exemplary human VH1-2 targeting vector is set forth in SEQ ID
NO: 70.
[000273]     Employing polymorphic    VH  gene segments in a restricted immunoglobulin heavy
chain locus represents a novel approach for generating antibodies, populations of antibodies,
and populations of B cells that express antibodies having heavy chains with diverse CDRs
derived from a single human      VH gene segment. Exploiting the somatic hypermutation
machinery of the host animal along with combinatorial association with rearranged human
immunoglobulin light chain variable domains results in the engineering of unique heavy chains
and unique    VHNL   pairs that expand the immune repertoire of genetically modified animals and
enhance their usefulness as a next generation platform for making human therapeutics,
especially useful as a platform for making neutralizing antibodies specific for human pathogens.
 [000274] Thus, using the strategy outlined above for incorporation of additional and/or other
polymorphic    VH  gene segments into the mouse immunoglobulin heavy chain locus allows for
the generation of novel antibody repertoires for use in neutralizing human pathogens that might
otherwise effectively evade the host immune system.
 [000275] Targeted ES cells described above were used as donor ES cells and introduced into
an 8-cell stage mouse embryo by the VELOCIMOUSE@ method (supra). Mice bearing a
 humanized heavy chain locus containing a single human      VH  gene segment, all the human  DH
and   JH gene segments operably linked to the mouse immunoglobulin constant region genes
                                                   55

were identified by genotyping using a modification of allele assay (Valenzuela et aL, supra) that
detected the presence of the neomycin cassette, the human       VH  gene segment and a region
within the human   DH and  JH  gene segments as well as endogenous heavy chain sequences.
Table 4 sets forth the primers and probes used in this assay to confirm mice harboring a
restricted heavy chain locus containing a single human VH1-    69  gene segment, 27 human    DH
gene segments and six human       JH gene segments.
[000276]    Mice bearing an engineered heavy chain locus that contains a single human      VH
gene segment can be bred to a FLPe deletor mouse strain (see, e.g., Rodriguez, C.I. et aL.
(2000) High-efficiency deleter mice show that FLPe is an alternative to Cre-loxP. Nature
Genetics 25: 139-140) in order to remove any Frt'ed neomycin cassette introduced by the
targeting vector that is not removed, e.g., at the ES cell stage or in the embryo. Optionally, the
neomycin cassette is retained in the mice.
[000277]    Pups are genotyped and a pup heterozygous for a humanized heavy chain locus
containing a single human    VH  gene segment, all the human   DH  and  JH segments operably
linked to the endogenous mouse immunoglobulin constant genes is selected for characterizing
the immunoglobulin heavy chain repertoire.
                                              Table 4
   Name                   Sequence (5'-3')                                             SEQ ID
   (Region Detected)                                                                    NO:
   hyg                    Forward: TGCGGCCGAT CTTAGCC                                     4
   (hygromycin            Reverse: TTGACCGATT CCTTGCGG                                    5
   cassette)              Probe: ACGAGCGGGT TCGGCCCATT C                                  6
   neo                    Forward: GGTGGAGAGG CTATTCGGC                                   7
   (neomycin              Reverse: GAACACGGCG GCATCAG                                     8
   cassette)              Probe: TGGGCACAAC AGACAATCGG CTG                                9
   hIgH9T                 Forward: TCCTCCAACG ACAGGTCCC                                  10
   (human   DH - JH       Reverse: GATGAACTGA CGGGCACAGG                                 11
   genomic                Probe: TCCCTGGAAC TCTGCCCCGA CACA                              12
   sequence)
   77h3                   Forward: CTCTGTGGAA AATGGTATGG AGATT                           13
   (human VH1- 6 9        Reverse: GGTAAGCATA GAAGGTGGGT ATCTTT                          14
   gene segment)          Probe: ATAGAACTGT CATTTGGTCC AGCAATCCCA                        15
   mgHA7                  Forward: TGGTCACCTC CAGGAGCCTC                                 16
   (mouse   DH - JH       Reverse: GCTGCAGGGT GTATCAGGTG C                               17
    equenre)              Probe: AGTCTCTGCT TCCCCCTTGT GGCTATGAGC                        18
   88710T                 Forward: GATGGGAAGA GACTGGTAAC ATTTGTAC                        19
   (mouse 3'  VH          Reverse: TTCCTCTATT TCACTCTTTG AGGCTC                          20
   seenc)                 Probe: CCTCCACTGT GTTAATGGCT GCCACAA                           21
                                                  56

   mIgHd1O                Forward: GGTGTGCGAT GTACCCTCTG AAC
   (mouse 5' VH           Reverse: TGTGGCAGTT TAATCCAGCT TTATC                         22
   genomic               Probe: CTAAAAATGC TACACCTGGG GCAAAACACC                       24
   sequence)             TG
   mIgHp2                 Forward: GCCATGCAAG GCCAAGC                                  25
   (mouse JH              Reverse: AGTTCTTGAG CCTTAGGGTG CTAG                          26
   seqenc)               Probe: CCAGGAAAAT GCTGCCAGAG CCTG                             27
Example 2        Characterization of Mice Expressing Heavy Chains Derived From a Single
Human     VH  Gene Segment
[000278] Mice homozygous for a single human        VH gene segment at the endogenous heavy
chain locus as described in Example I were evaluated for expression and B cell development
using flow cytometry.
[000279] Briefly, spleens and bone marrow was harvested from wild type (n=3 per group; six
weeks old, male and female) and mice homozygous for a single human        VH gene segment, all
human    DH  and JH gene segments operably linked to mouse heavy chain constant regions. Red
blood cells from spleens were lysed with ACK lysis buffer (Lonza Walkersville), followed by
washing with complete RPMI medium.
[000280] Flow cytometry. Cells (1x 106) were incubated with anti-mouse CD16/CD32
(2.4G2, BD PHARMINGENT") on ice for 10 minutes, followed by labeling with the following
antibody panels for 30 minutes on ice. Bone marrow panel: anti-mouse FITC-CD43 (1B1 1,
BioLegend), PE-ckit (2B8, BIOLEGEND@), PeCy7-IgM (11/41, EBIOSCIENCE@), PerCP-Cy5.5
IgD (11-26c.2a, BIOLEGEND@), APC-eFluor 780-B220 (RA3-6B2, EBIOSCIENCE@), APC
CD19 (MB19-1, EBIOSCIENCE@).          Bone marrow and spleen panel: anti-mouse FITC-IgK
(187.1, BD Biosciences), PE-Igk (RML-42, BIOLEGEND@), PeCy7-IgM (11/41,
EBIOSCIENCE@), PerCP-Cy5.5-IgD (11-26c.2a, BIOLEGEND@), Pacific Blue-CD3 (17A2,
BIOLEGEND@), APC-B220 (RA3-6B2, EBIOSCIENCE@), APC-H7-CD19 (ID3, BD
Biosciences). Bone marrow: immature B cells (B220intIgM+), mature B cells (B220hIgM*), pro B
cells (CD19*ckit*CD43*), pre B cells (CD19*ckit-CD43~), immature igK B cells
(B220iltlgM+tgK+Igk~), immature Igk* B cells (B220intlgM+Ig~Igk+), mature IgK* B cells
(B220hilgM+lgK+Igk~), mature lgX* B cells (B220hilgM+IgK Igk+). Spleen: B cells (CD19*), mature
B cells (CD19+IgDhilgMint), transitional/immature B cells (CD19+IgDintgMhi). Bone marrow and
spleen: Igx* B cells (CD19*IgK+*gk-), IgX* B cells (CD19*1g-Igk*).
[000281] Following staining, cells were washed and fixed in 2% formaldehyde. Data
acquisition was performed on a LSRII flow cytometer and analyzed with FLOWJO T M software
(Tree Star, Inc.). Results for the splenic compartment are shown in FIGs. 3, 4A and 5 - 7.
Results for the bone marrow compartment are shown in FIGs. 4B and 8 - 11 B.
                                                57

[000282]    Human     VH  Expression. Expression of the human VHi-69 gene segment was
determined for mice heterozygous and homozygous for a human VH1-69 gene segment, all
human DH and      JH gene segments operably linked to mouse heavy chain constant regions by a
quantitative PCR assay using TAQMAN* probes.
[000283]    Briefly, CD1 9' B cells were purified from the spleens of groups of mice (n=3 per
group) using mouse CD19 microbeads (Miltenyi Biotec) according to manufacturer's
specifications. Total RNA was purified using the RNEASY TM Mini kit (Qiagen) and genomic
RNA was removed using an RNase-free DNase on-column treatment (Qiagen). About 200 ng
mRNA was reverse-transcribed into cDNA using the First Stand cDNA Synthesis kit
(Invitrogen), followed by amplification with the TAQMAN@ Universal PCR Master Mix (Applied
Biosystems) using the ABI 7900 Sequence Detection System (Applied Biosystems). Unique
primer/probe combinations were employed to specifically determine expression of human VH1
69-derived heavy chains (Table 5). Relative expression was normalized to the mouse       K
constant region (mCxK). The results are shown in FIG. 12.
                                                Table 5
           Name           Sequence (5'-3')                                   SEQ ID NO:
                          Sense: AACTACGCAC AGAAGTTCCA GG                        28
           hIgHV1-69      Anti-sense: GCTCGTGGAT TTGTCCGC                        29
                          Probe: CAGAGTCACG ATTACC                               30
                          Sense: TGAGCAGCAC CCTCACGTT                            31
           mCK            Antisense: GTGGCCTCAC AGGTATAGCT GTT                   32
                          Probe: ACCAAGGACG AGTATGAA                             33
Example 3         Humoral Immune Response in Mice Expressing Heavy Chains Derived
From a Single Human        VH  Gene Segment
[000284] The humoral immune response was determined for mice homozygous for human
heavy and   xK light chain variable gene loci (Hx) and mice homozygous for a single human   VH
gene segment, all human DH and       JH gene segments operably linked to mouse heavy chain
constant regions (1hVH HO) by comparative immunization using a human cell surface receptor
(Antigen A).
[000285]     Immunization. Serum was collected from groups of mice prior to immunization with
the above antigen. Antigen (2.35 pg each) was administered in an initial priming immunization
mixed with 10 pg of CpG oligonucleotide (Invivogen) and 25 pg of Adju-phos (Brenntag) as
adjuvants. The immunogen was administered via footpad (f.p.) in a volume of 25 pl per mouse.
Subsequently, mice were boosted via f.p. with 2.3 pg of antigen along with 10 pg CpG and 25
 pg Adju-Phos as adjuvants on days 3, 6, 11, 13, 17, and 20 for a total of six boosts. Mice were
                                                   58

bled on days 15 and 22 after the fourth and sixth boosts, respectively, and antisera were
assayed for antibody titers to Antigen A.
[000286]    Antibody titers were determined in sera of immunized mice using an ELISA assay.
Ninety six-well microtiter plates (Thermo Scientific) were coated with Antigen A (1 pg/ml) in
phosphate-buffered saline (PBS, Irvine Scientific) overnight at 40C. The following day, plates
were washed with phosphate-buffered saline containing 0.05% Tween 20 (PBS-T, Sigma
Aldrich) four times using a plate washer (Molecular Devices). Plates were then blocked with
250 pl of 1% bovine serum albumin (BSA, Sigma-Aldrich) in PBS and incubated for one hour at
room temperature. The plates were then washed four times with PBS-T. Sera from immunized
mice and pre-immune sera were serially diluted ten-fold in 0.1% BSA PBS-T starting at 1:100
and added to the blocked plates in duplicate and incubated for one hour at room temperature.
The last two wells were left blank to be used as secondary antibody control. The plates were
again washed four times with PBS-T in a plate washer. A 1:5000 dilution of goat anti-mouse
IgG-Fc-Horse Radish Peroxidase (HRP, Jackson Immunoresearch) conjugated secondary
antibody was added to the plates and incubated for one hour at room temperature. Plates were
again washed eight times with PBS-T and developed using TMB/H 20 2 as substrate. The
substrate was incubated for twenty minutes and the reaction stopped with 1 N H2 SO 4 (VWR).
Plates were read on a spectrophotometer (Victor, Perkin Elmer) at 450 nm. Antibody titers
were calculated using GRAPHPAD PRISMTM (GraphPad Software, Inc).
[000287]    Serum titer was calculated as serum dilution within experimental titration range at
the signal of antigen binding equivalent to two times above background. Antibody titer for the
humoral immune response against a human cell surface receptor (Antigen A) is set forth in FIG.
19.
[000288]    In a similar experiment, humoral immune responses were determined for mice
homozygous for human heavy and K light chain variable gene loci (HK) and mice homozygous
for a single human     VH  gene segment, all human  DH and JH gene segments operably linked to
mouse heavy chain constant regions (1hVH HO) by comparative immunization using influenza
viral vaccines FLUVIRIN@ (Novartis Vaccines) and FLUMIST@ (Medimmune LLC).
[000289]    Briefly, serum was collected from groups of mice prior to immunization with the
above antigen (as described above). Mice (n=5) homozygous for a single human         VH gene
segment (VH1-6    9 ), all human    and
                                 DH     JH  gene segments operably linked to mouse heavy chain
constant regions (1hVH HO) were immunized intra-nasally (i.n.) with FLUMIST@ (live attenuated
influenza vaccine) at 1/3 the normal dose/mouse. One normal dose of FLUMIST@ contains
106-75 FFU (fluorescent focus units) of live attenuated influenza vaccine. Therefore, each
mouse was primed with 70 pl FLUMIST@ on day 1 followed by i.n. boost on days 3, 6, 11, 13,
17, 20 for a total of 6 boosts. No adjuvants were employed in this immunization. The mice
                                                  59

were bled on days 15 and 22 after 4th and 6th boosts respectively and antiserum assayed for
antibody titers to FLUMIST@ (as described above).
[000290]     In a similar manner, in immunizations with FLUVIRIN@, pre-immune serum was
collected from mice prior to initiation of immunization. Mice (n=5) homozygous for a single
human    VH gene segment (VH1-    6 9 ), all human DH  and JH gene segments operably linked to
mouse heavy chain constant regions (1hVH HO) were immunized with FLUVIRIN@ (trivalent
inactivated influenza vaccine) via footpad (f p.) with 0.75 pg each of
hemagglutinin/mouse/boost. Mice were primed on day 1 followed by f p. boost on days 3, 6,
11, 13, 17, 20 for a total of 6 boosts. No adjuvants were employed in this immunization. The
mice were bled on days 15 and 22 after 4th and 6th boosts respectively and antiserum assayed
for antibody titers to FLUVIRIN@ (as described above).
[000291]     Serum titer was calculated as serum dilution within experimental titration range at
the signal of antigen binding equivalent to two times above background. Antibody titer for the
humoral immune response against FLUMIST@ and FLUVIRIN@ is set forth in FIG. 20.
[000292] As shown in this Example, antibody titers generated in 1hVH HO mice were
comparable to those generated in mice having a plurality of human       VH gene segments (HK) for
both a human cell surface receptor and a viral antigen (e.g., influenza). Thus, mice having
immunoglobulin heavy chain loci restricted to a single VH gene segment are capable of
mounting a robust immune response to antigen in a manner comparable to mice having
immunoglobulin heavy chain loci containing a plurality of human      VH gene segments (e.g., 80
VH)
Example 4        Analysis of Antibody Gene Usage and CDR3 Length in Mice Having a
Restricted Immunoglobulin Heavy Chain Locus
[000293]     Splenocytes harvested from mice homozygous for a single human       VH  gene segment
at the endogenous heavy chain locus and homozygous for a replacement of the endogenous K
light chain variable loci with human K light chain variable loci immunized with a human cell
surface receptor (Antigen A) were analyzed for heavy and light chain gene segment usage by
reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) on mRNA from splenic B cells.
[000294]     Briefly, spleens were harvested and homogenized in 1xPBS (Gibco) using glass
slides. Cells were pelleted in a centrifuge (500xg for 5 minutes), and red blood cells were lysed
in ACK Lysis buffer (Gibco) for 3 minutes. Cells were washed with 1xPBS and filtered using a
0.7pm cell strainer. B-cells were isolated from spleen cells using MACS magnetic positive
selection for CD1 9 (Miltenyi Biotec). Total RNA was isolated from pelleted B-cells using the
RNeasy Plus Kit (Qiagen). PolyA* mRNA was isolated from total RNA using the Oligotex@
Direct mRNA mini kit (Qiagen).
                                                    60

[000295]    Double-stranded cDNA was prepared from splenic B cell mRNA by 5' RACE using
the SMARTerTM Pico cDNA Synthesis Kit (Clontech) with substitution of the supplied reverse
transcriptase and dNTPs with Superscript@ 11and dNTPs (Invitrogen).      VH and Vi antibody
repertoires were amplified from the cDNA using primers specific for IgM, IgG, or IgK constant
regions and the SMARTer     TM 5' RACE primer (Table 6). PCR products were purified using a
QlAquick@ PCR Purification Kit (Qiagen). A second round of PCR was done using the same 5'
RACE primer and a nested 3' primer specific for the IgM, IgG, or IgK constant regions (Table 7).
Second round PCR products were purified using a SizeSelectTM E-Gel@ system (Invitrogen). A
third PCR was performed with primers that added 454 adapters and barcodes. Third round
PCR products were purified using Agencourt@ AMPure@ XP Beads (Beckman Coulter).
Purified PCR products were quantified by SYBR@ qPCR using a KAPA Library Quantification
Kit (KAPA Biosystems). Pooled libraries were subjected to emulsion PCR (emPCR) using a
454 GS Junior Titanium Series Lib-A emPCR Kit (Roche Diagnostics) and bidirectional
sequencing using Roche 454 GS Junior instrument according to manufacturer's specifications.
[000296]    Bioinformatic analysis. The 454 sequences were sorted based on the sample
barcode perfect match and trimmed for quality. Sequences were annotated based on
alignment of rearranged immunoglobulin sequences to human germline V(D)J segment
database using local installation of Igblast (NCBI, v2.2.25+). A sequence was marked as
ambiguous and removed from analysis when multiple best hits with identical score were
detected. A set of perl scripts was developed to analyze results and store data in mysql
database. CDR3 region was defined between conserved C codon and FGXG motif for light
and WGXG motif for heavy chains. CDR3 length was determined using only productive
antibodies. From the nucleic acid sequences and predicted amino acid sequences of the
antibodies, gene usage was identified for IgM-primed (15,650), IgG-primed (18,967), and IgK
primed (26,804) sequences. Results are shown in Table 8, Table 9, FIG. 21 and FIG. 22.
[000297]    Table 8 sets forth the percentage of observed human   DH and  JH gene segments
used among IgM-primed (15,650 sequences) and IgG-primed (18,967 sequences) VH1-69
derived heavy chain variable region sequences. Human DH4-4/DH4-11 and human DH5-5/DH5
 18 gene segments are presented in Table 8 together due to identical sequence identity
between the respective pairs of    DH gene segments. Table 9 sets forth the percentage of
human VK and    JK gene segments observed among light chains (26,804 sequences) cognate
with VH1-6 9 derived heavy chain variable regions. Percentages in Tables 8 and 9 represent
rounded values and in some cases may not equal 100% when added together.
 [000298] Amino acid length of the CDR3 region of IgM-primed VH1-69-derived heavy chains is
shown in FIG. 21. Amino acid length of the CDR3 region of IgG-primed VH1-69-derived heavy
chains is shown in FIG. 22.
                                                61

[000299] As shown in Tables 8 and 9, mice according to the invention generate antigen
specific antibodies containing VH1-69-derived heavy chains, which demonstrate a variety of
rearrangements of a human VH1-69 gene segment with a variety of human DH segments and
human    JH  segments. Further, the antigen-specific antibodies contain cognate human light
chains containing human VK domains resulting from a variety of rearrangements of human VK
and J gene segments.
                                             Table 6
          Primer               Sequence (5'-3')
          3' Cg1 outer         GGAAGGTGTG CACACCGCTG GAC                 (SEQ ID NO: 71)
          3' Cg2ac outer       GGAAGGTGTG CACACCACTG GAC                 (SEQ ID NO: 72)
          3' Cg2b outer        GGAAGGTGTG CACACTGCTG GAC                 (SEQ ID NO: 73)
          3' Cg3 outer         AGACTGTGCG CACACCGCTG GAC                 (SEQ ID NO: 74)
          3' mIgM CH1 outer TCTTATCAGA CAGGGGGCTC TC                     (SEQ ID NO: 75)
          3' mlgiC outer       AAGAAGCACA CGACTGAGGC AC                  (SEQ ID NO: 76)
                                             Table 7
       Primer                     Sequence (5'-3')
       3' mIgGl/2b CH1 inner      AGTGGATAGA CWGATGGGGG TG                 (SEQ ID NO: 77)
       3' mlgG2a/2c CH1 inner AGTGGATAGA CCGATGGGGC TG                     (SEQ ID NO: 78)
       3' mIgG3 CH1 inner         AAGGGATAGA CAGATGGGGC TG                 (SEQ ID NO: 79)
       3' mIgM CH1 inner          GGAAGACATT TGGGAAGGAC TG                 (SEQ ID NO: 80)
       3' mIgKC-2 inner           GGAAGATGGA TACAGTTGGT GC                 (SEQ ID NO: 81)
                                                62

                   Table 8
Human   DH 1gM  IgG      Human JH 1gM  IgG
    1-1     1.2 6.0         1      7.5  1.5
    1-7    39.9 9.0         2      3.3 4.2
   1-14     0.5 2.3         3     22.2 12.8
   1-20     2.3  1.4        4     51.5 36.4
   1-26     3.5 5.7         5     10.5  9.5
    2-2     1.1 3.2         6     4.9  29.4
    2-8     0.7 0.6
   2-15     0.3  1.2
   2-21     0.7 0.3
    3-3     6.3 5.2
    3-9     0.6 0.6
   3-10     0.9 10.3
   3-16     0.9 2.0
   3-22     5.1 2.7
 4-4/4-11   1.5 4.0
   4-17     1.5 4.7
   4-23    11.5 2.4
   5-12     1.1  1.8
 5-5/5-18   1.3 3.2
   5-24     0.3 3.3
    6-6     1.8 4.5
   6-13     6.1 7.4
   6-19     3.0 5.1
   6-25     0.1 0.6
   7-27     3.3 7.3
                     63

                  Table 9
Human VK % Observed     Human JK % Observed
   1-5       3.4           1        28.1
   1-6       1.3           2        25.3
   1-8        0            3        12.1
   1-9       1.3           4        22.5
  1-12       1.0           5        11.1
  1-13        0
  1-16       2.5
  1-17       3.6
  1-22        0
  1-27       0.5
  1-32        0
  1-33      14.3
  1-35        0
  1-37        0
  1-39       1.6
   2-4        0
  2-10        0
  2-14        0
  2-18        0
  2-19        0
  2-23        0
  2-24       0.7
  2-26        0
  2-28        0
  2-29        0
  2-30       1.9
  2-36        0
  2-38        0
  2-40       1.5
   3-7        0
  3-11       2.7
  3-15       3.9
  3-20      41.2
  3-25        0
  3-31        0
  3-34        0
   4-1      13.2
   5-2       0.1
  6-21        0
   7-3        0
                    64

We claim:
1.       A mouse having a restricted immunoglobulin heavy chain locus characterized by the
presence of a single human VH gene segment, one or more human DH gene segments, and
one or more human JH gene segments, wherein the single human VH gene segment is a
polymorphic VH gene segment.
2.       The mouse of claim 1, wherein the mouse comprises a deletion of all or substantially all
endogenous VH, DH, and JH gene segments.
3.       The mouse of claim 1, wherein the single human VH gene segment is selected from
VHl-2, VH1-69, VH2 -2 6 , VH2-70, and VH3- 2 3.
4.       The mouse of claim 3, wherein the single human VH gene segment is VH1-69
5.       The mouse of claim 3, wherein the single human VH gene segment is VHl- 2 .
6.       The mouse of claim 1, wherein the single human VH gene segment is operably linked to
a human or non-human immunoglobulin constant region gene.
7.       The mouse of claim 6, wherein the immunoglobulin constant region gene is a mouse,
rat, or human constant region gene.
8.       The mouse of claim 1, further comprising a one or more human immunoglobulin VL
gene segments operably linked to one or more human JL gene segments.
9.       The mouse of claim 8, wherein the one or more human VL gene segments and/or the
one or more human JL gene segments are selected from human Kand human k gene
segments.
10.      The mouse of claim 8, wherein the one or more human immunoglobulin VL gene
segments and one or more human JL gene segments are operably linked to a non-human light
chain constant gene.
                                                65

11.     The mouse of claim 10, wherein the non-human light chain constant gene is selected
from a mouse or rat    K or X constant region gene.
12.     A mouse comprising in its germline a replacement at an endogenous immunoglobulin
heavy chain locus of all or substantially all endogenous  VH,  DH, and  JH gene segments with
single human    VH  gene segment and/or polymorphic variants thereof, one or more human      DH
gene segments and one or more human         JH gene segments.
13. The mouse of claim 12, further comprising a replacement at an endogenous
immunoglobulin light chain locus of all or substantially all endogenous VL and JL gene
segments with one or more human VL and one or more human JL gene segments.
14.     The mouse of claim 12, wherein the single human      VH gene segment is selected from a
human VH1-69 and a human VH1-2 gene segment.
15.     A cell or tissue derived from the mouse of claim 1 or 12.
16.     A method of making a nucleic acid sequence encoding a human         VH domain comprising
        (a) immunizing a mouse of claim 1 or 12 with an antigen of interest;
        (b) allowing said mouse to mount an immune response to the antigen of interest; and,
        (c) obtaining a nucleic acid sequence encoding a human      VH domain from said mouse.
17.     The method of claim 16, wherein the immunoglobulin      VH  region sequence is at least
75% identical to SEQ ID NO: 34, SEQ ID NO: 36, SEQ ID NO: 38, SEQ ID NO: 40, SEQ ID
NO: 42, SEQ ID NO: 44, SEQ ID NO: 46, SEQ ID NO: 48, SEQ ID NO: 50, SEQ ID NO: 52,
SEQ ID NO: 54, SEQ ID NO: 56 or SEQ ID NO: 58.
18.     The method of claim 16, wherein the immunoglobulin      VH  region sequence comprises
SEQ ID NO: 34, SEQ ID NO: 36, SEQ ID NO: 38, SEQ ID NO: 40, SEQ ID NO: 42, SEQ ID
NO: 44, SEQ ID NO: 46, SEQ ID NO: 48, SEQ ID NO: 50, SEQ ID NO: 52, SEQ ID NO: 54,
SEQ ID NO: 56, SEQ ID NO: 58, or a polymorphic variant thereof.
19.     The method of claim 16, wherein the immunoglobulin      VH  region sequence encodes a
protein that is at least 75% identical with SEQ ID NO: 35, SEQ ID NO: 37, SEQ ID NO: 39,
SEQ ID NO: 41, SEQ ID NO: 43, SEQ ID NO: 45, SEQ ID NO: 47, SEQ ID NO: 49, SEQ ID
NO: 51, SEQ ID NO: 53, SEQ ID NO: 55, SEQ ID NO: 57 or SEQ ID NO: 59.
                                                  66

20.     The method of claim 16, wherein the immunoglobulin       VH region sequence is at least
95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 60, SEQ ID NO: 62, SEQ ID NO: 64, SEQ ID NO: 66 or SEQ ID
NO: 68.
21.     The method of claim 16, wherein the immunoglobulin       VH region sequence comprises
SEQ ID NO: 60, SEQ ID NO: 62, SEQ ID NO: 64, SEQ ID NO: 66, SEQ ID NO: 68. or a
polymorphic variant thereof.
22.     The method of claim 16, wherein the immunoglobulin       VH region sequence encodes a
protein that is at least 95% identical with SEQ ID NO: 61, SEQ ID NO: 63, SEQ ID NO: 65,
SEQ ID NO: 67 or SEQ ID NO: 69.
23.     Use of a mouse according to claims 1 or 12 to make a nucleic acid sequence encoding
a human heavy chain variable domain.
24.     Use according to claim 23, wherein the human heavy chain variable domain is
characterized by having human FR1-CDR1-FR2-CDR2-FR3 sequences derived from a
polymorphic human       VH  gene segment.
25.     Use according to claim 24, wherein the human       VH gene segment is selected from a
             2 , VH1- 6 9 , VH2-26,
human VH1-                          VH2 -70, or VH3-23 gene segment.
26.     Use according to claim 25, wherein the human       VH gene segment is VH1-2.
27.     Use according to claim 25, wherein the human       VH gene segment is VH1-69.
28.     Use of a mouse according to claim 1 or 12 to make a human antibody, wherein the
human antibody comprises a heavy chain variable domain derived from a rearranged human
VH1-2 gene segment, human VH1-69 gene segment, or polymorphic variant thereof.
29.     Use according to claim 28, wherein the rearranged human VH1- 6 9 gene segment is at
least 75% identical to SEQ ID NO: 34, SEQ ID NO: 36, SEQ ID NO: 38, SEQ ID NO: 40, SEQ
ID NO: 42, SEQ ID NO: 44, SEQ ID NO: 46, SEQ ID NO: 48, SEQ ID NO: 50, SEQ ID NO: 52,
SEQ ID NO: 54, SEQ ID NO: 56 or SEQ ID NO: 58.
                                                    67

30.     Use according to claim 28, wherein the rearranged human VHl-2 gene segment is at
least 95% identical to SEQ ID NO: 60, SEQ ID NO: 62, SEQ ID NO: 64, SEQ ID NO: 66 or
SEQ ID NO: 68.
                                               68

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
