ABSTRACT
System and methods for stimulating cartilage formation at a first tissue site through a second
tissue site is presented. The system (100) includes a fluid source (110) for supplying a
therapeutic solution (112), a reduced pressure source (120) for supplying reduced pressure,
a fluid delivery manifold (102) for deploying adjacent the first tissue site, and a vacuum
manifold (104) for deploying within the second tissue site. The fluid delivery manifold extends
between a proximal end fluidly coupled to the fluid supply and a distal end having at least one
aperture for delivering the therapeutic solution to the defect adjacent the articulating surface
of the first tissue site. The vacuum manifold extends between a proximal end fluidly coupled
to the reduced pressure source and a distal end having at least one aperture for delivering
the reduced pressure to the first tissue site adjacent the opposing surface of the first tissue
site.
FIG. 1

                     >:                  010
           C)N
           CCN
                    CD                       C
                          ICDN
                Co:
                                  .. \ 0
                               000
               oc
       co0
-m ---                  C

                                                -1
    STIMULATION OF CARTILAGE FORMATION USING REDUCED PRESSURE
                                           TREATMENT
[0001]      The present invention claims the benefit, under 35 USC § 119(e), of the filing of
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial Number 61/546,622, entitled "Stimulation of
Cartilage Formation using Reduced Pressure Treatment," filed October 13, 2011, by Lessing
et al., which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            1.    Field of the Invention
[0002]      The present invention relates generally to tissue treatment systems and in
particular to the stimulation of cartilage formation using reduced pressure treatment.
            2.    Description of Related Art
[0003]      Clinical studies and practice have shown that providing a reduced pressure in
proximity to a tissue site augments and accelerates the growth of new tissue at the tissue
site. The applications of this phenomenon are numerous, but application of reduced pressure
has been particularly successful in treating wounds. This treatment (frequently referred to in
the medical community as "negative pressure wound therapy," "reduced pressure therapy," or
"vacuum therapy") provides a number of benefits, including faster healing and increased
formulation of granulation tissue. Typically, reduced pressure is applied to tissue through a
porous pad or other manifolding device. Unless otherwise indicated, as used herein, "or"
does not require mutual exclusivity. The porous pad, often an open-cell foam, contains cells
or pores that are capable of distributing reduced pressure to the tissue and channeling fluids
that are drawn from the tissue. The porous pad often is incorporated into a dressing having
other components that facilitate treatment. While reduced pressure therapy has been used to
treat soft tissue injuries, such therapy has not been used extensively to promote, for example,
cartilage regeneration.
[0004]      Damage to cartilage through age, injury, wear, and metabolic disorders, such as
osteoarthritis, affect millions of people throughout the world. Indeed, it is currently believed
that 85% of all Americans will develop degenerative joint disease as a result of normal
activities that damage cartilage. The gradual degeneration and destruction of articular

                                                 -2
cartilage, one of three different types of cartilage, may be due to trauma, structural
deformation of the joints and being overweight. Articular cartilage is a highly organized
avascular tissue composed of chondrocytes formed in an extracellular matrix. Articular
cartilage is generally thin with an extremely low or insignificant blood flow and, as such, has a
very limited ability to repair or heal itself. Partial-thickness chondral defects, for example,
cannot spontaneously heal. This tissue is extremely important to the normal, healthy
function and articulation of joints. Articular cartilage enables joint motion surfaces to
articulate smoothly with a very low coefficient of friction. It also acts as a cushion to absorb
compressive, tensile, and shearing forces and, thus, helps protect the ends of bone and
surrounding tissue. The clinical manifestations of cartilage damage or wear are often painful
and debilitating, including swelling of the joint, crepitation, and decrease in functional mobility.
As the condition worsens, pain may even limit minimum physical efforts and persist at rest
making it difficult to sleep. If the condition persists without correction and/or therapy, the joint
can be totally destroyed, leading the patient to major replacement surgery with a total
prosthesis, or to disability. The complications of cartilage injury are multifold. For example,
injured cartilage tends to cause additional damage to articulations and the articular surfaces.
Damage to articular surfaces is linked to bone spur development, which further limits joint
movement.
[0005]     The other two types of cartilage are fibrocartilage and elastic cartilage.
Fibrocartilage offers strength with flexibility while providing shock absorption against impact
and tensile forces. Fibrocartilage may be found in several areas of the body including, the
annulus fibrosus of the intervertebral discs and the meniscus located in the knee joint.
Elastic cartilage may provide flexibility and structural support to portions of the body. Elastic
cartilage may also be found in several areas of the body including, the outer ear, the larynx,
and the epiglottis. Fibrocartilage and elastic cartilage may also be damaged from injuries or
degeneration. The damaged cartilage may be painful and debilitating and may further result
in cosmetic defects. Consequently, damaged cartilage can have sweeping effects on the
body that may ultimately lead to a reduced quality of life.
[0006]     Typically, the body cannot completely repair the cartilage. Cartilage is primarily
composed of collagen fibers, proteoglycans and elastin fibers that form an extracellular
matrix. The matrix is formed by specialized cells called chondrocytes. Chondrocytes are one
of the few cell types that can survive with a minimal blood supply. However, when cartilage is
damaged, the lack of an adequate blood supply to the chondrocytes results in an inability to
regenerate new chondrocytes, a process that requires an increased amount of nutrients and

                                                  -3
access through the blood stream to other cells and proteins. Full thickness articular cartilage
damage that exposes the subchondral bone or osteochondral lesions may generate a normal
inflammatory response that repairs the cartilage, but the new fibrocartilage formation is
functionally inferior.
[0007]      Current techniques to inhibit or delay degeneration of joint cartilage include use of
anti-inflammatory agents, chondrogenic stimulating factors, antirheumatics, systemics,
viscoprotection and injection of depot steroids. Other methods to inhibit or delay
degeneration of joint cartilage include implantation of chondrocytes or synthetic matrices.
One method of treatment for cartilage damage is surgical intervention, with reattachment and
reconstruction of the damaged tissue. None of the above methods are totally satisfactory,
and those methods rarely restore full functionality or return the tissue to its native normal
state. In addition, none of those methods are proven to regenerate cartilage in situ and in
vivo.
SUMMARY
[0008]     According to an illustrative embodiment, a system for stimulating formation of
cartilage at a defect in a first tissue site having an articulating surface within a joint and an
opposing surface adjacent a second tissue site is described. The system includes a fluid
source for supplying a therapeutic solution, a reduced pressure source for supplying reduced
pressure, a fluid delivery manifold for deploying adjacent the first tissue site, and a vacuum
manifold for deploying within the second tissue site. The fluid delivery manifold has a tubular
body extending between a proximal end fluidly coupled to the fluid supply and a distal end
having at least one aperture for delivering the therapeutic solution to the defect adjacent the
articulating surface of the first tissue site, and the tubular body is dimensioned to fit within the
joint adjacent the defect. The vacuum manifold has a tubular body extending between a
proximal end fluidly coupled to the reduced pressure source and a distal end having at least
one aperture for delivering the reduced pressure to the first tissue site adjacent the opposing
surface of the first tissue site. The tubular body of the vacuum manifold is dimensioned to be
inserted into the second tissue site adjacent the opposing surface of the first tissue site to
deliver reduced pressure through the second tissue site to the first tissue site to draw the
therapeutic solution from the fluid delivery manifold through the first tissue site and the defect.
[0009]     According to another illustrative embodiment, a system for stimulating formation of
new cartilage at a defect in cartilage having a first face and a second face opposing the first
face adjacent skin tissue is described. The system includes a fluid source for supplying a

                                                  -4
therapeutic solution, a reduced pressure source for supplying reduced pressure, a fluid
delivery manifold for deploying adjacent the first face of the cartilage, and a vacuum manifold
for deploying within the second face of the cartilage. The fluid delivery manifold has a tubular
body extending between a proximal end fluidly coupled to the fluid supply and a distal end
having at least one aperture for delivering the therapeutic solution to the defect adjacent the
first face of the cartilage. The vacuum manifold has a tubular body extending between a
proximal end fluidly coupled to the reduced pressure source and a distal end having at least
one aperture for delivering the reduced pressure through the skin tissue to the defect
adjacent the second face of the cartilage to draw the therapeutic solution from the fluid
delivery manifold adjacent the first face through the cartilage and the defect.
[0010]      According to another illustrative embodiment, a method for stimulating formation of
cartilage at a defect in a first tissue site having an articulating surface within a joint and an
opposing surface adjacent a second tissue site is described. The method includes
positioning the distal end of a fluid delivery manifold having at least one aperture within the
joint adjacent the articulating surface of the first tissue site, and connecting the proximal end
of the fluid delivery manifold to a fluid source containing a therapeutic solution. The method
further comprises positioning the distal end of a vacuum manifold having at least one
aperture within the second tissue site adjacent the opposing surface of the first tissue site,
and connecting the proximal end of the vacuum manifold to a reduced pressure source for
delivering reduced pressure to the first tissue site. The method also comprises delivering the
therapeutic solution to the articulating surface of the first tissue site, and delivering the
reduced pressure through the second tissue site to the first tissue site to draw the therapeutic
solution from the fluid delivery manifold through the first tissue site and the defect.
[0011]      According to another illustrative embodiment, a method for stimulating formation of
new cartilage at a defect in cartilage having a first face and a second face opposing the first
face adjacent skin tissue covering the cartilage is described. The method includes
positioning the distal end of a fluid delivery manifold having at least one aperture within the
joint adjacent the first face of the cartilage, and connecting the proximal end of the fluid
delivery manifold to a fluid source containing a therapeutic solution. The method further
comprises positioning the distal end of a vacuum manifold having at least one aperture
adjacent the second face of the cartilage, and connecting the proximal end of the vacuum
manifold to a reduced pressure source for delivering reduced pressure to the first face of the
cartilage. The method also comprises delivering the therapeutic solution to the first face of
the cartilage and the defect, and delivering the reduced pressure through the skin tissue to

                                                   -5
the defect adjacent the second face of the cartilage to draw the therapeutic solution from the
fluid delivery manifold adjacent the first face through the cartilage and the defect.
[0012]      According to yet another illustrative embodiment, a method for stimulating cartilage
formation at a defect in a first bone of two bones forming a joint includes positioning a first
manifold between the two bones and a second manifold within the first bone. The first
manifold is deployed adjacent a first face of the defect and the second manifold is deployed
adjacent a second, opposing face of the defect.
[0013]      Other objects, features, and advantages of the illustrative embodiments will
become apparent with reference to the drawings and detailed description that follow.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0014]      FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram of a reduced-pressure treatment system for repairing
cartilage in a right knee joint that includes a fluidic system and a reduced pressure system;
[0015]      FIG. 1A is a detailed view of the right knee joint of FIG. 1;
[0016]      FIG. 2 is a pictorial, cross-sectional view of a right knee joint, such as the right knee
joint of FIG. 1 taken along the saggital plane;
[0017]      FIG. 3 is a pictorial, top view the tibia, such as the tibia of FIG. 1, showing the
fibrocartilage and the articular cartilage attached to the tibia;
[0018]      FIG. 4 is a schematic view of a control system for the reduced-pressure treatment
system;
[0019]      FIG. 5A is a schematic top view of an illustrative embodiment of a fluid delivery
manifold for use in the reduced-pressure treatment system of FIG. 1;
[0020]      FIG. 5B is a schematic side view of the fluid delivery manifold of FIG. 5A;
[0021]      FIG. 5C is a schematic perspective view of the fluid delivery manifold of FIG. 5A;
[0022]      FIG. 6A is a schematic top view of an illustrative embodiment of a fluid delivery
manifold for use in the reduced-pressure treatment system of FIG. 1;

                                                  -6
[0023]      FIG. 6B is a schematic side view of the fluid delivery manifold of FIG. 6A;
[0024]      FIG. 6C is a schematic, perspective view of the fluid delivery manifold of FIG. 6A;
and
[0025]      FIG. 7 is a schematic diagram, with a portion shown in cross-section, of an
alternative embodiment for repairing cartilage in an ear using a reduced-pressure treatment
system.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0026]      In the following detailed description of the illustrative embodiments, reference is
made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof. These embodiments are
described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention, and it
is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical structural, mechanical,
electrical, and chemical changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of
the invention. To avoid detail not necessary to enable those skilled in the art to practice the
embodiments described herein, the description may omit certain information known to those
skilled in the art. The following detailed description is, therefore, not to be taken in a limiting
sense, and the scope of the illustrative embodiments are defined only by the appended
claims.
[0027]      The term "tissue site" as used herein refers to the location of a wound, fracture, or
other defect on or within any tissue, including but not limited to, bone tissue, muscle tissue,
connective tissue, and cartilage, such as elastic cartilage, articular cartilage, or fibrocartilage.
The term "tissue site" may further refer to areas of any tissue that are not necessarily
wounded or defective, but are instead areas in which it is desired to add or promote the
growth of additional tissue. For example, reduced pressure tissue treatment may be used in
certain tissue areas to grow additional tissue that may be harvested and transplanted to
another tissue location.
[0028]      As previously mentioned, the body includes three different types of cartilage having
distinctly different structures and distinctly different functions. Of the three types of cartilage
found in the body, both the articular cartilage and the fibro-cartilage are found in the knee.
Referring more specifically to FIGS. 1-3, a knee joint 30 of a human leg 32 (the right leg)
comprising a tibia 34 and a femur 36, having lateral and medial condyles 37, 38, are shown.
The knee joint 30 further comprises a lower articular cartilage 40 that covers the head of the

                                                 -7
tibia 34 and an upper articular cartilage 41 that covers the heads of the condyles 37, 38. The
articular cartilages 40, 41 provide articulating surfaces 42 and 43, respectively, to facilitate
articulation between the tibia 34 and the condyles 37, 38. Correspondingly, each of the
articular cartilages 40, 41 have interfacing surfaces 44 and 45, respectively, that are
opposite-facing and generally parallel to the articulating surfaces 42, 43 and interface with the
bone tissue of the tibia 34 and the condyles 37, 38, respectively. The knee joint 30 also
comprises fibro-cartilage which is also referred to as the meniscus 50 that includes two
semilunar pads of fibro-cartilage, the lateral meniscus 51 and the medial meniscus 52, each
having articulating surfaces 53 and 54, respectively, to further disperse friction between the
tibia 34 and the condyles 37, 38. Correspondingly, the lateral and medial meniscus 51, 52
have interfacing surfaces 55 and 56, respectively, that are generally opposite-facing to the
articulating surfaces 53, 54 and interface with the bone tissue of the tibia 34. The articulating
surfaces 53, 54 are concave to support the condyles 37, 38 that fit into and articulate within
the cups of the meniscus 50. The knee joint 30 further comprises a synovial membrane 60
that surrounds an inter-articular space 62 between the articulating surface 43 of the upper
articular cartilage 41 and the articulating surfaces 42, 53, 54 of the lower articular cartilage 40
and the meniscus 50.
[0029]      Cartilage defects may be caused by trauma, surgery, wear, arthritis, or cancer as
described above, or may be congenital. More specifically, in the illustrated embodiment, the
lower articular cartilage 40 and the meniscus 50 also may be damaged by such incidents
resulting in various types of defects in both types of cartilage, i.e., articular defects 48 in the
lower articular cartilage 40 and meniscus defects 58 in the meniscus 50, collectively the
cartilage defects, located at a tissue site in the knee joint 30. Referring more specifically to
FIGS. 1 and 1A, an illustrative embodiment of a reduced-pressure therapy system 100 for
stimulating cartilage formation in the cartilage defects of the tissue site is shown. The system
100 comprises a fluid delivery manifold 102 for being deployed into the synovial membrane
60 adjacent the upper articulating surface 43 of the upper articular cartilage 41 and the
articulating surfaces 53, 54 of the meniscus 50 including the articulating surfaces of the
cartilage defects, i.e., an articular defect surface 49 of the articular defect 48 and a meniscus
defect surface 59 of the meniscus defect 58. The fluid delivery manifold 102 may be used for
delivering a therapeutic solution 112 to the defect surfaces 49, 59 of the cartilage defects
from within the synovial membrane 60 as indicated by solid arrows 103. The system 100
further comprises a vacuum manifold 104 for deploying into the head of the tibia 34 adjacent
the lower interfacing surface 44 of the lower articular cartilage 40 and/or the interfacing
surfaces 55, 56 of the lateral and medial meniscus 51, 52 below or contiguous with lower

                                                -8
portions of the articular defect 48 and the meniscus defect 58. The vacuum manifold 104
may be used for delivering reduced pressure to the interfacing surfaces 44, 55, 56 from within
the head of the tibia 34 as indicated by the dashed arrows 105. Providing reduced pressure
within the head of the tibia 34 draws the therapeutic solution 112 through the lower articular
cartilage 40 and/or the meniscus 50 from the articular and meniscus defect surfaces 49, 59 of
the cartilage defects to the lower portions of the articular defect 48 and the meniscus defect
58.
[0030]     Application of the reduced pressure to draw therapeutic solution through the
articular cartilage 40 and/or the meniscus 50 and the tissue forming the head of the tibia 34
significantly enhances the flow and dispersion of the therapeutic solution to increase the
amount of cartilage formation for repairing the cartilage defects, as compared to application
of therapeutic solution to only the articular or meniscus defect surfaces 49, 59. Additionally,
the system may provide for multiple treatment sessions after deploying the fluid delivery
manifold 102 and the vacuum manifold 104 adjacent the tissue site in contrast to treatment
regimens that require repeated injections and positioning of a needle. Clearly, the system
100 may be used in a similar fashion to disperse therapeutic solution to repair cartilage
defects in the upper articular cartilage 41 by changing the position of the manifold to be in the
femur 36. It should be understood that the system 100 may be used for other joints of the
body between articulating surfaces, and in other areas of the body where cartilage growth
may be desired. It should also be understood that the system 100 may also be used for the
removal of fluids from the tissue site including, for example, the removal of exudates and
excess therapeutic solution, and for the delivery of other fluids including, for example, saline
and other fluids containing materials such as growth factors for facilitating the growth of
cartilage.
[0031]     The system 100 further comprises a fluid supply 110 that contains a therapeutic
solution 112 or other fluid as described above. The fluid supply 110 is connected to the fluid
delivery manifold 102 via a conduit 114 which includes a valve 116 for controlling the flow of
fluid through the conduit 114. The fluid supply 110 is operable to deliver the therapeutic
solution 112 to the fluid delivery manifold 102 by relying on simple gravity feed or by applying
a positive pressure (not shown) to the therapeutic solution 112. The therapeutic solution 112
may include a number of agents targeted for treating the cartilage defects. In a specific, non
limiting example, the therapeutic solution 112 may include a cell suspension, soluble
molecules, bioactive factors, chondrocytes, bone marrow stromal cells, stem cells, or
collagen, either alone or in any desirable combination. The therapeutic solution 112 may

                                                -9
include protease inhibitors to counteract increased amounts of proteases that may be found,
for example, in fluid surrounding osteoarthritic joints, as proteases may cause degradation of
cartilage. Additionally, the therapeutic solution 112 may include hyaluronic acid which has
been used to treat pain caused from cartilage defects.
[0032]     The fluid delivery manifold 102 may be an elongated tube having a distal end 106
that is closed and a proximal end 107 fluidly coupled to the conduit 114 by a connector 118.
The fluid delivery manifold 102 may have a cross-section that is generally circular in shape or
flattened as necessary to fit within the synovial membrane 60 between the tibia 34 and the
condyles 37, 38. In one embodiment, the fluid delivery manifold 102 is a tube having a
circular cross-section with a diameter sufficiently sized to fit between the tibia 34 and the
condyles 37, 38. For example, the distal end 106 may have diameter between about 1 mm
and about 12 mm. In one embodiment of the fluid delivery manifold 102, the elongated tube
is formed from a silicone material, but may also be formed from a variety of known medical
grade tubing. The fluid delivery manifold 102 further includes one or more apertures 119 or
fenestrations located adjacent the distal end 106 for delivering the therapeutic solution 112 to
the defect surfaces 49, 59 as described above and shown by the solid arrows 103. The
apertures 119 may be positioned on the fluid delivery manifold 102 to direct the flow of the
therapeutic solution 112 in a direct stream toward the defect surfaces 49, 59 or in multiple
directions as required by the specific therapeutic treatment. Although the apertures 119 are
arranged in a single row facing a single direction as shown, it should be appreciated that the
apertures 119 may be staggered or aligned around the circumference of the fluid delivery
manifold 102 to direct the therapeutic solution 112 in multiple directions. The fluid delivery
manifold 102 may also be positioned to direct therapeutic solution 112 in various directions to
optimize the therapeutic treatment. The apertures 119 may be formed in variety of different
shapes such as, for example, circular, oblong, or square. In one embodiment, the apertures
119 are slits. As indicated above, the apertures 119 are positioned along the longitudinal
axis of the fluid delivery manifold 102. However, it should be understood that the length of
the tube over which the apertures 119 are positioned depends on the on the size of the tissue
site being treated. The fluid delivery manifold 102 may be manufactured as one piece or
alternatively pieced together.
[0033]     The fluid supply 110 may be operable to provide a continuous supply of therapeutic
solution 112 to the tissue site. In another embodiment, the fluid supply 110 may be operable
to supply the therapeutic solution 112 to the tissue site according to a treatment schedule
determined by a healthcare provider. Regardless of whether the therapeutic solution 112 is

                                                - 10
applied continuously or dynamically, the therapeutic solution 112 is applied without the need
for repositioning of the fluid delivery manifold 102. Thus, the fluid delivery manifold 102 may
remain in a fixed position within the synovial membrane 60 during all phases of fluid delivery,
even during those time periods when no therapeutic solution 112 is being delivered to the
tissue site within the synovial membrane 60.
[0034]      The system 100 further comprises a reduced pressure source 120 fluidly coupled to
the vacuum manifold 104. The reduced pressure source 120 is operable to supply reduced
pressure to the vacuum manifold 104 which distributes the reduced pressure within the head
of the tibia 34 adjacent the interfacing surface 44 of the lower articular cartilage 40 as
described above. The reduced pressure source 120 is fluidly coupled to the vacuum
manifold 104 by conduits 122, 124 including a canister 126 having a filter (not shown) fluidly
coupled between the two conduits 122, 124. The canister 126 may be a fluid reservoir, or
collection member, to filter and hold exudates and other fluids removed from the tissue site
via the vacuum manifold 104. The canister 126 may include other devices (not shown)
including the following non-limiting examples: a pressure-feedback device, a volume
detection system, a blood detection system, an infection detection system, a flow monitoring
system, and a temperature monitoring system. Some of these devices may be formed
integral with the reduced pressure source 120.
[0035]      The reduced pressure source 120 may be any device for supplying a reduced
pressure, such as a vacuum pump, wall suction, or other source. While the amount and
nature of reduced pressure applied to a tissue site will typically vary according to the
application, the reduced pressure will typically be between -5 mm Hg and -500 mm Hg and
more typically between -100 mm Hg and -300 mm Hg. The particular protocol used in
reduced pressure treatment depends upon several factors including, for example, the location
of the tissue site, i.e., whether a knee joint or some other joint in the body, the type of
reduced pressure dressing, and the pharmacological agents being utilized in the therapeutic
solution.
[0036]      The vacuum manifold 104 may also be an elongated tube having a distal end 108
that is closed and a proximal end 109 fluidly coupled to the conduit 124 by a connector 128.
The vacuum manifold 104 may have a cross-section that is generally circular in shape or
flattened as necessary to fit within the head of the tibia 34 below the interfacing surface 44 of
the lower articular cartilage 40. In one embodiment, the vacuum manifold 104 is a tube
having a circular cross-section with a diameter sufficiently sized to fit between the tibia 34

                                               - 11
and the condyles 37, 38. For example, the distal end 108 may have a diameter between
about 1 mm and about 12 mm. In one embodiment of the vacuum manifold 104, the
elongated tube is formed from a silicone material, but may also be formed from a variety of
known medical grade tubing. The vacuum manifold 104 further includes one or more
apertures 129 or fenestrations located adjacent the distal end 108 for delivering reduced
pressure to the interfacing surfaces 44, 55, 56 from within the head of the tibia 34 as
indicated by the dashed arrows 105. Providing reduced pressure within the head of the tibia
34 draws the therapeutic solution through the lower articular cartilage 40 and/or the meniscus
50 from the articular and meniscus defect surfaces 49, 59 of the cartilage defects to the lower
portions of the articular defect 48 and the meniscus defect 58. The apertures 129 may be
positioned on the vacuum manifold 104 to direct the reduced pressure to a single location on
the interfacing surface 44 of the lower articular cartilage 40 toward the lower portions of the
defect surfaces 49, 59 or direct the reduced pressure in multiple directions as required by the
specific therapeutic treatment. Although the apertures 129 are arranged in a single row
facing a single direction as shown, it should be appreciated that the apertures 129 may be
staggered or aligned around the circumference of the vacuum manifold 104 to direct the
reduced pressure in multiple directions. The vacuum manifold 104 may also be positioned to
draw the therapeutic solution 112 in various directions to optimize the therapeutic treatment.
The apertures 129 may be formed in variety of different shapes such as, for example,
circular, oblong, or square. In one embodiment, the apertures 129 are slits. As indicated
above, the apertures 129 are positioned along the longitudinal axis of the vacuum manifold
104. However, it should be understood that the length of the tube over which the apertures
129 are positioned depends on the on the size of the tissue site being treated. The vacuum
manifold 104 may be manufactured as one piece or alternatively pieced together.
[0037]      Referring now to FIGS. 1 and 4, the system 100 includes a control unit 140 that is
electrically connected to the fluid supply 110 and the reduced pressure source 120. The
control unit 140 may include sensors, processing units, alarm indicators, memory, databases,
software, display units, and user interfaces that further facilitate the treatment of the tissue
site. In one example, a sensor or switch 142 electrically connected to the control unit 140
may be disposed at or near the reduced pressure source 120 to determine a source pressure
generated by the reduced pressure source 120. The sensor 142 provides feedback to the
control unit 140 which regulates the reduced pressure therapy being applied by the reduced
pressure source 120 to the tissue site. The control unit 140 may be operatively connected to
a valve 144 positioned within the conduit 124 to further control the amount of reduced
pressure delivered to the head of the tibia 34 to create the flow of fluids as described above.

                                               - 12
The control unit 140 may be operatively connected to the valve 116 to control the delivery of
the therapeutic solution 112 to the synovial membrane 60. The control unit 140 may also be
in fluid communication with the fluid supply 110 via a connector 146 to apply a positive
pressure to the therapeutic solution 112 to assist in the delivery of the therapeutic solution
112 to the synovial membrane 60. The control unit 140 may be programmed such that the
system 100 simultaneously delivers the therapeutic solution 112 and the reduced pressure. It
should be appreciated that the control unit may be programmed to deliver the therapeutic
solution 112 and the reduced pressure in any combination according to the therapeutic
treatment protocol being administered.
[0038]     In operation, the system 100 may be used for stimulating cartilage formation of any
one of the three types of cartilage described above. In a specific, non-limiting illustration, the
system may be used to stimulate cartilage between articulating joints such as the knee joint
30. Using the knee joint 30 for illustration purposes, a method for stimulating cartilage
formation using the system 100 will be described. An incision is made next to the knee joint
30 such as in the synovial membrane 60 surrounding the knee joint 30. The fluid delivery
manifold 102 is inserted into the incision such that the apertures 119 are positioned adjacent
or proximate to the defect surfaces 49, 59. The fluid delivery manifold 102 is positioned in
the intra-articular space 62 between the two articulating surfaces, the femur 36 and the tibia
34. The fluid delivery manifold 102 is connected to the fluid supply 110. In this illustration,
the defects 48, 58 are located adjacent the tibia 34. Thus, a hole is drilled in the tibia 34, or
the subchondral bone, underneath the defects 48, 58. The vacuum manifold 104 is then
positioned within the hole so that the vacuum manifold 104 is positioned beneath the defects
48, 58. To describe the positional relationship of the defects 48, 58 relative to the vacuum
manifold 104 and fluid delivery manifold 102 in another way, the defects 48, 58 are located
between the vacuum manifold 104 and the fluid delivery manifold 102 such that the vacuum
manifold 104 and the fluid delivery manifold 102 are generally on opposing faces of the
defects 48, 58. The subchondral bone is the bone below the defects 48, 58 or is the bone
that supports the cartilage being treated. In this instance, the tibia 34 is the subchondral
bone. However, it should be understood that the subchondral bone depends on the location
of the defect. For example, if there was a defect in the articular cartilage covering the femur,
the subchondral bone would be the femur and the vacuum delivery manifold 104 would be
placed in the femur. Other suitable means in addition to drilling may be used for creating a
space for the vacuum manifold 104.

                                                - 13
[0039]     The vacuum manifold 104 is connected to the reduced pressure source 120. The
therapeutic solution 112 is delivered to the defect surfaces 49, 59 and the reduced pressure
is applied to the vacuum manifold 104. In this embodiment, applying reduced pressure
through the subchondral bone causes the therapeutic solution 112 to have a concentrated
flow path represented by arrows 103 and 105 through the interior 122 of the defects 48, 58
toward the vacuum manifold 104. Reduced pressure applied through the vacuum manifold
104 induces fluid flow through the matrixes of the tibia 34, i.e., the subchondral bone, from
the intra-articular space 62. The defects 48, 58 are typically the path of least resistance, and
thus, the therapeutic solution 112 will have a concentrated flow path through the defects 48,
58 as indicated by the arrows 103 and 105.
[0040]      In another illustrative embodiment, the system 100 may be operated by positioning
the fluid delivery manifold 102 into the intra-articular space between two articulating surfaces
such that the apertures 119 of the fluid delivery manifold 102 are positioned proximate a the
cartilage being treated. The vacuum manifold 104 is positioned in the subchondral bone
attached to the cartilage being treated. The therapeutic solution 112 is delivered into the
intra-articular space and reduced pressure is applied to the vacuum manifold 104. Applying
reduced pressure to the subchondral bone causes the therapeutic solution 112 to have a
concentrated flow path through the interior of the cartilage being treated toward the vacuum
manifold 104. Reduced pressure applied through the vacuum manifold 104 induces fluid flow
through the matrixes of the subchondral bone, from the intra-articular space. Thus, the
therapeutic solution is introduced into the interior of the cartilage instead of just the surface of
the cartilage. Defects within the cartilage are typically the path of least resistance, and thus,
the therapeutic solution 112 will have a concentrated flow path through the defects.
[0041]      In yet another illustrative embodiment, the system 100 may be operated by
positioning the fluid delivery manifold 102 on a first face of a cartilage defect and the vacuum
manifold 104 on a second face of the cartilage defect. The first face of the cartilage defect
generally opposes the second face of the cartilage defect. In one embodiment, the fluid
delivery manifold 102 is parallel to the vacuum manifold 104. In another embodiment, the
fluid delivery manifold 102 is angled relative to the vacuum manifold 104. Therapeutic
solution 112 is delivered to the fluid delivery manifold 102 and reduced pressure is applied to
the vacuum manifold 104. Applying reduced pressure causes the therapeutic solution 112 to
flow from the first face of the defect, through the defect, and out the second face of the defect
to the vacuum manifold 104. Thus, the therapeutic solution 112 is applied to the interior of
the cartilage defect and the surrounding cartilage.

                                                 - 14
[0042]      The operation of the system, or steps of the methods, described herein may be
carried out in any suitable order, or simultaneously where appropriate.
[0043]      Another illustrative embodiment of a fluid delivery manifold 216 and a vacuum
manifold 218 for use in a system such as the system 100 of FIGS. 1 and 4 is presented in
FIGURES 5A-5C and FIGURES 6A-6C, respectively. The fluid delivery manifold 216 and the
vacuum manifold 218 are similar to the fluid delivery manifold 102 and the vacuum manifold
104 of FIG. 1 but have a different shape. Referring to FIGURES 5A-5C, the fluid delivery
manifold 216 has a rectangular portion 268 and a tubular portion 270. The rectangular
portion 268 has one or more apertures 242 positioned on the rectangular portion 268. The
apertures 242 may be positioned on a defect facing side 272 of the rectangular portion 268
for delivering the therapeutic solution 112 to the defect surfaces 49, 59. In another
embodiment, the apertures 242 may be placed on multiple faces of the rectangular portion
268 instead of just the defect facing side 272. The tubular portion 270 has a circular cross
section and is operable to connect the fluid delivery manifold 216 to the fluid supply 110. The
fluid delivery manifold 216 has a distal end 252, a distal section 254, and a proximal end 256.
The distal end 252 and the distal section 254 are associated with the rectangular portion 268
of the fluid delivery manifold 216. In one embodiment, the distal end 252 may have an
aspect ratio of height to width between about 0.5 and about 1 to aid in positioning of the fluid
delivery manifold 216 into the intra-articular space between two articulating surfaces. For
example, the distal end 252 may have a height between about 1 mm and about 6 mm and a
width between about 1 mm and about 12 mm. It should be appreciated that the length of the
distal section 254 may depend on the type of tissue site being treated. The distal end 252
may be either open or closed. The apertures 242 are located on the distal section 254 of the
fluid delivery manifold 216. The proximal end 256 is associated with the tubular portion 270
of the fluid delivery manifold 216 and is operable to connect the fluid delivery manifold 216 to
the fluid supply 110. The fluid delivery manifold 216 may be manufactured as a single piece,
or the fluid delivery manifold 216 may be multiple pieces fixed together.
[0044]      Similar to the fluid delivery manifold 216, the vacuum manifold 218, as shown in
FIGS. 6A-6C, has a rectangular portion 278 and a tubular portion 280. The rectangular
portion 278 has one or more apertures 260 positioned on the rectangular portion 278. The
apertures 260 may be positioned on a defect facing side 282 of the rectangular portion 278
for delivering the reduced pressure to the defects 48, 58. In another embodiment, the
apertures 260 may be placed on multiple faces of the rectangular portion 278 instead of just
the defect facing side 282. The tubular portion 280 has a circular cross-section and is

                                               -15
operable to connect the vacuum manifold 218 to the reduced pressure source 120. The
vacuum manifold 218 has a distal end 262, a distal section 264, and a proximal end 266.
The distal end 262 and the distal section 264 are associated with the rectangular portion 278
of the vacuum manifold 218. In one embodiment, the distal end 262 may have an aspect
ratio of height to width between about 0.5 and about 1 to aid in positioning of the vacuum
manifold 218 into the intra-articular space between two articulating surfaces. For example,
the distal end 262 may have a height between about 1 mm and about 6 mm and a width
between about 1 mm and about 12 mm. It should be appreciated that the length of the distal
section 264 may depend on the type of tissue site being treated. The distal end 262 may be
either open or closed. The apertures 260 are located on the distal section 264 of the vacuum
manifold 218. The proximal end 266 is associated with the tubular portion 280 of the vacuum
manifold 218 and is operable to connect the vacuum manifold 218 to the reduced pressure
source 120. The vacuum manifold 218 may be manufactured as a single piece, or the
vacuum manifold 218 may be multiple pieces fixed together.
[0045]      Referring now primarily to FIG. 7, an illustrative embodiment of a system 300 for
stimulating cartilage formation at a tissue site 302 on top of an ear 304 is presented. This
illustrative embodiment of the system 300 supplies a therapeutic solution, such as the
therapeutic solution 112 of FIG. 1, and a reduced pressure to a cartilage defect 306, to
regenerate the missing cartilage. The system 300 includes an ear mold 310, which may
include a scaffold (not shown), configured for placement adjacent the cartilage defect 306 to
provide a template for new cartilage formation. The system 300 further includes a reduced
pressure interface 312 for providing fluid communication between a reduced pressure source
and the tissue site 302, and a fluid delivery interface 314 for providing fluid communication
between a therapeutic solution supply and the tissue site 302. A conduit 316 is connected to
the reduced pressure interface and a conduit 318 is connected to the fluid delivery manifold
314. The reduced pressure interface 312 and the fluid delivery interface 314 are positioned
on opposing faces of the ear mold 310. In one embodiment, the reduced pressure interface
is connected to the medial face 320 of the ear mold 310 and the fluid delivery interface 314 is
connected to the lateral face 322 of the ear mold 310.
[0046]      The mold 310 may be placed adjacent to, in contact with, or substantially over the
defect 306 to promote the growth of the cartilage in the defect 306. The mold 310 is a three
dimensional porous structure that provides a template for cell growth of the cartilage within
the defect 306. Non-limiting examples of scaffold materials include calcium phosphate,
collagen, PLA/PGA, hydroxyapatite, carbonates, and processed allograft materials. The

                                                - 16
mold 310 may also assist in delivering fluids to the tissue site 302. In some embodiments,
the mold 310 is flexible to conform to the shape or contour of the defect 306 at the tissue site
302. The design of the mold 310 may also serve to prevent cartilage overgrowth. The shape
and flexibility of the mold 310 may be selected without undue experimentation depending on
the type of cartilage being treated in the location of the cartilage in the body treated.
[0047]     The shape and flexibility of the mold 310 may be selected based on the desired
shape of the ear 304. Once the mold 310 is created to fit the ear 304 at the tissue site 302
with the missing portion, it can be used to form a scaffold. The mold 310 may contain
elements of the therapeutic solution 112 or the therapeutic solution 112 may be delivered to
the scaffold 307 and thus the defect 306. U.S. Patent No. 8,197,806 to Girouard, entitled
"Stimulation of Cartilage Formation using Reduced Pressure Treatment," describing a
scaffold for use in generating cartilage in an ear defect is incorporated herein by reference.
[0048]     Where appropriate, aspects of any of the examples described above may be
combined with aspects of any of the other examples described to form further examples
having comparable or different properties and addressing the same or different problems.
[0049]      It will be understood that the above description of preferred embodiments is given
by way of example only and that various modifications may be made by those skilled in the
art. Moreover, the benefits and advantages described above may relate to one embodiment
or may relate to several embodiments.        The above specification, examples and data provide
a complete description of the structure and use of exemplary embodiments of the invention.
Although various embodiments of the invention have been described above with a certain
degree of particularity, or with reference to one or more individual embodiments, those skilled
in the art could make numerous alterations to the disclosed embodiments without departing
from the scope of the claims.

                                                    - 17
CLAIMS
1.          A system for stimulating formation of cartilage at a defect in a first tissue site having
an articulating surface within a joint and an opposing surface adjacent a second tissue site,
the system comprising:
             a fluid source for supplying a therapeutic solution;
             a fluid delivery manifold having a tubular body extending between a proximal end
                      fluidly coupled to the fluid supply and a distal end having at least one
                      aperture for delivering the therapeutic solution to the defect adjacent the
                      articulating surface of the first tissue site, the tubular body dimensioned to
                      fit within the joint adjacent the defect;
             a reduced pressure source for supplying reduced pressure; and
             a vacuum manifold having a tubular body extending between a proximal end fluidly
                      coupled to the reduced pressure source and a distal end having at least
                      one aperture for delivering the reduced pressure to the first tissue site
                      adjacent the opposing surface of the first tissue site, the tubular body
                      dimensioned to be inserted into the second tissue site adjacent the
                      opposing surface of the first tissue site to deliver reduced pressure through
                      the second tissue site to the first tissue site to draw the therapeutic solution
                      from the fluid delivery manifold through the first tissue site and the defect.
2.          The system of claim 1, wherein the defect extends through the articulating surface
of the first tissue site.
3.          The system of claim 1, wherein the defect extends through both the articulating
surface and the opposing surface of the first tissue site.
4.          The system of claim 1, wherein the first tissue site is cartilage and the second
tissue site is bone tissue.
5.          The system of claim 4, wherein the joint is a knee joint.
6.          The system of claim 4, wherein the bone tissue is a head of a tibia.
7.          The system of claim 4, wherein the bone tissue is a head of a femur.

                                                -18
8.          The system of claim 1, wherein the proximal end of the tubular body of the fluid
delivery manifold has a generally circular cross-section, and the distal end of the tubular body
has a generally flattened cross-section to fit within the joint.
9.          The system of claim 1, wherein the proximal end of the tubular body of the fluid
delivery manifold has a generally circular cross-section having a first diameter, and the distal
end of the tubular body has a generally circular cross-section having a second diameter less
than the first diameter.
10.         The system of claim 1, wherein the proximal end of the tubular body of the vacuum
manifold has a generally circular cross-section having a first diameter, and the distal end of
the tubular body has a generally circular cross-section having a second diameter less than
the first diameter.
11.         The system of claim 1, wherein the therapeutic solution comprises a cell
suspension.
12.         The system of claim 1, wherein the therapeutic solution includes protease
inhibitors.
13.         The system of claim 1, wherein the distal end of the fluid delivery manifold includes
a plurality of apertures for delivering the therapeutic solution to the first tissue site.
14.         The system of claim 13, wherein the plurality of apertures are configured to direct
the therapeutic solution toward the defect in the first tissue site.
15.         The system of claim 1, wherein the distal end of the vacuum manifold includes a
plurality of apertures for delivering the reduced pressure to the first tissue site through the
second tissue site.
16.         The system of claim 15, wherein the plurality of apertures are configured to direct
the reduced pressure toward the defect in the first tissue site.
17.         The system of claim 1, wherein the first tissue site is cartilage and the second
tissue site is connective tissue.

                                                  -19
18.         The system of claim 1, wherein the vacuum manifold is configured to be deployed
into the head of a tibia.
19.         The system of claim 1, wherein the vacuum manifold is configured to be deployed
into the head of a femur.
20.         A system for stimulating formation of new cartilage at a defect in cartilage having a
first face and a second face opposing the first face adjacent skin tissue covering the cartilage,
the system comprising:
            a fluid source for supplying a therapeutic solution;
            a fluid delivery manifold having a tubular body extending between a proximal end
                     fluidly coupled to the fluid supply and a distal end having at least one
                     aperture for delivering the therapeutic solution to the defect adjacent the
                     first face of the cartilage;
            a reduced pressure source for supplying reduced pressure; and
            a vacuum manifold having a tubular body extending between a proximal end fluidly
                     coupled to the reduced pressure source and a distal end having at least
                     one aperture for delivering the reduced pressure through the skin tissue to
                     the defect adjacent the second face of the cartilage to draw the therapeutic
                     solution from the fluid delivery manifold adjacent the first face through the
                     cartilage and the defect.
21.         The system of claim 20, wherein the defect is a missing portion of the cartilage.
22.         The system of claim 21, further comprising a mold configured to provide a structure
for the formation of the missing portion of the cartilage.
23.         The system of claim 22, wherein the mold includes a scaffold.
24.         The system of claim 22, wherein the mold is a three-dimensional porous structure.
25.         The system of claim 22, wherein the missing portion of the cartilage is a missing
portion of an ear and the mold is shaped like the missing portion of the ear.
26.         The system of claim 22, wherein the distal end of the fluid delivery manifold is
fluidly connected to a first face of the mold adjacent the first face of the cartilage and the

                                                 - 20
distal end of the vacuum manifold is fluidly connected to a second face of the mold adjacent
the skin tissue.
27.        The system of claim 22, wherein the missing portion of the cartilage is a missing
portion of a nose and the mold is shaped like the missing portion of the nose.
28.        A method for stimulating formation of cartilage at a defect in a first tissue site
having an articulating surface within a joint and an opposing surface adjacent a second tissue
site, the method comprising:
            positioning the distal end of a fluid delivery manifold having at least one aperture
                    within the joint adjacent the articulating surface of the first tissue site;
            connecting the proximal end of the fluid delivery manifold to a fluid source
                    containing a therapeutic solution;
            positioning the distal end of a vacuum manifold having at least one aperture within
                    the second tissue site adjacent the opposing surface of the first tissue site;
            connecting the proximal end of the vacuum manifold to a reduced pressure source
                    for delivering reduced pressure to the first tissue site;
            delivering the therapeutic solution to the articulating surface of the first tissue site;
                    and
            delivering the reduced pressure through the second tissue site to the first tissue
                    site to draw the therapeutic solution from the fluid delivery manifold through
                    the first tissue site and the defect.
29.        The method of claim 28, further comprising making an incision in soft tissue
adjacent into the joint adjacent the first tissue site for positioning the fluid delivery manifold
adjacent the defect and the articulating surface of the first tissue site.
30.        The method of claim 28, further comprising drilling a hole into the second tissue site
adjacent the opposing surface of the first tissue site for positioning the vacuum manifold
within the second tissue site.
31.        The method of claim 30, wherein the second tissue site is a femur.
32.        The method of claim 30, wherein the second tissue site is a tibia.
33.        The method of claim 28, further comprising delivering the therapeutic solution
toward the defect in the first tissue site.

                                                 - 21
34.         The method of claim 28, further comprising delivering the reduced pressure toward
the defect in the first tissue site.
35.         A method for stimulating formation of new cartilage at a defect in cartilage having a
first face and a second face opposing the first face adjacent skin tissue covering the cartilage,
the method comprising:
            positioning a distal end of a fluid delivery manifold having at least one aperture
                    adjacent the first face of the cartilage;
            connecting a proximal end of the fluid delivery manifold to a fluid source containing
                    a therapeutic solution;
            positioning a distal end of a vacuum manifold having at least one aperture adjacent
                    the second face of the cartilage;
            connecting a proximal end of the vacuum manifold to a reduced pressure source
                    for delivering reduced pressure to the first face of the cartilage;
            delivering the therapeutic solution to the first face of the cartilage and the defect;
                    and
            delivering reduced pressure through the skin tissue to the second face of the
                    cartilage to draw the therapeutic solution from the fluid delivery manifold
                    through the cartilage and the defect.
36.         The method of claim 35, wherein the defect is a missing portion of the cartilage.
37.         The method of claim 35, further including the step of positioning a mold over the
cartilage for providing a template for the new cartilage formation.
38.         The method of claim 37, wherein the mold includes a scaffold.
39.         The method of claim 37, wherein the defect is a missing portion of an ear and the
mold is shaped like the missing portion of the ear.
40.         The method of claim 37, wherein the distal end of the fluid delivery manifold is
fluidly connected to a first face of the mold and the distal end of the vacuum manifold is fluidly
connected to a second face of the mold adjacent the skin tissue.
41.         The method of claim 35, wherein the therapeutic solution comprises a cell
suspension.

                                             - 22
42.         The method of claim 35, wherein the therapeutic solution includes protease
inhibitors.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
