                                      ABSTRACT
A valve comprising of: a valve body; a plug with a shape of a dome, a spheroid or a
cone; a yoke which comprises of a cover plate with an orifice, connected to the body
by fastening means; and at least one orifice seal in the shape of an annulus with at
least one annular bead, and/or a series of beads arranged tangentially with the orifice
seal annulus, that fits into a groove and/or series of grooves in the cover plate or body
which controls movement of the orifice seal to accomplish central alignment of the
orifice seal, which is composed of a resilient elastomeric material and is mounted
between the valve body and plate, so that when the plug is pressed against the orifice
seal in the location of the orifice of the cover plate, the orifice seal prevents the
passage of fluid through the orifice.

                11
   6
 9                C
10
 5
              3
     Figure 1

                EDITORIAL NOTE
                        <removed-apn>
- There is 2 pages of Description only

Valve with Self-aligning Seal System
Authors:
John Meerabux
Russell Mccabe
Hygrade Water Australia Pty Ltd
Hynds Pipe Systems
Revision 0
Dated 6/04/18
Description
The present innovation is related to seals used in valves where a ball, cone, plug or dome is used to
cover an orifice to stop flow of liquid or gas which may be used in machines, tools or devices, for
example, hydrants, air valves or other valved devices and/or any other devices or equipment
designed to perform a specific task.
An advantage of this innovation is an annular bead on the seal that fits into a groove in the cover
plate, which controls the movement of the seal so that it is centrally aligned during operation.
This innovation provides a set position for the cover plate so that the seal may not be over
compressed, which extends the life of the seal.
A further advantage may be achieved with this innovation by providing a lip seal over the surface of
the orifice to prevent ingress of dirt behind the seal. The lip seal also controls movement of the seal
so that it is centrally aligned when the cover plate is returned after removal. Some hydrants have
internal components which may be removed so the pipeline may be accessed for maintenance. A
problem is that removal and reassembly of the components may be difficult as the hydrant is
accessed through a narrow opening hydrant box beneath ground level. An advantage of this
innovation is the lip seal is retained on the surface of the orifice allowing the yoke and the orifice
seal to be removed together during maintenance.
Preferred embodiments
The attached drawings are:
Figure 1 - Cross-Sectional Front View of Valve Assembly
Figure 2 - Detail of Cross Sectional View of Seal Arrangement
Figure 3 - Side View of Valve
One embodiment for the valve with self-aligning seal system is a spring hydrant comprising of a
valve body (1) with a polymeric-coated surface (12), a plug (3) comprised of a dome, yoke (4)
comprised of a cover plate with a polymeric-coated surface (11) connected to the valve body (1) by
fastening means of two bolts (6), two washers (13) for the bolts, two nuts (8) and two washers for
the nuts (9) with a circular orifice (C), and an orifice seal (5) with an annular bead (B) that fits into a
groove in the yoke which controls movement of the orifice seal to accomplish central alignment of
the orifice seal to the orifice. The orifice seal is composed of elastomeric material and is mounted
between the valve body and the yoke, so that when the plug (3) is pressed against the orifice seal,
the orifice seal prevents the passage of fluid through the orifice in the cover plate. The orifice seal
(5) has a lip seal feature (A) which prevents the passage of soil between the orifice seal (5) and the

yoke (4). The orifice seal is retained on the yoke by the lip seal feature (A) on the inside surface of
the yoke orifice (D) so that the orifice seal may be removed together with the yoke during
maintenance. The plug is pressed by a spring (7) so that the valve may be opened by placing a load
on the plug and will close itself when the load is released. The spring (7) and plug (3) are mounted on
a shaft guide (2) and may be held captive by means of an enlarged end on the shaft of the plug (3) by
forming a cap (14). The shaft guide (2) has two feet which are mounted on moulded seats in the
valve body (1).
Retaining means to hold the seal in place is provided by the yoke (4) which is fixed to the body by
means of two or more bolts (6), and/or other means of fastening that results in a set position to
control compression of the self- aligning seal (5) and of the circumferential seal (10). The yoke and
the body have annular beads so that when the bolts on the yoke are tensioned, the circumferential
seal (10) is compressed between the annular beads.

                EDITORIAL NOTE
                        <removed-apn>
- There is 1 page of Claims only

Claims
    1) A valve comprising of: a valve body; a plug with a shape of a dome, a spheroid or a cone; a
       yoke which comprises of a cover plate with an orifice, connected to the body by fastening
       means; and at least one orifice seal in the shape of an annulus with at least one annular
       bead, and/or a series of beads arranged tangentially with the orifice seal annulus, that fits
       into a groove and/or series of grooves in the cover plate or body which controls movement
       of the orifice seal to accomplish central alignment of the orifice seal, which is composed of a
       resilient elastomeric material and is mounted between the valve body and plate, so that
       when the plug is pressed against the orifice seal in the location of the orifice of the cover
       plate, the orifice seal prevents the passage of fluid through the orifice.
    2) A valve according to Claim 1, with the body and yoke shaped with an annular tongue and
       groove or with an annular bead on the opposing surfaces to provide a specific axial and
       radial position for the yoke to be held in, which limits the compression and miss-alignment
       of the orifice seal when the yoke is fastened to the body during assembly.
    3) A valve according to Claim 1, with a lip seal feature which is fitted tightly over the inside
       surface of the orifice, so that particles are restricted from entering between the seal and the
       surface of the yoke.
    4) A valve according to Claim 3, with a lip seal feature which is fitted over the inside surface of
       the mouth of the orifice so that the seal is centrally aligned by the lip seal feature to the
       orifice, and the lip seal covers a surface on the opposite side of the orifice so that when the
       yoke cover plate is removed from the body, the lip seal feature holds the orifice seal onto
       the cover plate.
    5) A valve according to Claim 2, with a circumferential seal located between the surfaces of the
       annular beads of the yoke and the body which restricts flow of fluid radially.
    6) A valve according to Claim 2, with a circumferential seal compressed within the groove by
       the tongue which restricts flow of fluid radially.

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     <removed-apn>
<removed-apn>
              - There is 2 pages of Drawings only

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 3   Figure 2

