1001985618
 ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
         An elevator car destination dispatching system and methodology are disclosed.
The system includes a user interface that is configured to permit a user of a plurality of
users to enter a desired destination in a building. The system further includes a presence
detector disposed in the vicinity of the user interface.         The presence detector is
configured to detect the presence of the user of the plurality of users at the user interface.
The presence detector is also operably coupled to a controller.            The controller is
configured to dispatch an elevator car based on the desired destination entered by the user
of the plurality of users and the presence of the user of the plurality of users in the
vicinity of the user interface.

                                1/3
                                                 104a
                                                           CARl1
                                     10    2
                                      CONTROLLER       104b
          INTERFACE
  MOBILE     INPUT
   DEVICE                        108
            DISPLAY
1188
                                 110
                                                           CAR N
                                     120              104n
           DETEFOR
                __________FIG.1

1001985618
                     DESTINATION DISPATCH PASSENGER DETECTION
TECHNICAL FIELD
          [0001] The present disclosure relates generally to elevator systems, and more
particularly, to elevator control systems associated with destination dispatching.
  BACKGROUND
          [0002] Typically, destination dispatch elevator systems are used to provide
elevator car assignments in response to a user's floor selection.           For example, a
destination dispatch system may provide an elevator car assignment or a list of potential
elevator car assignments based on car usage and user demand.                Advantageously,
destination dispatch systems may improve elevator system efficiency and decrease user
wait times.
          [0003] Destination dispatch systems are often used with a variety of applications
and users. Conventional destination dispatching systems rely on a time-based location
method which assumes a travel time needed for an elevator car to move between floors.
Certain applications and users often have different objectives, requirements, and desires.
Current destination dispatch systems provide a calculated optimal car assignment by
analyzing predetermined parameters, sometimes leading to car assignments that are not
aligned with a user's preferences at a given time, such as desired car occupancy, wait
time, and travel time.
          [0004] Sometimes users will attempt to "trick" the destination management
system by entering multiple fake requests for the same floor in an effort to increase the
likelihood that a car assigned to the desired floor will arrive more rapidly, and include
less travelers to other floors, thereby minimizing that particular user's overall travel time.
Fake requests to the destination management system decrease occupancy and results in
overall increases in wait times and travel times for other passengers.
                                              1

1001985618
SUMMARY
          [0005] Described herein in an embodiment an elevator car destination dispatching
system and methodology.        The system includes a user interface that is configured to
permit a user of a plurality of users to enter a desired destination in a building.       The
system further includes a presence detector disposed in the vicinity of the user interface.
The presence detector is configured to detect the presence of the user of the plurality of
users at the user interface. The presence detector is also operably coupled to a controller.
The controller is configured to dispatch an elevator car based on the desired destination
entered by the user of the plurality of users and the presence of the user of the plurality of
users in the vicinity of the user interface.
          [0006] In addition to one or more of the features described above, or as an
alternative, further embodiments may include that the user interface includes at least one
of an input device and a display. In addition, the input device may be at least one of a
keypad, a touch screen, and a portable mobile device. Further yet, the user interface may
include the presence detector.
          [0007] In addition to one or more of the features described above, or as an
alternative, further embodiments may include that the presence detector includes at least
one of a touch sensor, proximity sensor, PIR sensor, motion detector, radar sensor,
electric and magnetic field sensor, optical sensor, and a camera. Moreover, the touch
sensor may be configured as a floor mat that a user stands on in the proximity of the user
interface.   In addition, the presence detector may be configured with a limited field of
view.
          [0008] In addition to one or more of the features described above, or as an
alternative, further embodiments may include that the controller may be configured to
determine if a second destination request has been made by the at least one user of the
plurality of users while the presence detector detects the presence of the at least one user
                                               2

1001985618
of the plurality of users. In addition, the controller may be configured to ascertain if the
second destination request is different than the first destination request made by the at
least one user of the plurality of users and if not, ignore the second destination request
when dispatching the elevator car.
          [0009] In addition to one or more of the features described above, or as an
alternative, further embodiments may include that if the second destination request is
different than the first destination request made by the at least one user of the plurality of
users, the controller is configured to inquire of the at least one user of the plurality of
users if a new destination is desired and if the at least one user of the plurality of users
indicates that the new destination is desired, then dispatch an elevator car based on the
new destination.
          [0010] In addition to one or more of the features described above, or as an
alternative, further embodiments may include an annunciator to provide the at least one
user of the plurality of users information associated with the dispatched elevator car.
Moreover, the information associated with the dispatched elevator car may be an
assigned hoistway.
          [0011] Also described herein in an embodiment is method of dispatching an
elevator car in an elevator system. The method includes: receiving at a user interface a
destination request indicative of a desired destination in a building from at least one user
of a plurality of users; detecting a presence of the at least one user of the plurality of users
in the vicinity of a user interface; and dispatching an elevator car based on the desired
destination entered by at least one user of the plurality of users and the presence of the at
least one user of the plurality of users in the vicinity of the user interface.
          [0012] In addition to one or more of the features described above, or as an
alternative, further embodiments may include determining if a second destination request
has been made by the at least one of the plurality of users user during the detecting. In
addition, the determining may include ascertaining if the second destination request is
                                                3

1001985618
different than the first destination request made by the at least one user of the plurality of
users and if not, ignoring the second destination request in the dispatching. Moreover, if
the second destination request is different than the first destination request made by the at
least one user of the plurality of users, the method may include inquiring of the at least
one user of the plurality of users if a new destination is desired and if the at least one user
of the plurality of users indicates that the new destination is desired, then dispatching an
elevator car based on the new destination.
          [0013] In addition to one or more of the features described above, or as an
alternative, further embodiments may include annunciating to the at least one user of the
plurality of users information associated with the dispatched elevator car. In addition, the
information associated with the dispatched elevator car may include an assigned
hoistway.
          [0014] In addition to one or more of the features described above, or as an
alternative, further embodiments may include that the detecting employs a presence
detector including at least one of a touch sensor, proximity sensor, PIR sensor, motion
detector, radar sensor, electric and magnetic field sensor, optical sensor, and a camera. In
addition, the touch sensor may be configured as a floor mat that a user stands on proximal
to the user interface.
          [0015] Also described herein in another embodiment is a method of controlling
an elevator destination dispatching system. The method includes: detecting a presence
of at least one user of the plurality of users in the vicinity of a user interface, the user
interface configured to permit the at least one user of the plurality of users to enter a
destination request indicative of a desired destination in a building; and controlling the
activity of a destination dispatching system based on the presence of the at least one user
of the plurality of users in the vicinity of the user interface.
          [0016] In addition to one or more of the features described above, or as an
alternative, further embodiments may include that the controlling include collecting data
                                                4

1001985618
based on the detected presence of the at least one user of the plurality of users in the
vicinity of the user interface.
 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          [0017] The subject matter which is regarded as the disclosure is particularly
pointed out and distinctly claimed in the claims at the conclusion of the specification. The
foregoing and other features, and advantages of the disclosure are apparent from the
following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in
which:
          [0018] FIG. 1 is a block diagram of an elevator car dispatching system according
to an embodiment;
          [0019] FIG. 2 depicts a method of dispatching an elevator car in an elevator
system according to an embodiment.
          [0020] FIG. 3 depicts a method of controlling a destination dispatching system
according to another embodiment.
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENTS
          [0021] The following description is merely illustrative in nature and is not
intended to limit the present disclosure, its application or uses. It should be understood
that throughout the drawings, corresponding reference numerals indicate like or
corresponding parts and features. As used herein, the term controller refers to processing
circuitry that may include an application specific integrated circuit (ASIC), an electronic
circuit, an electronic processor (shared, dedicated, or group) and memory that executes
one or more software or firmware programs, a combinational logic circuit, and/or other
suitable interfaces and components that provide the described functionality.
          [0022] Referring now to the drawings, FIG. 1 illustrates a schematic view of an
elevator system 100 with destination management and route selection, also known as
                                              5

1001985618
destination dispatching, in accordance with an embodiment of the disclosure.           In an
embodiment, elevator system 100 includes a controller 102 to provide destination
dispatch routing with route selection functionality.       Controller 102 also controls the
operation of cars 104a-n. Controller 102 interacts with users via user interface 106.
          [0023] User interface 106 allows a user to interface with the elevator system 100.
Users may be individual users, such as an employee in a workplace, or a group of users
with common preferences, such as employees all working the same shift on the same
floor of a building with elevators.       In an embodiment, elevator system 100 utilizes
destination dispatch routing, which requires destination information before entering a car
104a-104n. In a destination dispatch system, the user selects their desired floor via a user
interface 106. In an embodiment, user interface 106 is a physical interface. The user
interface 106 may be located in a central kiosk, a sky lobby, an intermediate lobby of a
building, or any other suitable location with an elevator system 100. In an alternative
embodiment, user interface 106 is a virtual interface to allow users to enter and receive
information through other devices, such as portable mobile devices 118, including but not
limited to, cell phones, tablets or other alternative devices. In alternative embodiments,
user interface 106 is a physical device that allows alternative interfacing via portable
devices 118.
          [0024] In an embodiment, user interface 106 receives information via input 108
for use by controller 102. In an embodiment, input 108 is a physical input, such as a
keypad, touch screen, touch pad, mouse, or any other known user input device, to enter
destination requests 114.       In certain embodiments, input 108 also allows for the
identification of users to allow the retrieval of corresponding user profiles. In certain
embodiments, input 108 is a virtual input that allows communication from other suitable
devices including mobile devices 118 to allow input of destination requests 114,
identification of users and other user inputs.
          [0025] In an embodiment, user interface 106 communicates elevator system 100
outputs via display 110. Display 110 may be a physical display that shows information
                                               6

1001985618
such as identification confirmation, car assignment, system status, car status, and other
relevant information.     In certain embodiments, display 110 is a virtual display that
outputs information to external devices, such as computers, televisions, external displays
and mobile devices 118. In an embodiment, display 110 provides elevator system 100
status information, route options, and allows the user to see their car assignment in
accordance with the route selection discussed herein.
          [0026] In an embodiment, a user provides a destination request 114 via input 108.
A destination request 114 may include information such as the source floor, destination
floor, opening information, and any other suitable information required by the elevator
system 100. In certain embodiments, a user can provide a destination request 114 via a
physical keypad or otherwise fixed input methods, touchscreen, etc. as part of input 108.
In other embodiments, a user can provide a destination request 114 via a mobile device
118.
          [0027] Once the destination request 114 is received, the controller 102 determines
which car 104a-104n that particular destination request 114 should be assigned to, and
informs the user at the user interface 106. In an embodiment, the elevator system 100
may provide information via a mobile device 118. In an embodiment, the controller 102
may cause the user interface to provide feedback annunciations and information
associated with the dispatched elevator car 104a - 104n to the user. In one embodiment,
the assigned hoistway and/or car are displayed.        In another embodiment, the desired
destination, or other information may be displayed on display 110, however other forms
of informing the user of the assigned floor are possible, including additional displays,
annunciators, and audible announcements and information provided to the mobile device
118. When the user makes the destination request 114 at the user interface 106 using
input 108 the user may continue to enter a second request or even repeated requests 114
for the same floor.
          [0028] In general, the controller 102 may receive one or more input signals/
corresponding to each elevator car 104a - 104n of the elevator system100 to facilitate
                                              7

1001985618
elevator system operations.     The information includes, but is not limited to, car load,
brake status, car door status, car input power, car calling status, service operation mode
status, car weight, car position, and car emergency status, and input power status. Based
on the information, the controller 102 determines the status of and provides commands to
the elevator system 100 and/or the elevator cars 104a - 104n included in the elevator
system 100. Generally, destination dispatch routing functions in elevator systems 100,
need only use a few parameters to determine car assignments for users. Such parameters
may include the destination request 114 entered, the current state of cars 104a-104n, and
other destination requests 114 entered by other users. As a result, the controller 102 may
dispatch and assign cars 104a- 104n based on not only the requests of other users, the state
of the cars 104a-104n, but also on the previously mentioned "erroneous" multiple
requests of the user. This results in inefficient scheduling and routing of the cars.
          [0029] To address this concern and improve scheduling and routing in the
elevator system 100 of an embodiment, one or more presence detectors 120 are also
employed. In one embodiment the presence detector 120 detects the presence of a user
while that person is at the user interface 106 using the input 108 to make a destination
request 114.     The presence detector 120 can be a standard proximity sensor, passive
infrared (PIR) sensors, motion detectors, radar sensors, magnetic and electric field
sensors, optical sensors, image and video, cameras and the like. Other presence detectors
120 might include touch sensitive sensors at the user interface 106, for example, touch
sensitive detectors at the user input 108, on the display 110, or a floor mat that detects
that a user is standing at the user interface 106.      The presence detector 120 may be
installed a variety of locations as may suit the application and environment where the
user interface 106 is installed including as an integral part of the user interface 106 or
controller 102. Preferably the presence detector 120 is installed so that its range and field
of view are such that it limits false detections. Preferably still the presence detector may
be installed to limit detection to a single user at the user interface. For example, with
controlled range and field of view limited to detecting users directly facing the user
interface 106.    In another example, the presence detector 120 may be installed as a
                                               8

1001985618
proximity detector above, below, or directed radially outwardly from the user input 106.
In another embodiment, the presence detector 120 an optical or video camera installed
above the user interface 106 and directed downward to limit detection of other users in
the vicinity. Other embodiments may employ a combination of sensing technologies for
the presence detector 120 to aid in eliminating false detections. In an embodiment, the
controller 102 can dispatch and assign cars 104a-104n based upon the above described
parameters of a conventional destination dispatch system, but also analyze the user
presence and determine if the user has remained at the user interface 106 while entering a
second or subsequent destination request 114.
          [0030] In an embodiment, if a user remains at the user interface 106 and makes a
second or subsequent destination request 114, and it is for a different floor than the first
destination request 114, the controller 102 may then prompt the user to see if they want to
cancel the first destination request 114. The user may have made a mistake with the first
destination request 114, or may have elected to change their destination. In this instance,
in an embodiment, the controller 102 accepts the second destination request 114 and
employs the second destination request 114 for dispatching an elevator car 104a - 104n.
If the destination request 114 is for the same destination as previously entered, the
controller 102 may instead elect to ignore the subsequent destination request 114 as
erroneous, thereby reducing the required set of desired destinations and simplifying the
destination dispatching and routing. In the destination dispatching system and method of
an embodiment, no additional elevator car space, or routing is allocated to the additional
redundant requests made while the user is at the user interface 106.       Therefore, in an
embodiment, controller 102 can assign cars 104a-104n to users based on a more accurate
count of destination requests 114 without users making attempts to enter false destination
requests 114.
          [0031] In another embodiment, detecting the presence of the user at the user
interface 106 presents numerous advantages.       In certain embodiments, controller 102
may cause the display 110 to display the assigned elevator for a duration based on the
                                              9

1001985618
user's presence at the user interface 106. For example, display for a longer duration if the
user is still at the user interface. This can be advantageous, as users have in past systems
forgotten the assigned elevator.      Conversely, the controller 102 may be configured to
cause the display 110 to change more rapidly if the presence detector 120 indicates that
the user is no longer in the area of the user interface 106, thereby reducing the user to
user queue time and increasing throughput at the user interface 106.
          [0032] In yet another embodiment, the functionality of the user interface 106 may
change as the presence detector 120 detects the presence or absence of a user.            For
example, the display 110 and/or input 108 of the user interface                106 may be
enabled/disabled, display timing modified, or enters a wake/sleep mode when the
presence detector 120 determines a user has arrived at/departed from the user interface
106. This feature can be advantageous during periods of light usage such as overnight,
resulting in energy savings and reduced wear and tear on the components of the system
100.
          [0033] In another embodiment, detecting the presence of the user at the user
interface 106 presents several features and advantages not previously available with
typical elevator systems 100 with destination management functions.                In certain
embodiments, controller 102 may collect and aggregate data regarding system usage at a
user interface 106. In an embodiment, controller 120 may collect data regarding usage as
a function of time, time of day, day of week, type of system, size of system and the like.
This data can be aggregated and compared with data for other elevator systems 100 with
destination management functionality to provide operational cost data, comparative
results, predictive maintenance and other information of value to building owners,
operators, and elevator maintenance.
          [0034] Referring now to FIG. 2 as well, FIG. 2 illustrates a method 200 for
destination dispatch in an elevator system 100 with user presence detection as described
above herein. In an embodiment, in operation 210 a user inputs the destination request
114 indicative of the desired destination at the user interface 106. The presence detector
                                               10

1001985618
120, at operation 220, detects the presence of the user at the user interface 106 while the
user is at the user interface 106. Finally at operation 230 the controller 102 dispatches a
car for the user based on the user's destination request 114 and the presence detected at
the user interface 106.
          [0035] Turning now to FIG. 3 as well.          FIG. 3 depicts a method 300 for
controlling an elevator system with destination dispatch as described above herein. In an
embodiment, in operation 310 a presence detector 120, detects the presence of a user at a
user interface 106 of the elevator system 100. Operation 320 describes the controller 102
controlling the elevator system 100 based on the detected presence of the user at the user
interface 106. For example, the display 110 and/or input 108 of the user interface may be
enabled/disabled or enter a wake/sleep mode when the presence detector 120 determines
a user has arrived at/departed from the user interface 106.             This feature can be
advantageous during periods of light usage such as overnight, resulting in energy savings
and reduced wear and tear on the components of the elevator system 100.
          [0036] While the disclosure has been described in detail in connection with only a
limited number of embodiments, it should be readily understood that the disclosure is not
limited to such disclosed embodiments.         Rather, the disclosure can be modified to
incorporate     any  number    of variations,    alterations,  substitutions  or  equivalent
arrangements not heretofore described, but which are commensurate with the spirit and
scope of the disclosure. Additionally, while various embodiments of the disclosure have
been described, it is to be understood that aspects of the disclosure may include only
some of the described embodiments.        Accordingly, the disclosure is not to be seen as
limited by the foregoing description, but is only limited by the scope of the appended
claims.
                                              11

1001985618
CLAIMS:
          1.     An elevator car destination dispatching system, comprising:
         a user interface configured to permit a plurality of users to enter a desired
destination in a building;
         a presence detector disposed in the vicinity of the user interface and configured to
detect the presence of a first user of the plurality of users at the user interface, the
presence detector operably coupled to at least one of a controller or the user interface;
and
         the controller operably coupled to the user interface, the controller configured to
dispatch an elevator car based on a first desired destination entered by the first user and
the detected presence of the first user.
         2.      The elevator car dispatching system of claim 1, wherein the controller is
configured to detect a second desired destination entered by a second user of the plurality
of users, determine if the second desired destination is identical to the first desired
destination, and determine, using the presence detector, determine whether the second
user and first user are the same user.
         3.      The elevator car dispatching system of claim 2, wherein the controller is
configured to ignore the second desired destination if the second desired destination is
identical to the first desired destination and the second user and first user are the same
user.
         4.      The elevator car dispatching system of claim 3, wherein the controller is
configured to inquire of the second user if they would like to change their destination
request if the second user and first user are the same user and the second desired
destination is different from the first desired destination.
                                               12

1001985618
         5.      The elevator car dispatching system of claim 4, wherein the controller is
configured to modify the activity of a destination dispatching system based on the
presence of a user in the vicinity of the user interface.
         6.      The elevator car dispatching system of any of claims 1-5, wherein the
presence detector includes at least one of a touch sensor, proximity sensor, PIR sensor,
motion detector, radar sensor, electric and magnetic field sensor, optical sensor, and a
camera.
         7.      The elevator car dispatching system of any of claims 1-6, wherein the
user interface includes at least one of an input device and a display.
          8.     A method of dispatching an elevator car in an elevator system, the method
comprising:
         receiving at a user interface a destination request indicative of a desired
destination in a building from at least one user of a plurality of users;
         detecting a presence of a first user of the plurality of users at the user interface;
and
         dispatching an elevator car based on a first desired destination entered by the first
user of the plurality of users and the detected presence of the first user.
         9.      The method of dispatching an elevator car in an elevator system of claim
8, further comprising detecting a second desired destination entered by a second user of
the plurality of users, and determining if the second destination is identical to the first
destination and determining whether the second user and the first user are the same user.
          10.    The method of dispatching an elevator car in an elevator system of claim
9, further comprising ignoring the second destination is identical to the first destination
and the second user and the first user are the same user.
                                               13

1001985618
          11.   The method of dispatching an elevator car in an elevator system of claim
10, further comprising inquiring of the second user if they would like to change their
destination request if the second user and the first user are the same user and the second
desired destination is different from the first desired destination.
          12.   The method of dispatching an elevator car in an elevator system of claim
11, further comprising modifying the activity of the elevator system based on the
presence of a user in the vicinity of the user interface.
          13.   The method of dispatching an elevator car in an elevator system of any of
claim 8-12, further comprising modifying the activity of the elevator system based on the
presence of a user in the vicinity of the user interface.
          14.   The method of dispatching an elevator car in an elevator system of claim
13, wherein the modification includes at least one of changing the operation of the user
interface based on the presence of a user of the plurality of users in the vicinity of the
user interface and collecting data based on the detected presence of the user.
          15.   The method of dispatching an elevator car in an elevator system of claim
14, wherein the changing includes at least one of enabling/disabling, wake/sleep mode,
and adjusting display timing.
                                               14

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
