   Abstract
   The invention relates to a bridge reclaimer for removing material from a bulk material
 5 stockpile, comprising a bridge that extends along the bulk material stockpile in front of
   an extraction side thereof, at least one bulk material removal device, in particular a
   raking device or scraping device, that projects beyond the bridge and is intended for
   removing or extracting bulk material on the extraction side, at least one trolley that is
   movable along the bridge and comprises a bulk material receiving device, in particular
10 a bucket wheel, that is fastened to the trolley, the bulk material receiving device being
   designed to receive bulk material from a base of the bulk material stockpile. The
   object of the invention is that of providing a simple and reliable design of a bridge
   reclaimer. The bridge reclaimer according to the invention comprises an arrangement
   consisting of a first bulk material receiving device, a bulk material removal device, at
15 least on a first longitudinal side of the bridge, and a second bulk material receiving
   device, in this sequence.
   Fig. 1
20

    1/3
             1
15r
  3
 16
          13     2
        7         4
                    5
               Fig. 1

                                                1
                                        Bridge reclaimer
   CROSS REFERNCE TO PRIORITY APPLICATION:
   This application claims priority from German Patent Application No. DE
 5 10<removed-apn>.9 filed on 12 January 2017, the contents of which are to be taken as
   incorporated herein by this reference.
   The present invention relates to a bridge reclaimer for removing material from a bulk
   material stockpile.
10
   The following discussion of the background to the invention is intended to facilitate an
   understanding of the invention. However, it should be appreciated that the discussion
   is not an acknowledgement or admission that any aspect of the discussion was part of
   the common general knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
15
   Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising"
   are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be interpreted as
   specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not
   precluding the presence of one or more other features, integers, steps or
20 components.
   Bridge reclaimers from this technical field are used for reclaiming ore, coal or other
   materials in bulk material stockpiles. The bulk material is received by a bulk material
   receiving device which, specifically, is usually a bucket wheel. The bulk material is
25 received by the bucket wheel and tipped from the buckets onto a conveyor belt which
   then conveys the bulk material away to the bridge. A chain bucket device is another
   example of a bulk material receiving device. The height of the bulk material stockpile
   may exceed the height of the bucket wheel many times. In order to uniformly supply
   the bulk material to the bulk material receiving device, the bulk material receiving
30 device is usually combined with a bulk material removal device. The bulk material
   removal device may be a rake, for example, which, by loosening a free-flowing bulk
   material, for example sand, causes the bulk material to move downwards on the
   extraction side of the bulk material stockpile. In the case of less free-flowing materials,
   in place of the rakes, scrapers are used which scrape the material downwards. A

                                                  2
   plurality of scraper pushers are usually fastened to one scraper arm in order to
   continuously extract bulk material downwards in a continuous rotary movement.
   DE 1232073 A describes a bridge reclaimer in which the bucket wheel and the
 5 scraper arm are fastened to a rotating disc and therefore the bucket wheel and the
   scraper arm can be rotated on both sides of the bridge in order to be able to remove
   material from a bulk material stockpile on each side of the bridge. The design
   comprising the rotary device is complex and prone to malfunction.
10 DE 2856182 C2 discloses, in Fig. 5, a bucket wheel bridge reclaimer in which a rake
   frame is arranged on either side of the bridge. This makes it possible for material to
   be extracted in both directions, transversely to the bridge, after reconfiguring the
   bucket wheel. According to Fig. 4 of said document, the bucket wheel can be moved
   along the bridge independently of the rake frame. This freedom of movement for the
15 bucket wheel comes at the expense of a complex, large and heavy structure.
   It is therefore desirable to provide a simple and reliable design of a bridge reclaimer.
   According to the present invention there is provided bridge reclaimer for removing
20 material from a bulk material stockpile, comprising a bridge that extends along an end
   face of the bulk material stockpile, and the bridge reclaimer being capable of
   depleting the bulk material stockpile in a successive movement in a bridge
   advancement direction that is oriented transversely to the bridge, at least one bulk
   material removal device, in particular a raking device or scraping device, that projects
25 beyond the bridge and is intended for removing or extracting bulk material on the
   extraction side, at least one trolley that is movable along a bridge longitudinal
   extension of the bridge comprising a bulk material receiving device, in particular a
   bucket wheel, that is fastened to the trolley, the bulk material receiving device being
   designed to receive bulk material from a lower region of the end face of the bulk
30 material stockpile, wherein the bridge reclaimer comprises an arrangement of a first
   bulk material receiving device, a bulk material removal device, at least on a first
   longitudinal side of the bridge, and a second bulk material receiving device, in this
   sequence, along the longitudinal extension of the bridge.

                                                 3
   The bulk material removal device is arranged beside the two bulk material receiving
   devices in the longitudinal direction of the bridge. Said removal device is therefore not
   flush with a bulk material receiving device, as is usual in the prior art, but is instead
   arranged between the two adjacent bulk material receiving devices. In order to
 5 reclaim a layer of the bulk material stockpile, this arrangement of, for example, two
   bucket wheels and a scraper arm located therebetween, is moved once along the
   bridge, the material of the bulk material stockpile that is located at a height above the
   bridge being scraped downwards by the scraper arm and there received by the
   bucket wheel that is at the rear in the direction of movement along the bridge. The
10 stockpile may be higher than the diameter of the bucket wheels, since the bulk
   material removal device can cause bulk material that is higher up to flow downwards
   into the region accessible by the bulk material receiving device. The height of an
   extraction region of a bucket wheel at the base of a stockpile corresponds
   approximately to the radius of the bucket wheel. At each of the lateral edges thereof,
15 the bulk material stockpile has a height that levels off at an angle of repose, and
   therefore only the bulk material receiving device, but no bulk material removal device,
   is required here.
   The bridge reclaimer can be designed as a one-way machine. In the case of the one
20 way machine, it is only possible to reclaim a stockpile on one longitudinal side of the
   bridge, for example the right-hand side. The bulk material removal device of the one
   way machine can be arranged only on this one longitudinal side of the bridge. The
   bridge reclaimer can also be designed as a two-way machine, however. In the case of
   the two-way machine, it is possible to reclaim a stockpile on each of the two
25 longitudinal sides of the bridge, on the left-hand side and on the right-hand side, and
   the bulk material removal device of the two-way machine is arranged on both
   longitudinal sides of the bridge. In the case of a two-way machine, reconfiguration
   may be necessary, for example the buckets on the bucket wheels must be rotated, in
   order to swap between the two extraction directions.
30
   The two bulk material receiving devices arranged along the bridge ensure that the
   bulk material is completely received along the bridge, both in a forwards direction and
   in a backwards direction. The fact that the bulk material removal device is further from
   the end of the bridge than the end bucket wheel does not constitute a functional

                                                   4
   limitation. During a working movement along the bridge, the front bulk material
   receiving device initially receives the bulk material at the bottom, at the end face of
   the bulk material stockpile that acts as the extraction side. Behind the front bulk
   material receiving device, the bulk material removal device transports further material
 5 towards the base of the bulk material stockpile in order that said material can be
   received at the bottom, on the extraction side, by the rear bulk material receiving
   device. Following a reversal of the working direction, the front and the rear bulk
   material receiving device swap functions. The bulk material removal device arranged
   therebetween is used universally, both during the forwards movement and during the
10 backwards movement. Just one bulk material removal device is arranged on a
   longitudinal side of the bridge. In the case of a two-way machine, the one bulk
   material removal device comprises components on both sides of the bridge, so that
   extraction is possible on both sides of the bridge.
15 On account of the arrangement mentioned, the bridge reclaimer according to the
   invention is compact and can be produced using few components. This arrangement
   can also be referred to as series arrangement of the first bulk material receiving
   device, the bulk material removal device and the second bulk material receiving
   device.
20
   In an embodiment of the bridge reclaimer according to the invention, the first and the
   second bulk material receiving device are fastened to the same trolley. The trolley
   may be a rail-mounted chassis that runs or can be moved on rails that are laid in the
   longitudinal direction of the bridge. Using just one trolley to receive both bulk material
25 receiving devices allows for particularly few components and correspondingly low
   costs.
   It is also possible, however, for the first bulk material receiving device to be fastened
   to a first trolley and for the second bulk material receiving device to be fastened to a
30 second trolley. In this case, the first trolley and the second trolley can be
   interconnected by means of a coupling element, for example a coupling rod. The
   coupling element can also be a frame part of the bulk material removal device, which
   part can be screwed to the first and the second trolley. The coupling element allows
   for a simple design of the control of the bridge reclaimer.

                                                  5
   Alternative embodiments of the bridge reclaimer according to the invention do not
   comprise any coupling between the first bulk material receiving device and the
   second bulk material receiving device. In this case, the trolley that is at the rear in
 5 each case pushes a raking device in front of it, for example.
   Instead of mechanical coupling, electronic coupling, for example using sensors or in a
   control algorithm, can also be implemented.
10 The bridge reclaimer according to the invention can also comprise a third trolley
   having at least one bulk material removal device fastened thereto. In this
   embodiment, the distance between the bulk material removal device and at least one
   adjacent bulk material receiving device can be increased so that the bulk material has
   more time to flow down, in accordance with the greater distance. When the three
15 trolleys are used, additional work parameters can be set for effective operation of the
   bridge reclaimer, and there are thus additional options when optimising a reclaiming
   speed. In this case, the first trolley, the second trolley and the third trolley can be
   movable separately on the bridge.
20 According to an advantageous embodiment, the bulk material removal device of the
   bridge reclaimer according to the invention is designed so as to protrude from the
   bridge on both sides. In this case, the part of the bulk material removal device on the
   first bridge side can act as a counterweight for the other part of the bulk material
   removal device on the opposing bridge side. When depleting a stockpile in a first
25 direction transverse to the bridge, only one part of the bulk material removal device
   works on the bulk material stockpile, while the other part of the bulk material removal
   device is used when depleting a second stockpile in the second direction transverse
   to the bridge. The successive movement of the bridge in the transverse direction is a
   bridge advancement direction that can be continued until an entire bulk material
30 stockpile has been depleted or reclaimed.
   The bridge reclaimer according to the invention can comprise at least one winch and
   a cable for setting a slope angle of the bulk material removal device. Cable winches
   and cables are cost-effective and lightweight force-transmission elements. The bridge

                                                 6
   reclaimer can comprise one manually operated or motorised cable winch for setting
   one slope angle of a bulk material removal device, or two cable winches for setting
   two slope angles of two bulk material removal devices. Each winding of a cable on a
   cable winch can be considered a store that stores a partial length of the cable in a
 5 plurality of turns of the winding of the cable.
   The bridge reclaimer comprising two opposing parts of one bulk material removal
   device can also comprise a two-strand winch having two windings, the windings being
   designed such that, when the two-strand winch is rotated, one winding of the cable is
10 wound up onto the winch and the other winding is unwound, and such that slope
   angles of the two parts of the bulk material removal device that protrude from the
   bridge in opposing directions can be adjusted by means of the two-strand winch.
   Particularly few components are required in this embodiment.
15 The two windings can apply opposing, mutually compensating torques to the two
   strand winch. For this purpose, a first cable that is connected to the first part of the
   bulk material removal device is a cable that runs onto the two-strand winch or onto a
   drum of the two-strand winch when the two-strand winch is rotated, and a second
   cable that is connected to the second part of the bulk material removal device is,
20 correspondingly, a cable that runs off. Consequently, said two-strand winch can be
   designed, having low driving power, as a single winch for a comparable one-sided
   bulk material removal device.
   The two windings of the two-strand winch can also be wound in the same direction,
25 such that the two cables run on or run off simultaneously when the two-strand winch
   is rotated. Using a two-strand winch of this kind, is it possible to raise or lower the
   both parts of the bulk material removal device simultaneously. The symmetry
   associated therewith can minimise stresses at the trolleys. A high-torque two-strand
   winch of this kind is a simpler solution that two weaker single winches.
30
   A person skilled in the art of the invention will recognise that the invention comprises
   various combination possibilities of shown and indicated options. Options described
   successively should not be misunderstood as being a limiting combination of features.
   The invention also comprises combinations of features that are not explicitly set out.

                                                  7
   The present invention will be described in greater detail in the following, with
   reference to drawings that illustrate embodiments.
 5 In the drawings:
   Fig. 1 is a plan view of a bridge reclaimer according to the invention,
   Fig. 2 shows the bridge reclaimer in a longitudinal view of the bridge,
10
   Fig. 3 shows the bridge reclaimer viewed transversely to the bridge, and
   Fig. 4 is a plan view of a bridge reclaimer according to the invention.
15 Fig. 1-3 show a bridge reclaimer 1 according to the invention in a plan view and in two
   views in different lateral directions, the plan view being shown in Fig. 1. Fig. 2 is a
   view along the cutting line A-A in Fig. 1, and Fig. 3 is a view in the direction of the
   plane in which the cutting line B-B in Fig. 2 lies. The same reference signs are used in
   all the drawings for the same or similar objects.
20
   A bulk material stockpile 2 is visible in Fig. 1, the width of which stockpile increases
   towards the bottom, in the manner of a pyramid. The bridge 3 of the bridge retainer 1
   is on an extraction side 4 of the bulk material stockpile 2. Fig. 2 is a side view of the
   extraction side 4 of the bulk material stockpile 2. The material stored on the bulk
25 material stockpile 2 is loosened by a raking device 5 during a movement thereof along
   the bridge 3 so that, as a result, the material on the end face that functions as the
   extraction side 4 flows downwards towards the foot of the bulk material stockpile 2.
   The material to be reclaimed is received in a lower region of the bulk material
   stockpile 2 by two bucket wheels 8 that rotate about the bridge and said material is
30 tipped onto a bridge conveyor belt 16 in order to be transported away by the bridge
   conveyor belt 16. In the embodiment shown, after the bridge conveyor belt 16 has
   ended at the edge of the bridge 3, the onward transport is carried out by means of a
   stacker conveyor belt 17 that extends transversely to the bridge 3.

                                                  8
   The bulk material stockpile is depleted in layers using the bridge reclaimer 1, by
   means of a trolley 7 being moved on the bridge 3 from one end position to the other
   end position. In order to illustrate this working movement, a second position of the
   bucket wheels 8 and of the raking device 5 has been indicated using dashed lines in
 5 Fig. 2. Once a layer of the bulk material stockpile 2 has been at least largely received,
   the bridge 3 is moved in a bridge advancement direction 13 that is oriented
   transversely to the bridge 3 in order that the next layer can be received. In the
   embodiment shown, the mobility of the bridge is achieved by means of a bridge
   running gear having a bridge running gear rigid side 14 and a bridge running gear
10 floating side 15.
   Fig. 1 shows a bulk material stockpile only on the right-hand side of the bridge 3. The
   bridge reclaimer 1 shown is a two-way machine, by means of which, in addition, a
   bulk material stockpile 2 (not shown) beside the bridge 3 on the left-hand side can
15 also be depleted. For this purpose, the rake device 5 comprises two parts which
   protrude from the bridge on the left-hand and right-hand sides.
   The size of an angle of repose that arises when the bulk material stockpile 2 is built
   up varies on different bulk material stockpiles 2, depending on the material. As shown
20 in Fig. 3, a slope angle 12 of the raking device 5 can be set by the upper ends of the
   raking device being able to be raised and lowered in a lifting direction 11. The slope
   angle 12 is generally selected so as to be the same as or a few degrees larger than
   the angle of repose. A winch comprising windings of a cable 10 is provided in the
   embodiment shown for setting the slope angle 12. The left-hand part and/or the right
25 hand part of the raking device 5 can be raised and lowered by means of the cable 10,
   the length of which reduces when wound on the winch. The cable 10 is guided over a
   rigid cable pulley assembly 18 and a movable cable pulley assembly 19 such that,
   when the cable 10 is shortened, the movable cable pulley assembly 19 moves
   towards the rigid cable pulley assembly in order to raise the raking device, and a
30 distance between the cable pulley assemblies 18, 19 is thus reduced.
   In the embodiment shown, the winch is a two-strand winch 9 comprising two windings
   or two winding parts of a double winding, one part of the raking device 5 being raised
   and the opposing part of the raking device 5 being lowered, or vice versa,

                                                9
   simultaneously, when said two-strand winch 9 is rotated. In order to illustrate the two
   strand winch 9, the background components of the bridge reclaimer 1 have been cut
   away in Fig. 3. In the embodiment shown, the lifting forces of the two parts of the
   raking device 5 act in opposing directions, and the torques applied to the two-strand
 5 winch 9 by the two windings act in opposing directions of rotation and are largely
   mutually compensating. The two-strand winch 9 is accordingly small and cost
   effective. In this embodiment, when one part of the raking device 5 is raised, the
   opposite part of the raking device 5 is lowered. Limits of the slope angle 12 are set at
   250 and 450 for example.
10
   Fig. 4 is a plan view of another bridge reclaimer 1' according to the invention. In
   contrast to the bridge reclaimer 1 of Fig. 1, the bulk material removal device in this
   case is not a raking device 5 but instead a scraping device 6. Similarly to Fig. 3, the
   bulk material removal device shown in Fig. 4 also comprises two opposing parts of
15 the scraping device 6. The scrapers of the scraping device 6 are moved downwards
   along the end face of the bulk material stockpile that is to be depleted, on the
   extraction side 4 of the bulk material stockpile 2, in order to scrape the material
   downwards.
20

                                             10
   Reference signs
   1, 1' bridge reclaimer
   2     bulk material stockpile
 5 3     bridge
   4     end face and extraction side of the bulk material stockpile
   5     raking device
   6     scraping device
   7     trolley
10 8     bucket wheel
   9     two-strand winch
   10    cable
   11    lifting direction
   12    slope angle
15 13    bridge advancement direction
   14    bridge running gear rigid side
   15    bridge running gear floating side
   16    bridge conveyor belt
   17    stacker conveyor belt
20 18    rigid cable pulley assembly
   19    movable cable pulley assembly

                                                   11
   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
   1.       Bridge reclaimer for removing material from a bulk material stockpile,
 5 comprising:
           - a bridge that extends along an end face of the bulk material stockpile, and the
           bridge reclaimer being capable of depleting the bulk material stockpile in a
           successive movement in a bridge advancement direction that is oriented
           transversely to the bridge,
10         - at least one bulk material removal device, in particular a raking device or
           scraping device, that projects beyond the bridge and is intended for removing
           or extracting bulk material on the extraction side,
           - at least one trolley that is movable along a bridge longitudinal extension of the
           bridge comprising a bulk material receiving device, in particular a bucket wheel,
15         that is fastened to the trolley, the bulk material receiving device being designed
           to receive bulk material from a lower region of the end face of the bulk material
           stockpile,
           wherein
           the bridge reclaimer comprises an arrangement of
20         -        a first bulk material receiving device,
           -        a bulk material removal device, at least on a first longitudinal side of the
           bridge,
   and
   -       a second bulk material receiving device,
25 in this sequence, along the longitudinal extension of the bridge.
   2.       Bridge reclaimer according to claim 1, wherein the first and the second bulk
   material receiving device are fastened to the same trolley.
30 3.       Bridge reclaimer according to claim 1, wherein the first bulk material receiving
   device is fastened to a first trolley and the second bulk material receiving device is
   fastened to a second trolley.

                                               12
   4.      Bridge reclaimer according to claim 3, wherein the first trolley, comprising the
   bulk material receiving device, and the second trolley are interconnected by means of
   a coupling element.
 5 5.      Bridge reclaimer according to claim 3, wherein the first trolley and the second
   trolley are not coupled to one another.
   6.      Bridge reclaimer according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the bridge
   reclaimer comprises a third trolley having at least one bulk material removal device
10 fastened thereto.
   7.      Bridge reclaimer according to claim 6, wherein the first trolley, the second
   trolley and the third trolley can be moved separately on the bridge.
15 8.      Bridge reclaimer according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the bulk
   material removal device of the bridge reclaimer is designed so as to protrude from the
   bridge on both sides.
   9.      Bridge reclaimer according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the bridge
20 reclaimer comprises at least one winch and a cable for setting a slope angle of the
   bulk material removal device.
   10.     Bridge reclaimer according to claims 8 and 9, wherein the bridge reclaimer
   comprises a two-strand winch having two windings, the windings being designed such
25 that, when the two-strand winch is rotated, one winding is wound up and the other
   winding is unwound and, as a result, a first slope angle of one bulk material removal
   device on a first side of the bridge increases and the slope angle of the bulk material
   removal device on a second side of the bridge that is opposite the first side is
   reduced, simultaneously.
30

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/3

