ABSTRACT
Disclosed are methods for generating humoral and cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) immune
responses in a subject and related compositions. See Fig. 9.

WO 2013/019669                                                 PCT/US2012/048670
                                        7/9
                      Anti-OVA Antibody Titers (day 14)
               Prime/Boost Nanocarrier Vaccination (days 0/10)
     1000000
       100000;
        10000
         1000
                                      Fig. 9

        WO 2013/019669                                                            PCT/US2012/048670
             SYNTHETIC NANOCARRIERS THAT GENERATE HUMORAL AND
                  CYTOTOXIC T LYMPHOCYTE (CTL) IMMUNE RESPONSES
                                      RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5           This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119 of United States provisional
    application 61/513,496, 61/513,526 and 61/513,527, each filed July 29, 2011, the entire
    contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.
                                      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 0           This invention relates to methods for generating humoral and cytotoxic T lymphocyte
    (CTL) immune responses in a subject and related compositions. Generally, the humoral and
    CTL immune responses are generated with synthetic nanocarrier compositions that comprise
    a protein that comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one MHC Class I-restricted
    epitope.
 5
                               BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
             Classically, vaccines have promoted a single arm of the immune system, for example,
    the generation of a humoral immune response consisting of antibodies to an antigen or,
    alternatively, activation of a CTL response to an antigen. Additionally, conventional
 .0 vaccines generally do not target the sites of action of cells of interest, such as APCs, in an
    optimal manner. Methods and compositions for effectively activating both of these arms of
    the immune system optimally to effectively generate immune responses and/or reduce off
    target effects and toxicity are needed.
25                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             Provided herein are methods, and related compositions, for generating humoral and
    CTL immune responses in a subject. In one aspect, a method comprising identifying a
    subject in need of a humoral and CTL immune response to a first protein, and administering
    to the subject a composition comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers coupled to the
30  first protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one
    MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of
    synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the
    mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population
    of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm is provided. In

       WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   -2
   another embodiment, the mean of a DLS distribution is determined by any of the examples of
   such a method provided herein. Such examples are described in more detail below. In one
   embodiment, the composition is administered in an amount effective to generate a humoral
   and CTL immune response to the first protein.
 5          In another aspect, a method comprising administering to the subject a composition
   comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers coupled to a first protein; wherein the first
   protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one MHC Class I-restricted
   epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of synthetic nanocarriers does
   not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, wherein the mean of a particle size distribution
 0 obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population of synthetic nanocarriers is a
   maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, and wherein the composition is administered
   according to a vaccination regimen is provided.
            In another aspect, a method comprising administering to the subject a composition
   comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers coupled to a first protein; wherein the first
 5 protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one MHC Class I-restricted
   epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of synthetic nanocarriers does
   not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, wherein the mean of a particle size distribution
   obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population of synthetic nanocarriers is a
   maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, and wherein the composition is administered
 0 according to a protocol that was previously shown to result in a humoral and CTL immune
   response specific to the first protein in one or more test subjects is provided.
            In one embodiment, the methods provided herein further comprise identifying a
   subject in need of a humoral and cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) immune response to the first
   protein. In another embodiment, the composition is administered according to a vaccination
25 regimen. In yet another embodiment, the composition is administered according to a protocol
   that was previously shown to result in a humoral and CTL immune response specific to the
   first protein in one or more test subjects
            In another embodiment, the composition further comprises one or more adjuvants. In
   another embodiment, the method further comprises administering one or more adjuvants. In
30 a further embodiment, the one or more adjuvants comprise stimulators or agonists of pattern
   recognition receptors, mineral salts, alum, alum combined with monphosphoryl lipid A of
   Enterobacteria (MPL), MPL® (AS04), AS 15, saponins, QS-21,Quil-A, ISCOMs,
   ISCOMATRIX TM , MF59 TM, Montanide@ ISA 51, Montanide@ ISA 720, AS02, liposomes

        WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                    -3
    and liposomal formulations, ASO1, synthesized or specifically prepared microparticles and
    microcarriers, bacteria-derived outer membrane vesicles of N. gonorrheae or Chlamydia
    trachomatis, chitosan particles, depot-forming agents, Pluronic@ block co-polymers,
    specifically modified or prepared peptides, muramyl dipeptide, aminoalkyl glucosaminide 4
 5  phosphates, RC529, bacterial toxoids, toxin fragments, agonists of Toll-Like Receptors 2, 3,
    4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and/or combinations thereof; adenine derivatives; immunostimulatory DNA;
    immunostimulatory RNA; imidazoquinoline amines, imidazopyridine amines, 6,7-fused
    cycloalkylimidazopyridine amines, 1,2-bridged imidazoquinoline amines; imiquimod;
    resiquimod; agonist for DC surface molecule CD40; type I interferons; poly I:C; bacterial
 0  lipopolysacccharide (LPS); VSV-G; HMGB-1; flagellin or portions or derivatives thereof;
    immunostimulatory DNA molecules comprising CpGs; proinflammatory stimuli released
    from necrotic cells; urate crystals; activated components of the complement cascade;
    activated components of immune complexes; complement receptor agonists; cytokines; or
    cytokine receptor agonists. In yet another embodiment, the one or more adjuvants comprise
 5  an agonist of Toll-Like Receptor 2, 3, 4, 7, 8 or 9. In still another embodiment, the one or
    more adjuvants comprise an imidazoquinoline or oxoadenine. In one embodiment, the
    imidazoquinoline comprises resiquimod or imiquimod.
             In another embodiment, the one or more adjuvants are coupled to the synthetic
    nanocarriers of the population of synthetic nanocarriers.
 .0          In still another embodiment, the composition further comprises or the method further
    comprises administering another population of synthetic nanocarriers, and the one or more
    adjuvants are coupled to the synthetic nanocarriers of the other population of synthetic
    nanocarriers.
             In a further embodiment, the one or more adjuvants are not coupled to a synthetic
25  nanocarrier.
             In another embodiment, the composition further comprises one or more additional
    antigens or the method further comprises administering one or more additional antigens. In
    an embodiment, the one or more additional antigens comprise at least one humoral epitope
    and/or at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope. In another embodiment, the one or more
30  additional antigens comprise at least one humoral epitope and at least one MHC Class I
    restricted epitope that are not the same epitope. In one embodiment, the one or more
    additional antigens comprise a second protein. In another embodiment, the one or more
    additional antigens comprise a humoral epitope and/or a MHC Class I-restricted epitope. In

       WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  -4
   still another embodiment, the one or more additional antigens comprise a humoral epitope
   and a MHC Class I-restricted epitope. In yet another embodiment, the one or more additional
   antigens comprise at least one humoral epitope and at least one MHC Class I-restricted
   epitope that are not the same epitope.
 5          In one embodiment, the one or more additional antigens are coupled to the synthetic
   nanocarriers.
            In another embodiment, the composition further comprises or the method further
   comprises administering another population of synthetic nanocarriers, and the one or more
   additional antigens are coupled to the synthetic nanocarriers of the other population of
 0 synthetic nanocarriers.
            In still another embodiment, the one or more additional antigens are not coupled to a
   synthetic nanocarrier.
            In one embodiment, the synthetic nanocarriers and/or other synthetic nanocarriers
   comprise a polymeric nanoparticle, a metallic nanoparticle, a dendrimer, a buckyball, a
 5 nanowire, a virus-like particle or a peptide or protein particle. In another embodiment, the
   synthetic nanocarriers and/or other synthetic nanocarriers comprise one or more polymers. In
   yet another embodiment, the one or more polymers comprise a polyester, polyamino acid,
   polycarbonate, polyacetal, polyketal, polysaccharide, polyethyloxazoline or
   polyethyleneimine. In still another embodiment, the one or more polymers comprise a
 0 polyester. In one embodiment, the polyester comprises a poly(lactic acid), poly(glycolic
   acid), poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) or polycaprolactone. In another embodiment, the
   polyester is coupled to a polyether. In yet another embodiment, the polyether comprises
   polyethylene glycol.
            In one embodiment, the first protein and/or one or more additional antigens are
25 antigens associated with cancer, an infection or infectious disease or a non-autoimmune or
   degenerative disease. In another embodiment, the first protein and/or one or more additional
   antigens are antigens associated with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), malaria,
   leischmaniasis, a human filovirus infection, a togavirus infection, a alphavirus infection, an
   arenavirus infection, a bunyavirus infection, a flavivirus infection, a human papillomavirus
30 infection, a human influenza A virus infection, a hepatitis B infection or a hepatitis C
   infection.
            In another embodiment, the subject has or is at risk of having cancer, an infection or
   infectious disease or a non-autoimmune or degenerative disease. In yet another embodiment,

       WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                    -5
   the subject has or is at risk of having HIV, malaria, leischmaniasis, a human filovirus
   infection, a togavirus infection, a alphavirus infection, an arenavirus infection, a bunyavirus
   infection, a flavivirus infection, a human papillomavirus infection, a human influenza A virus
   infection, a hepatitis B infection or a hepatitis C infection.
 5          In still another embodiment, the humoral and CTL immune responses that are
   generated are clinically effective. In one embodiment, the immune responses are effective to
   treat or prevent cancer, an infection or infectious disease or a non-autoimmune or
   degenerative disease in the subject. In another embodiment, the immune responses are
   effective to treat or prevent HIV, malaria, leischmaniasis, a human filovirus infection, a
 0 togavirus infection, a alphavirus infection, an arenavirus infection, a bunyavirus infection, a
   flavivirus infection, a human papillomavirus infection, a human influenza A virus infection, a
   hepatitis B infection or a hepatitis C infection in the subject.
            In one embodiment, the composition further comprises a pharmaceutically acceptable
   excipient.
 5          In another embodiment, the composition is sterile.
            In another embodiment, the composition is reconstituted from a lyophilized form.
            In another aspect, a dosage form comprising any of the compositions provided is
   provided.
            In yet another aspect, a vaccine comprising any of the compositions and dosage forms
 0 provided is provided.
            In yet a further embodiment, the composition is administered by intravenous, oral,
   subcutaneous, pulmonary, intranasal, intradermal, transmucosal, intramucosal or
   intramuscular administration.
            In still another aspect, a method comprising administering any of the compositions
25 provided herein to a subject in need thereof is provided. In one embodiment, the subject is a
   human. In another embodiment, the subject has or is at risk of having cancer. In still another
   embodiment, the subject has or is at risk of having an infection or infectious disease. In yet
   another embodiment, the subject has or is at risk of having a non-autoimmune or
   degenerative disease. In yet a further embodiment, the subject has or is at risk of having
30 HIV. In another embodiment, the subject has or is at risk of having malaria, leischmaniasis, a
   human filovirus infection, a togavirus infection, a alphavirus infection, an arenavirus
   infection, a bunyavirus infection, a flavivirus infection, a human papillomavirus infection, a
   human influenza A virus infection, a hepatitis B infection or a hepatitis C infection.

       WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   -6
            In one embodiment of any of the methods provided herein, any of the compositions
   provided can be administered to a subject, such as a human, according to a vaccination
   regimen.
            In another embodiment of any of the method provided herein, any of the compositions
 5 provided can be administered to a subject according to a protocol that was previously shown
   to result in a humoral and CTL immune response specific to the first protein in one or more
   test subjects is provided
            In another aspect, any of the methods provided can further comprise assessing the
   humoral and CTL immune response in the subject. The methods for assessing the humoral
 0 and CTL immune response can be any of the methods provided herein.
            In yet another aspect, a method comprising preparing any of the compositions
   provided herein and assessing the generation of a humoral and CTL immune response is
   provided. In one embodiment, the composition comprises synthetic nanocarriers coupled to a
   first protein that comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one MHC Class I
 5 restricted epitope that are not the same epitope. In another embodiment, the population of
   synthetic nanocarriers coupled to the first protein does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol
   adjuvant and/or the mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light
   scattering of the population of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm
   to 250 nm.
 0          In one aspect, a composition comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers
   coupled to a first protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and
   at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the
   population of synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and
   wherein the mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the
25 population of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for
   use in therapy or prophylaxis is provided.
            In another aspect, a composition comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers
   coupled to a first protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and
   at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the
30 population of synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and
   wherein the mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the
   population of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for
   use in any of the methods provided herein is provided.

       WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                    -7
            In yet another aspect, a composition comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers
   coupled to a first protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and
   at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the
   population of synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and
 5 wherein the mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the
   population of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for
   use in vaccination is provided.
            In still another aspect, a composition comprising a population of synthetic
   nanocarriers coupled to a first protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one
 0 humoral epitope and at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same
   epitope, wherein the population of synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin
   cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the mean of a particle size distribution obtained using
   dynamic light scattering of the population of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension
   of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for use in generating a humoral and CTL immune response to the
 5 first protein in a subject is provided. In one embodiment, these immune responses are
   clinically effective. In another embodiment, these immune responses are each effective in
   achieving immunity against a disease.
            In a further aspect, a composition comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers
   coupled to a first protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and
 0 at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the
   population of synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and
   wherein the mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the
   population of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for
   use in a method of therapy or prophylaxis of cancer, an infection or infectious disease, a non
25 autoimmune or degenerative disease, HIV, malaria, leischmaniasis, a human filovirus
   infection, a togavirus infection, a alphavirus infection, an arenavirus infection, a bunyavirus
   infection, a flavivirus infection, a human papillomavirus infection, a human influenza A virus
   infection, a hepatitis B infection or a hepatitis C infection I is provided.
            In still a further aspect, a composition comprising a population of synthetic
30 nanocarriers coupled to a first protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one
   humoral epitope and at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same
   epitope, wherein the population of synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin
   cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the mean of a particle size distribution obtained using

        WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
    dynamic light scattering of the population of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension
    of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for use in a method of therapy or prophylaxis comprising
    administration by intravenous, oral, subcutaneous, pulmonary, intranasal, intradermal,
    transmucosal, intramucosal or intramuscular administration is provided.
 5          In yet a further aspect, a composition comprising a population of synthetic
    nanocarriers coupled to a first protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one
    humoral epitope and at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same
    epitope, wherein the population of synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin
    cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the mean of a particle size distribution obtained using
 0  dynamic light scattering of the population of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension
    of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for the manufacture of a medicament, for example a vaccine, for
    use in any of the methods provided herein is provided.
            In another aspect, a composition for use as defined for any of the compositions or
    methods provided herein wherein the composition is any of the compositions provided herein
 5  is provided.
                                BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF FIGURES
            Fig. 1 shows the antibody titers generated at days 12, 26, 43 and 57 following a prime
    and one boost (on day 28) vaccination regimen.
 .0         Fig. 2 shows the antibody titers generated at days 26 and 34 following a prime and
    one boost (on day 14) vaccination regimen.
            Fig. 3 shows the induction of local memory CTL response by synthetic nanocarriers
    coupled to ovalbumin (OVA).
            Fig. 4 shows the induction of central CTL response by synthetic nanocarriers coupled
25  to ovalbumin.
            Fig. 5 shows the induction of central CTL induction by synthetic nanocarrier
    compositions with ovalbumin and adjuvant.
            Fig. 6 shows the antibody titers generated at days 25 and 42 following a prime and
    two boosts (on days 14 and 28) vaccination regimen.
30          Fig. 7 shows the development of antibody titers after a single injection by NC-R848 +
    NC-OVA. Individual titers and averages for each experimental group are shown.
    Nanocarrier=NC=NP.

        WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   -9
            Fig. 8 shows the specific cytotoxicity in vivo after a single immunization with NC
    R848 + NC-OVA. Averages for each group with standard deviation are shown.
            Fig. 9 shows the anti-ovalbumin antibody titers upon the immunization with
    nanocarriers carrying CpG and OVA vs. free CpG (5x) and OVA (5x).
 5          Fig. 10 shows the induction of OVA-specific CTL response in draining lymph nodes
    and spleens by the immunization with nanocarriers carrying CpG and OVA vs. free CpG (5x)
    and OVA (5x).
            Fig. 11 shows the expansion of systemically induced OVA-specific CTLs in vitro
    upon the immunization with nanocarriers carrying CpG and OVA vs. free CpG (5x) and
 0  OVA (5x). Left Y axis (dark striped bars) - fraction of SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO: 1)-specific
    CD8+ cells after expansion; right Y axis (light striped bars) - expansion potential presented
    as proportion of post- and pre-expansion SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO: 1)-specific CTLs.
                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
 5          Before describing the present invention in detail, it is to be understood that this
    invention is not limited to particularly exemplified materials or process parameters as such
    may, of course, vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the
    purpose of describing particular embodiments of the invention only, and is not intended to be
    limiting of the use of alternative terminology to describe the present invention.
 .0         All publications, patents and patent applications cited herein, whether supra or infra,
    are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes.
            As used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a," "an"
    and "the" include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. For example,
    reference to "a polymer" includes a mixture of two or more such molecules or a mixture of
25  differing molecular weights of a single polymer species, reference to "a synthetic
    nanocarrier" includes a mixture of two or more such synthetic nanocarriers or a plurality of
    such synthetic nanocarriers, reference to "a DNA molecule" includes a mixture of two or
    more such DNA molecules or a plurality of such DNA molecules, reference to "an adjuvant"
    includes mixture of two or more such adjuvant molecules or a plurality of such adjuvant
30  molecules, and the like.
            As used herein, the term "comprise" or variations thereof such as "comprises" or
    "comprising" are to be read to indicate the inclusion of any recited integer (e.g. a feature,
    element, characteristic, property, method/process step or limitation) or group of integers (e.g.

        WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 10
    features, elements, characteristics, properties, method/process steps or limitations) but not the
    exclusion of any other integer or group of integers. Thus, as used herein, the term
    "comprising" is inclusive and does not exclude additional, unrecited integers or
    method/process steps.
 5          In embodiments of any of the compositions and methods provided herein,
    "comprising" may be replaced with "consisting essentially of' or "consisting of'. The phrase
    "consisting essentially of' is used herein to require the specified integer(s) or steps as well as
    those which do not materially affect the character or function of the claimed invention. As
    used herein, the term "consisting" is used to indicate the presence of the recited integer (e.g. a
 0  feature, element, characteristic, property, method/process step or limitation) or group of
    integers (e.g. features, elements, characteristics, properties, method/process steps or
    limitations) alone.
    A.      INTRODUCTION
 5          Treatment of challenging diseases such as of HIV, malaria, hepatitis B, and cancer
    with therapeutic or prophylactic vaccines may be enhanced by, or in some circumstances
    require, combined humoral and CTL immune responses. While vaccine approaches have
    been proposed for creating a combined CTL and humoral immune response, alternative
    approaches could provide valuable improvements in clinical efficacy, safety, and/or
 .0 manufacturability. Provided herein are methods for using synthetic nanocarrier
    compositions, and related compositions, that are believed to have not been previously shown
    to generate strong and effective humoral and CTL immune responses. Such compositions
    can effectively target immune cells of interest to generate more effective immune responses.
            The inventors have unexpectedly and surprisingly discovered that the problems and
25  limitations noted above can be overcome by practicing the invention disclosed herein. In
    particular, it has been unexpectedly and surprisingly discovered that effective humoral and
    CTL immune responses can be generated with synthetic nanocarriers to which a protein, that
    comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope that
    are not the same epitope, is coupled, wherein the population of synthetic nanocarriers does
30  not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the mean of a particle size
    distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population of synthetic
    nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm. In one aspect, therefore, a
    method comprising administering such a composition is provided. In one embodiment, the

        WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 11
    method comprises identifying a subject in need of a humoral and CTL immune response to a
    first protein, and administering to the subject a composition comprising such synthetic
    nanocarriers. In some embodiments, the composition is in an amount effective to generate a
    humoral and CTL immune response to the first protein. In another embodiment, the method
 5  comprises administering such a composition to a subject according to a protocol that was
    previously shown to result in a humoral and CTL immune response specific to the first
    protein in one or more test subjects.
             In embodiments, the immune responses that are generated are clinically effective. In
    some embodiments, the subject to which the compositions are administered may have or be at
 0  risk of having cancer, an infection or infectious disease or a non-autoimmune or degenerative
    disease. In other embodiments, the subject may have or be at risk of having HIV, malaria,
    leischmaniasis, a human filovirus infection, a togavirus infection, a alphavirus infection, an
    arenavirus infection, a bunyavirus infection, a flavivirus infection, a human papillomavirus
    infection, a human influenza A virus infection, a hepatitis B infection or a hepatitis C
 5  infection.
             In other embodiments, the compositions are administered to a subject, such as a
    human, according to a vaccination regimen.
             The invention will now be described in more detail below.
 .0 B.       DEFINITIONS
             "Adjuvant" means an agent that does not constitute a specific antigen, but boosts the
    strength and longevity of an immune response to a concomitantly administered antigen. Such
    adjuvants may include, but are not limited to stimulators of pattern recognition receptors,
    such as Toll-like receptors, RIG-I and NOD-like receptors (NLR), mineral salts, such as
25  alum, alum combined with monphosphoryl lipid (MPL) A of Enterobacteria, such as
    Escherihia coli, Salmonella minnesota, Salmonella typhimurium, or Shigella flexneri or
    specifically with MPL@ (AS04), MPL A of above-mentioned bacteria separately, saponins,
    such as QS-21,Quil-A, ISCOMs, ISCOMATRIX TM, emulsions such as MF59TM , Montanide@
    ISA 51 and ISA 720, AS02 (QS21+squalene+ MPL®) , liposomes and liposomal
30  formulations such as ASO1, synthesized or specifically prepared microparticles and
    microcarriers such as bacteria-derived outer membrane vesicles (OMV) of N. gonorrheae,
    Chlamydia trachomatis and others, or chitosan particles, depot-forming agents, such as
    Pluronic@ block co-polymers, specifically modified or prepared peptides, such as muramyl

        WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 12
    dipeptide, aminoalkyl glucosaminide 4-phosphates, such as RC529, or proteins, such as
    bacterial toxoids or toxin fragments. "Saponin-cholesterol adjuvants" are saponin adjuvants
    that are stabilized by admixture with cholesterol. Such adjuvants include, for example,
    ISCOMs and ISCOMATRIX adjuvants. Preferably, in some embodiments, the synthetic
 5  nanocarriers provided herein are not or do not comprise such adjuvants. In other
    embodiments, the compositions provided herein do not comprise such adjuvants.
             In embodiments, adjuvants comprise agonists for pattern recognition receptors (PRR),
    including, but not limited to Toll-Like Receptors (TLRs), specifically TLRs 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9
    and/or combinations thereof. In other embodiments, adjuvants comprise agonists for Toll
 0  Like Receptors 3, agonists for Toll-Like Receptors 7 and 8, or agonists for Toll-Like
    Receptor 9; preferably the recited adjuvants comprise imidazoquinolines; such as R848;
    adenine derivatives, such as those disclosed in US patent 6,329,381 (Sumitomo
    Pharmaceutical Company), US Published Patent Application 2010/0075995 to Biggadike et
    al., or WO 2010/018132 to Campos et al.; immunostimulatory DNA; or immunostimulatory
 5  RNA. In specific embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers incorporate as adjuvants compounds
    that are agonists for toll-like receptors (TLRs) 7 & 8 ("TLR 7/8 agonists"). Of utility are the
    TLR 7/8 agonist compounds disclosed in US Patent 6,696,076 to Tomai et al., including but
    not limited to imidazoquinoline amines, imidazopyridine amines, 6,7-fused
    cycloalkylimidazopyridine amines, and 1,2-bridged imidazoquinoline amines. Preferred
 .0 adjuvants comprise imiquimod and resiquimod (also known as R848). In specific
    embodiments, an adjuvant may be an agonist for the DC surface molecule CD40. In certain
    embodiments, to stimulate immunity rather than tolerance, a synthetic nanocarrier
    incorporates an adjuvant that promotes DC maturation (needed for priming of naive T cells)
    and the production of cytokines, such as type I interferons, which promote antibody immune
25  responses. In embodiments, adjuvants also may comprise immunostimulatory RNA
    molecules, such as but not limited to dsRNA, poly I:C or poly I:poly C12U (available as
    Ampligen @, both poly I:C and poly I:polyC12U being known as TLR3 stimulants), and/or
    those disclosed in F. Heil et al., "Species-Specific Recognition of Single-Stranded RNA via
    Toll-like Receptor 7 and 8" Science 303(5663), 1526-1529 (2004); J. Vollmer et al.,
30  "Immune modulation by chemically modified ribonucleosides and oligoribonucleotides" WO
    2008033432 A2; A. Forsbach et al., "Immunostimulatory oligoribonucleotides containing
    specific sequence motif(s) and targeting the Toll-like receptor 8 pathway" WO 2007062107
    A2; E. Uhlmann et al., "Modified oligoribonucleotide analogs with enhanced

       WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                    - 13
    immunostimulatory activity" U.S. Pat. Apple. Publ. US 2006241076; G. Lipford et al.,
    "Immunostimulatory viral RNA oligonucleotides and use for treating cancer and infections"
    WO 2005097993 A2; G. Lipford et al., "Immunostimulatory G,U-containing
    oligoribonucleotides, compositions, and screening methods" WO 2003086280 A2. In some
 5  embodiments, an adjuvant may be a TLR-4 agonist, such as bacterial lipopolysacccharide
    (LPS), VSV-G, and/or HMGB-1. In some embodiments, adjuvants may comprise TLR-5
    agonists, such as flagellin, or portions or derivatives thereof, including but not limited to
    those disclosed in US Patents 6,130,082, 6,585,980, and 7,192,725. In specific embodiments,
    synthetic nanocarriers incorporate a ligand for Toll-like receptor (TLR)-9, such as
 0  immunostimulatory DNA molecules comprising CpGs, which induce type I interferon
    secretion, and stimulate T and B cell activation leading to increased antibody production and
    cytotoxic T cell responses (Krieg et al., CpG motifs in bacterial DNA trigger direct B cell
    activation. Nature. 1995. 374:546-549; Chu et al. CpG oligodeoxynucleotides act as
    adjuvants that switch on T helper 1 (Thl) immunity. J. Exp. Med. 1997. 186:1623-1631;
 5  Lipford et al. CpG-containing synthetic oligonucleotides promote B and cytotoxic T cell
    responses to protein antigen: a new class of vaccine adjuvants. Eur. J. Immunol. 1997.
    27:2340-2344; Roman et al. Immunostimulatory DNA sequences function as T helper-I
    promoting adjuvants. . Nat. Med. 1997. 3:849-854; Davis et al. CpG DNA is a potent
    enhancer of specific immunity in mice immunized with recombinant hepatitis B surface
 .0 antigen. J. Immunol. 1998. 160:870-876; Lipford et al., Bacterial DNA as immune cell
    activator. Trends Microbiol. 1998. 6:496-500; US Patent 6,207,646 to Krieg et al.; US Patent
    7,223,398 to Tuck et al.; US Patent 7,250,403 to Van Nest et al.; or US Patent 7,566,703 to
    Krieg et al.
            In some embodiments, adjuvants may be proinflammatory stimuli released from
25  necrotic cells (e.g., urate crystals). In some embodiments, adjuvants may be activated
    components of the complement cascade (e.g., CD21, CD35, etc.). In some embodiments,
    adjuvants may be activated components of immune complexes. The adjuvants also include
    complement receptor agonists, such as a molecule that binds to CD21 or CD35. In some
    embodiments, the complement receptor agonist induces endogenous complement
30  opsonization of the synthetic nanocarrier. In some embodiments, adjuvants are cytokines,
    which are small proteins or biological factors (in the range of 5 kD - 20 kD) that are released
    by cells and have specific effects on cell-cell interaction, communication and behavior of

       WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 14
   other cells. In some embodiments, the cytokine receptor agonist is a small molecule,
   antibody, fusion protein, or aptamer.
            In embodiments, at least a portion of the dose of adjuvant may be coupled to synthetic
   nanocarriers, preferably, all of the dose of adjuvant is coupled to synthetic nanocarriers. In
 5 other embodiments, at least a portion of the dose of the adjuvant is not coupled to the
   synthetic nanocarriers. In embodiments, the dose of adjuvant comprises two or more types of
   adjuvants. For instance, and without limitation, adjuvants that act on different TLR receptors
   may be combined. As an example, in an embodiment a TLR 7/8 agonist may be combined
   with a TLR 9 agonist. In another embodiment, a TLR 7/8 agonist may be combined with a
 0 TLR 4 agonist. In yet another embodiment, a TLR 9 agonist may be combined with a TLR 3
   agonist.
            "Administering" or "administration" means providing a material, such as a drug, to a
   subject in a manner that is pharmacologically useful.
            "Amount effective" is any amount of a composition provided herein that produces one
 5 or more desired responses, such as one or more desired immune responses. This amount can
   be for in vitro or in vivo purposes. For in vivo purposes, the amount can be one that a
   clinician would believe may have a clinical benefit for a subject in need of a humoral immune
   response and a CTL immune response to a single protein. An effective amount that a
   clinician would believe may have a clinical benefit for such a subject is also referred to herein
 0 as a "clinically effective amount". In embodiments, both the humoral immune response and
   the CTL immune response that is elicited by a composition provided herein results in a
   clinical effect from each of these arms of the immune system. In other embodiments,
   clinically effective amounts are effective amounts that can be helpful in the treatment of a
   subject with a disease or condition in which a humoral immune response and a CTL immune
25 response to a single protein would provide a benefit. Such subjects include, in some
   embodiments, those that have or are at risk of having cancer, an infection or infectious
   disease or a non-autoimmune or degenerative disease. In other embodiments, such subjects
   include those that have or are at risk of having HIV, malaria, leischmaniasis, a human
   filovirus infection, a togavirus infection, a alphavirus infection, an arenavirus infection, a
30 bunyavirus infection, a flavivirus infection, a human papillomavirus infection, a human
   influenza A virus infection, a hepatitis B infection or a hepatitis C infection.
            Amounts effective include those that involve the production of a humoral immune
   response against a humoral epitope and a CTL immune response against a MHC Class I-

      WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 15
   restricted epitope administered in one of the compositions provided herein. A subject's
   humoral and CTL immune response can be monitored by routine methods. An amount that is
   effective to produce the desired immune responses as provided herein can also be an amount
   of a composition provided herein that produces a desired therapeutic endpoint or a desired
 5 therapeutic result. In one embodiment, the amount that is effective is one that provides
   effective immunity against a disease or agent that causes a disease as provided herein. In
   another embodiment, the immunity persists in the subject for at least 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48, 60
   or more months. In still another embodiment, the immunity results or persists due to the
   administration of a composition provided herein according to a vaccination regimen.
 0          Amounts effective will depend, of course, on the particular subject being treated; the
   severity of a condition, disease or disorder; the individual patient parameters including age,
   physical condition, size and weight; the duration of the treatment; the nature of concurrent
   therapy (if any); the specific route of administration and like factors within the knowledge
   and expertise of the health practitioner. These factors are well known to those of ordinary
 5 skill in the art and can be addressed with no more than routine experimentation. It is
   generally preferred that a maximum dose be used, that is, the highest safe dose according to
   sound medical judgment. It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art, however,
   that a patient may insist upon a lower dose or tolerable dose for medical reasons,
   psychological reasons or for virtually any other reason.
 0          In general, doses of the compositions of the invention can range from about 10 [tg/kg
   to about 100,000 [tg/kg. In some embodiments, the doses can range from about 0.1 mg/kg to
   about 100 mg/kg. In still other embodiments, the doses can range from about 0.1 mg/kg to
   about 25 mg/kg, about 25 mg/kg to about 50 mg/kg, about 50 mg/kg to about 75 mg/kg or
   about 75 mg/kg to about 100 mg/kg. Alternatively, the dose can be administered based on
25 the number of synthetic nanocarriers. For example, useful doses include greater than 106,
   107, 108, 109 or 1010 synthetic nanocarriers per dose. Other examples of useful doses include
   from about 1x106 to about 1x10 , about 1x107 to about 1x10 9 or about 1x108 to about 1x10 9
   synthetic nanocarriers per dose.
            "Antigen" means any antigen that can generate one or more immune responses. The
30 antigen may be one that generates a humoral and/or CTL immune response. Such antigens
   include, but are not limited to proteins, peptides, small molecules, oligosaccharides, and
   carbohydrates. In some embodiments, such an antigen comprises a non-protein antigen (i.e.,

      WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 16
   not a protein or peptide antigen). In some embodiments, an antigen that generates a humoral
   immune response comprises a carbohydrate associated with an infectious agent. In some
   embodiments, an antigen that generates a humoral immune response comprises a
   glycoprotein or glycopeptide associated with an infectious agent. The infectious agent can be
 5 a bacterium, virus, fungus, protozoan, or parasite. Antigens may be B cell or T cell antigens.
           The synthetic nanocarrier compositions for use in the inventive methods provided
   herein are coupled to an antigen that is a protein that comprises at least one humoral epitope
   and at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope that is not the same epitope. Such
   compositions can, in some embodiments, comprise one or more additional antigens that may
 0 also be so limited but not necessarily so. The one or more additional antigens for use in the
   methods and compositions provided herein can be any antigen, which include antigens that
   comprise humoral epitopes and/or MHC Class I-restricted epitopes. The one or more
   additional antigens may also include MHC Class II-restricted epitopes. In other
   embodiments, the one or more additional antigens may be any antigen that generates a
 5 humoral immune response. In still other embodiments, the one or more additional antigens
   may be any of the T cell antigens described herein, including a CD-I restricted antigen. In
   yet other embodiments, the one or more additional antigens may be a protein, peptide, small
   molecule, oligosaccharide and carbohydrate.
           In embodiments, antigens, including a protein that comprises at least one humoral
 0 epitope and at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, are
   coupled to the synthetic nanocarriers. In other embodiments, the antigens are not coupled to
   the synthetic nanocarriers. In yet other embodiments, the antigens are encapsulated in the
   synthetic nanocarriers. "Type(s) of antigens" means molecules that share the same, or
   substantially the same, antigenic characteristics.
25         "Antigens associated" with a disease, disorder or condition provided herein are
   antigens that can generate an undesired immune response against, as a result of, or in
   conjunction with the disease, disorder or condition; the cause of the disease, disorder or
   condition (or a symptom or effect thereof); and/or can generate an undesired immune
   response that is a symptom, result or effect of the disease, disorder or condition. In some
30 embodiments, such as with cancer, such antigens are expressed in or on diseased cells, such
   as cancer or tumor cells, but not in or on normal or healthy cells (or non-diseased cells).
   Such antigens can also comprise an antigen that is expressed in or on diseased cells and on
   normal or healthy cells (or non-diseased cells) but is expressed in or on diseased cells at a

       WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 17
   greater level than on normal or healthy cells (or non-diseased cells). Preferably, the use of an
   antigen associated with a disease or condition provided herein will not lead to a substantial or
   detrimental immune response against normal or healthy cells or will lead to a beneficial
   immune response against the disease or condition that outweighs any immune response
 5 against normal or healthy cells (or non-diseased cells). The antigens associated with a
   disease or condition provided herein, in some embodiments, are proteins that are coupled to
   synthetic nanocarriers that comprise humoral and/or MHC Class I-restricted epitopes. In
   other embodiments, such proteins comprise a humoral and a MHC Class I-restricted epitope.
   In still other embodiments, such proteins comprise at least one humoral epitope and at least
 0 one MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope. Examples of antigens,
   including the foregoing proteins, are provided elsewhere herein.
            "At least a portion of the dose" means at least some part of the dose, ranging up to
   including all of the dose.
            An "at risk" subject is one in which a health practitioner believes has a chance of
 5 having a disease or condition as provided herein.
            "B cell antigen" means any antigen that is recognized by or triggers an immune
   response in a B cell (e.g., an antigen that is specifically recognized by a B cell or a receptor
   thereon). In some embodiments, an antigen that is a T cell antigen is also a B cell antigen. In
   other embodiments, the T cell antigen is not also a B cell antigen. B cell antigens include,
 0 but are not limited to proteins, peptides, small molecules, oligosaccharides and
   carbohydrates.
            "Couple" or "Coupled" or "Couples" (and the like) means to chemically associate one
   entity (for example a moiety) with another. In some embodiments, the coupling is covalent,
   meaning that the coupling occurs in the context of the presence of a covalent bond between
25 the two entities. In non-covalent embodiments, the non-covalent coupling is mediated by
   non-covalent interactions including but not limited to charge interactions, affinity
   interactions, metal coordination, physical adsorption, host-guest interactions, hydrophobic
   interactions, TT stacking interactions, hydrogen bonding interactions, van der Waals
   interactions, magnetic interactions, electrostatic interactions, dipole-dipole interactions,
30 and/or combinations thereof. In embodiments, encapsulation is a form of coupling.
            "Cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) immune response" means any stimulation, induction
   or proliferation of cytotoxic T cells, preferably cytotoxic T cells that are specific to an
   epitope, such as a MHC Class I-restricted epitope. In embodiments, the epitope is or is of an

        WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 18
    antigen that is associated with any of the diseases or conditions provided herein. Methods for
    assessing CTL immune responses are known to those of skill in the art. Examples of such a
    method are provided in the EXAMPLES.
             "Dosage form" means a pharmacologically and/or immunologically active material in
 5  a medium, carrier, vehicle, or device suitable for administration to a subject.
            "Encapsulate" means to enclose at least a portion of a substance within a synthetic
    nanocarrier. In some embodiments, a substance is enclosed completely within a synthetic
    nanocarrier. In other embodiments, most or all of a substance that is encapsulated is not
    exposed to the local environment external to the synthetic nanocarrier. In other
 0  embodiments, no more than 50%, 40%, 30%, 20%, 10% or 5% (weight/weight) is exposed to
    the local environment. Encapsulation is distinct from absorption, which places most or all of
    a substance on a surface of a synthetic nanocarrier, and leaves the substance exposed to the
    local environment external to the synthetic nanocarrier.
            "Epitope", also known as an antigenic determinant, is the part of an antigen that is
 5  recognized by the immune system, specifically by, for example, antibodies, B cells, or T
    cells. As used herein, a "humoral epitope" is one that is recognized by antibodies or B cells,
    while a "MHC Class I-restricted epitope" is one that is presented to immune cells by MHC
    class I molecules found on nucleated cells. "MHC Class II-restricted epitopes" are epitopes
    that are presented to immune cells by MHC class II molecules found on antigen presenting
 .0 cells (APCs), for example, on professional antigen-presenting immune cells, such as on
    macrophages, B cells, and dendritic cells, or on non-hematopoietic cells, such as hepatocytes.
            A number of epitopes are known to those of skill in the art, and exemplary epitopes
    suitable according to some aspects of this invention include, but are not limited to those listed
    in the Immune Epitope Database (www.immuneepitope.org, Vita R, Zarebski L, Greenbaum
25  JA, Emami H, Hoof I, Salimi N, Damle R, Sette A, Peters B. The immune epitope database
    2.0. Nucleic Acids Res. 2010 Jan;38(Database issue):D854-62;the entire contents of which
    as well as all database entries of IEDB version 2.4, August 2011, and particularly all epitopes
    disclosed therein, are incorporated herein by reference). Epitopes can also be identified with
    publicly available algorithms, for example, the algorithms described in Wang P, Sidney J,
30  Kim Y, Sette A, Lund 0, Nielsen M, Peters B. 2010. peptide binding predictions for HLA
    DR, DP and DQ molecules. BMC Bioinformatics 2010, 11:568; Wang P, Sidney J, Dow C,
    Moth6 B, Sette A, Peters B. 2008. A systematic assessment of MHC class II peptide binding
    predictions and evaluation of a consensus approach. PLoS Comput Biol. 4(4):e1000048;

        WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 19
    Nielsen M, Lund 0. 2009. NN-align. An artificial neural network-based alignment algorithm
    for MHC class II peptide binding prediction. BMC Bioinformatics. 10:296; Nielsen M,
    Lundegaard C, Lund 0. 2007. Prediction of MHC class II binding affinity using SMM-align,
    a novel stabilization matrix alignment method. BMC Bioinformatics. 8:238; Bui HH, Sidney
 5  J, Peters B, Sathiamurthy M, Sinichi A, Purton KA, Moth6 BR, Chisari FV, Watkins DI,
    Sette A. 2005. Immunogenetics. 57:304-314; Sturniolo T, Bono E, Ding J, Raddrizzani L,
    Tuereci 0, Sahin U, Braxenthaler M, Gallazzi F, Protti MP, Sinigaglia F, Hammer J. 1999.
    Generation of tissue-specific and promiscuous HLA ligand databases using DNA microarrays
    and virtual HLA class II matrices. Nat Biotechnol. 17(6):555-561; Nielsen M, Lundegaard C,
 0  Worning P, Lauemoller SL, Lamberth K, Buus S, Brunak S, Lund 0. 2003. Reliable
    prediction of T-cell epitopes using neural networks with novel sequence representations.
    Protein Sci 12:1007-1017; Bui HH, Sidney J, Peters B, Sathiamurthy M, Sinichi A, Purton
    KA, Mothe BR, Chisari FV, Watkins DI, Sette A. 2005. Automated generation and
    evaluation of specific MHC binding predictive tools: ARB matrix applications.
 5  Immunogenetics 57:304-314; Peters B, Sette A. 2005. Generating quantitative models
    describing the sequence specificity of biological processes with the stabilized matrix method.
    BMC Bioinformatics 6:132; Chou PY, Fasman GD. 1978. Prediction of the secondary
    structure of proteins from their amino acid sequence. Adv Enzymol Relat Areas Mol Biol
    47:45-148; Emini EA, Hughes JV, Perlow DS, Boger J. 1985. Induction of hepatitis A virus
 .0 neutralizing antibody by a virus-specific synthetic peptide. J Virol 55:836-839; Karplus PA,
    Schulz GE. 1985. Prediction of chain flexibility in proteins. Naturwissenschaften 72:212-213;
    Kolaskar AS, Tongaonkar PC. 1990. A semi-empirical method for prediction of antigenic
    determinants on protein antigens. FEBS Lett276:172-174; Parker JM, Guo D, Hodges RS.
    1986. New hydrophilicity scale derived from high-performance liquid chromatography
25  peptide retention data: correlation of predicted surface residues with antigenicity and X-ray
    derived accessible sites. Biochemistry 25:5425-5432; Larsen JE, Lund 0, Nielsen M. 2006.
    Improved method for predicting linear B-cell epitopes. Immunome Res 2:2; Ponomarenko
    JV, Bourne PE. 2007. Antibody-protein interactions: benchmark datasets and prediction tools
    evaluation. BMC Struct Biol 7:64; Haste Andersen P, Nielsen M, Lund 0. 2006. Prediction
30  of residues in discontinuous B-cell epitopes using protein 3D structures. Protein Sci 15:2558
    2567; Ponomarenko JV, Bui H, Li W, Fusseder N, Bourne PE, Sette A, Peters B. 2008.
    ElliPro: a new structure-based tool for the prediction of antibody epitopes. BMC
    Bioinformatics 9:514; Nielsen M, Lundegaard C, Blicher T, Peters B, Sette A, Justesen S,

       WO 2013/019669                                                            PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 20
   Buus S, and Lund 0. 2008. PLoS Comput Biol.4(7)e1000107. Quantitative predictions of
   peptide binding to any HLA-DR molecule of known sequence: NetMHCIIpan; the entire
   contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference for disclosure of methods and
   algorithms for the identification of epitopes.
 5         "Generating" means causing an action, such as an immune response (e.g., a humoral
   immune response or a CTL immune response) against an epitope to occur, either directly
   oneself or indirectly, such as, but not limited to, an unrelated third party that takes an action
   through reliance on one's words or deeds.
           "Humoral immune response" means any immune response that results in the
 0 production or stimulation of B cells and/or the production of antibodies. Preferably, the
   humoral immune response is specific to an epitope comprised within an inventive
   composition or administered during the practice of an inventive method. Methods for
   assessing whether a humoral response is induced are known to those of ordinary skill in the
   art. The production of antibodies is referred to herein as an "antibody response". "Antibody
 5 titer" means the production of a measurable level of antibodies. Preferably, the antibody
   response or generation of the antibody titer is in a human. In some embodiments, the
   antibodies are antibodies of a certain isotype, such as IgG or a subclass thereof. Methods for
   measuring antibody titers are known in the art and include Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent
   Assay (ELISA). Methods for measuring antibody titers are also described in some detail in
 0 the EXAMPLES. Preferably, the antibody response or antibody titer is specific to an epitope
   as provided herein. In embodiments, the antibody response can be quantitated, for example,
   as the number of antibodies, concentration of antibodies or titer. The values can be absolute
   or they can be relative. Assays for quantifying an antibody response include antibody capture
   assays, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs), inhibition liquid phase absorption
25 assays (ILPAAs), rocket immunoelectrophoresis (RIE) assays and line
   immunoelectrophoresis (LIE) assays. When an antibody response is compared to another
   antibody response the same type of quantitative value (e.g., titer) and method of measurement
   (e.g., ELISA) is preferably used to make the comparison.
           An ELISA method for measuring an antibody titer, for example, may consist of the
30 following steps (i) preparing an ELISA-plate coating material such that the antibody target of
   interest is coupled to a substrate polymer or other suitable material (ii) preparing the coating
   material in an aqueous solution (such as PBS) and delivering the coating material solution to
   the wells of a multiwell plate for overnight deposition of the coating onto the multiwell plate

       WO 2013/019669                                                            PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 21
   (iii) thoroughly washing the multiwell plate with wash buffer (such as 0.05% Tween-20 in
   PBS) to remove excess coating material (iv) blocking the plate for nonspecific binding by
   applying a diluent solution (such as 10% fetal bovine serum in PBS), (v) washing the
   blocking/diluent solution from the plate with wash buffer (vi) diluting the serum sample(s)
 5 containing antibodies and appropriate standards (positive controls) with diluent as required to
   obtain a concentration that suitably saturates the ELISA reponse (vii) serially diluting the
   plasma samples on the multiwell plate such to cover a range of concentrations suitable for
   generating an ELISA response curve (viii) incubating the plate to provide for antibody-target
   binding (ix) washing the plate with wash buffer to remove antibodies not bound to antigen (x)
 0 adding an appropriate concentration of a secondary detection antibody in same diluent such
   as a biotin-coupled detection antibody capable of binding the primary antibody (xi)
   incubating the plate with the applied detection antibody, followed by washing with wash
   buffer (xii) adding an enzyme such as streptavidin-HRP (horse radish peroxidase) that will
   bind to biotin found on biotinylated antibodes and incubating (xiii) washing the multiwell
 5 plate (xiv) adding substrate(s) (such as TMB solution) to the plate (xv) applying a stop
   solution (such as 2N sulfuric acid) when color development is complete (xvi) reading optical
   density of the plate wells at a specific wavelength for the substrate (450 nm with subtraction
   of readings at 570 nm) (xvi) applying a suitable multiparameter curve fit to the data and
   defining half-maximal effective concentration (EC50) as the concentration on the curve at
 0 which half the maximum OD value for the plate standards is achieved.
            "Identifying" is any action or set of actions that allows a clinician to recognize a
   subject as one who may benefit from the methods and compositions provided herein.
   Preferably, the identified subject is one who is in need of a humoral immune response and
   CTL immune response to a single protein. Such subjects include any subject that has or is at
25 risk of having any of the disease or conditions provided herein. The action or set of actions
   may be either directly oneself or indirectly, such as, but not limited to, an unrelated third
   party that takes an action through reliance on one's words or deeds.
            An "infection" or "infectious disease" is any condition or disease caused by a
   microorganism, pathogen or other agent, such as a bacterium, fungus, prion or virus.
30          "Maximum dimension of a synthetic nanocarrier" means the largest dimension of a
   nanocarrier measured along any axis of the synthetic nanocarrier. "Minimum dimension of a
   synthetic nanocarrier" means the smallest dimension of a synthetic nanocarrier measured
   along any axis of the synthetic nanocarrier. For example, for a spheroidal synthetic

       WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 22
   nanocarrier, the maximum and minimum dimension of a synthetic nanocarrier would be
   substantially identical, and would be the size of its diameter. Similarly, for a cuboidal
   synthetic nanocarrier, the minimum dimension of a synthetic nanocarrier would be the
   smallest of its height, width or length, while the maximum dimension of a synthetic
 5 nanocarrier would be the largest of its height, width or length. In an embodiment, a
   minimum dimension of at least 75%, preferably at least 80%, more preferably at least 90%,
   of the synthetic nanocarriers in a sample, based on the total number of synthetic nanocarriers
   in the sample, is equal to or greater than 100 nm. In an embodiment, a maximum dimension
   of at least 75%, preferably at least 80%, more preferably at least 90%, of the synthetic
 0 nanocarriers in a sample, based on the total number of synthetic nanocarriers in the sample, is
   equal to or less than 5 tm. Preferably, a minimum dimension of at least 75%, preferably at
   least 80%, more preferably at least 90%, of the synthetic nanocarriers in a sample, based on
   the total number of synthetic nanocarriers in the sample, is greater than 110 nm, more
   preferably greater than 120 nm, more preferably greater than 130 nm, and more preferably
 5 still greater than 150 nm. Aspects ratios of the maximum and minimum dimensions of
   inventive synthetic nanocarriers may vary depending on the embodiment. For instance,
   aspect ratios of the maximum to minimum dimensions of the synthetic nanocarriers may vary
   from 1:1 to 1,000,000:1, preferably from 1:1 to 100,000:1, more preferably from 1:1 to
   10,000:1, more preferably from 1:1 to 1000:1, still more preferably from 1:1 to 100:1, and yet
 0 more preferably from 1:1 to 10:1. Preferably, a maximum dimension of at least 75%,
   preferably at least 80%, more preferably at least 90%, of the synthetic nanocarriers in a
   sample, based on the total number of synthetic nanocarriers in the sample is equal to or less
   than 3 tm, more preferably equal to or less than 2 tm, more preferably equal to or less than 1
     m, more preferably equal to or less than 800 nm, more preferably equal to or less than 600
25 nm, and more preferably still equal to or less than 500 nm. In preferred embodiments, a
   minimum dimension of at least 75%, preferably at least 80%, more preferably at least 90%,
   of the synthetic nanocarriers in a sample, based on the total number of synthetic nanocarriers
   in the sample, is equal to or greater than 100nm, more preferably equal to or greater than 120
   nm, more preferably equal to or greater than 130 nm, more preferably equal to or greater than
30 140 nm, and more preferably still equal to or greater than 150 nm. Measurement of synthetic
   nanocarrier dimensions (e.g., diameter) is obtained by suspending the synthetic nanocarriers
   in a liquid (usually aqueous) media and using dynamic light scattering (DLS) (e.g. using a

        WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 23
    Brookhaven ZetaPALS instrument). For example, a suspension of synthetic nanocarriers can
    be diluted from an aqueous buffer into purified water to achieve a final synthetic nanocarrier
    suspension concentration of approximately 0.01 to 0.1 mg/mL. The diluted suspension may
    be prepared directly inside, or transferred to, a suitable cuvette for DLS analysis. The cuvette
 5  may then be placed in the DLS, allowed to equilibrate to the controlled temperature, and then
    scanned for sufficient time to acquire a stable and reproducible distribution based on
    appropriate inputs for viscosity of the medium and refractive indicies of the sample. The
    effective diameter, or mean of the distribution, is then reported. "Dimension" or "size" or
    "diameter" of synthetic nanocarriers means the mean of a particle size distribution obtained
 0  using dynamic light scattering.
              "MHC" refers to major histocompatibility complex, a large genomic region or gene
    family found in most vertebrates that encodes MHC molecules that display fragments or
    epitopes of processed proteins on the cell surface. The presentation of MHC:peptide on cell
    surfaces allows for surveillance by immune cells, usually a T cell. There are two general
 5  classes of MHC molecules: Class I and Class II. Generally, Class I MHC molecules are
    found on nucleated cells and present peptides to cytotoxic T cells. Class II MHC molecules
    are found on certain immune cells, chiefly macrophages, B cells and dendritic cells,
    collectively known as APCs. The best-known genes in the MHC region are the subset that
    encodes antigen-presenting proteins on the cell surface. In humans, these genes are referred
 .0 to as human leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes.
             "Pharmaceutically acceptable excipient" means a pharmacologically inactive material
    used together with the recited synthetic nanocarriers to formulate the compositions.
    Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients comprise a variety of materials known in the art,
    including but not limited to saccharides (such as glucose, lactose, and the like), preservatives
25  such as antimicrobial agents, reconstitution aids, colorants, saline (such as phosphate buffered
    saline), and buffers.
             "Protein(s)" means compounds, typically having a molecular weight greater than
    1000 daltons, comprising amino acid residues joined together primarily by peptide bonds
    between the carboxyl and amino groups of adjacent amino acid residues. Proteins may also
30  comprise additional bonding structures such as secondary structures, tertiary structures, and
    the like. Certain of the peptide bonds in proteins may be replaced by other bond types, for
    various purposes, such as stabilization or coupling. When coupled to synthetic nanocarriers,

       WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 24
   preferably, there are multiple copies of the protein that are coupled to each synthetic
   nanocarrier.
           "Protocol " refers to any dosing regimen of one or more substances to a subject. A
   dosing regimen may include the amount, frequency and/or mode of administration. In some
 5 embodiments, such a protocol may be used to administer one or more compositions of the
   invention to one or more test subjects. Immune responses in these test subjects can then be
   assessed to determine whether or not the protocol was effective in generating desired immune
   response(s). Any other therapeutic and/or prophylactic effects may also be assessed instead
   of or in addition to the aforementioned immune responses. Whether or not a protocol had a
 0 desired effect can be determined using any of the methods provided herein or otherwise
   known in the art. For example, a population of cells may be obtained from a subject to which
   a composition provided herein has been administered according to a specific protocol in order
   to determine whether or not specific immune cells, cytokines, antibodies, etc. were generated,
   activated, etc. Useful methods for detecting the presence and/or number of immune cells
 5 include, but are not limited to, flow cytometric methods (e.g., FACS) and
   immunohistochemistry methods. Antibodies and other binding agents for specific staining of
   immune cell markers, are commercially available. Such kits typically include staining
   reagents for multiple antigens that allow for FACS-based detection, separation and/or
   quantitation of a desired cell population from a heterogeneous population of cells.
 0         "Subject" means animals, including warm blooded mammals such as humans and
   primates; avians; domestic household or farm animals such as cats, dogs, sheep, goats, cattle,
   horses and pigs; laboratory animals such as mice, rats and guinea pigs; fish; reptiles; zoo and
   wild animals; and the like.
           "Synthetic nanocarrier(s)" means a discrete object that is not found in nature, and that
25 possesses at least one dimension that is less than or equal to 5 microns in size. Albumin
   nanoparticles are generally included as synthetic nanocarriers, however in certain
   embodiments the synthetic nanocarriers do not comprise albumin nanoparticles. In
   embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers do not comprise chitosan. In certain other
   embodiments, the synthetic nanocarriers do not comprise chitosan. In other embodiments,
30 inventive synthetic nanocarriers are not lipid-based nanoparticles. In further embodiments,
   inventive synthetic nanocarriers do not comprise a phospholipid.
           A synthetic nanocarrier can be, but is not limited to, one or a plurality of lipid-based
   nanoparticles (also referred to herein as lipid nanoparticles, i.e., nanoparticles where the

        WO 2013/019669                                                             PCT/US2012/048670
                                                      - 25
    majority of the material that makes up their structure are lipids), polymeric nanoparticles,
    metallic nanoparticles, surfactant-based emulsions, dendrimers, buckyballs, nanowires, virus
    like particles (i.e., particles that are primarily made up of viral structural proteins but that are
    not infectious or have low infectivity), peptide or protein-based particles (also referred to
 5  herein as protein particles, i.e., particles where the majority of the material that makes up
    their structure are peptides or proteins) (such as albumin nanoparticles) and/or nanoparticles
    that are developed using a combination of nanomaterials such as lipid-polymer nanoparticles.
    Synthetic nanocarriers may be a variety of different shapes, including but not limited to
    spheroidal, cuboidal, pyramidal, oblong, cylindrical, toroidal, and the like. Synthetic
 0  nanocarriers according to the invention comprise one or more surfaces. Exemplary synthetic
    nanocarriers that can be adapted for use in the practice of the present invention comprise: (1)
    the biodegradable nanoparticles disclosed in US Patent 5,543,158 to Gref et al., (2) the
    polymeric nanoparticles of Published US Patent Application 20060002852 to Saltzman et al.,
    (3) the lithographically constructed nanoparticles of Published US Patent Application
 5  20090028910 to DeSimone et al., (4) the disclosure of WO 2009/051837 to von Andrian et
    al., (5) the nanoparticles disclosed in Published US Patent Application 2008/0145441 to
    Penades et al., (6) the protein nanoparticles disclosed in Published US Patent Application
    20090226525 to de los Rios et al., (7) the virus-like particles disclosed in published US
    Patent Application 20060222652 to Sebbel et al., (8) the nucleic acid coupled virus-like
 .0 particles disclosed in published US Patent Application 20060251677 to Bachmann et al., (9)
    the virus-like particles disclosed in W02010047839A1 or W02009106999A2, (10) the
    nanoprecipitated nanoparticles disclosed in P. Paolicelli et al., "Surface-modified PLGA
    based Nanoparticles that can Efficiently Associate and Deliver Virus-like Particles"
    Nanomedicine. 5(6):843-853 (2010) or (11) apoptotic cells, apoptotic bodies or the synthetic
25  or semisynthetic mimics disclosed in U.S. Publication 2002/0086049. In embodiments,
    synthetic nanocarriers may possess an aspect ratio greater than 1:1, 1:1.2, 1:1.5, 1:2, 1:3, 1:5,
    1:7, or greater than 1:10.
             Synthetic nanocarriers according to the invention that have a minimum dimension of
    equal to or less than about 100 nm, preferably equal to or less than 100 nm, do not comprise a
30  surface with hydroxyl groups that activate complement or alternatively comprise a surface
    that consists essentially of moieties that are not hydroxyl groups that activate complement. In
    a preferred embodiment, synthetic nanocarriers according to the invention that have a
    minimum dimension of equal to or less than about 100 nm, preferably equal to or less than

        WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                     - 26
    100 nm, do not comprise a surface that substantially activates complement or alternatively
    comprise a surface that consists essentially of moieties that do not substantially activate
    complement. In a more preferred embodiment, synthetic nanocarriers according to the
    invention that have a minimum dimension of equal to or less than about 100 nm, preferably
 5  equal to or less than 100 nm, do not comprise a surface that activates complement or
    alternatively comprise a surface that consists essentially of moieties that do not activate
    complement. In embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers exclude virus-like particles. In
    embodiments, when synthetic nanocarriers comprise virus-like particles, the virus-like
    particles comprise non-natural adjuvant (meaning that the VLPs comprise an adjuvant other
 0  than naturally occurring RNA generated during the production of the VLPs). In
    embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers may possess an aspect ratio greater than 1:1, 1:1.2,
    1:1.5, 1:2, 1:3, 1:5, 1:7, or greater than 1:10.
             "T cell antigen" means any antigen that is recognized by and triggers an immune
    response in a T cell (e.g., an antigen that is specifically recognized by a T cell receptor on a T
 5  cell or an NKT cell via presentation of the antigen or portion thereof bound to a Class I or
    Class II major histocompatability complex molecule (MHC), or bound to a CD1 complex).
    In some embodiments, an antigen that is a T cell antigen is also a B cell antigen. In other
    embodiments, the T cell antigen is not also a B cell antigen. T cell antigens generally are
    proteins or peptides. T cell antigens may be an antigen that stimulates a CD8+ T cell
 .0 response, a CD4+ T cell response, or both. The nanocarriers, therefore, in some
    embodiments can effectively stimulate both types of responses.
             In some embodiments the T cell antigen is a T helper cell antigen (i.e. one that can
    generate an enhanced response to a B cell antigen, preferably an unrelated B cell antigen,
    through stimulation of T cell help). In embodiments, a T helper cell antigen may comprise
25  one or more peptides obtained or derived from tetanus toxoid, Epstein-Barr virus, influenza
    virus, respiratory syncytial virus, measles virus, mumps virus, rubella virus, cytomegalovirus,
    adenovirus, diphtheria toxoid, or a PADRE peptide (known from the work of Sette et al. US
    Patent 7,202,351). In other embodiments, a T helper cell antigen may comprise one or more
    lipids, or glycolipids, including but not limited to: ca-galactosylceramide (ax-GalCer), ax
30  linked glycosphingolipids (from Sphingomonas spp.), galactosyl diacylglycerols (from
    Borrelia burgdorferi), lypophosphoglycan (from Leishmania donovani), and
    phosphatidylinositol tetramannoside (PIM4) (from Mycobacterium leprae). For additional
    lipids and/or glycolipids useful as a T helper cell antigen, see V. Cerundolo et al.,

        WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 27
    "Harnessing invariant NKT cells in vaccination strategies." Nature Rev Immun, 9:28-38
    (2009). In embodiments, CD4+ T-cell antigens may be derivatives of a CD4+ T-cell antigen
    that is obtained from a source, such as a natural source. In such embodiments, CD4+ T-cell
    antigen sequences, such as those peptides that bind to MHC II, may have at least 70%, 80%,
 5  90%, or 95% identity to the antigen obtained from the source. In embodiments, the T cell
    antigen, preferably a T helper cell antigen, may be coupled to, or uncoupled from, a synthetic
    nanocarrier. In some embodiments, the T cell antigen is encapsulated in the synthetic
    nanocarriers of the compositions.
             "Vaccine" means a composition of matter that improves the immune response to a
 0  particular pathogen or disease. A vaccine typically contains factors that stimulate a subject's
    immune system to recognize a specific antigen as foreign and eliminate it from the subject's
    body. A vaccine also establishes an immunologic 'memory' so the antigen will be quickly
    recognized and responded to if a person is re-challenged. Vaccines can be prophylactic (for
    example to prevent future infection by any pathogen), or therapeutic (for example a vaccine
 5  against a tumor specific antigen for the treatment of cancer). In embodiments, a vaccine may
    comprise dosage forms according to the invention.
             "Vaccine regimen" or "vaccination regimen" is a schedule of one or more
    vaccinations that includes the number and timing of doses of a vaccine. Generally,
    vaccination regimens are intended to achieve immunity against the development of a disease
 .0 or condition. Preferably, the vaccine regimen is one that achieves immunity via both the
    humoral and CTL arms of the immune system.
    C.       COMPOSITIONS FOR USE IN THE INVENTIVE METHODS
             Provided herein are methods and related compositions for effective humoral and CTL
25  immune response generation. It has been found that synthetic nanocarriers to which a protein
    that comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope
    that are not the same epitope, is coupled, wherein the synthetic nanocarriers do not comprise
    a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the mean of a particle size distribution obtained
    using dynamic light scattering of the population of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum
30  dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm can be used to generate effective and strong humoral and
    CTL immune responses. The compositions provided can be used for a variety of desired
    clinical endpoints such as for vaccination.

       WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 28
            A wide variety of synthetic nanocarriers can be used according to the invention. In
   some embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers are spheres or spheroids. In some embodiments,
   synthetic nanocarriers are flat or plate-shaped. In some embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers
   are cubes or cubic. In some embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers are ovals or ellipses. In
 5 some embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers are cylinders, cones, or pyramids.
            In some embodiments, it is desirable to use a population of synthetic nanocarriers that
   is relatively uniform in terms of size, shape, and/or composition so that each synthetic
   nanocarrier has similar properties. For example, at least 80%, at least 90%, or at least 95% of
   the synthetic nanocarriers, based on the total number of synthetic nanocarriers, may have a
 0 minimum dimension or maximum dimension that falls within 5%, 10%, or 20% of the
   average diameter or average dimension of the synthetic nanocarriers. In some embodiments,
   a population of synthetic nanocarriers may be heterogeneous with respect to size, shape,
   and/or composition.
            Synthetic nanocarriers can be solid or hollow and can comprise one or more layers. In
 5 some embodiments, each layer has a unique composition and unique properties relative to the
   other layer(s). To give but one example, synthetic nanocarriers may have a core/shell
   structure, wherein the core is one layer (e.g. a polymeric core) and the shell is a second layer
   (e.g. a lipid bilayer or monolayer). Synthetic nanocarriers may comprise a plurality of
   different layers.
 0          In some embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers may comprise metal particles, quantum
   dots, ceramic particles, etc. In some embodiments, a non-polymeric synthetic nanocarrier is
   an aggregate of non-polymeric components, such as an aggregate of metal atoms (e.g., gold
   atoms).
            In some embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers may optionally comprise one or more
25 lipids. In some embodiments, a synthetic nanocarrier may comprise a liposome. In some
   embodiments, a synthetic nanocarrier may comprise a lipid bilayer. In some embodiments, a
   synthetic nanocarrier may comprise a lipid monolayer. In some embodiments, a synthetic
   nanocarrier may comprise a micelle. In some embodiments, a synthetic nanocarrier may
   comprise a core comprising a polymeric matrix surrounded by a lipid layer (e.g., lipid bilayer,
30 lipid monolayer, etc.). In some embodiments, a synthetic nanocarrier may comprise a non
   polymeric core (e.g., metal particle, quantum dot, ceramic particle, bone particle, viral
   particle, proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, etc.) surrounded by a lipid layer (e.g., lipid
   bilayer, lipid monolayer, etc.).

       WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 29
           In some embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers can comprise one or more polymers. In
   some embodiments, such a polymer can be surrounded by a coating layer (e.g., liposome,
   lipid monolayer, micelle, etc.). In some embodiments, various elements (i.e., components) of
   the synthetic nanocarriers can be coupled with the polymer.
 5         In some embodiments, a component can be covalently associated with a polymeric
   matrix. In some embodiments, covalent association is mediated by a linker. In some
   embodiments, a component can be noncovalently associated with a polymeric matrix. For
   example, in some embodiments, a component can be encapsulated within, surrounded by,
   and/or dispersed throughout a polymeric matrix. Alternatively or additionally, a component
 0 can be associated with a polymeric matrix by hydrophobic interactions, charge interactions,
   van der Waals forces, etc.
           A wide variety of polymers and methods for forming polymeric matrices
   therefrom are known conventionally. In general, a polymeric matrix comprises one or more
   polymers.
 5         The synthetic nanocarriers provided herein may be polymeric nanocarriers. Polymers
   may be natural or unnatural (synthetic) polymers. Polymers may be homopolymers or
   copolymers comprising two or more monomers. In terms of sequence, copolymers may be
   random, block, or comprise a combination of random and block sequences. Typically,
   polymers in accordance with the present invention are organic polymers.
 0         In some embodiments, the synthetic nanocarriers comprise one or more polymers that
   comprise a polyester, polycarbonate, polyamide, or polyether, or unit thereof. In other
   embodiments, the polymer comprises poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG), poly(lactic acid),
   poly(glycolic acid), poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid), or a polycaprolactone, or unit thereof. In
   some embodiments, it is preferred that the polymer is biodegradable. Therefore, in these
25 embodiments, it is preferred that if the polymer comprises a polyether, such as poly(ethylene
   glycol) or unit thereof, the polymer comprises a block-co-polymer of a polyether and a
   biodegradable polymer such that the polymer is biodegradable. In other embodiments, the
   polymer does not solely comprise a polyether or unit thereof, such as poly(ethylene glycol) or
   unit thereof. The one or more polymers may be comprised within a polymeric synthetic
30 nanocarrier or may be comprised in a number of other different types of synthetic
   nanocarriers.
           Examples of polymers suitable for use in the present invention also include, but are
   not limited to polyethylenes, polycarbonates (e.g. poly(1,3-dioxan-2one)), polyanhydrides

        WO 2013/019669                                                            PCT/US2012/048670
                                                    - 30
    (e.g. poly(sebacic anhydride)), polypropylfumerates, polyamides (e.g. polycaprolactam),
    polyacetals, polyethers, polyesters (e.g., polylactide, polyglycolide, polylactide-co-glycolide,
    polycaprolactone, polyhydroxyacid (e.g. poly(P-hydroxyalkanoate))), poly(orthoesters),
    polycyanoacrylates, polyvinyl alcohols, polyurethanes, polyphosphazenes, polyacrylates,
 5  polymethacrylates, polyureas, polystyrenes, and polyamines, polylysine, polylysine-PEG
    copolymers, and poly(ethyleneimine), poly(ethylene imine)-PEG copolymers.
             In some embodiments, polymers in accordance with the present invention include
    polymers which have been approved for use in humans by the U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA) under 21 C.F.R. § 177.2600, including but not limited to polyesters
 0  (e.g., polylactic acid, poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid), polycaprolactone, polyvalerolactone,
    poly(1,3-dioxan-2one)); polyanhydrides (e.g., poly(sebacic anhydride)); polyethers (e.g.,
    polyethylene glycol); polyurethanes; polymethacrylates; polyacrylates; and
    polycyanoacrylates.
             In some embodiments, polymers can be hydrophilic. For example, polymers may
 5  comprise anionic groups (e.g., phosphate group, sulphate group, carboxylate group); cationic
    groups (e.g., quaternary amine group); or polar groups (e.g., hydroxyl group, thiol group,
    amine group). In some embodiments, a synthetic nanocarrier comprising a hydrophilic
    polymeric matrix generates a hydrophilic environment within the synthetic nanocarrier. In
    some embodiments, polymers can be hydrophobic. In some embodiments, a synthetic
 .0 nanocarrier comprising a hydrophobic polymeric matrix generates a hydrophobic
    environment within the synthetic nanocarrier. Selection of the hydrophilicity or
    hydrophobicity of the polymer may have an impact on the nature of materials that are
    incorporated (e.g. coupled) within the synthetic nanocarrier.
             In some embodiments, polymers may be modified with one or more moieties and/or
25  functional groups. A variety of moieties or functional groups can be used in accordance with
    the present invention. In some embodiments, polymers may be modified with polyethylene
    glycol (PEG), with a carbohydrate, and/or with acyclic polyacetals derived from
    polysaccharides (Papisov, 2001, ACS Symposium Series, 786:301). Certain embodiments
    may be made using the general teachings of US Patent No. 5543158 to Gref et al., or WO
30  publication W02009/051837 by Von Andrian et al.
             In some embodiments, polymers may be modified with a lipid or fatty acid group. In
    some embodiments, a fatty acid group may be one or more of butyric, caproic, caprylic,
    capric, lauric, myristic, palmitic, stearic, arachidic, behenic, or lignoceric acid. In some

      WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 31
   embodiments, a fatty acid group may be one or more of palmitoleic, oleic, vaccenic, linoleic,
   alpha-linoleic, gamma-linoleic, arachidonic, gadoleic, arachidonic, eicosapentaenoic,
   docosahexaenoic, or erucic acid.
            In some embodiments, polymers may be polyesters, including copolymers comprising
 5 lactic acid and glycolic acid units, such as poly(lactic acid-co-glycolic acid) and poly(lactide
   co-glycolide), collectively referred to herein as "PLGA"; and homopolymers comprising
   glycolic acid units, referred to herein as "PGA," and lactic acid units, such as poly-L-lactic
   acid, poly-D-lactic acid, poly-D,L-lactic acid, poly-L-lactide, poly-D-lactide, and poly-D,L
   lactide, collectively referred to herein as "PLA." In some embodiments, exemplary polyesters
 0 include, for example, polyhydroxyacids; PEG copolymers and copolymers of lactide and
   glycolide (e.g., PLA-PEG copolymers, PGA-PEG copolymers, PLGA-PEG copolymers, and
   derivatives thereof. In some embodiments, polyesters include, for example,
   poly(caprolactone), poly(caprolactone)-PEG copolymers, poly(L-lactide-co-L-lysine),
   poly(serine ester), poly(4-hydroxy-L-proline ester), poly[ a-(4-aminobutyl)-L-glycolic acid],
 5 and derivatives thereof.
            In some embodiments, a polymer may be PLGA. PLGA is a biocompatible and
   biodegradable co-polymer of lactic acid and glycolic acid, and various forms of PLGA are
   characterized by the ratio of lactic acid:glycolic acid. Lactic acid can be L-lactic acid, D
   lactic acid, or D,L-lactic acid. The degradation rate of PLGA can be adjusted by altering the
 0 lactic acid:glycolic acid ratio. In some embodiments, PLGA to be used in accordance with the
   present invention is characterized by a lactic acid:glycolic acid ratio of approximately 85:15,
   approximately 75:25, approximately 60:40, approximately 50:50, approximately 40:60,
   approximately 25:75, or approximately 15:85.
            In some embodiments, polymers may be one or more acrylic polymers. In certain
25 embodiments, acrylic polymers include, for example, acrylic acid and methacrylic acid
   copolymers, methyl methacrylate copolymers, ethoxyethyl methacrylates, cyanoethyl
   methacrylate, aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymer, poly(acrylic acid), poly(methacrylic acid),
   methacrylic acid alkylamide copolymer, poly(methyl methacrylate), poly(methacrylic acid
   anhydride), methyl methacrylate, polymethacrylate, poly(methyl methacrylate) copolymer,
30 polyacrylamide, aminoalkyl methacrylate copolymer, glycidyl methacrylate copolymers,
   polycyanoacrylates, and combinations comprising one or more of the foregoing polymers.
   The acrylic polymer may comprise fully-polymerized copolymers of acrylic and methacrylic
   acid esters with a low content of quaternary ammonium groups.

       WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 32
            In some embodiments, polymers can be cationic polymers. In general, cationic
    polymers are able to condense and/or protect negatively charged strands of nucleic acids (e.g.
    DNA, or derivatives thereof). Amine-containing polymers such as poly(lysine) (Zauner et al.,
    1998, Adv. Drug Del. Rev., 30:97; and Kabanov et al., 1995, Bioconjugate Chem., 6:7),
 5  poly(ethylene imine) (PEI; Boussif et al., 1995, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci., USA, 1995, 92:7297),
    and poly(amidoamine) dendrimers (Kukowska-Latallo et al., 1996, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci.,
    USA, 93:4897; Tang et al., 1996, Bioconjugate Chem., 7:703; and Haensler et al., 1993,
    Bioconjugate Chem., 4:372) are positively-charged at physiological pH, form ion pairs with
    nucleic acids, and mediate transfection in a variety of cell lines. In embodiments, the
 0  synthetic nanocarriers may not comprise (or may exclude) cationic polymers.
            In some embodiments, polymers can be degradable polyesters bearing cationic side
    chains (Putnam et al., 1999, Macromolecules, 32:3658; Barrera et al., 1993, J. Am. Chem.
    Soc., 115:11010; Kwon et al., 1989, Macromolecules, 22:3250; Lim et al., 1999, J. Am.
    Chem. Soc., 121:5633; and Zhou et al., 1990, Macromolecules, 23:3399). Examples of these
 5  polyesters include poly(L-lactide-co-L-lysine) (Barrera et al., 1993, J. Am. Chem. Soc.,
    115:11010), poly(serine ester) (Zhou et al., 1990, Macromolecules, 23:3399), poly(4
    hydroxy-L-proline ester) (Putnam et al., 1999, Macromolecules, 32:3658; and Lim et al.,
    1999, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 121:5633), and poly(4-hydroxy-L-proline ester) (Putnam et al.,
    1999, Macromolecules, 32:3658; and Lim et al., 1999, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 121:5633).
 .0         The properties of these and other polymers and methods for preparing them are well
    known in the art (see, for example, U.S. Patents 6,123,727; 5,804,178; 5,770,417; 5,736,372;
    5,716,404; 6,095,148; 5,837,752; 5,902,599; 5,696,175; 5,514,378; 5,512,600; 5,399,665;
    5,019,379; 5,010,167; 4,806,621; 4,638,045; and 4,946,929; Wang et al., 2001, J. Am. Chem.
    Soc., 123:9480; Lim et al., 2001, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 123:2460; Langer, 2000, Acc. Chem.
25  Res., 33:94; Langer, 1999, J. Control. Release, 62:7; and Uhrich et al., 1999, Chem. Rev.,
    99:3181). More generally, a variety of methods for synthesizing certain suitable polymers are
    described in Concise Encyclopedia of Polymer Science and Polymeric Amines and
    Ammonium Salts, Ed. by Goethals, Pergamon Press, 1980; Principles of Polymerization by
    Odian, John Wiley & Sons, Fourth Edition, 2004; Contemporary Polymer Chemistry by
30  Allcock et al., Prentice-Hall, 1981; Deming et al., 1997, Nature, 390:386; and in U.S. Patents
    6,506,577, 6,632,922, 6,686,446, and 6,818,732.
            In some embodiments, polymers can be linear or branched polymers. In some
    embodiments, polymers can be dendrimers. In some embodiments, polymers can be

       WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                    - 33
    substantially cross-linked to one another. In some embodiments, polymers can be
    substantially free of cross-links. In some embodiments, polymers can be used in accordance
    with the present invention without undergoing a cross-linking step. It is further to be
    understood that synthetic nanocarriers may comprise block copolymers, graft copolymers,
 5  blends, mixtures, and/or adducts of any of the foregoing and other polymers. Those skilled in
    the art will recognize that the polymers listed herein represent an exemplary, not
    comprehensive, list of polymers that can be of use in accordance with the present invention.
             In some embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers may optionally comprise one or more
    amphiphilic entities. In some embodiments, an amphiphilic entity can promote the production
 0  of synthetic nanocarriers with increased stability, improved uniformity, or increased
    viscosity. In some embodiments, amphiphilic entities can be associated with the interior
    surface of a lipid membrane (e.g., lipid bilayer, lipid monolayer, etc.). Many amphiphilic
    entities known in the art are suitable for use in making synthetic nanocarriers in accordance
    with the present invention. Such amphiphilic entities include, but are not limited to,
 5  phosphoglycerides; phosphatidylcholines; dipalmitoyl phosphatidylcholine (DPPC);
    dioleylphosphatidyl ethanolamine (DOPE); dioleyloxypropyltriethylammonium (DOTMA);
    dioleoylphosphatidylcholine; cholesterol; cholesterol ester; diacylglycerol;
    diacylglycerolsuccinate; diphosphatidyl glycerol (DPPG); hexanedecanol; fatty alcohols such
    as polyethylene glycol (PEG); polyoxyethylene-9-lauryl ether; a surface active fatty acid,
 .0 such as palmitic acid or oleic acid; fatty acids; fatty acid monoglycerides; fatty acid
    diglycerides; fatty acid amides; sorbitan trioleate (Span@85) glycocholate; sorbitan
    monolaurate (Span@20); polysorbate 20 (Tween@20); polysorbate 60 (Tween@60);
    polysorbate 65 (Tween@65); polysorbate 80 (Tween@80); polysorbate 85 (Tween@85);
    polyoxyethylene monostearate; surfactin; a poloxomer; a sorbitan fatty acid ester such as
25  sorbitan trioleate; lecithin; lysolecithin; phosphatidylserine;
    phosphatidylinositol;sphingomyelin; phosphatidylethanolamine (cephalin); cardiolipin;
    phosphatidic acid; cerebrosides; dicetylphosphate; dipalmitoylphosphatidylglycerol;
    stearylamine; dodecylamine; hexadecyl-amine; acetyl palmitate; glycerol ricinoleate;
    hexadecyl sterate; isopropyl myristate; tyloxapol; poly(ethylene glycol)5000
30  phosphatidylethanolamine; poly(ethylene glycol)400-monostearate; phospholipids; synthetic
    and/or natural detergents having high surfactant properties; deoxycholates; cyclodextrins;
    chaotropic salts; ion pairing agents; and combinations thereof. An amphiphilic entity
    component may be a mixture of different amphiphilic entities. Those skilled in the art will

       WO 2013/019669                                                            PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 34
   recognize that this is an exemplary, not comprehensive, list of substances with surfactant
   activity. Any amphiphilic entity may be used in the production of synthetic nanocarriers to be
   used in accordance with the present invention.
             In some embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers may optionally comprise one or more
 5 carbohydrates. Carbohydrates may be natural or synthetic. A carbohydrate may be a
   derivatized natural carbohydrate. In certain embodiments, a carbohydrate comprises
   monosaccharide or disaccharide, including but not limited to glucose, fructose, galactose,
   ribose, lactose, sucrose, maltose, trehalose, cellbiose, mannose, xylose, arabinose, glucoronic
   acid, galactoronic acid, mannuronic acid, glucosamine, galatosamine, and neuramic acid. In
 0 certain embodiments, a carbohydrate is a polysaccharide, including but not limited to
   pullulan, cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC),
   hydroxycellulose (HC), methylcellulose (MC), dextran, cyclodextran, glycogen,
   hydroxyethylstarch, carageenan, glycon, amylose, chitosan, N,O-carboxylmethylchitosan,
   algin and alginic acid, starch, chitin, inulin, konjac, glucommannan, pustulan, heparin,
 5 hyaluronic acid, curdlan, and xanthan. In embodiments, the synthetic nanocarriers do not
   comprise (or specifically exclude) carbohydrates, such as a polysaccharide. In certain
   embodiments, the carbohydrate may comprise a carbohydrate derivative such as a sugar
   alcohol, including but not limited to mannitol, sorbitol, xylitol, erythritol, maltitol, and
   lactitol.
 0           Compositions for use in the methods according to the invention comprise synthetic
   nanocarriers in combination with pharmaceutically acceptable excipients, such as
   preservatives, buffers, saline, or phosphate buffered saline. The compositions may be made
   using conventional pharmaceutical manufacturing and compounding techniques to arrive at
   useful dosage forms. In an embodiment, synthetic nanocarriers are suspended in sterile saline
25 solution for injection together with a preservative.
             In embodiments, when preparing synthetic nanocarriers as carriers for use in vaccines,
   methods for coupling the components to the synthetic nanocarriers may be useful. If the
   component is a small molecule it may be of advantage to attach the component to a polymer
   prior to the assembly of the synthetic nanocarriers. In embodiments, it may also be an
30 advantage to prepare the synthetic nanocarriers with surface groups that are used to couple
   the component to the synthetic nanocarrier through the use of these surface groups rather than
   attaching the component to a polymer and then using this polymer conjugate in the
   construction of synthetic nanocarriers.

       WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 35
           In certain embodiments, the coupling can be a covalent linker. In embodiments,
   components according to the invention can be covalently coupled to the external surface via a
   1,2,3-triazole linker formed by the 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition reaction of azido groups on the
   surface of the nanocarrier with the component containing an alkyne group or by the 1,3
 5 dipolar cycloaddition reaction of alkynes on the surface of the nanocarrier with components
   containing an azido group. Such cycloaddition reactions are preferably performed in the
   presence of a Cu(I) catalyst along with a suitable Cu(I)-ligand and a reducing agent to reduce
   Cu(II) compound to catalytic active Cu(I) compound. This Cu(I)-catalyzed azide-alkyne
   cycloaddition (CuAAC) can also be referred as the click reaction.
 0         Additionally, the covalent coupling may comprise a covalent linker that comprises an
   amide linker, a disulfide linker, a thioether linker, a hydrazone linker, a hydrazide linker, an
   imine or oxime linker, an urea or thiourea linker, an amidine linker, an amine linker, and a
   sulfonamide linker.
           An amide linker is formed via an amide bond between an amine on one component
 5 with the carboxylic acid group of a second component such as the nanocarrier. The amide
   bond in the linker can be made using any of the conventional amide bond forming reactions
   with suitably protected amino acids or antigens or adjuvants and activated carboxylic acid
   such N-hydroxysuccinimide-activated ester.
           A disulfide linker is made via the formation of a disulfide (S-S) bond between two
 0 sulfur atoms of the form, for instance, of R1-S-S-R2. A disulfide bond can be formed by
   thiol exchange of an antigen or adjuvant containing thiol/mercaptan group(-SH) with another
   activated thiol group on a polymer or nanocarrier or a nanocarrier containing thiol/mercaptan
   groups with a component containing activated thiol group.
                                                                             NR
           A triazole linker, specifically a 1,2,3-triazole of the form     Rz , wherein RI and
25 R2 may be any chemical entities, is made by the 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition reaction of an
   azide attached to a first component such as the nanocarrier with a terminal alkyne attached to
   a second component. The 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition reaction is performed with or without a
   catalyst, preferably with Cu(I)-catalyst, which links the two components through a 1,2,3
   triazole function. This chemistry is described in detail by Sharpless et al., Angew. Chem. Int.

       WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 36
   Ed. 41(14), 2596, (2002) and Meldal, et al, Chem. Rev., 2008, 108(8), 2952-3015 and is often
   referred to as a "click" reaction or CuAAC.
           In embodiments, a polymer containing an azide or alkyne group, terminal to the
   polymer chain is prepared. This polymer is then used to prepare a synthetic nanocarrier in
 5 such a manner that a plurality of the alkyne or azide groups are positioned on the surface of
   that nanocarrier. Alternatively, the synthetic nanocarrier can be prepared by another route,
   and subsequently functionalized with alkyne or azide groups. The component is prepared
   with the presence of either an alkyne (if the polymer contains an azide) or an azide (if the
   polymer contains an alkyne) group. The component is then allowed to react with the
 0 nanocarrier via the 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition reaction with or without a catalyst which
   covalently couples the component to the particle through the 1,4-disubstituted 1,2,3-triazole
   linker.
           A thioether linker is made by the formation of a sulfur-carbon (thioether) bond in the
   form, for instance, of R1-S-R2. Thioether can be made by either alkylation of a
 5 thiol/mercaptan (-SH) group on one component with an alkylating group such as halide or
   epoxide on a second component such as the nanocarrier. Thioether linkers can also be formed
   by Michael addition of a thiol/mercaptan group on one component to an electron-deficient
   alkene group on a second component such as a polymer containing a maleimide group or
   vinyl sulfone group as the Michael acceptor. In another way, thioether linkers can be
 0 prepared by the radical thiol-ene reaction of a thiol/mercaptan group on one component with
   an alkene group on a second component such as a polymer or nanocarrier.
           A hydrazone linker is made by the reaction of a hydrazide group on one component
   with an aldehyde/ketone group on the second component such as the nanocarrier.
           A hydrazide linker is formed by the reaction of a hydrazine group on one component
25 with a carboxylic acid group on the second component such as the nanocarrier. Such reaction
   is generally performed using chemistry similar to the formation of amide bond where the
   carboxylic acid is activated with an activating reagent.
           An imine or oxime linker is formed by the reaction of an amine or N-alkoxyamine (or
   aminooxy) group on one component with an aldehyde or ketone group on the second
30 component such as the nanocarrier.
           An urea or thiourea linker is prepared by the reaction of an amine group on one
   component with an isocyanate or thioisocyanate group on the second component such as the
   nanocarrier.

       WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 37
            An amidine linker is prepared by the reaction of an amine group on one component
   with an imidoester group on the second component such as the nanocarrier.
            An amine linker is made by the alkylation reaction of an amine group on one
   component with an alkylating group such as halide, epoxide, or sulfonate ester group on the
 5 second component such as the nanocarrier. Alternatively, an amine linker can also be made
   by reductive amination of an amine group on one component with an aldehyde or ketone
   group on the second component such as the nanocarrier with a suitable reducing reagent such
   as sodium cyanoborohydride or sodium triacetoxyborohydride.
            A sulfonamide linker is made by the reaction of an amine group on one component
 0 with a sulfonyl halide (such as sulfonyl chloride) group on the second component such as the
   nanocarrier.
            A sulfone linker is made by Michael addition of a nucleophile to a vinyl sulfone.
   Either the vinyl sulfone or the nucleophile may be on the surface of the nanocarrier or
   attached to a component.
 5          The component can also be conjugated to the nanocarrier via non-covalent
   conjugation methods. For examples, a negative charged component can be conjugated to a
   positive charged nanocarrier through electrostatic adsorption. A component containing a
   metal ligand can also be conjugated to a nanocarrier containing a metal complex via a metal
   ligand complex.
 0          In embodiments, the component can be attached to a polymer, for example polylactic
   acid-block-polyethylene glycol, prior to the assembly of the synthetic nanocarrier or the
   synthetic nanocarrier can be formed with reactive or activatible groups on its surface. In the
   latter case, the component may be prepared with a group which is compatible with the
   attachment chemistry that is presented by the synthetic nanocarriers' surface. In other
25 embodiments, a component can be attached to VLPs or liposomes using a suitable linker. A
   linker is a compound or reagent that capable of coupling two molecules together. In an
   embodiment, the linker can be a homobifuntional or heterobifunctional reagent as described
   in Hermanson 2008. For example, an VLP or liposome synthetic nanocarrier containing a
   carboxylic group on the surface can be treated with a homobifunctional linker, adipic
30 dihydrazide (ADH), in the presence of EDC to form the corresponding synthetic nanocarrier
   with the ADH linker. The resulting ADH linked synthetic nanocarrier is then conjugated with
   a component containing an acid group via the other end of the ADH linker on NC to produce
   the corresponding VLP or liposome peptide conjugate.

        WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                     - 38
            For detailed descriptions of available conjugation methods, see Hermanson G T
    "Bioconjugate Techniques", 2nd Edition Published by Academic Press, Inc., 2008. In
    addition to covalent attachment the component can be coupled by adsorption to a pre-formed
    synthetic nanocarrier or it can be coupled by encapsulation during the formation of the
 5  synthetic nanocarrier.
            In some embodiments, a component, such as an antigen or adjuvant, may be isolated.
    Isolated refers to the element being separated from its native environment and present in
    sufficient quantities to permit its identification or use. This means, for example, the element
    may be (i) selectively produced by expression cloning or (ii) purified as by chromatography
 0  or electrophoresis. Isolated elements may be, but need not be, substantially pure. Because an
    isolated element may be admixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient in a
    pharmaceutical preparation, the element may comprise only a small percentage by weight of
    the preparation. The element is nonetheless isolated in that it has been separated from the
    substances with which it may be associated in living systems, i.e., isolated from other lipids
 5  or proteins. Any of the elements provided herein may be isolated. Any of the antigens
    provided herein can be included in the compositions in isolated form.
    D.      METHODS OF USING AND MAKING SYNTHETIC NANOCARRIER
    COMPOSITIONS
 .0         Synthetic nanocarriers may be prepared using a wide variety of methods known in the
    art. For example, synthetic nanocarriers can be formed by methods as nanoprecipitation,
    flow focusing using fluidic channels, spray drying, single and double emulsion solvent
    evaporation, solvent extraction, phase separation, milling, microemulsion procedures,
    microfabrication, nanofabrication, sacrificial layers, simple and complex coacervation, and
25  other methods well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Alternatively or additionally,
    aqueous and organic solvent syntheses for monodisperse semiconductor, conductive,
    magnetic, organic, and other nanomaterials have been described (Pellegrino et al., 2005,
    Small, 1:48; Murray et al., 2000, Ann. Rev. Mat. Sci., 30:545; and Trindade et al., 2001,
    Chem. Mat., 13:3843). Additional methods have been described in the literature (see, e.g.,
30  Doubrow, Ed., "Microcapsules and Nanoparticles in Medicine and Pharmacy," CRC Press,
    Boca Raton, 1992; Mathiowitz et al., 1987, J. Control. Release, 5:13; Mathiowitz et al., 1987,
    Reactive Polymers, 6:275; and Mathiowitz et al., 1988, J. Appl. Polymer Sci., 35:755; US
    Patents 5578325 and 6007845; P. Paolicelli et al., "Surface-modified PLGA-based

       WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 39
    Nanoparticles that can Efficiently Associate and Deliver Virus-like Particles" Nanomedicine.
    5(6):843-853 (2010)).
            Various materials may be encapsulated into synthetic nanocarriers as desirable using a
    variety of methods including but not limited to C. Astete et al., "Synthesis and
 5  characterization of PLGA nanoparticles" J. Biomater. Sci. Polymer Edn, Vol. 17, No. 3, pp.
    247-289 (2006); K. Avgoustakis "Pegylated Poly(Lactide) and Poly(Lactide-Co-Glycolide)
    Nanoparticles: Preparation, Properties and Possible Applications in Drug Delivery" Current
    Drug Delivery 1:321-333 (2004); C. Reis et al., "Nanoencapsulation I. Methods for
    preparation of drug-loaded polymeric nanoparticles" Nanomedicine 2:8- 21 (2006); P.
 0  Paolicelli et al., "Surface-modified PLGA-based Nanoparticles that can Efficiently Associate
    and Deliver Virus-like Particles" Nanomedicine. 5(6):843-853 (2010). Other methods
    suitable for encapsulating materials into synthetic nanocarriers may be used, including
    without limitation methods disclosed in United States Patent 6,632,671 to Unger October 14,
    2003.
 5          In certain embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers are prepared by a nanoprecipitation
    process or spray drying. Conditions used in preparing synthetic nanocarriers may be altered
    to yield particles of a desired size or property (e.g., hydrophobicity, hydrophilicity, external
    morphology, "stickiness," shape, etc.). The method of preparing the synthetic nanocarriers
    and the conditions (e.g., solvent, temperature, concentration, air flow rate, etc.) used may
 .0 depend on the materials to be coupled to the synthetic nanocarriers and/or the composition of
    the polymer matrix.
            If particles prepared by any of the above methods have a size range outside of the
    desired range, particles can be sized, for example, using a sieve.
            Elements of the synthetic nanocarriers may be coupled to the overall synthetic
25  nanocarrier, e.g., by one or more covalent bonds, or may be coupled by means of one or more
    linkers. Additional methods of functionalizing synthetic nanocarriers may be adapted from
    Published US Patent Application 2006/0002852 to Saltzman et al., Published US Patent
    Application 2009/00289 10 to DeSimone et al., or Published International Patent Application
    WO/2008/127532 Al to Murthy et al.
30          Alternatively or additionally, synthetic nanocarriers can be coupled to elements
    directly or indirectly via non-covalent interactions. In non-covalent embodiments, the non
    covalent coupling is mediated by non-covalent interactions including but not limited to
    charge interactions, affinity interactions, metal coordination, physical adsorption, host-guest

        WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 40
    interactions, hydrophobic interactions, TT stacking interactions, hydrogen bonding
    interactions, van der Waals interactions, magnetic interactions, electrostatic interactions,
    dipole-dipole interactions, and/or combinations thereof. Such couplings may be arranged to
    be on an external surface or an internal surface of an synthetic nanocarrier. In embodiments,
 5  encapsulation and/or absorption is a form of coupling.
            In embodiments, the synthetic nanocarriers can be combined with adjuvants by
    admixing in the same vehicle or delivery system. Such adjuvants may include, but are not
    limited to mineral salts, such as alum, alum combined with monphosphoryl lipid (MPL) A of
    Enterobacteria, such as Escherihia coli, Salmonella minnesota, Salmonella typhimurium, or
 0  Shigella flexneri or specifically with MPL® (AS04), MPL A of above-mentioned bacteria
    separately, saponins, such as QS-21,Quil-A, ISCOMs, ISCOMATRIX TM , emulsions such as
    MF59TM , Montanide@ ISA 51 and ISA 720, AS02 (QS21+squalene+ MPL®) , liposomes and
    liposomal formulations such as ASO 1, synthesized or specifically prepared microparticles and
    microcarriers such as bacteria-derived outer membrane vesicles (OMV) of N. gonorrheae,
 5  Chlamydia trachomatis and others, or chitosan particles, depot-forming agents, such as
    Pluronic@ block co-polymers, specifically modified or prepared peptides, such as muramyl
    dipeptide, aminoalkyl glucosaminide 4-phosphates, such as RC529, or proteins, such as
    bacterial toxoids or toxin fragments. The doses of such other adjuvants can be determined
    using conventional dose ranging studies.
 .0         In embodiments, the synthetic nanocarriers can be combined with an antigen
    different, similar or identical to those coupled to a nanocarrier (with or without adjuvant,
    utilizing or not utilizing another delivery vehicle) administered separately at a different time
    point and/or at a different body location and/or by a different immunization route or with
    another antigen and/or adjuvant-carrying synthetic nanocarrier administered separately at a
25  different time-point and/or at a different body location and/or by a different immunization
    route.
            Populations of synthetic nanocarriers may be combined to form pharmaceutical
    dosage forms according to the present invention using traditional pharmaceutical mixing
    methods. These include liquid-liquid mixing in which two or more suspensions, each
30  containing one or more subsets of nanocarriers, are directly combined or are brought together
    via one or more vessels containing diluent. As synthetic nanocarriers may also be produced
    or stored in a powder form, dry powder-powder mixing could be performed as could the re
    suspension of two or more powders in a common media. Depending on the properties of the

        WO 2013/019669                                                            PCT/US2012/048670
                                                    - 41
    nanocarriers and their interaction potentials, there may be advantages conferred to one or
    another route of mixing.
             Typical compositions that comprise synthetic nanocarriers may comprise inorganic or
    organic buffers (e.g., sodium or potassium salts of phosphate, carbonate, acetate, or citrate)
 5  and pH adjustment agents (e.g., hydrochloric acid, sodium or potassium hydroxide, salts of
    citrate or acetate, amino acids and their salts) antioxidants (e.g., ascorbic acid, alpha
    tocopherol), surfactants (e.g., polysorbate 20, polysorbate 80, polyoxyethylene9-10 nonyl
    phenol, sodium desoxycholate), solution and/or cryo/lyo stabilizers (e.g., sucrose, lactose,
    mannitol, trehalose), osmotic adjustment agents (e.g., salts or sugars), antibacterial agents
 0  (e.g., benzoic acid, phenol, gentamicin), antifoaming agents (e.g., polydimethylsilozone),
    preservatives (e.g., thimerosal, 2-phenoxyethanol, EDTA), polymeric stabilizers and
    viscosity-adjustment agents (e.g., polyvinylpyrrolidone, poloxamer 488,
    carboxymethylcellulose) and co-solvents (e.g., glycerol, polyethylene glycol, ethanol).
             Compositions according to the invention comprise synthetic nanocarriers in
 5  combination with pharmaceutically acceptable excipients. The compositions may be made
    using conventional pharmaceutical manufacturing and compounding techniques to arrive at
    useful dosage forms. Techniques suitable for use in practicing the present invention may be
    found in Handbook of Industrial Mixing: Science and Practice, Edited by Edward L. Paul,
    Victor A. Atiemo-Obeng, and Suzanne M. Kresta, 2004 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.; and
 .0 Pharmaceutics: The Science of Dosage Form Design, 2nd Ed. Edited by M. E. Auten, 2001,
    Churchill Livingstone. In an embodiment, synthetic nanocarriers are suspended in sterile
    saline solution for injection together with a preservative.
             It is to be understood that the compositions of synthetic nanocarriers can be made in
    any suitable manner, and the invention is in no way limited to the use of compositions that
25  can be produced using the methods described herein. Selection of an appropriate method may
    require attention to the properties of the particular elements being associated.
             In some embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers are manufactured under sterile
    conditions or are terminally sterilized. This can ensure that resulting composition are sterile
    and non-infectious, thus improving safety when compared to non-sterile compositions. This
30  provides a valuable safety measure, especially when subjects receiving synthetic nanocarriers
    have immune defects, are suffering from infection, and/or are susceptible to infection. In
    some embodiments, synthetic nanocarriers may be lyophilized and stored in suspension or as

        WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 42
    lyophilized powder depending on the formulation strategy for extended periods without
    losing activity.
            The compositions of the invention can be administered by a variety of routes,
    including or not limited to subcutaneous, intranasal, oral, intravenous, intraperitoneal,
 5  intramuscular, transmucosal, transmucosal, sublingual, rectal, ophthalmic, pulmonary,
    intradermal, transdermal, transcutaneous or intradermal or by a combination of these routes.
    Routes of administration also include administration by inhalation or pulmonary aerosol.
    Techniques for preparing aerosol delivery systems are well known to those of skill in the art
    (see, for example, Sciarra and Cutie, "Aerosols," in Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences,
 0  18th edition, 1990, pp. 1694-1712; incorporated by reference).
            Doses of dosage forms contain varying amounts of populations of synthetic
    nanocarriers and varying amounts of the proteins and/or adjuvants and/or additional antigens,
    according to the invention. The amount of synthetic nanocarriers and/or proteins and/or
    adjuvants and/or additional antigens present in the dosage forms can be varied according to
 5  the nature of the elements present, the therapeutic benefit to be accomplished, and other such
    parameters. In embodiments, dose ranging studies can be conducted to establish optimal
    therapeutic amount of the population of synthetic nanocarriers and the amount of proteins
    and/or adjuvants and/or additional antigens to be present in the dosage form. In
    embodiments, the synthetic nanocarriers and the proteins and/or adjuvants and/or additional
 .0 antigens are present in the dosage form in an amount effective to generate an immune
    response to the proteins and/or additional antigens upon administration to a subject. It may
    be possible to determine amounts effective to generate an immune response using
    conventional dose ranging studies and techniques in subjects. Dosage forms may be
    administered at a variety of frequencies. In a preferred embodiment, at least one
25  administration of the dosage form is sufficient to generate a pharmacologically relevant
    response. In more preferred embodiment, at least two administrations, at least three
    administrations, or at least four administrations, of the dosage form are utilized to ensure a
    pharmacologically relevant response.
            The compositions and methods described herein can be used to induce, enhance,
30  suppress, modulate, direct, or redirect an immune response. The compositions and methods
    described herein can be used in the diagnosis, prophylaxis and/or treatment of conditions
    such as cancers, infectious diseases, metabolic diseases, degenerative diseases, non-

       WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 43
    autoimmune diseases, HIV, malaria, hepatitis B or any of the other disorders and/or
    conditions provided herein.
            Examples of infectious disease include, but are not limited to, viral infectious
    diseases, such as AIDS, Chickenpox (Varicella), Common cold, Cytomegalovirus Infection,
 5  Colorado tick fever, Dengue fever, Ebola hemorrhagic fever, Hand, foot and mouth disease,
    Hepatitis, Herpes simplex, Herpes zoster, HPV, Influenza (Flu), Lassa fever, Measles,
    Marburg hemorrhagic fever, Infectious mononucleosis, Mumps, Norovirus, Poliomyelitis,
    Progressive multifocal leukencephalopathy, Rabies, Rubella, SARS, Smallpox (Variola),
    Viral encephalitis, Viral gastroenteritis, Viral meningitis, Viral pneumonia, West Nile disease
 0  and Yellow fever; bacterial infectious diseases, such as Anthrax, Bacterial Meningitis,
    Botulism, Brucellosis, Campylobacteriosis, Cat Scratch Disease, Cholera, Diphtheria,
    Epidemic Typhus, Gonorrhea, Impetigo, Legionellosis, Leprosy (Hansen's Disease),
    Leptospirosis, Listeriosis, Lyme disease, Melioidosis, Rheumatic Fever, MRSA infection,
    Nocardiosis, Pertussis (Whooping Cough), Plague, Pneumococcal pneumonia, Psittacosis,         Q
 5  fever, Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever (RMSF), Salmonellosis, Scarlet Fever, Shigellosis,
    Syphilis, Tetanus, Trachoma, Tuberculosis, Tularemia, Typhoid Fever, Typhus and Urinary
    Tract Infections; parasitic infectious diseases, such as African trypanosomiasis, Amebiasis,
    Ascariasis, Babesiosis, Chagas Disease, Clonorchiasis, Cryptosporidiosis, Cysticercosis,
    Diphyllobothriasis, Dracunculiasis, Echinococcosis, Enterobiasis, Fascioliasis,
 .0 Fasciolopsiasis, Filariasis, Free-living amebic infection, Giardiasis, Gnathostomiasis,
    Hymenolepiasis, Isosporiasis, Kala-azar, Leishmaniasis, Malaria, Metagonimiasis, Myiasis,
    Onchocerciasis, Pediculosis, Pinworm Infection, Scabies, Schistosomiasis, Taeniasis,
    Toxocariasis, Toxoplasmosis, Trichinellosis, Trichinosis, Trichuriasis, Trichomoniasis and
    Trypanosomiasis; fungal infectious disease, such as Aspergillosis, Blastomycosis,
25  Candidiasis, Coccidioidomycosis, Cryptococcosis, Histoplasmosis, Tinea pedis (Athlete's
    Foot) and Tinea cruris; prion infectious diseases, such as Alpers' disease, Fatal Familial
    Insomnia, Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome, Kuru and Variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob
    disease.
            Examples of cancers include, but are not limited to breast cancer; biliary tract cancer;
30  bladder cancer; brain cancer including glioblastomas and medulloblastomas; cervical cancer;
    choriocarcinoma; colon cancer; endometrial cancer; esophageal cancer; gastric cancer;
    hematological neoplasms including acute lymphocytic and myelogenous leukemia, e.g., B
    Cell CLL; T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia/lymphoma; hairy cell leukemia; chronic

        WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 44
    myelogenous leukemia, multiple myeloma; AIDS-associated leukemias and adult T-cell
    leukemia/lymphoma; intraepithelial neoplasms including Bowen's disease and Paget's
    disease; liver cancer; lung cancer; lymphomas including Hodgkin's disease and lymphocytic
    lymphomas; neuroblastomas; oral cancer including squamous cell carcinoma; ovarian cancer
 5  including those arising from epithelial cells, stromal cells, germ cells and mesenchymal cells;
    pancreatic cancer; prostate cancer; rectal cancer; sarcomas including leiomyosarcoma,
    rhabdomyosarcoma, liposarcoma, fibrosarcoma, and osteosarcoma; skin cancer including
    melanoma, Merkel cell carcinoma, Kaposi's sarcoma, basal cell carcinoma, and squamous
    cell cancer; testicular cancer including germinal tumors such as seminoma, non-seminoma
 0  (teratomas, choriocarcinomas), stromal tumors, and germ cell tumors; thyroid cancer
    including thyroid adenocarcinoma and medullar carcinoma; and renal cancer including
    adenocarcinoma and Wilms tumor.
            Examples of metabolic diseases include, but are not limited to, disorders of
    carbohydrate metabolism, amino acid metabolism, organic acid metabolism, fatty acid
 5  oxidation and mitochondrial metabolism, prophyrin metabolism, purine or pyrimidine
    metabolism, steroid metabolism, lysosomal mitochondrial function, peroxisomal function,
    lysosomal storage, urea cycle disorders (e.g., N-acetyl glutamate synthetase deficiency,
    carbamylphosphate synthase deficiency, ornithine carbamyl transferase deficiency,
    crginosuccinic aciduria, citrullinaemia, arginase deficiency), amino acid disorders (e.g., Non
 .0 ketotic hyperglycinaemia, tyrosinaemia (Type I), Maple syrup urine disease), organic
    acidemias (e.g, isovaleric acidemia, methylmalonic acidemia, propionic acidemia, glutaric
    aciduria type I, glutaric acidemia type I & II), mitochondrial disorders (e.g., carboxylase
    defects, mitochondrial myopathies, lactic acidosis (pyruvate dehydrogenase complex
    defects), congenital lactic acidosis, mitochondrial respiratory chain defects, cystinosis,
25  Gaucher's disease, Fabry's disease, Pompe's disease, mucopolysaccharoidosis I,
    mucopolysaccharoidosis II, mucopolysaccharoidosis VI).
            Examples of degenerative diseases include, but are not limited to,
    mesenchyme/mesoderm degenerative disease, muscle degenerative disease, endothelial
    degenerative disease, neurodegenerative disease, degenerative joint disease (e.g.,
30  osteoarthritis), major types of degenerative heart disease (e.g., coronary heart disease,
    congenital heart disease, rheumatic heart disease, angina pectoris), neurodegenerative disease
    (e.g., Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Friedreich's ataxia, Huntington's
    disease, Lewy body disease, Parkinson's disease, spinal muscular atrophy), neuromuscular

       WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 45
   disorders (e.g., muscular dystrophy, duchenne muscular dystrophy, facioscapulohumeral
   muscular dystrophy, myotonic muscular dystrophy, congenital myopathy, familial
   cardiomyopathy, dilated cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, restrictive
   cardiomyopathy, or coronary artery disease).
 5         The proteins for coupling to the synthetic nanocarriers and/or the additional antigens
   provided herein can be antigens associated with any of the diseases or conditions provided
   herein. These include antigens associated with cancer, infections or infectious disease or
   degenerative or non-autoimmune disease. Antigens associated with HIV, malaria,
   leischmaniasis, a human filovirus infection, a togavirus infection, a alphavirus infection, an
 0 arenavirus infection, a bunyavirus infection, a flavivirus infection, a human papillomavirus
   infection, a human influenza A virus infection, a hepatitis B infection or a hepatitis C
   infection are also included.
           Examples of cancer antigens include HER 2 (p185), CD20, CD33, GD3 ganglioside,
   GD2 ganglioside, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), CD22, milk mucin core protein, TAG
 5 72, Lewis A antigen, ovarian associated antigens such as OV-TL3 and MOv18, high Mr
   melanoma antigens recognized by antibody 9.2.27, HMFG-2, SM-3, B72.3, PR5C5, PR4D2,
   and the like. Further examples include MAGE, MART- I/Melan-A, gp1OO, Dipeptidyl
   peptidase IV (DPPIV), adenosine deaminase-binding protein (ADAbp), FAP, cyclophilin b,
   Colorectal associated antigen (CRC)--C017-iA/GA733, Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA)
 0 and its immunogenic epitopes CAP-I and CAP-2, etv6, amli, prostatic acid phosphatase
   (PAP), Prostate Specific Antigen (PSA) and its immunogenic epitopes PSA-1, PSA-2, and
   PSA-3, prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA), T-cell receptor/CD3-zeta chain,
   MAGE-family of tumor antigens (e.g., MAGE-I or MAGE-II families) (e.g., MAGE-Al,
   MAGE-A2, MAGE-A3, MAGE-A4, MAGE-A5, MAGE-A6, MAGE-A7, MAGE-A8,
25 MAGE-A9, MAGE-A10, MAGE-All, MAGE-A12, MAGE-Xp2 (MAGE-B2), MAGE-Xp3
   (MAGE-B3), MAGE-Xp4 (MAGE-B4), MAGE-CI, MAGE-C2, MAGE-C3, MAGE-C4,
   MAGE-C5), GAGE-family of tumor antigens (e.g., GAGE-1, GAGE-2, GAGE-3, GAGE-4,
   GAGE-5, GAGE-6, GAGE-7, GAGE-8, GAGE-9), BAGE, RAGE, LAGE-1, NAG, GnT-V,
   MUM-1, CDK4, tyrosinase, p53, MUC family, HER2/neu, p2iras, RCASi, a-fetoprotein, E
30 cadherin, a-catenin, 0-catenin and y-catenin, pi20ctn, gpi00Pmelii7, PRAME, NY-ESO-i,
   cdc27, adenomatous polyposis coli protein (APC), fodrin, Connexin 37, Ig-idiotype, p15,
   gp75, GM2 and GD2 gangliosides, viral products such as human papilloma virus proteins,
   Smad family of tumor antigens, Imp-1, PIA, EBV-encoded nuclear antigen (EBNA)-1, brain

       WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 46
   glycogen phosphorylase, SSX-1, SSX-2 (HOM-MEL-40), SSX-1, SSX-4, SSX-5, SCP-1 and
   CT-7, CD20 and c-erbB-2.
           In another embodiment, antigens associated with infection or infectious disease are
   associated with any of the infectious agents provided herein. In one embodiment, the
 5 infectious agent is a virus of the Adenoviridae, Picornaviridae, Herpesviridae,
   Hepadnaviridae, Flaviviridae, Retroviridae, Orthomyxoviridae, Paramyxoviridae,
   Papillomaviridae, Rhabdoviridae, Togaviridae or Paroviridae family. In still another
   embodiment, the infectious agent is adenovirus, coxsackievirus, hepatitis A virus, poliovirus,
   Rhinovirus, Herpes simplex virus, Varicella-zoster virus, Epstein-barr virus, Human
 0 cytomegalovirus, Human herpesvirus, Hepatitis B virus, Hepatitis C virus, yellow fever virus,
   dengue virus, West Nile virus, HIV, Influenza virus, Measles virus, Mumps virus,
   Parainfluenza virus, Respiratory syncytial virus, Human metapneumovirus, Human
   papillomavirus, Rabies virus, Rubella virus, Human bocarivus or Parvovirus B19. In yet
   another embodiment, the infectious agent is a bacteria of the Bordetella, Borrelia, Brucella,
 5 Campylobacter, Chlamydia and Chlamydophila, Clostridium, Corynebacterium,
   Enterococcus, Escherichia, Francisella, Haemophilus, Helicobacter, Legionella, Leptospira,
   Listeria, Mycobacterium, Mycoplasma, Neisseria, Pseudomonas, Rickettsia, Salmonella,
   Shigella, Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Treponema Vibrio or Yersinia genus. In a further
   embodiment, the infectious agent is Bordetella pertussis, Borrelia burgdorferi, Brucella
 0 abortus, Brucella canis, Brucella melitensis, Brucella suis, Campylobacter jejuni, Chlamydia
   pneumoniae, Chlamydia trachomatis, Chlamydophila psittaci, Clostridium botulinum,
   Clostridium difficile, Clostridium perfringens, Clostridium tetani, Corynebacterium
   diphtheriae, Enterococcus faecalis, Enterococcus faecium, Escherichia coli, Francisella
   tularensis, Haemophilus influenzae, Helicobacter pylori, Legionella pneumophila, Leptospira
25 interrogans, Listeria monocytogenes, Mycobacterium leprae, Mycobacterium tuberculosis,
   Mycobacterium ulcerans, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Neisseria
   meningitides, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Rickettsia rickettsii, Salmonella typhi, Salmonella
   typhimurium, Shigella sonnei, Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis,
   Staphylococcus saprophyticus, Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptococcus pneumoniae,
30 Streptococcus pyogenes, Treponema pallidum, Vibrio cholerae or Yersinia pestis. In another
   embodiment, the infectious agent is a fungus of the Candida, Aspergillus, Cryptococcus,
   Histoplasma, Pneumocystis or Stachybotrys genus. In still another embodiment, the
   infectious agent is C. albicans, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus, Cryptococcus

       WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 47
   neoformans, Cryptococcus laurentii, Cryptococcus albidus, Cryptococcus gattii, Histoplasma
   capsulatum, Pneumocystis jirovecii or Stachybotrys chartarum.
           In yet another embodiment, the antigen associated with infection or infectious disease
   is one that comprises VI, VII, ElA, E3-19K, 52K, VP1, surface antigen, 3A protein, capsid
 5 protein, nucleocapsid, surface projection, transmembrane proteins, UL6, UL18, UL35, UL38,
   UL19, early antigen, capsid antigen, Pp65, gB, p52, latent nuclear antigen-1, NS3, envelope
   protein, envelope protein E2 domain, gp120, p24, lipopeptides Gag (17-35), Gag (253-284),
   Nef (66-97), Nef (116-145), Pol (325-355), neuraminidase, nucleocapsid protein, matrix
   protein, phosphoprotein, fusion protein, hemagglutinin, hemagglutinin-neuraminidase,
 0 glycoprotein, E6, E7, envelope lipoprotein or non-structural protein (NS). In another
   embodiment, the antigen comprises pertussis toxin (PT), filamentous hemagglutinin (FHA),
   pertactin (PRN), fimbriae (FIM 2/3), VlsE; DbpA, OspA, Hia, PrpA, MltA, L7/L12, D15,
   0187, VirJ, Mdh, AfuA, L7/L12, out membrane protein, LPS, antigen type A, antigen type B,
   antigen type C, antigen type D, antigen type E, FliC, FliD, Cwp84, alpha-toxin, theta-toxin,
 5 fructose 1,6-biphosphate-aldolase (FBA), glyceraldehydes-3-phosphate dehydrogenase
   (GPD), pyruvate:ferredoxin oxidoreductase (PFOR), elongation factor-G (EF-G),
   hypothetical protein (HP), T toxin, Toxoid antigen, capsular polysaccharide, Protein D, Mip,
   nucleoprotein (NP), RD1, PE35, PPE68, EsxA, EsxB, RD9, EsxV, Hsp70,
   lipopolysaccharide, surface antigen, Spl, Sp2, Sp3, Glycerophosphodiester
 0 Phosphodiesterase, outer membrane protein, chaperone-usher protein, capsular protein (F1)
   or V protein. In yet another embodiment, the antigen is one that comprises capsular
   glycoprotein, Yps3P, Hsp60, Major surface protein, MsgC1, MsgC3, MsgC8, MsgC9 or
   SchS34.
25                                          EXAMPLES
   Example 1: Synthetic Nanocarrier Formulation Lot #1
   Materials
30         Ovalbumin protein, was purchased from Worthington Biochemical Corporation (730
   Vassar Avenue, Lakewood, NJ 08701. Product Code 3048.) PLGA-R848 of approximately
   5,200 Da made from PLGA of 3:1 lactide to glycolide ratio and having 12.7% w/w
   conjugated R848 content was synthesized. PLA-PEG-Nicotine with a nicotine-terminated

       WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 48
    PEG block of approximately 5,000 Da and DL-PLA block of approximately 19,000 Da was
    synthesized. PLA with an inherent viscosity of 0.21 dL/g was purchased from SurModics
    Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code 100 DL
    2A.) Polyvinyl alcohol (Mw = 11,000 - 31,000, 87-89% hydrolyzed) was purchased from
 5  J.T. Baker (Part Number U232-08).
    Method
            Solutions were prepared as follows:
            Solution 1: Ovalbumin protein at 20 mg/mL in 10mM phosphate buffer.
 0          Solution 2: PLGA-R848 at 50 mg/mL, PLA-PEG-Nicotine at 25 mg/mL, PLA at 25
    mg/ml in dichloromethane. The solution was prepared by separately dissolving each polymer
    as a 100 mg/mL in dichloromethane, then mixing the solutions by adding 2 parts PLGA
    R848 solution to 1 part each PLA-PEG-Nicotine solution and PLA solution.
            Solution 3: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100 mM in 100mM phosphate buffer,
 5  pH 8.
            Solution 4: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            A primary (W1/O) emulsion was first created using Solution 1 & Solution 2. Solution
    1 (0.2 mL) and Solution 2 (1.0 mL) were combined in a small glass pressure tube and
    sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds using a Branson Digital Sonifier 250. A
 .0 secondary (W1/O/W2) emulsion was then formed by adding Solution 3 (2.0 mL) to the
    primary emulsion, and then sonicating at 30% amplitude for 40 seconds using the Branson
    Digital Sonifier 250. The secondary emulsion was added to an open 50 mL beaker
    containing 70 mM phosphate buffer solution (30 mL) and stirred at room temperature for 2
    hours to allow the dichloromethane to evaporate and the nanocarriers to form in suspension.
25  A portion of the suspended nanocarriers was washed by transferring the nanocarrier
    suspension to a centrifuge tube, spinning at 13,823g for one hour, removing the supernatant,
    and re-suspending the pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing procedure was
    repeated and then the pellet was re-suspended in phosphate buffered saline to achieve a
    nanocarrier suspension having a nominal concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer basis.
30  The suspension was stored frozen at -20'C until use.
    Table 1: Nanocarrier Characterization

       WO 2013/019669                                                     PCT/US2012/048670
                                                - 49
    Nanocarrier       Effective           R848 (%       Ovalbumin (%
    ID                Diameter (nm)       w/w)          w/w)
    1                 214                 4.0           1.1
    Example 2: Synthetic Nanocarrier Formulation Lot #2
 5  Materials
            Ovalbumin protein, was purchased from Worthington Biochemical Corporation (730
    Vassar Avenue, Lakewood, NJ 08701. Product Code 3048.) Ovalbumin peptide 323-339
    amide acetate salt, was purchased from Bachem Americas Inc. (3132 Kashiwa Street,
    Torrance CA 90505. Product code 4065609.) PLGA-R848 of approximately 5,200 Da made
 0  from PLGA of 3:1 lactide to glycolide ratio and having 12.7% w/w conjugated R848 content
    was synthesized. PLA-PEG-Nicotine with a nicotine-terminated PEG block of
    approximately 5,000 Da and DL-PLA block of approximately 19,000 Da was synthesized.
    PLA with an inherent viscosity of 0.21 dL/g was purchased from SurModics Pharmaceuticals
    (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code 100 DL 2A.) Polyvinyl
 5  alcohol (Mw = 11,000 - 31,000, 87-89% hydrolyzed) was purchased from J.T. Baker (Part
    Number U232-08).
    Method
            Solutions were prepared as follows:
 10         Solution 1A: Ovalbumin protein at 40 mg/mL in 10mM phosphate buffer.
            Solution IB: Ovalbumin peptide amide 323 - 339 @ 40 mg/mL in dilute hydrochloric
    acid aqueous solution.
            Solution 2: PLGA-R848 at 50 mg/mL, PLA-PEG-Nicotine at 25 mg/mL, PLA at 25
    mg/ml in dichloromethane. The solution was prepared by separately dissolving each polymer
25  at 100 mg/mL in dichloromethane, then mixing the solutions by adding 2 parts PLGA-R848
    solution to 1 part each PLA-PEG-Nicotine solution and PLA solution.
            Solution 3: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100 mM in 100mM phosphate buffer,
    pH 8.
            Solution 4: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
30          The first primary (W1/O) emulsion was created using Solution 1A & Solution 2.
    Solution 1A (0.2 mL) and Solution 2 (1.0 mL) were combined in a small glass pressure tube

        WO 2013/019669                                                       PCT/US2012/048670
                                                - 50
    and sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds using a Branson Digital Sonifier 250. A
    second primary (W1/O) emulsion was created using Solution lB & Solution 2. Solution lB
    (0.2 mL) and Solution 2 (1.0 mL) were combined in a small glass pressure tube and sonicated
    at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds using a Branson Digital Sonifier 250. Approximately        of
 5  the second primary emulsion was removed from its pressure tube and discarded and then        of
    the first primary emulsion (0.500 mL), was added to the tube to create a 1:1 mixture of the
    two primary emulsions in a total volume of approximately 1 mL. A secondary (W1/O/W2)
    emulsion was then formed by adding Solution 3 (2.0 mL) to the primary emulsion, and then
    sonicating at 30% amplitude for 40 seconds using the Branson Digital Sonifier 250. The
 0  secondary emulsion was added to an open 50 mL beaker containing 70 mM phosphate buffer
    solution (30 mL) and stirred at room temperature for 2 hours to allow the dichloromethane to
    evaporate and the nanocarriers to form in suspension. A portion of the suspended
    nanocarriers was washed by transferring the nanocarrier suspension to a centrifuge tube,
    spinning at 13,823g for one hour, removing the supernatant, and re-suspending the pellet in
 5  phosphate buffered saline. This washing procedure was repeated and then the pellet was re
    suspended in phosphate buffered saline to achieve a nanocarrier suspension having a nominal
    concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer basis. The suspension was stored frozen at -20'C
    until use.
 .0 Table 2: Nanocarrier Characterization
    Nanocarrier       Effective           R848 (%       Ovalbumin Protein      Ovalbumin
    ID                Diameter (nm)       w/w)           (% w/w)               Peptide (% w/w)
    2                 234                 3.9           0.3                    2.3
    Example 3: Synthetic Nanocarrier Formulation Lot #3
25  Materials
             Ovalbumin protein, was purchased from Worthington Biochemical Corporation (730
    Vassar Avenue, Lakewood, NJ 08701. Product Code 3048.) PLGA-R848 of approximately
    5,200 Da made from PLGA of 3:1 lactide to glycolide ratio and having 12.7% w/w
    conjugated R848 content was synthesized. PLA-PEG-OMe block co-polymer with a methyl

       WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 51
    ether terminated PEG block of 2,000 Da and DL-PLA block of approximately 19,000 Da was
    synthesized. PLA with an inherent viscosity of 0.21 dL/g was purchased from SurModics
    Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code 100 DL
    2A.) Polyvinyl alcohol (Mw = 11,000 - 31,000, 87-89% hydrolyzed) was purchased from
 5  J.T. Baker (Part Number U232-08).
    Method
            Solutions were prepared as follows:
            Solution 1: Ovalbumin protein at 20 mg/mL in 10mM phosphate buffer.
 0          Solution 2: PLGA-R848 at 50 mg/mL, PLA-PEG-OMe at 25 mg/mL, PLA at 25
    mg/ml in dichloromethane. The solution was prepared by separately dissolving each polymer
    as a 100 mg/mL in dichloromethane, then mixing the solutions by adding 2 parts PLGA
    R848 solution to 1 part each PLA-PEG-OMe solution and PLA solution.
            Solution 3: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100 mM in 100mM phosphate buffer,
 5  pH 8.
            Solution 4: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            A primary (W1/O) emulsion was first created using Solution 1 & Solution 2. Solution
    1 (0.2 mL) and Solution 2 (1.0 mL) were combined in a small glass pressure tube and
    sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds using a Branson Digital Sonifier 250. A
 .0 secondary (W1/O/W2) emulsion was then formed by adding Solution 3 (2.0 mL) to the
    primary emulsion, and then sonicating at 30% amplitude for 40 seconds using the Branson
    Digital Sonifier 250. The secondary emulsion was added to an open 50 mL beaker
    containing 70 mM phosphate buffer solution (30 mL) and stirred at room temperature for 2
    hours to allow the dichloromethane to evaporate and the nanocarriers to form in suspension.
25  A portion of the suspended nanocarriers was washed by transferring the nanocarrier
    suspension to a centrifuge tube, spinning at 13,823g for one hour, removing the supernatant,
    and re-suspending the pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing procedure was
    repeated and then the pellet was re-suspended in phosphate buffered saline to achieve a
    nanocarrier suspension having a nominal concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer basis.
30  The suspension was stored frozen at -20'C until use.
    Table 3: Nanocarrier Characterization

       WO 2013/019669                                                     PCT/US2012/048670
                                               - 52
     Nanocarrier ID      Effective           R848 (% w/w)         Ovalbumin (% w/w)
                         Diameter (nm)
     3                   217                 4.3                  0.8
   Example 4: Synthetic Nanocarrier Formulation Lot #4
          Ovalbumin protein, was purchased from Worthington Biochemical Corporation (730
   Vassar Avenue, Lakewood, NJ 08701. Product Code 3048.) Ovalbumin peptide 323-339
 5 amide acetate salt, was purchased from Bachem Americas Inc. (3132 Kashiwa Street,
   Torrance CA 90505. Product code 4065609.) PLGA-R848 of approximately 5,200 Da made
   from PLGA of 3:1 lactide to glycolide ratio and having 12.7% w/w conjugated R848 content
   was synthesized. PLA-PEG-OMe block co-polymer with a methyl ether terminated PEG
   block of 2,000 Da and DL-PLA block of approximately 19,000 Da was synthesized. PLA
 0 with an inherent viscosity of 0.21 dL/g was purchased from SurModics Pharmaceuticals (756
   Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code 100 DL 2A.) Polyvinyl alcohol
   (Mw = 11,000 - 31,000, 87-89% hydrolyzed) was purchased from J.T. Baker (Part Number
   U232-08).
 5 Method
          Solutions were prepared as follows:
          Solution 1A: Ovalbumin protein at 40 mg/mL in 10mM phosphate buffer.
          Solution IB: Ovalbumin peptide amide 323 - 339 @ 40 mg/mL in dilute hydrochloric
   acid aqueous solution.
20        Solution 2: PLGA-R848 at 50 mg/mL, PLA-PEG-OMe at 25 mg/mL, PLA at 25
   mg/ml in dichloromethane. The solution was prepared by separately dissolving each polymer
   as a 100 mg/mL in dichloromethane, then mixing the solutions by adding 2 parts PLGA
   R848 solution to 1 part each PLA-PEG-OMe solution and PLA solution.
          Solution 3: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100 mM in 100mM phosphate buffer,
25 pH 8.
          Solution 4: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
          The first primary (W1/O) emulsion was created using Solution 1A & Solution 2.
   Solution 1A (0.2 mL) and Solution 2 (1.0 mL) were combined in a small glass pressure tube
   and sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds using a Branson Digital Sonifier 250. A

       WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                - 53
   second primary (W1/O) emulsion was created using Solution lB & Solution 2. Solution lB
   (0.2 mL) and Solution 2 (1.0 mL) were combined in a small glass pressure tube and sonicated
   at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds using a Branson Digital Sonifier 250. The two primary
   emulsions were combined, in part, by transferring 0.6 mL of each into a third glass pressure
 5 tube to create a 1:1 mixture of the two primary emulsions in a total volume of approximately
   1.2 mL. A secondary (W1/O/W2) emulsion was then formed by adding Solution 3 (2.0 mL)
   to the primary emulsion, and then sonicating at 30% amplitude for 40 seconds using the
   Branson Digital Sonifier 250. The secondary emulsion was added to an open 50 mL beaker
   containing 70 mM phosphate buffer solution (30 mL) and stirred at room temperature for 2
 0 hours to allow the dichloromethane to evaporate and the nanocarriers to form in suspension.
   A portion of the suspended nanocarriers was washed by transferring the nanocarrier
   suspension to a centrifuge tube, spinning at 13,823g for one hour, removing the supernatant,
   and re-suspending the pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing procedure was
   repeated and then the pellet was re-suspended in phosphate buffered saline to achieve a
 5 nanocarrier suspension having a nominal concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer basis.
   The suspension was stored frozen at -20'C until use.
   Table 4: Nanocarrier Characterization
   Nanocarrier       Effective            R848 (%       Ovalbumin Protein     Ovalbumin
   ID                Diameter (nm)        w/w)          (%w/w)                Peptide (% w/w)
   4                 213                  3.8           0.3                   0.8
20 Example 5: Synthetic Nanocarrier Formulation Lot #5
   Materials
           SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO: 1) (ovalbumin peptide [257 - 264]), was purchased from
   Bachem Americas Inc. (3132 Kashiwa Street, Torrance CA 90505. Product code H-4866.)
25 Ovalbumin peptide 323-339 amide acetate salt, was purchased from Bachem Americas Inc.
   (3132 Kashiwa Street, Torrance CA 90505. Product code 4065609.) PLGA-R848 of
   approximately 4,500 Da made from PLGA of 3:1 lactide to glycolide ratio and having 15%
   w/w conjugated R848 content was synthesized. PLA-PEG-Nicotine with a nicotine
   terminated PEG block of approximately 5,000 Da and DL-PLA block of approximately

        WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 54
    17,000 Da was synthesized. PLA with an inherent viscosity of 0.21 dL/g was purchased from
    SurModics Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code
    100 DL 2A.) Polyvinyl alcohol (Mw = 11,000 - 31,000, 87-89% hydrolyzed) was purchased
    from J.T. Baker (Part Number U232-08).
 5
    Method
             Solutions were prepared as follows:
             Solution 1A: SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO:1) @ 200 mg/mL DMSO.
             Solution IB: Ovalbumin peptide amide 323 - 339 @ 20 mg/mL in dilute hydrochloric
 0  acid aqueous solution.
             Solution 2: PLGA-R848 at 50 mg/mL, PLA-PEG-Nicotine at 25 mg/mL, PLA at 25
    mg/ml in dichloromethane. The solution was prepared by separately dissolving each polymer
    as a 100 mg/mL in dichloromethane, then mixing the solutions by adding 2 parts PLGA
    R848 solution to 1 part each PLA-PEG-Nicotine solution and PLA solution.
 5           Solution 3: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100 mM in 100mM phosphate buffer,
    pH 8.
             Solution 4: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
             The first primary (S/O) emulsion was created using Solution 1A & Solution 2.
    Solution 1A (0.025 mL) and Solution 2 (1.0 mL) were combined in a small glass pressure
 .0 tube and sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds using a Branson Digital Sonifier 250. A
    serial primary (W1/(S/O)) emulsion was created using Solution lB and the first primary
    emulsion. Solution lB (0.25 mL) was added to the small glass pressure tube containing the
    first primary emulsion and then sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds using a Branson
    Digital Sonifier 250. A secondary ((S+W1)/O/W2) emulsion was then formed by adding
25  Solution 3 (2.0 mL) to the serial primary emulsion, and then sonicating at 30% amplitude for
    40 seconds using the Branson Digital Sonifier 250. The secondary emulsion was added to an
    open 50 mL beaker containing 70 mM phosphate buffer solution (30 mL) and stirred at room
    temperature for 2 hours to allow the dichloromethane to evaporate and the nanocarriers to
    form in suspension. A portion of the suspended nanocarriers was washed by transferring the
30  nanocarrier suspension to a centrifuge tube, spinning at 13,823g for one hour, removing the
    supernatant, and re-suspending the pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing
    procedure was repeated and then the pellet was re-suspended in phosphate buffered saline to

       WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 55
   achieve a nanocarrier suspension having a nominal concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer
   basis. The suspension was stored frozen at -20'C until use.
   Table 5: Nanocarrier Characterization
   Nanocarrier       Effective              R848 (%        SIINFEKL (SEQ         Ovalbumin 323
   ID                Diameter (nm)          w/w)           ID NO: 1) peptide     339 peptide (%
                                                           (%w/w)                w/w)
   5                 236                    4.2            0.9                   1.6
 5
   Example 6: Synthetic Nanocarrier Compositions Generate High Antibody Titers and Strong
   Antigen-Specific CTL Activity
            3 dand 4h in vivo (C57BL/6 mice) immunization studies were performed. The above
   polymeric nanocarrier formulation (#3) delivering a TLR agonist (R848) and entrapped
 0 ovalbumin protein (OVA) was introduced and created high antibody titers (e.g., anti-OVA
   IgG titers of -1e6) and strong antigen-specific CTL activity from local lymph and spleen
   cells.
            Immunized mice were bled at dates indicated and antibodies to ovalbumin measured
   in standard ELISA using serial dilutions of test sera. Biotinylated goat anti-mouse Ig was
 5 used as a detection antibody (BD Biosciences, San Diego, CA). EC50 was determined based
   on titration curves. CTL activity was measured as follows. 4-5 days after the final injection
   (subcutaneous, s.c., or intranasal, i.n.) with the nanocarrier preparations or protein controls
   draining lymph nodes (LNs) were removed, treated with collagenase, homogenized, washed
   and incubated with 10-100 units/ml of IL-2 for 4-5 days. Then resulting cell populations
20 were counted and used as effector cells in cytotoxicity assays. Syngeneic EL-4 cells pulsed
   with SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO: 1) peptide or EG.7-OVA cells (stably transfected with
   ovalbumin) served as targets with intact EL-4 cells providing for background control.
   Cytoxicity at various effector:target ratios was measured over 24 hours (370 C) using
   CytoTox-ONETM Homogenuous Membrane Integrity Assay (Promega, Madison, WI)
25 according to manufacturer's recommendations.
   Table 6. Formulation of Nanocarrier
            Antigen                                     OVA Protein

    WO 2013/019669                                                              PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 56
        TLR Agonist                                 PLGA-R848 (50%)
        Matrix polymer 1                             PLA-PEG (25%)
        Matrix Polymer 2                             100 DL 2A (25%)
        Table 7. Experiment 1 Layout
          Gr.          Immunized with                  NC      R848 load   Ova Protein   Ova peptide
           #                                           Lot#      (%)        load (%)       load (%)
           1      NC (ovalbumin; no memory              1         4.0           1.1           N/A
                           peptide)
           2       NC (ovalbumin; + memory              2         3.9           0.3            2.3
                           peptide)
           3      NC (ovalbumin; no memory              3         4.3           0.8           N/A
                           peptide)
           4       NC (ovalbumin; + memory              4         3.8           0.3            0.8
                           peptide)
           5    Ovalbumin (100 pg) + 20 pg free        N/A       N/A          100 pg          N/A
                             CpG
           6     Ovalbumin (100 pg) + 100 pg           N/A       N/A          100 pg          N/A
                             alum
5       Table 8. Experiment 2 layout
        Gr.   Immunized with                 Route       NC Lot#      R848  Ova         Ova peptide
        #                                                             load  Protein     load (%),
                                                                      (%)   load (%)    type
        1     NC (SIINFEKL (SEQ ID           S.c.        5            4.2   N/A          1.6-peptide
              NO:1) + memory peptide)                                                   0.9-SIINFEKL
                                                                                        (SEQ ID
                                                                                        NO:1)
        2     NC (ovalbumin; no memory       S.c         3            4.3   0.8          N/A
              peptide)
        3     NC (SIINFEKL (SEQ ID           I.n.        5            4.2   N/A          1.6-peptide
              NO:1) + memory peptide)                                                   0.9-SIINFEKL
                                                                                        (SEQ ID
                                                                                        NO:1)
        4     NC (ovalbumin; no memory       I.n.        3            4.3   0.8          N/A
              peptide)
  Example 7: Synthetic Nanocarrier Formulation Lot #6

       WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 57
    Materials
            Ovalbumin protein, was purchased from Worthington Biochemical Corporation (730
    Vassar Avenue, Lakewood, NJ 08701). Product Code LS003054. PLGA-R848, Poly-D/L
    lactide-co-glycolide, 4-amino-2-(ethoxymethyl)-a,a-dimethyl-1H-imidazo[4,5-c]quinoline-1
 5  ethanol amide of approximately 7,800 Da made from PLGA of 3:1 lactide to glycolide ratio
    and having 8.5% w/w conjugated resiquimod content was custom manufactured at Princeton
    Global Synthesis (300 George Patterson Drive #206, Bristol, PA 19007.) Lot number PGS
    16-52. PLA with an inherent viscosity of 0.21 dL/g was purchased from SurModics
    Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code 100 DL
 0  2A.) PLA-PEG-OMe block co-polymer with a methyl ether terminated PEG block of
    approximately 5,000 Da and PLA block of approximately 21,000 Da by IH-NMR (Mn of
    21kDa) was synthesized. EMPROVE@ Polyvinyl Alcohol 5-88, USP (85-89% hydrolyzed,
    viscosity of 4.3-5.7 mPa.s) was purchased from EMD Chemicals Inc. (480 South Democrat
    Road Gibbstown, NJ 08027. Part Number 1.41354). Phosphate-buffered saline IX (PBS
 5  1X). From Mediatech Inc. (9345 Discovery Blvd. Manassas, VA 20109.) Product Code 21
    040-CV.
    Method
            Solutions were prepared as follows:
 .0         Solution 1: Ovalbumin protein @ 20 mg/mL was prepared in PBS IX at room
    temperature.
            Solution 2: PLA was prepared by dissolving PLA at 100 mg per 1 mL of
    dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
            Solution 3: PLA-PEG-OMe was prepared by dissolving PLA-PEG-OMe at 100 mg
25  per 1 mL of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
            Solution 4: PLGA-R848 was prepared by dissolving PLGA-R848 at 100 mg per 1 mL
    of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
            Solution 5: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100 mM in 100mM phosphate buffer,
    pH 8.
30          Solution 6: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            This lot was prepared in duplicate, then combined after washing. A primary (W1/O)
    emulsion was first created by mixing Solutions 1 through 4. Solution 1 (0.2 mL), Solution 2
    (0.50 mL), Solution 3 (0.25mL) and Solution 4 (0.25mL) were combined in a small glass

      WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                - 58
   pressure tube and sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds using a Branson Digital Sonifier
   250. A secondary (W1/O/W2) emulsion was then formed by adding Solution 5 (2.0 mL) to
   the primary emulsion, vortexing to create a crude dispersion, and then sonicating at 30%
   amplitude for 60 seconds using the Branson Digital Sonifier 250. The secondary emulsion
 5 was added to an open 50 mL beaker containing Solution 6 (30 mL) and stirred at room
   temperature for 2 hours to allow the dichloromethane to evaporate and the nanocarriers to
   form in suspension. A portion of the suspended nanocarriers was washed by transferring the
   nanocarrier suspension to a centrifuge tube, spinning at 21,000 rcf for 45 minutes, removing
   the supernatant, and re-suspending the pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing
 0 procedure was repeated and then the pellet was re-suspended in PBS IX to achieve a
   nanocarrier suspension having a nominal concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer basis.
   The suspension was stored frozen at -20C until use.
   Table 9: Nanocarrier Characterization
   Nanocarrier       Effective           TLR Agonist, %          Antigen, %w/w
   ID                Diameter (nm)       w/w
   6                 252.1               R848, 4.4               OVA protein, 4.3
 5
   Example 8: Synthetic Nanocarrier Formulation Lot #7
   Materials
           Ovalbumin protein, was purchased from Worthington Biochemical Corporation (730
20 Vassar Avenue, Lakewood, NJ 08701). Product Code LS003054. PLGA-R848, Poly-D/L
   lactide-co-glycolide, 4-amino-2-(ethoxymethyl)-a,a-dimethyl-1H-imidazo[4,5-c]quinoline-1
   ethanol amide of approximately 7,800 Da made from PLGA of 3:1 lactide to glycolide ratio
   and having 8.5% w/w conjugated resiquimod content was custom manufactured at Princeton
   Global Synthesis (300 George Patterson Drive #206, Bristol, PA 19007.) Lot number PGS
25 16-52. PLA with an inherent viscosity of 0.21 dL/g was purchased from SurModics
   Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code 100 DL
   2A.) PLA-PEG-OMe block co-polymer with a methyl ether terminated PEG block of
   approximately 5,000 Da and PLA block of approximately 21,000 Da by IH-NMR (Mn of
   2lkDa) was synthesized. EMPROVE@ Polyvinyl Alcohol 5-88, USP (85-89% hydrolyzed,

       WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 59
    viscosity of 4.3-5.7 mPa.s) was purchased from EMD Chemicals Inc. (480 South Democrat
    Road Gibbstown, NJ 08027. Part Number 1.41354). Phosphate-buffered saline IX (PBS
    1X). From Mediatech Inc. (9345 Discovery Blvd. Manassas, VA 20109.) Product Code 21
    040-CV.
 5
    Method
    Solutions were prepared as follows:
            Solution 1: Ovalbumin protein @ 5 mg/mL was prepared in PBS IX at room
    temperature.
 0          Solution 2: PLA was prepared by dissolving PLA at 100 mg per 1 mL of
    dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
            Solution 3: PLA-PEG-OMe was prepared by dissolving PLA-PEG-OMe at 100 mg
    per 1 mL of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
            Solution 4: PLGA-R848 was prepared by dissolving PLGA-R848 at 100 mg per 1 mL
 5  of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
            Solution 5: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100 mM in 100mM phosphate buffer,
    pH 8.
            Solution 6: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            This lot was prepared in duplicate, then combined after washing. A primary (W1/O)
 .0 emulsion was first created by mixing Solutions 1 through 4. Solution 1 (0.2 mL), Solution 2
    (0.50 mL), Solution 3 (0.25mL) and Solution 4 (0.25mL) were combined in a small glass
    pressure tube and sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds using a Branson Digital Sonifier
    250. A secondary (W1/O/W2) emulsion was then formed by adding Solution 5 (2.0 mL) to
    the primary emulsion, vortexing to create a crude dispersion, and then sonicating at 30%
25  amplitude for 60 seconds using the Branson Digital Sonifier 250. The secondary emulsion
    was added to an open 50 mL beaker containing Solution 6 (30 mL) and stirred at room
    temperature for 2 hours to allow the dichloromethane to evaporate and the nanocarriers to
    form in suspension. A portion of the suspended nanocarriers was washed by transferring the
    nanocarrier suspension to a centrifuge tube, spinning at 21,000 rcf for 45 minutes, removing
30  the supernatant, and re-suspending the pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing
    procedure was repeated and then the pellet was re-suspended in PBS IX to achieve a
    nanocarrier suspension having a nominal concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer basis.
    The suspension was stored frozen at -20C until use.

      WO 2013/019669                                                     PCT/US2012/048670
                                               - 60
   Table 10: Nanocarrier Characterization
   Nanocarrier       Effective           TLR Agonist, %        Antigen, % w/w
   ID                Diameter (nm)       w/w
   7                 240.6               R848, 4.2             OVA protein, 1.3
   Example 9: Synthetic Nanocarrier Formulation Lot #8
 5
   Materials
           Ovalbumin protein, was purchased from Worthington Biochemical Corporation (730
   Vassar Avenue, Lakewood, NJ 08701). Product Code LS003054. PLGA-R848, Poly-D/L
   lactide-co-glycolide, 4-amino-2-(ethoxymethyl)-a,a-dimethyl-1H-imidazo[4,5-c]quinoline-1
 0 ethanol amide of approximately 7,800 Da made from PLGA of 3:1 lactide to glycolide ratio
   and having 8.5% w/w conjugated resiquimod content was custom manufactured at Princeton
   Global Synthesis (300 George Patterson Drive #206, Bristol, PA 19007.) PLA with an
   inherent viscosity of 0.21 dL/g was purchased from SurModics Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom
   Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code 100 DL 2A.) PLA-PEG-OMe block
 5 co-polymer with a methyl ether terminated PEG block of approximately 5,000 Da and PLA
   block of approximately 21,000 Da by IH-NMR (Mn of 21kDa) was synthesized.
   EMPROVE@ Polyvinyl Alcohol 5-88, USP (85-89% hydrolyzed, viscosity of 4.3-5.7 mPa.s)
   was purchased from EMD Chemicals Inc. (480 South Democrat Road Gibbstown, NJ 08027.
   Part Number 1.41354). Phosphate-buffered saline IX (PBS 1X). From Mediatech Inc. (9345
20 Discovery Blvd. Manassas, VA 20109.) Product Code 21-040-CV.
   Method
           Solutions were prepared as follows:
           Solution 1: Ovalbumin protein @ 20 mg/mL was prepared in PBS IX at room
25 temperature.
           Solution 2: PLA was prepared by dissolving PLA at 100 mg per 1 mL of
   dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
           Solution 3: PLA-PEG-OMe was prepared by dissolving PLA-PEG-OMe at 100 mg
   per 1 mL of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.

       WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 61
            Solution 4: PLGA-R848 was prepared by dissolving PLGA-R848 at 100 mg per 1 mL
    of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
            Solution 5: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100 mM in 100mM phosphate buffer,
    pH 8.
 5          Solution 6: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            This lot was prepared in duplicate, then combined after washing. A primary (W1/O)
    emulsion was first created by mixing Solutions 1 through 4. Solution 1 (0.2 mL), Solution 2
    (0.50 mL), Solution 3 (0.25mL) and Solution 4 (0.25mL) were combined in a small glass
    pressure tube and sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds using a Branson Digital Sonifier
 0  250. A secondary (W1/O/W2) emulsion was then formed by adding Solution 5 (2.0 mL) to
    the primary emulsion, vortexing to create a crude dispersion, and then sonicating at 30%
    amplitude for 60 seconds using the Branson Digital Sonifier 250. The secondary emulsion
    was added to an open 50 mL beaker containing Solution 6 (30 mL) and stirred at room
    temperature for 2 hours to allow the dichloromethane to evaporate and the nanocarriers to
 5  form in suspension. A portion of the suspended nanocarriers was washed by transferring the
    nanocarrier suspension to a centrifuge tube, spinning at 21,000 rcf for 45 minutes, removing
    the supernatant, and re-suspending the pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing
    procedure was repeated and then the pellet was re-suspended in PBS IX to achieve a
    nanocarrier suspension having a nominal concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer basis.
 .0 The suspension was stored frozen at -20C until use.
    Table 11: Nanocarrier Characterization
    Nanocarrier       Effective            TLR Agonist, %         Antigen, % w/w
    ID                Diameter (nm)        w/w
    8                 238.6                R848, 3.9              OVA protein, 8.0
    Example 10: Synthetic Nanocarrier Compositions Generate High Antibody Titers and Strong
25  Antigen-Specific CTL Activity
            Synthetic nanocarriers delivering R848 and OVA was as successful as a positive
    comparator control consisting of high dose of PS-CpG plus a 6x higher dose of free OVA at
    generating a central (spleen) OVA-specific CTL response and also in creating as strong (or
    stronger) OVA-specific humoral response.

      WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 62
           4-5 days after s.c. injection with nanocarrier preparations or controls draining lymph
   nodes (LNs) were removed, treated with collagenase, homogenized, washed and incubated
   with 10-100 units/ml of IL-2 for 4-5 days. Then resulting cell populations were counted and
   used as effector cells in cytotoxicity assay. Syngeneic EL-4 cells pulsed with SIINFEKL
 5 (SEQ ID NO: 1) peptide or EG.7-OVA cells (stably transfected with ovalbumin) served as
   targets with intact EL-4 cells providing for background control. Cytoxicity at various
   effector:target ratios was measured over 24 hours (37 0 C) using CytoTox-ONETM
   Homogenuous Membrane Integrity Assay (Promega, Madison, WI) according to
   manufacturer's recommendations.
 0
   Table 12
           Gr. #    Immunized w.        NC Lot     Adjuvant (pg)     OVA (pg)
            1       NC-OVA-R848         6          R848 (4.4)        4.3
           2        NC-OVA-R848         7          R848 (4.2)        1.3
           3        NC-OVA-R848         8          R848 (3.9)        8.0
           4        OVA + CpG           N/A        CpG, 20 g         50
   Example 11: Measure Development of Humoral and Cellular Immune Responses to
 5 Nanocarrier-encapsulated Antigen After a Single Injection of NC-OVA + NC-R848 Mix
   Materials - Lot #9
           PLGA-R848 (S-205), Poly-D/L-lactide-co-glycolide, 4-amino-2-(ethoxymethyl)-a,a
   dimethyl-1H-imidazo[4,5-c]quinoline-1-ethanol amide of approximately 7,800 Da made from
20 PLGA of 3:1 lactide to glycolide ratio and having 8.5% w/w conjugated resiquimod content
   was custom manufactured at Princeton Global Synthesis (300 George Patterson Drive #206,
   Bristol, PA 19007.). PLA with an inherent viscosity of 0.19 dL/g was purchased from
   SurModics Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code
   100 DL 2A). PLA-PEG-OMe block co-polymer with a methyl ether terminated PEG block
25 of approximately 5,000 Da and PLA block of approximately 28,000 Da was purchased from
   SurModics Pharmaceuticals (Product Code 100 DL mPEG 5000 5CE). EMPROVE@
   Polyvinyl Alcohol 4-88, USP (85-89% hydrolyzed, viscosity of 3.4-4.6 mPa.s) was purchased

       WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 63
    from EMD Chemicals Inc. (480 South Democrat Road Gibbstown, NJ 08027). Phosphate
    buffered saline IX (PBS 1X). From Mediatech Inc. (9345 Discovery Blvd. Manassas, VA
    20109.) Product Code 21-040-CV.
 5  Method - Lot #9
            Solutions were prepared as follows:
            Solution 1: PLGA-R848 was prepared by weighing out PLGA-R848, PLA, and PLA
    PEG-OMe powders in 2:1:1 weight ratio and then dissolving the mixed polymers in
    dichloromethane to achieve a total polymer concentration of 100 mg per 1 mL.
 0          Solution 2: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 35 mg/mL in 100mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            An O/W emulsion was created by mixing Solutions 1 and 2, and then creating a
    coarse emulsion prior to a fine emulsion. Solution 1 (2 mL) was coarsely emulsified with
    Solution 2 (8 mL), using 10 passes through an 18G emulsification needle. A fine emulsion
    was made by loading the coarse emulsion into a primed and ice-water-chilled high pressure
 5  homogenizer (Microfluidics LV1) and performing three passes at 5000 psi. The fine O/W
    emulsion was added to an open 100 mL beaker containing IX PBS (60 mL) and stirred at
    room temperature for more than 2 hours to allow the dichloromethane to evaporate and the
    nanocarriers to form in suspension. A portion of the suspended nanocarriers was washed by
    transferring the nanocarrier suspension to a centrifuge tube, spinning at 75,600 rcf for 35
 .0 minutes, removing the supernatant, and re-suspending the pellet in phosphate buffered saline.
    This washing procedure was repeated and then the pellet was re-suspended in PBS IX to
    achieve a nanocarrier suspension having a nominal concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer
    basis. The nanocarrier formation process was repeated another three times at 1x or 2x the
    same scale. The four suspensions were combined and then filtered through 0.22 micron PES
25  syringe filter and then stored frozen at -20C until use.
    Materials - Lot #10
            PLGA-R848 (S-205), Poly-D/L-lactide-co-glycolide, 4-amino-2-(ethoxymethyl)-a,a
    dimethyl-1H-imidazo[4,5-c]quinoline-1-ethanol amide of approximately 7,800 Da made from
30  PLGA of 3:1 lactide to glycolide ratio and having 8.5% w/w conjugated resiquimod content
    was custom manufactured at Princeton Global Synthesis (300 George Patterson Drive #206,
    Bristol, PA 19007.). PLA with an inherent viscosity of 0.19 dL/g was purchased from
    SurModics Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code

       WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 64
    100 DL 2A). PLA-PEG-OMe block co-polymer with a methyl ether terminated PEG block
    of approximately 5,000 Da and PLA block of approximately 28,000 Da was purchased from
    SurModics Pharmaceuticals (Product Code 100 DL mPEG 5000 5CE). EMPROVE@
    Polyvinyl Alcohol 4-88, USP (85-89% hydrolyzed, viscosity of 3.4-4.6 mPa.s) was purchased
 5  from EMD Chemicals Inc. (480 South Democrat Road Gibbstown, NJ 08027). Phosphate
    buffered saline IX (PBS 1X). From Mediatech Inc. (9345 Discovery Blvd. Manassas, VA
    20109.) Product Code 21-040-CV.
    Method - Lot #10
 0           Solutions were prepared as follows:
             Solution 1: PLGA-R848 was prepared by dissolving PLGA-R848 at 100 mg per 1 mL
    of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
             Solution 2: PLA was prepared by dissolving PLA at 100 mg per 1 mL of
    dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
 5           Solution 3: PLA-PEG-OMe was prepared by dissolving PLA-PEG-OMe at 100 mg
    per 1 mL of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
             Solution 4: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
             A primary (O/W) emulsion was created by mixing Solutions 1 through 4 and creating
    a coarse emulsion prior to a fine emulsion. Solution 1 (1 mL), Solution 2 (0.5 mL), and
 .0 Solution 3 (0.5mL) were combined first and then coarsely emulsified with Solution 4 (8 mL),
    by stirring together at 350 rpm in a 50 mL beaker for two minutes and by repeat pipetting. A
    fine emulsion, was made by loading the coarse emulsion into a primed high pressure
    homogenizer (Microfluidics LV1) and performing three passes at 5000 psi. The fine O/W
    emulsion was added to an open 50 mL beaker containing IX PBS (30 mL) and stirred at
25  room temperature for more than 2 hours to allow the dichloromethane to evaporate and the
    nanocarriers to form in suspension. A portion of the suspended nanocarriers was washed by
    transferring the nanocarrier suspension to a centrifuge tube, spinning at 75,600 rcf for 35
    minutes, removing the supernatant, and re-suspending the pellet in phosphate buffered saline.
    This washing procedure was repeated and then the pellet was re-suspended in PBS IX to
30  achieve a nanocarrier suspension having a nominal concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer
    basis. Nanocarrier suspension was then filtered through a 0.22 micron PES syringe filter and
    then stored frozen at -20C until use.

       WO 2013/019669                                                       PCT/US2012/048670
                                                - 65
    Materials - Lot #11
            Ovalbumin protein, was purchased from Worthington Biochemical Corporation (730
    Vassar Avenue, Lakewood, NJ 08701). Product Code LS003054. PLGA with 75% lactide
    and 25% glycolide content and an inherent viscosity of 0.24 dL/g was purchased from
 5  SurModics Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code
    7525 DLG 2.5A). PLA with an inherent viscosity of 0.2 dL/g was purchased from
    SurModics Pharmaceuticals (Product Code 100 DL 2A). PLA-PEG-OMe block co-polymer
    with a methyl ether terminated PEG block of approximately 5,000 Da and PLA block of
    approximately 21,000 Da was synthesized. EMPROVE@ Polyvinyl Alcohol 4-88, USP (85
 0  89% hydrolyzed, viscosity of 3.4-4.6 mPa.s) was purchased from EMD Chemicals Inc. (480
    South Democrat Road Gibbstown, NJ 08027). Phosphate-buffered saline IX (PBS 1X).
    From Mediatech Inc. (9345 Discovery Blvd. Manassas, VA 20109.) Product Code 21-040
    CV.
 5  Method - Lot #11
            Solutions were prepared as follows:
            Solution 1: Ovalbumin protein @ 50 mg/mL was prepared in PBS IX at room
    temperature.
            Solution 2: PLGA, PLA, and PLA-PEG-OMe were weighed out in 2:1:1 weight ratio
 .0 and dissolved in dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood to achieve a final total polymer
    concentration of 100 mg per 1 mL.
            Solution 3: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            Solution 4: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            A primary (W1/O) emulsion was first created by mixing Solutions 1 and 2. Solution
25  1 (66 mL) and Solution 2 (264 mL) were combined and formed into a coarse emulsion using
    an overhead mixer in a 1 L beaker. The coarse emulsion was transferred to a custom-made
    temperature-controlled homogenization vessel and homogenized using a high-shear rotor
    stator. A coarse secondary (W1/O/W2) emulsion was then formed by transferring        of the
    primary emulsion into a beaker containing 330 mL of Solution 3 and mixing with an
30  overhead mixer. The coarse secondary emulsion was then returned to a custom
    homogenization vessel and homogenized to a fine emulsion using high shear. The secondary
    emulsion was then added to a purged 6L vessel containing Solution 4 (3.2 L) and shaken
    overnight at room temperature to evaporate and the nanocarriers to form in suspension.

        WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                    - 66
    Portions (30 mL each) of the suspended nanocarriers were washed by transferring the
    nanocarrier suspension to a centrifuge tube, spinning at 75,600 ref for 35 minutes, removing
    the supernatant, and re-suspending the pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing
    procedure was repeated and then the pellet was re-suspended in PBS IX to achieve the target
 5  nanocarrier concentration. The suspension was filtered and stored frozen at -20C until use.
            C57BL/6 female mice (2-3/group) were immunized once by a mix of 100 Pg NC
    OVA and 100 pg of NC-R848 containing 4.3 pg R848 and 6.2 pg of OVA (per each mouse).
    At days 4, 7, 10 and 14 after nanocarrier inoculation mice were bled and their antibody (IgG)
 0  titer against OVA determined by ELISA. Additionally, at the same time-points mice were
    injected (i.v.) by syngeneic splenocytes pulsed by a peptide representing a dominant CTL
    epitope of OVA (SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO: 1)) and differentially labeled by CSFE. The next
    day, splenocytes from immunized mice were taken and analyzed by FACS and specific
    cytotoxicity in each animal determined compared to basic cytotoxicity level in PBS-injected
 5  (naive) animals (%=100x[1-RRnaive/RRimm]).
            A single immunization with NC-OVA + NC-R848 leads to rapid induction of cellular
    and humoral immune responses with the former being detected as early as four days after
    injection and then persisting for at least ten days with a peak at day 7, and the latter being
    detected at seven days after injection and reaching a significant level at 10 days after
 .0 inoculation.
    Example 12: Synthetic Nanocarriers Delivering CpG and OVA
    Materials - Lot #12
25          PO-1826 DNA oligonucleotide with phosphodiester backbone having nucleotide
    sequence 5'-TCC ATG ACG TTC CTG ACG TT-3' (SEQ ID NO:2) with a sodium counter
    ion was purchased from Oligo Factory (120 Jeffrey Avenue, Holliston, MA 01746.) PLGA
    having 54% lactide and 46% glycolide content and an inherent viscosity of 0.24 dL/g was
    purchased from SurModics Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL
30  35211. Product Code 5050 DLG 2.5A). PLGA-PEG-OMe block co-polymer with a methyl
    ether terminated PEG block of approximately 2,000 Da and 75% lactide/25% glycolide
    PLGA block of approximately 88,000 Da was purchased from SurModics Pharmaceuticals
    (Product Code 7525 DLG PEG 2000 7E-P). EMPROVE@ Polyvinyl Alcohol 4-88, USP (85-

       WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 67
    89% hydrolyzed, viscosity of 3.4-4.6 mPa.s) was purchased from EMD Chemicals Inc. (480
    South Democrat Road Gibbstown, NJ 08027). Phosphate-buffered saline IX (PBS 1X).
    From Mediatech Inc. (9345 Discovery Blvd. Manassas, VA 20109.) Product Code 21-040
    CV.
 5
    Method - Lot #12
             Solutions were prepared as follows:
             Solution 1: PO-1826 was prepared by dissolving at 40 mg per 1 mL of an aqueous
    solution containing 250 mg Na cholate per 1 mL endotoxin-free water.
 0           Solution 2: PLGA was prepared by dissolving PLA at 100 mg per 1 mL of
    dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
             Solution 3: PLGA-PEG-OMe was prepared by dissolving PLGA-PEG-OMe at 100
    mg per 1 mL of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
             Solution 4: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
 5           Solution 5: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
             A primary (W/O) emulsion was created by mixing Solutions 1 through 3 and creating
    a coarse emulsion prior to a fine emulsion. Solution 1 (0.2 mL), Solution 2 (0.5 mL), and
    Solution 3 (0.5mL) were combined in a small glass pressure tube, coarsely emulsified by
    repeat pipetting, and sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds over an ice bath using a
 .0 Branson Digital Sonifier 250. A secondary (W1/0/W2) emulsion was then formed by adding
    Solution 4 (3.0 mL) to the primary emulsion, vortexing to create a crude dispersion, and then
    sonicating at 30% amplitude for 60 seconds over an ice bath using the Branson Digital
    Sonifier 250. The fine W1/0/W2 emulsion was added to an open 50 mL beaker containing
    70 mM phosphate buffer (30 mL) and stirred at room temperature for 2 hours to allow the
25  dichloromethane to evaporate and the nanocarriers to form in suspension. A portion of the
    suspended nanocarriers was washed by transferring the nanocarrier suspension to a centrifuge
    tube, spinning at 21,000 rcf for 90 minutes, removing the supernatant, and re-suspending the
    pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing procedure was repeated and then the pellet
    was re-suspended in PBS IX to achieve a nanocarrier suspension having a nominal
30  concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer basis. Nanocarrier suspension was then filtered
    through 0.22 micron PES syringe filters, stored refrigerated until the concentration was
    determined, and then concentration adjusted and stored frozen at -20C until use.

       WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 68
    Materials - Lot #13
            Ovalbumin protein, was purchased from Worthington Biochemical Corporation (730
    Vassar Avenue, Lakewood, NJ 08701). Product Code LS003054. PLGA with 75% lactide
    and 25% glycolide content and an inherent viscosity of 0.2 dL/g was purchased from
 5  SurModics Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code
    7525 DLG 2A). PLA-PEG-OMe block co-polymer with a methyl ether terminated PEG
    block of approximately 5,000 Da and PLA block of approximately 21,000 Da by 1H-NMR
    (Mn of 21kDa) was synthesized. EMPROVE@ Polyvinyl Alcohol 4-88, USP (85-89%
    hydrolyzed, viscosity of 3.4-4.6 mPa.s) was purchased from EMD Chemicals Inc. (480 South
 0  Democrat Road Gibbstown, NJ 08027). Phosphate-buffered saline IX (PBS 1X). From
    Mediatech Inc. (9345 Discovery Blvd. Manassas, VA 20109.) Product Code 21-040-CV.
    Method - Lot #13
            Solutions were prepared as follows:
 5          Solution 1: Ovalbumin protein @ 50 mg/mL was prepared in PBS IX at room
    temperature.
            Solution 2: PLGA was prepared by dissolving PLGA at 100 mg per 1 mL of
    dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
            Solution 3: PLA-PEG-OMe was prepared by dissolving PLA-PEG-OMe at 100 mg
 .0 per 1 mL of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
            Solution 4: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            Solution 5: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            A primary (W1/O) emulsion was first created by mixing Solutions 1 through 3.
    Solution 1 (0.2 mL), Solution 2 (0.75 mL), and Solution 3 (0.25mL) were combined in a
25  small glass pressure tube and sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds over an ice bath
    using a Branson Digital Sonifier 250. A secondary (W1/O/W2) emulsion was then formed
    by adding Solution 4 (3.0 mL) to the primary emulsion, vortexing to create a crude
    dispersion, and then sonicating at 30% amplitude for 60 seconds over an ice bath using the
    Branson Digital Sonifier 250. The secondary emulsion was added to an open 50 mL beaker
30  containing Solution 5 (30 mL) and stirred at room temperature for 2 hours to allow the
    dichloromethane to evaporate and the nanocarriers to form in suspension. A portion of the
    suspended nanocarriers was washed by transferring the nanocarrier suspension to a centrifuge
    tube, spinning at 21,000 rcf for 130 minutes, removing the supernatant, and re-suspending the

       WO 2013/019669                                                      PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 69
    pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing procedure was repeated and then the pellet
    was re-suspended in PBS IX to achieve a nanocarrier suspension having a nominal
    concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer basis. The suspension was stored frozen at -20C
    until use.
 5
    Materials - Lot #14
             Ovalbumin protein, was purchased from Worthington Biochemical Corporation (730
    Vassar Avenue, Lakewood, NJ 08701. Product Code LS003054). PLGA with 76% lactide
    and 24% glycolide content and an inherent viscosity of 0.69 dL/g was purchased from
 0  SurModics Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL 35211. Product Code
    7525 DLG 7A). PLA with an inherent viscosity of 0.22 dL/g was purchased from SurModics
    Pharmaceuticals (Product Code 100 DL 2A). PLA-PEG-OMe block co-polymer with a
    methyl ether terminated PEG block of approximately 5,000 Da and PLA block of
    approximately 21,000 Da was synthesized. EMPROVE@ Polyvinyl Alcohol 4-88, USP (85
 5  89% hydrolyzed, viscosity of 3.4-4.6 mPa.s) was purchased from EMD Chemicals Inc. (480
    South Democrat Road Gibbstown, NJ 08027). Phosphate-buffered saline IX (PBS IX) was
    purchased from Mediatech Inc. (9345 Discovery Blvd. Manassas, VA 20109.) Product Code
    21-040-CV.
 .0 Method - Lot #14
             Solutions were prepared as follows:
             Solution 1: Ovalbumin protein @ 50 mg/mL was prepared in PBS IX at room
    temperature.
             Solution 2: PLGA was prepared by dissolving PLGA at 100 mg per 1 mL of
25  dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
             Solution 3: PLA was prepared by dissolving PLGA at 100 mg per 1 mL of
    dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
             Solution 4: PLA-PEG-OMe was prepared by dissolving PLA-PEG-OMe at 100 mg
    per 1 mL of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
30           Solution 5: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
             Solution 6: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
             A primary (W1/O) emulsion was first created by mixing Solutions 1 through 4.
    Solution 1 (0.2 mL), Solution 2 (0.5 mL), Solution 3 (0.25mL) and Solution 4 (0.25mL) were

       WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 70
    combined in a small glass pressure tube and sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds over
    an ice bath using a Branson Digital Sonifier 250. A secondary (W1/0/W2) emulsion was
    then formed by adding Solution 5 (3.0 mL) to the primary emulsion, vortexing to create a
    crude dispersion, and then sonicating at 30% amplitude for 60 seconds over an ice bath using
 5  the Branson Digital Sonifier 250. The secondary emulsion was added to an open 50 mL
    beaker containing Solution 6 (30 mL) and stirred at room temperature for 2 hours to allow the
    dichloromethane to evaporate and the nanocarriers to form in suspension. A portion of the
    suspended nanocarriers was washed by transferring the nanocarrier suspension to a centrifuge
    tube, spinning at 25,600 rcf for 45 minutes, removing the supernatant, and re-suspending the
 0  pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing procedure was repeated and then the pellet
    was re-suspended in PBS IX to achieve a nanocarrier suspension having a nominal
    concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer basis. The suspension was stored frozen at -20C
    until use.
 5  Materials - Lot #15
             PO-1826 DNA oligonucleotide with phosphodiester backbone having nucleotide
    sequence 5'-TCC ATG ACG TTC CTG ACG TT-3' (SEQ ID NO:2) with a sodium counter
    ion was purchased from Oligo Factory (120 Jeffrey Avenue, Holliston, MA 01746.) PLGA
    having 54% lactide and 46% glycolide content and an inherent viscosity of 0.24 dL/g was
 .0 purchased from SurModics Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL
    35211. Product Code 5050 DLG 2.5A). PLA-PEG-OMe block co-polymer with a methyl
    ether terminated PEG block of approximately 5,000 Da and PLA block of approximately
    21,000 Da was synthesized. EMPROVE@ Polyvinyl Alcohol 4-88, USP (85-89%
    hydrolyzed, viscosity of 3.4-4.6 mPa.s) was purchased from EMD Chemicals Inc. (480 South
25  Democrat Road Gibbstown, NJ 08027). Na cholate was purchased from Sigma Aldrich LLC.
    (3050 Spruce St. St. Louis, MO 6310. Product Code C6445-100G.) Phosphate-buffered
    saline IX (PBS IX) was purchased from Mediatech Inc. (9345 Discovery Blvd. Manassas,
    VA 20109. Product Code 21-040-CV.)
30  Method - Lot #15
             Solutions were prepared as follows:
             Solution 1: PO-1826 was prepared by dissolving at 40 mg per 1 mL of an aqueous
    solution containing 150 mg KCl per 1 mL of endotoxin-free water.

       WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 -71
            Solution 2: Na Cholate was prepared by dissolving dry powder at 200 mg per 1 mL
    IX PBS at room temperature.
            Solution 3: PLGA was prepared by dissolving PLGA at 100 mg per 1 mL of
    dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
 5          Solution 4: PLGA-PEG-OMe was prepared by dissolving PLGA-PEG-OMe at 100
    mg per 1 mL of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
            Solution 5: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 50 mg/mL in 100mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            Solution 6: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            A primary (W/O) emulsion was created by mixing Solutions 1 through 4 and creating
 0  a coarse emulsion prior to a fine emulsion. Solution 1 (0.25 mL), Solution 2 (0.25 mL),
    Solution 3 (0.5 mL), and Solution 4 (0.5mL) were combined in a small glass pressure tube,
    coarsely emulsified by repeat pipetting, and sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds over
    an ice bath using a Branson Digital Sonifier 250. A secondary (W1/O/W2) emulsion was then
    formed by adding Solution 5 (3.0 mL) to the primary emulsion, vortexing to create a coarse
 5  dispersion, and then sonicating at 30% amplitude for 60 seconds over an ice bath using the
    Branson Digital Sonifier 250. The fine W1/O/W2 emulsion was added to an open 50 mL
    beaker containing 70 mM phosphate buffer (30 mL) and stirred at room temperature for 2
    hours to allow the dichloromethane to evaporate and the nanocarriers to form in suspension.
    A portion of the suspended nanocarriers was washed by transferring the nanocarrier
 .0 suspension to a centrifuge tube, spinning at 21,000 rcf for 90 minutes, removing the
    supernatant, and re-suspending the pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing
    procedure was repeated and then the pellet was re-suspended in PBS IX to achieve a
    nanocarrier suspension having a nominal concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer basis.
    Nanocarrier suspension was then stored refrigerated until the concentration was determined,
25  and then concentration adjusted and stored frozen at -20C until use.
    Materials - Lot #16
            PO-1826 DNA oligonucleotide with phosphodiester backbone having nucleotide
    sequence 5'-TCC ATG ACG TTC CTG ACG TT-3' (SEQ ID NO:2) with a sodium counter
30  ion was purchased from Oligo Factory (120 Jeffrey Avenue, Holliston, MA 01746.) PLGA
    having 54% lactide and 46% glycolide content and an inherent viscosity of 0.24 dL/g was
    purchased from SurModics Pharmaceuticals (756 Tom Martin Drive, Birmingham, AL
    35211. Product Code 5050 DLG 2.5A). PLA-PEG-OMe block co-polymer with a methyl

       WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 72
    ether terminated PEG block of approximately 5,000 Da and PLA block of approximately
    21,000 Da was synthesized. EMPROVE@ Polyvinyl Alcohol 4-88, USP (85-89%
    hydrolyzed, viscosity of 3.4-4.6 mPa.s) was purchased from EMD Chemicals Inc. (480 South
    Democrat Road Gibbstown, NJ 08027). Phosphate-buffered saline IX (PBS IX) was
 5  purchased from Mediatech Inc. (9345 Discovery Blvd. Manassas, VA 20109. Product Code
    21-040-CV.)
    Method - Lot #16
            Solutions were prepared as follows:
 0          Solution 1: PO-1826 was prepared by dissolving at 40 mg per 1 mL of an aqueous
    solution containing 150 mg KCl per 1 mL of endotoxin-free water.
            Solution 2: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 100 mg/mL in 100mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            Solution 3: PLGA was prepared by dissolving PLGA at 100 mg per 1 mL of
    dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
 5          Solution 4: PLGA-PEG-OMe was prepared by dissolving PLGA-PEG-OMe at 100
    mg per 1 mL of dichloromethane in the chemical fume hood.
            Solution 5: Polyvinyl alcohol @ 100 mg/mL in 100mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            Solution 6: 70 mM phosphate buffer, pH 8.
            A primary (W/O) emulsion was created by mixing Solutions 1 through 4 and creating
 .0 a coarse emulsion prior to a fine emulsion. Solution 1 (0.25 mL), Solution 2 (0.25 mL),
    Solution 3 (0.5 mL), and Solution 4 (0.5mL) were combined in a small glass pressure tube,
    coarsely emulsified by repeat pipetting, and sonicated at 50% amplitude for 40 seconds over
    an ice bath using a Branson Digital Sonifier 250. A secondary (W1/0/W2) emulsion was then
    formed by adding Solution 5 (3.0 mL) to the primary emulsion, vortexing to create a coarse
25  dispersion, and then sonicating at 30% amplitude for 60 seconds over an ice bath using the
    Branson Digital Sonifier 250. The fine W1/0/W2 emulsion was added to an open 50 mL
    beaker containing 70 mM phosphate buffer (30 mL) and stirred at room temperature for 2
    hours to allow the dichloromethane to evaporate and the nanocarriers to form in suspension.
    A portion of the suspended nanocarriers was washed by transferring the nanocarrier
30  suspension to a centrifuge tube, spinning at 21,000 rcf for 90 minutes, removing the
    supernatant, and re-suspending the pellet in phosphate buffered saline. This washing
    procedure was repeated and then the pellet was re-suspended in PBS IX to achieve a
    nanocarrier suspension having a nominal concentration of 10 mg/mL on a polymer basis.

        WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 73
    Nanocarrier suspension was then stored refrigerated until the concentration was determined,
    and then concentration adjusted and stored frozen at -20C until use.
            Synthetic nanocarriers delivering CpG and OVA were superior in rapid antibody
 5  induction capacity than free high-dose CpG and OVA (both free CpG and free OVA used in
    5x higher dose) and as successful or superior in induction of local and systemic antigen
    specific CTLs as the same high dose of free CpG and free OVA.
            Groups of three animals (C57BL/6 mice, females) were immunized (prime-boost,
    days 0 and 10; hind limb, s.c.) by three combinations of nanocarrier-incorporated CpG (ODN
 0  1826) and OVA in parallel with immunization with 5-fold excess of free CpG and OVA.
    Three different formulations of NC-CpG were used with the same formulation of NC-OVA
    (see Table 13 for details). At 4 days after the second immunization animals were sacrificed
    and their serum, draining (popliteal) lymph nodes (LNs) and spleens were taken. Sera from
    immunized mice were used to determine antibody titer against ovalbumin, which was
 5  measured in standard ELISA with serial dilutions of test sera. Biotinylated goat anti-mouse Ig
    was used as a detection antibody (BD Biosciences, San Diego, CA). EC50 was determined
    based on titration curves. All NC-CpG formulations combined with NC-OVA induced more
    than 30-fold higher early antibody response against OVA than 5-fold higher doses of free
    CpG and OVA.
 .0         In parallel, the induction of OVA-specific CTLs was assessed ex vivo (without in
    vitro expansion) in draining LNs (locally) or spleens (systemically) via FACS analysis.
    Briefly, both tissues were treated with collagenase, homogenized, washed, cells counted
    using Trypan exclusion (Countess, Invitrogen, CA, USA) and labeled with antibodies or
    MHC class I-restricted pentamers coupled with fluorescent dyes capable of recognizing
25  surface CD8 (T cell marker), CD19 (B cell marker) and T cell receptor (TCR) specific to
    MHC Class-I-restricted immunodominant OVA-derived peptide SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO: 1).
    Then differential cell populations were analyzed by FACS with those cells exhibiting CD8
    expression (CD8*), no CD19 expression (CD 19-) and bound to MHC Class I-complexed
    SIINFEKL (SEQ ID NO: 1) (SIINFEKL* (SEQ ID NO: 1)) considered representing a major
30  species of OVA-specific CTLs. At least one of NC-CpG formulations used has equal or
    higher capacity to produce short-term CTLs locally and systemically when coupled with NC
    OVA than 5-fold higher amounts of free CpG and OVA. Of note, different NC-CpG

      WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                - 74
  formulations have been especially beneficial for induction either of local or of systemic CTL
  response against nanocarrier-incorporated ovalbumin antigen.
           Furthermore, purified splenocytes from immunized animals were also expanded in
  vitro (100 u/mL IL-2) by being stimulated with mitomycin-treated EG.7-OVA cells
5 (syngeneic cells stably transfected with ovalbumin), which should result in preferential
  expansion of OVA-specific CD8' cells. At 11 days of in vitro incubation expanded cultures
  were labeled as described above and analyzed by FACS. All NC-CpG formulations tested
  resulted in induction of Ag-specific CTLs with a higher expansion potential than those
  induced by 5x doses of free CpG and OVA. Of note, one CpG formulation (NC-CpG) had
0 especially strong potential for CTL expansion and another (NC-CpG) has exceeded systemic
  CTL induction levels by free high-dose CpG and OVA both when analyzed ex vivo and upon
  in vitro expansion.
           Table 13. Experimental layout for testing of humoral and cellular immune response
5 induced by nanocarrier-incorporated CpG and OVA vs. free CpG and OVA.
      Gr. #     Immunized w.               NC Lot        CpG (pg)    OVA (pg)       Regimen
      1         NC-OVA + NC-CpG            #12/#13       4.0         10             0/10 d
                (1)
      2         NC-OVA + NC-CpG             #14/#15      4.0         10             Same
                (2)
      3         NC-OVA + NC-CpG             #14/#16      4.0         10             Same
                (3)
      4         OVA + CpG (free)           N/A           20          50             Same

      WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 75
   What is claimed is:
                                                CLAIMS
 5 1.      A method comprising:
           identifying a subject in need of a humoral and cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) immune
   response to a first protein, and
           administering to the subject a composition comprising a population of synthetic
   nanocarriers coupled to the first protein;
 0         wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one MHC
   Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of synthetic
   nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the mean of a
   particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population of
   synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm.
 5
   2.      A method comprising:
           administering to the subject a composition comprising a population of synthetic
   nanocarriers coupled to a first protein;
           wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one MHC
 0 Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of synthetic
   nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, wherein the mean of a particle
   size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population of synthetic
   nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, and wherein the
   composition is administered according to a vaccination regimen.
25
   3.      A method comprising:
           administering to the subject a composition comprising a population of synthetic
   nanocarriers coupled to a first protein;
           wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one MHC
30 Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of synthetic
   nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, wherein the mean of a particle
   size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population of synthetic
   nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, and wherein the

        WO 2013/019669                                                        PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 76
    composition is administered according to a protocol that was previously shown to result in a
    humoral and CTL immune response specific to the first protein in one or more test subjects.
    4.       The method of claim 2 or 3, wherein the method further comprises identifying a
 5  subject in need of a humoral and cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) immune response to the first
    protein.
    5.       The method of claim 1 or 3, wherein the composition is administered according to a
    vaccination regimen.
 0
    6.       The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the composition is administered according to a
    protocol that was previously shown to result in a humoral and CTL immune response
    specific to the first protein in one or more test subjects.
 5  7.       The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein the composition is administered in an
    amount effective to generate a humoral and CTL immune response to the first protein.
    8.       The method of any of claims 1-7, wherein the composition further comprises one or
    more adjuvants.
 .0
    9.       The method of any of claims 1-7, wherein the method further comprises administering
    one or more adjuvants.
    10.      The method of claims 8 or 9, wherein the one or more adjuvants comprise stimulators
25  or agonists of pattern recognition receptors, mineral salts, alum, alum combined with
    monphosphoryl lipid A of Enterobacteria (MPL), MPL@ (AS04), AS 15, saponins, QS
    21,Quil-A, ISCOMs, ISCOMATRIX TM , MF59TM , Montanide@ ISA 51, Montanide@ ISA
    720, ASO2, liposomes and liposomal formulations, ASO1, synthesized or specifically
    prepared microparticles and microcarriers, bacteria-derived outer membrane vesicles of N.
30  gonorrheae or Chlamydia trachomatis, chitosan particles, depot-forming agents, Pluronic@
    block co-polymers, specifically modified or prepared peptides, muramyl dipeptide,
    aminoalkyl glucosaminide 4-phosphates, RC529, bacterial toxoids, toxin fragments, agonists
    of Toll-Like Receptors 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and/or combinations thereof; adenine derivatives;

        WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 77
    immunostimulatory DNA; immunostimulatory RNA; imidazoquinoline amines,
    imidazopyridine amines, 6,7-fused cycloalkylimidazopyridine amines, 1,2-bridged
    imidazoquinoline amines; imiquimod; resiquimod; agonist for DC surface molecule CD40;
    type I interferons; poly I:C; bacterial lipopolysacccharide (LPS); VSV-G; HMGB-1; flagellin
 5  or portions or derivatives thereof; immunostimulatory DNA molecules comprising CpGs;
    proinflammatory stimuli released from necrotic cells; urate crystals; activated components of
    the complement cascade; activated components of immune complexes; complement receptor
    agonists; cytokines; or cytokine receptor agonists.
 0  11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more adjuvants comprise an agonist of
    Toll-Like Receptor 2, 3, 4, 7, 8 or 9.
    12.     The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more adjuvants comprise an
    imidazoquinoline or oxoadenine.
 5
    13.     The method of claim 12, wherein the imidazoquinoline comprises resiquimod or
    imiquimod.
    14.     The method of any of claims 8-13, wherein the one or more adjuvants are coupled to
 .0 the synthetic nanocarriers of the population of synthetic nanocarriers.
    15.     The method of any of claims 8-13, wherein the composition further comprises or the
    method further comprises administering another population of synthetic nanocarriers, and
    wherein the one or more adjuvants are coupled to the synthetic nanocarriers of the other
25  population of synthetic nanocarriers.
    16.     The method of any of claims 8-13, wherein the one or more adjuvants are not coupled
    to a synthetic nanocarrier.
30  17.     The method of any of claims 1-16, wherein the composition further comprises one or
    more additional antigens.

       WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                - 78
   18.      The method of any of claims 1-16, wherein the method further comprises
   administering one or more additional antigens.
   19.      The method of claim 17 or 18, wherein the one or more additional antigens comprise
 5 a second protein.
   20.      The method of any of claims 17-19, wherein the one or more additional antigens
   comprise a humoral epitope and/or a MHC Class I-restricted epitope.
 0 21.      The method of claim 20, wherein the one or more additional antigens comprise a
   humoral epitope and a MHC Class I-restricted epitope.
   22.      The method of claim 20 or 21, wherein the one or more additional antigens comprise
   at least one humoral epitope and at least one MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the
 5 same epitope.
   23.      The method of any of claims 17-22, wherein the one or more additional antigens are
   coupled to the synthetic nanocarriers.
 0 24.      The method of any of claims 17-22, wherein the composition further comprises or the
   method further comprises administering another population of synthetic nanocarriers, and
   wherein the one or more additional antigens are coupled to the synthetic nanocarriers of the
   other population of synthetic nanocarriers.
25 25.      The method of any of claims 17-22, wherein the one or more additional antigens are
   not coupled to a synthetic nanocarrier.
   26.      The method of any of claims 1-25, wherein the synthetic nanocarriers and/or other
   synthetic nanocarriers comprise a polymeric nanoparticle, a metallic nanoparticle, a
30 dendrimer, a buckyball, a nanowire, a virus-like particle or a peptide or protein particle.
   27.      The method of any of claims 1-26, wherein the synthetic nanocarriers and/or other
   synthetic nanocarriers comprise one or more polymers.

       WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 79
   28.     The method of claim 27, wherein the one or more polymers comprise a polyester,
   polyamino acid, polycarbonate, polyacetal, polyketal, polysaccharide, polyethyloxazoline or
   polyethyleneimine.
 5
   29.     The method of claim 27 or 28, wherein the one or more polymers comprise a
   polyester.
   30.     The method of claim 29, wherein the polyester comprises a poly(lactic acid),
 0 poly(glycolic acid), poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) or polycaprolactone.
   31.     The method of claim 29 or 30, wherein the polyester is coupled to a polyether.
   32.     The method of claim 31, where in the polyether comprises polyethylene glycol.
 5
   33.     The method of any of claims 1-32, wherein the first protein and/or one or more
   additional antigens are antigens associated with cancer, an infection or infectious disease, a
   non-autoimmune or degenerative disease, HIV, malaria, leischmania, human filovirus,
   togavirus, alphavirus, arenavirus, bunyavirus, flavivirus, human papillomavirus, human
 0 influenza A virus, hepatitis B or hepatitis C.
   34.     The method of any of claims 1-33, wherein the subject has or is at risk of having
   cancer, an infection or infectious disease or a non-autoimmune or degenerative disease.
25 35.     The method of claim 34, wherein the subject has or is at risk of having HIV, malaria,
   leischmaniasis, a human filovirus infection, a togavirus infection, a alphavirus infection, an
   arenavirus infection, a bunyavirus infection, a flavivirus infection, a human papillomavirus
   infection, a human influenza A virus infection, a hepatitis B infection or a hepatitis C
   infection.
30
   36.     The method of any of claims 1-35, wherein the humoral and CTL immune responses
   that are generated are clinically effective.

       WO 2013/019669                                                           PCT/US2012/048670
                                                  - 80
   37.     The method of claim 36, wherein the humoral and CTL immune responses are
   effective to treat or prevent cancer, an infection or infectious disease or a non-autoimmune or
   degenerative disease in the subject.
 5 38.     The method of claim 37, wherein the humoral and CTL immune responses are
   effective to treat or prevent HIV, malaria, leischmaniasis, a human filovirus infection, a
   togavirus infection, a alphavirus infection, an arenavirus infection, a bunyavirus infection, a
   flavivirus infection, a human papillomavirus infection, a human influenza A virus infection, a
   hepatitis B infection or a hepatitis C infection.
 0
   39.     The method of any of claims 1-38, wherein the composition further comprises a
   pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.
   40.     The method of any of claims 1-39, wherein the composition is sterile.
 5
   41.     The method of any of claims 1-40, wherein the composition is reconstituted from
   lyophilized form.
   42.     The method of any of claims 1-41, wherein the composition is a dosage form.
 0
   43.     The method of any of claims 1-42, wherein the composition is a vaccine.
   44.     The method of any of claims 1-43, wherein the composition is administered by
   intravenous, oral, subcutaneous, pulmonary, intranasal, intradermal, transmucosal,
25 intramucosal or intramuscular administration.
   45.     A composition comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers coupled to a first
   protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one
   MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of
30 synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the
   mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population
   of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for use in
   therapy or prophylaxis.

       WO 2013/019669                                                         PCT/US2012/048670
                                                 - 81
   46.     A composition comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers coupled to a first
   protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one
   MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of
 5 synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the
   mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population
   of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for use in a
   method as defined in any one of claims 1-44.
 0 47.     A composition comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers coupled to a first
   protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one
   MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of
   synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the
   mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population
 5 of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for use in
   vaccination.
   48.     A composition comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers coupled to a first
   protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one
 0 MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of
   synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the
   mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population
   of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for use in
   generating a humoral and CTL immune response to the first protein in a subject.
25
   49.     A composition comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers coupled to a first
   protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one
   MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of
   synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the
30 mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population
   of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for use in a
   method of therapy or prophylaxis of cancer, an infection or infectious disease, a non
   autoimmune or degenerative disease, HIV, malaria, leischmaniasis, a human filovirus

       WO 2013/019669                                                          PCT/US2012/048670
                                                   - 82
   infection, a togavirus infection, a alphavirus infection, an arenavirus infection, a bunyavirus
   infection, a flavivirus infection, a human papillomavirus infection, a human influenza A virus
   infection, a hepatitis B infection or a hepatitis C infection.
 5 50.      A composition comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers coupled to a first
   protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one
   MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of
   synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the
   mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population
 0 of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for use in a
   method of therapy or prophylaxis comprising administration by intravenous, oral,
   subcutaneous, pulmonary, intranasal, intradermal, intramucosal, transmucosal or
   intramuscular administration.
 5 51.      Use of a composition comprising a population of synthetic nanocarriers coupled to a
   first protein, wherein the first protein comprises at least one humoral epitope and at least one
   MHC Class I-restricted epitope that are not the same epitope, wherein the population of
   synthetic nanocarriers does not comprise a saponin-cholesterol adjuvant, and wherein the
   mean of a particle size distribution obtained using dynamic light scattering of the population
 0 of synthetic nanocarriers is a maximum dimension of from 20 nm to 250 nm, for the
   manufacture of a medicament, for example a vaccine, for use in a method as defined in any
   one of claims 1-44.
   52.      A composition for use as defined in any one of claims 45-50 or use of claim 51
25 wherein the composition is as defined in any one of claims 1-44.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                            S168170029WO00<U+2701>SEQLIST<U+2701>JAV
<removed-date>
                                          SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   Selecta Biosciences, Inc.
                      Altreuter, David
                      O'Neil, Conlin
                      Ilyinskii, Petr
              <120>   Synthetic Nanocarriers that Generate Humoral and Cytotoxic T
                      Lymphocyte (CTL) Immune Responses
<removed-apn>
              <130>   S1681.70029
              <140>
              <141>   2012<U+2701>07<U+2701>27
              <150>   61/513,496
              <151>   2011<U+2701>07<U+2701>29
              <150>   61/513,526
              <151>   2011<U+2701>07<U+2701>29
              <150>   61/513,527
              <151>   2011<U+2701>07<U+2701>29
              <160>   2
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   8
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic Peptide
              <400>   1
              Ser Ile Ile Asn Phe Glu Lys Leu
              1               5
              <210>   2
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Artificial Sequence
              <220>
              <223>   Synthetic Peptide
              <400>   2
                                                     Page 1

                                         S168170029WO00<U+2701>SEQLIST<U+2701>JAV
<removed-date>
              Thr Cys Cys Ala Thr Gly Ala Cys Gly Thr Thr Cys Cys Thr Gly Ala
              1               5                   10                  15
              Cys Gly Thr Thr
                          20
<removed-apn>
                                                  Page 2

