                                           ABSTRACT
Embodiments describe a wireless charging device that includes: a housing having an outer
perimeter and one or more walls defining an interior cavity; a charging surface within the
outer perimeter of the housing; a transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior
cavity below the planar charging surface, the transmitter coil arrangement comprising a
plurality of transmitter coils arranged in different layers, each transmitter coil having a pair of
termination ends; wherein the plurality of transmitter coils comprises a plurality of inner
transmitter coils and a plurality of outer transmitter coils positioned around the inner
transmitter coils; and wherein the pair of termination ends of the plurality of outer transmitter
coils are arranged differently than the pair of termination ends of the plurality of inner
transmitter coils.

           WIRELESS CHARGING MATS WITH MULTI-LAYER
                   TRANSMITTER COIL ARRANGEMENTS
                  CROSS REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]   This application claims priority to U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application No.
15/699,965, filed on September 8, 2017, U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application No.
15/699,978, filed on September 8, 2017, U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application No.
15/699,986, filed on September 8, 2017, U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application No.
15/699,995, filed on September 8, 2017, U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application No.
15/700,001, filed on September 8, 2017, U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application No.
15/700,009, filed on September 8, 2017, U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application No.
15/700,016, filed on September 8, 2017, U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application No.
15/700,025, filed on September 8, 2017, U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application No.
15/700,034, filed on September 8, 2017, and U.S. Non-Provisional Patent Application No.
15/700,038, filed on September 8, 2017, which claim the benefits of the priorities in U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 62/399,243, filed on September 23, 2016, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 62/399,245, filed on September 23, 2016, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 62/399,248, filed on September 23, 2016, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 62/399,255, filed on September 23, 2016, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 62/399,259, filed on September 23, 2016, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 62/399,263, filed on September 23, 2016, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 62/399,269; filed on September 23, 2016, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 62/399,273, filed on September 23, 2016, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 62/399,276; filed on September 23, 2017, and U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 62/526,905; filed on June 29, 2017, the disclosures of
which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.
[0001A]        Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2017/050966
(published as WO 2018/057328), filed on 11 September 2017.
                                               1

                                         BACKGROUND
[0002]     Electronic devices (e.g., mobile phones, media players, electronic watches, and the
like) operate when there is charge stored in their batteries. Some electronic devices include a
rechargeable battery that can be recharged by coupling the electronic device to a power
source through a physical connection, such as through a charging cord. Using a charging
cord to charge a battery in an electronic device, however, requires the electronic device to be
physically tethered to a power outlet. Additionally, using a charging cord requires the mobile
device to have a connector, typically a receptacle connector, configured to mate with a
connector, typically a plug connector, of the charging cord. The receptacle connector
typically includes a cavity in the electronic device that provides an avenue within which dust
and moisture can intrude and damage the device. Furthermore, a user of the electronic device
has to physically connect the charging cable to the receptacle connector in order to charge the
battery.
[0003]     To avoid such shortcomings, wireless charging devices have been developed to
wirelessly charge electronic devices without the need for a charging cord. For example, some
electronic devices can be recharged by merely resting the device on a charging surface of a
wireless charging device. A transmitter coil disposed below the charging surface may
produce a time-varying magnetic field that induces a current in a corresponding receiving coil
in the electronic device. The induced current can be used by the electronic device to charge
its internal battery.
[0004]     Some existing wireless charging devices have a number of disadvantages. For
instance, some wireless charging devices require an electronic device to be placed in a very
confined charging region on the charging surface in order for the electronic device being
charged to receive power. If an electronic device is placed outside of the charging region, the
electronic device may not wirelessly charge or may charge inefficiently and waste power.
This limits the ease at which an electronic device can be charged by the wireless charging
device.
                                           SUMMARY
[0005]     Some embodiments of the disclosure provide a wireless charging device that
includes a charging surface having a broad charging region upon which an electronic device
can be placed to wirelessly receive power. In some embodiments the wireless charging
device can be a wireless charging mat that includes an arrangement of wireless power
                                                 2

transmitters beneath the charging surface defining a charging region. The wireless charging
mat allows the electronic device to be charged at any location within the charging region,
thereby increasing the ease at which electronic devices can be charged by the mat.
[0006]     In some embodiments a wireless charging device includes a housing having a
charging surface and first and second walls defining an interior cavity and an opening, and a
transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior cavity and configured to generate a
time-varying magnetic flux and an electric field during wireless power transfer, the
transmitter coil arrangement includes a plurality of transmitter coils that includes a first set of
transmitter coils disposed in a first plane, a second set of transmitter coils disposed in a
second plane, and a third set of transmitter coils disposed in a third plane between the first
and second planes, where each of the plurality of transmitter coils has a central axis
positioned a lateral distance away from the central axes of all other transmitter coils of the
plurality of transmitter coils. The wireless charging mat also includes an electromagnetic
shield positioned between the transmitter coil arrangement and the first wall, the
electromagnetic shield is configured to capture electric field generated from the transmitter
coil arrangement and to allow the magnetic flux to pass through, an interconnection structure
positioned within the interior cavity between the transmitter coil arrangement and the second
wall, the interconnection structure including a plurality of packaged electrical components
mounted on the interconnection structure for driving the transmitter coil arrangement; and a
ferromagnetic shield positioned within the interior cavity between the transmitter coil
arrangement and the interconnection structure, the ferromagnetic shield is configured to
redirect the magnetic flux away from the interconnection structure.
[0007]     In some additional embodiments, a wireless charging device includes a housing
having a planar charging surface and first and second shells defining an interior cavity and an
opening, a receptacle connector positioned at the opening of the housing, the receptacle
connector including a plurality of contact pins and a plurality of terminals electrically
coupled to the plurality of contact pins, and a transmitter coil arrangement disposed within
the interior cavity and configured to generate a time-varying magnetic flux and an electric
field during wireless power transfer, the transmitter coil arrangement including a plurality of
transmitter coils includes a first set of transmitter coils disposed in a first plane, a second set
of transmitter coils disposed in a second plane, and a third set of transmitter coils disposed in
a third plane between the first and second planes, wherein each of the plurality of transmitter
coils has a central axis positioned a lateral distance away from the central axes of all other
                                                  3

transmitter coils of the plurality of transmitter coils. The wireless charging device also
includes an electromagnetic shield positioned between the transmitter coil arrangement and
the first shell, the electromagnetic shield configured to capture electric field generated from
the transmitter coil arrangement, and to allow the magnetic flux to pass through, where the
electromagnetic shield includes an electromagnetic body configured to capture
electromagnetic fields generated by the transmitter coil arrangement; and a copper border
surrounding the electromagnetic body. The wireless charging device can further include an
interconnection structure positioned within the interior cavity between the transmitter coil
arrangement and the second shell, the interconnection structure including a plurality of
packaged electrical components mounted on the interconnection structure for driving the
transmitter coil arrangement, and a ferromagnetic shield positioned within the interior cavity
between the transmitter coil arrangement and the interconnection structure, the ferromagnetic
shield is configured to redirect the magnetic flux away from the interconnection structure.
[0008]     In some further embodiments, a wireless charging system includes an electronic
device comprising a receiver coil configured to generate a current to charge a battery when
exposed to a time-varying magnetic flux, and a wireless charging mat configured to generate
the time-varying magnetic flux to wirelessly charge the electronic device. The wireless
charging mat includes a housing having a charging surface and first and second walls
defining an interior cavity and an opening, and a transmitter coil arrangement disposed within
the interior cavity and configured to generate a time-varying magnetic flux and an electric
field during wireless power transfer, the transmitter coil arrangement including a plurality of
transmitter coils including a first set of transmitter coils disposed in a first plane, a second set
of transmitter coils disposed in a second plane, and a third set of transmitter coils disposed in
a third plane between the first and second planes, wherein each of the plurality of transmitter
coils has a central axis positioned a lateral distance away from the central axes of all other
transmitter coils of the plurality of transmitter coils. The wireless charging mat also includes
an electromagnetic shield positioned between the transmitter coil arrangement and the first
wall, the electromagnetic shield configured to capture electric field generated from the
transmitter coil arrangement, and to allow the magnetic flux to pass through, an
interconnection structure positioned within the interior cavity between the transmitter coil
arrangement and the second wall, the interconnection structure including a plurality of
packaged electrical components mounted on the interconnection structure for driving the
transmitter coil arrangement, and a ferromagnetic shield positioned within the interior cavity
                                                  4

between the transmitter coil arrangement and the interconnection structure , the ferromagnetic
shield is configured to redirect the magnetic flux away from the interconnection structure.
[0009]     In some embodiments a wireless charging device includes: a housing having an
outer perimeter and a charging surface within the outer perimeter, the housing including a
first wall and a second wall that define an interior cavity; and a transmitter coil arrangement
disposed within the interior cavity and below the planar charging surface. The transmitter
coil arrangement includes: a plurality of transmitter coils arranged in different layers, each
transmitter coil having a first termination end, a second termination end, and a coil of wire
that winds from an inner diameter to an outer diameter between the first and second
termination ends; where the first termination end of each transmitter coil is disposed within
the inner diameter of its respective coil of wire and the second termination end of each
transmitter coil is disposed outside the outer diameter of its respective coil of wire.
[0010]     In some additional embodiments, a wireless charging device includes: a housing
having an outer perimeter and a planar charging surface within the outer perimeter of the
wireless charging device, the housing including first and second shells defining an interior
cavity; and a transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior cavity and below the
planar charging surface. The transmitter coil arrangement includes: a plurality of transmitter
coils arranged in different layers, each transmitter coil having a first region and a second
region having more turns than the first region; where the plurality of transmitter coils
comprises a plurality of inner transmitter coils and a plurality of outer transmitter coils
positioned around the inner transmitter coils; and where the first regions of the outer
transmitter coils are oriented toward the outer perimeter of the wireless charging device.
[0011]     In some further embodiments, a wireless charging system includes: an electronic
device comprising a receiver coil configured to generate a current to charge a battery when
exposed to a time-varying magnetic flux; and a wireless charging mat configured to generate
the time-varying magnetic flux to wirelessly charge the electronic device. The wireless
charging mat includes: a housing having an outer perimeter and a charging surface within the
outer perimeter, the housing including a first wall and a second wall that define an interior
cavity; and a transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior cavity and below the
planar charging surface. The transmitter coil arrangement includes: a plurality of transmitter
coils arranged in different layers, each transmitter coil having a first termination end, a
second termination end, and a coil of wire that winds from an inner diameter to an outer
                                                 5

diameter between the first and second termination ends; where the first termination end of
each transmitter coil is disposed within the inner diameter of its respective coil of wire and
the second termination end of each transmitter coil is disposed outside the outer diameter of
its respective coil of wire.
[0012]     In some embodiments a wireless charging device includes: a housing having a
charging surface and first and second walls that define an interior cavity; a transmitter coil
arrangement disposed within the interior cavity, the transmitter coil arrangement including a
plurality of transmitter coils positioned within the interior cavity in an overlapping
arrangement such that different transmitter coils in the plurality of transmitter coils are on
different planes and each of the plurality of transmitter coils has a central axis positioned a
lateral distance away from the central axes of all other transmitter coils of the plurality of
transmitter coils; an interconnection structure positioned within the interior cavity below the
transmitter coil arrangement, the interconnection structure including a plurality of packaged
electrical components mounted on the interconnection structure and configured to operate the
plurality of transmitter coils during wireless power transfer, where the plurality of packaged
electrical components is located below the transmitter coil arrangement; and a frame
comprising a plurality of openings positioned corresponding to the plurality of packaged
electrical components, each opening providing space within which a respective packaged
electronic device is disposed.
[0013]     In some additional embodiments, a wireless charging device includes: a housing
having a planar charging surface and first and second shells that define an interior cavity; a
transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior cavity, the transmitter coil
arrangement including a plurality of transmitter coils positioned within the interior cavity in
an overlapping arrangement such that different coils in the plurality of coils are on different
planes each of the plurality of transmitter coils has a central axis positioned a lateral distance
away from the central axes of all other transmitter coils of the plurality of transmitter coils; an
interconnection structure positioned within the interior cavity below the transmitter coil
arrangement, the interconnection structure including a plurality of packaged electrical
components mounted on the interconnection structure and configured to operate the plurality
of transmitter coils during wireless power transfer, where the plurality of packaged electrical
components is located below the transmitter coil arrangement; a frame comprising a plurality
of openings positioned corresponding to the plurality of packaged electrical components,
each opening providing space within which a respective packaged electronic device is
                                                 6

disposed; and a bottom shield disposed below and coupled to the frame, the bottom shield
including a shielding layer and one or more insulating layers, where the one or more
insulating layers are positioned to correspond with at least one opening of the plurality of
openings.
[0014]    In some further additional embodiments, a wireless charging system includes: an
electronic device comprising a receiver coil configured to generate a current to charge a
battery when exposed to a time-varying magnetic flux; and a wireless charging device
configured to generate the time-varying magnetic flux to wirelessly charge the electronic
device. The wireless charging device includes: a housing having a charging surface, the
housing including first and second walls that define an interior cavity; a transmitter coil
arrangement disposed within the interior cavity, the transmitter coil arrangement including a
plurality of transmitter coils positioned within the interior cavity in an overlapping
arrangement such that different coils in the plurality of coils are on different planes and each
of the plurality of transmitter coils has a central axis positioned a lateral distance away from
the central axes of all other transmitter coils of the plurality of transmitter coils; an
interconnection structure positioned within the interior cavity below the transmitter coil
arrangement, the interconnection structure including a plurality of packaged electrical
components mounted on the interconnection structure and configured to operate the plurality
of transmitter coils during wireless power transfer, where the plurality of packaged electrical
components are located below the transmitter coil arrangement; and a frame comprising a
plurality of openings positioned corresponding to the plurality of packaged electrical
components, each opening providing space within which a respective packaged electrical
device is disposed.
[0015]    In some embodiments a wireless charging device includes: a housing having a
planar charging surface and one or more walls that define an interior cavity; a transmitter coil
arrangement positioned within the interior cavity, the transmitter coil arrangement including a
plurality of transmitter coils positioned within the interior cavity in an overlapping
arrangement such that different coils in the plurality of coils are on different planes and each
of the plurality of transmitter coils has a central axis positioned a lateral distance away from
the central axes of all other transmitter coils of the plurality of transmitter coils; and a faraday
cage enclosing the transmitter coil arrangement. The faraday cage includes: an
electromagnetic shield positioned between the transmitter coil arrangement and the first shell;
an interconnection structure positioned within the interior cavity below the transmitter coil
                                                  7

arrangement, the interconnection structure including a plurality of packaged electrical
components mounted on the interconnection structure; a ferromagnetic shield positioned
between the transmitter coil arrangement and the interconnection structure; and a conductive
grounding fence disposed around a perimeter of the interconnection structure and between the
electromagnetic shield and the interconnection structure.
[0016]     In some additional embodiments, a wireless charging device includes: a housing
having a planar charging surface and one or more walls that define an interior cavity; a
transmitter coil arrangement positioned within the interior cavity, the transmitter coil
arrangement including a plurality of transmitter coils positioned within the interior cavity in
an overlapping arrangement such that different coils in the plurality of coils are on different
planes and each of the plurality of transmitter coils has a central axis positioned a lateral
distance away from the central axes of all other transmitter coils of the plurality of transmitter
coils; and a faraday cage enclosing the transmitter coil arrangement. The faraday cage
includes: an electromagnetic shield positioned between the transmitter coil arrangement and
the first shell, where the electromagnetic shield comprises: an electromagnetic body
configured to capture electromagnetic fields generated by the transmitter coil arrangement;
and a copper border surrounding the electromagnetic body, where the copper border couples
with the grounding fence; an interconnection structure positioned within the interior cavity
below the transmitter coil arrangement, the interconnection structure including a plurality of
packaged electrical components mounted on the interconnection structure, where the
interconnection structure is a printed circuit board (PCB); a ferromagnetic shield positioned
between the transmitter coil arrangement and the interconnection structure; and a conductive
grounding fence disposed around a perimeter of the interconnection structure and between the
electromagnetic shield and the interconnection structure, where the conductive grounding
fence is a length of wire formed of a conductive material.
[0017]     In some further embodiments, a wireless charging system includes: an electronic
device comprising a receiver coil configured to generate a current to charge a battery when
exposed to a time-varying magnetic flux; and a wireless charging mat configured to generate
the time-varying magnetic flux to wirelessly charge the electronic device. The wireless
charging mat includes: a housing having a planar charging surface, the housing including first
and second shells defining an interior cavity; a transmitter coil arrangement, the transmitter
coil arrangement including a plurality of transmitter coils positioned within the interior cavity
in an overlapping arrangement such that different coils in the plurality of coils are on
                                                 8

different planes and each of the plurality of transmitter coils has a central axis positioned a
lateral distance away from the central axes of all other transmitter coils of the plurality of
transmitter coils; and a faraday cage enclosing the transmitter coil arrangement. The faraday
cage includes: an electromagnetic shield positioned between the transmitter coil arrangement
and the first shell; an interconnection structure positioned within the interior cavity below the
transmitter coil arrangement, the interconnection structure including a plurality of packaged
electrical components mounted on the interconnection structure; a ferromagnetic shield
positioned between the transmitter coil arrangement and the interconnection structure; and a
conductive grounding fence disposed around a perimeter of the interconnection structure and
between the electromagnetic shield and the interconnection structure.
[0018]     In some embodiments a wireless charging device includes: a housing having a
charging surface, the housing including first and second walls defining an interior cavity; a
transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior cavity, the transmitter coil
arrangement including a plurality of transmitter coils arranged in at least a top layer, a bottom
layer, and a middle layer between the top and bottom layers, and positioned within the
interior cavity in an overlapping arrangement such that different coils in the plurality of coils
are on different planes and each of the plurality of transmitter coils has a central axis
positioned a lateral distance away from the central axes of all other transmitter coils of the
plurality of transmitter coils; a plurality of cowlings for confining the plurality of planar
transmitter coils in their respective positions; an interconnection structure positioned within
the interior cavity between the transmitter coil arrangement and the second wall, the
interconnection structure including a plurality of packaged electrical components mounted
onto the interconnection structure; and a plurality of standoffs coupled to the interconnection
structure and configured to electrically couple the transmitter coil arrangement to the plurality
of packaged electrical components. The plurality of standoffs includes: a first standoff
configured to couple the interconnection structure to a transmitter coil in the top layer; a
second standoff configured to couple the interconnection structure to a transmitter coil in the
middle layer; and a third standoff configured to couple the interconnection structure to a
transmitter coil in the bottom layer.
[0019]     In some additional embodiments, a wireless charging device includes: a housing
having a planar charging surface, the housing including first and second shells defining an
interior cavity; a transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior cavity, the
transmitter coil arrangement including a plurality of transmitter coils arranged in at least a top
                                                  9

layer, a bottom layer, and a middle layer between the top and bottom layers, and positioned
within the interior cavity in an overlapping arrangement such that different coils in the
plurality of coils are on different planes each of the plurality of transmitter coils has a central
axis positioned a lateral distance away from the central axes of all other transmitter coils of
the plurality of transmitter coils; a plurality of cowlings for confining the plurality of planar
transmitter coils in their respective positions, where the plurality of cowlings comprises: a top
cowling including first openings for confining positions of transmitter coils in the top layer; a
bottom cowling including second openings for confining positions of transmitter coils in the
bottom layer; and a middle cowling including third openings for confining positions of
transmitter coils in the bottom layer; an interconnection structure positioned within the
interior cavity between the transmitter coil arrangement and the second shell, the
interconnection structure including a plurality of packaged electrical components mounted
onto the interconnection structure; and a plurality of standoffs coupled to the interconnection
structure and configured to electrically couple the transmitter coil arrangement to the plurality
of packaged electrical components, where each standoff of the plurality of standoffs includes
a monolithic structure formed of a first contact, a second contact, and a connector coupling
the first contact to the second contact. The plurality of standoffs includes: a first standoff
configured to couple the interconnection structure to a transmitter coil in the top layer; a
second standoff shorter than the first standoff and configured to couple the interconnection
structure to a transmitter coil in the middle layer; and a third standoff shorter than the first
and second standoffs and configured to couple the interconnection structure to a transmitter
coil in the bottom layer.
[0020]     In some further embodiments, a wireless charging system includes: an electronic
device including a receiver coil configured to generate a current to charge a battery when
exposed to a time-varying magnetic flux; and a wireless charging mat configured to generate
the time-varying magnetic flux to wirelessly charge the electronic device. The wireless
charging mat includes: a housing having a planar charging surface, the housing including first
and second shells defining an interior cavity; a transmitter coil arrangement disposed within
the interior cavity, the transmitter coil arrangement including a plurality of transmitter coils
arranged in at least a top layer, a bottom layer, and a middle layer between the top and bottom
layers, and positioned within the interior cavity in an overlapping arrangement such that
different coils in the plurality of coils are on different planes and each of the plurality of
transmitter coils has a central axis positioned a lateral distance away from the central axes of
                                                  10

all other transmitter coils of the plurality of transmitter coils; an interconnection structure
positioned within the interior cavity between the transmitter coil arrangement and the second
shell, the interconnection structure including a plurality of packaged electrical components
mounted onto the interconnection structure; and a plurality of standoffs coupled to the
interconnection structure and configured to couple the transmitter coil arrangement to the
plurality of packaged electrical components. The plurality of standoffs includes: a first
standoff configured to couple the interconnection structure to a transmitter coil in the top
layer; a second standoff configured to couple the interconnection structure to a transmitter
coil in the middle layer; and a third standoff configured to couple the interconnection
structure to a transmitter coil in the bottom layer.
[0021]     In some embodiments an interconnection structure for a wireless charging device
includes: a first contact configured for coupling with a first component of the wireless
charging device; a second contact disposed below the first contact and configured for
coupling with a second component of the wireless charging device; and a connector coupling
the first contact with the second contact, wherein the first contact, second contact, and the
connector form a monolithic structure.
[0022]     In some additional embodiments, a wireless charging device includes: a housing
having a charging surface, the housing including first and second walls defining an interior
cavity; a transmitter coil arrangement positioned within the interior cavity, the transmitter
coil arrangement including a plurality of transmitter coils positioned within the interior cavity
in an overlapping arrangement such that different coils in the plurality of coils are on
different planes and each of the plurality of transmitter coils has a central axis positioned a
lateral distance away from the central axes of all other transmitter coils of the plurality of
transmitter coils; an interconnection structure positioned within the interior cavity between
the transmitter coil arrangement and the second wall, the interconnection structure
comprising a plurality of packaged electrical components mounted onto the interconnection
structure; and a plurality of standoffs configured to couple the plurality of packaged electrical
components with the transmitter coil arrangement. The plurality of standoffs includes: a first
contact configured for coupling with a transmitter coil of the transmitter coil arrangement; a
second contact disposed below the first contact and configured for coupling with a packaged
electronic device of the plurality of packaged electrical components; and a connector
configured to electrically couple the first contact with the second contact, wherein the first
contact, second contact, and the connector form a monolithic structure.
                                                   11

[0023]     In some further embodiments, a wireless charging system includes: an electronic
device comprising a receiver coil configured to generate a current to charge a battery when
exposed to a time-varying magnetic flux; and a wireless charging mat configured to generate
the time-varying magnetic flux to wirelessly charge the electronic device. The wireless
charging mat includes: a housing having a charging surface, the housing including first and
second walls defining an interior cavity; a transmitter coil arrangement positioned within the
interior cavity, the transmitter coil arrangement including a plurality of transmitter coils
positioned within the interior cavity in an overlapping arrangement such that different coils in
the plurality of coils are on different planes and each of the plurality of transmitter coils has a
central axis positioned a lateral distance away from the central axes of all other transmitter
coils of the plurality of transmitter coils; an interconnection structure positioned within the
interior cavity between the transmitter coil arrangement and the second wall, the
interconnection structure comprising a plurality of packaged electrical components mounted
onto the interconnection structure; and a plurality of standoffs configured to couple the
plurality of packaged electrical components with the transmitter coil arrangement. The
plurality of standoffs includes: a first contact configured for coupling with a transmitter coil
of the transmitter coil arrangement; a second contact disposed below the first contact and
configured for coupling with a packaged electronic device of the plurality of packaged
electrical components; and a connector configured to electrically couple the first contact with
the second contact, wherein the first contact, second contact, and the connector form a
monolithic structure.
[0024]     In some embodiments a wireless charging device for wirelessly charging a plurality
of different electronic devices having different wireless power receiving characteristics
includes: a housing having a charging surface and one or more walls defining an interior
cavity; a first transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior cavity and comprising
a first plurality of transmitter coils configured to wirelessly charge a first electronic device
positioned on the charging surface; and a second transmitter coil arrangement disposed within
the interior cavity below the first transmitter coil arrangement, the second transmitter coil
arrangement comprising a second plurality of transmitter coils configured to wirelessly
charge a second electronic device positioned on the charging surface; where the first
transmitter coil arrangement operates at a first frequency, and the second transmitter coil
arrangement operates at a second frequency different from the first frequency.
                                                  12

[0025]     In some additional embodiments, a wireless charging device for wirelessly charging
a plurality of different electronic devices having different wireless power receiving
characteristics includes: a housing having a charging surface and one or more walls defining
an interior cavity; a first transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior cavity and
comprising a first plurality of transmitter coils configured to wirelessly charge a first
electronic device positioned on the charging surface; and a second transmitter coil
arrangement disposed within the interior cavity below the first transmitter coil arrangement,
the second transmitter coil arrangement comprising a second plurality of transmitter coils
configured to wirelessly charge a second electronic device positioned on the charging
surface; where the first plurality of transmitter coils is organized in an overlapping
arrangement such that different coils in the first plurality of coils are on different planes and
each of the first plurality of transmitter coils has a central axis positioned a lateral distance
away from the central axes of all other transmitter coils in the first plurality of transmitter
coils, and the second plurality of transmitter coils are arranged in a single row of transmitter
coils.
[0026]     In some further embodiments, a wireless charging system includes: a first electronic
device comprising a first receiver coil configured to generate a current to charge a first
battery when exposed to a first time-varying magnetic flux; a second electronic device
comprising a second receiver coil configured to generate a current to charge a second battery
when exposed to a second time-varying magnetic flux; and a wireless charging mat
configured to generate the first and second time-varying magnetic fluxes to wirelessly charge
the first and second electronic devices. The wireless charging mat includes: a housing having
a charging surface; a first transmitter coil arrangement comprising a first plurality of
transmitter coils configured to wirelessly charge a first electronic device positioned on the
charging surface; and a second transmitter coil arrangement disposed below the first
transmitter coil arrangement, the second transmitter coil arrangement comprising a second
plurality of transmitter coils configured to wirelessly charge a second electronic device
positioned on the charging surface; where the first transmitter coil arrangement operates at a
first frequency, and the second transmitter coil arrangement operates at a second frequency
different from the first frequency.
[0027]     In some embodiments a transmitter coil arrangement for a wireless charging device
including: a first layer of transmitter coils, each transmitter coil in the first layer of transmitter
coils is arranged in a first radial direction; a second layer of transmitter coils, each transmitter
                                                   13

coil in the second layer of transmitter coils is arranged in a second radial direction that is
offset from the first radial direction by an angular offset; and a third layer of transmitter coils,
each transmitter coil in the third layer of transmitter coils is arranged in a third radial
direction that is offset from both the first and second radial directions by the angular offset,
where the second layer of transmitter coils is disposed between the first and third layers of
transmitter coils.
[0028]      In some additional embodiments, a wireless charging device configured to
wirelessly charge an electronic device includes: a housing having a charging surface, the
housing including a first wall and a second wall defining an interior cavity; a transmitter coil
arrangement disposed within the interior cavity. The transmitter coil arrangement includes: a
first layer of transmitter coils, each transmitter coil in the first layer of transmitter coils is
arranged in a first radial direction; a second layer of transmitter coils, each transmitter coil in
the second layer of transmitter coils is arranged in a second radial direction that is offset from
the first radial direction by an angular offset; and a third layer of transmitter coils, each
transmitter coil in the top layer of transmitter coils is arranged in a third radial direction that
is offset from both the first and second radial directions by the angular offset, where the
second layer of transmitter coils is disposed between the first and third layers of transmitter
coils.
[0029]      In some further embodiments, a wireless charging device configured to wirelessly
charge an electronic device includes: a housing having a charging surface, the housing
including a first wall and a second wall defining an interior cavity; a transmitter coil
arrangement disposed within the interior cavity, the transmitter coil arrangement comprising:
a first set of transmitter coils aligned in a first co-planar layer, each transmitter coil in the first
set having a first wire wound around a first bobbin; a second set of transmitter coils aligned
in a second co-planar layer, spaced apart from the first co-planar layer, each transmitter coil
in the second set having a second wire wound around a second bobbin; and a third set of
transmitter coils aligned in a third co-planar layer between the first and second co-planar
layers, each transmitter coil in the third set having a third wire wound around a third bobbin,
where at least two of the first, second and third sets of coils each comprise a plurality of
transmitter coils, each first bobbin includes a first protrusion that extends towards the third
set of transmitter coils, and each second bobbin includes a second protrusion that extends
towards the third set of transmitter coils.
                                                    14

[0030]    In some embodiments a wireless charging device includes: a housing having an
outer perimeter and one or more walls defining an interior cavity; a charging surface within
the outer perimeter of the housing; a transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior
cavity below the planar charging surface, the transmitter coil arrangement comprising a
plurality of transmitter coils arranged in different layers, each transmitter coil having a pair of
termination ends; wherein the plurality of transmitter coils comprises a plurality of inner
transmitter coils and a plurality of outer transmitter coils positioned around the inner
transmitter coils; and wherein the pair of termination ends of the plurality of outer transmitter
coils are arranged differently than the pair of termination ends of the plurality of inner
transmitter coils.
[0031]    In some additional embodiments, a wireless charging device includes: a housing
having an outer perimeter and one or more walls defining an interior cavity; a planar charging
surface within the outer perimeter of the housing; a transmitter coil arrangement disposed
within the interior cavity below the planar charging surface, the transmitter coil arrangement
comprising a plurality of transmitter coils arranged in different layers, each transmitter coil
having a pair of termination ends; wherein the plurality of transmitter coils is organized in an
overlapping arrangement such that different coils in the plurality of coils are on different
planes and each of the plurality of transmitter coils has a central axis positioned a lateral
distance away from the central axes of all other transmitter coils of the plurality of transmitter
coils; wherein the plurality of transmitter coils comprises a plurality of inner transmitter coils
and a plurality of outer transmitter coils positioned around the inner transmitter coils; and
wherein the pair of termination ends of the plurality of inner transmitter coils are arranged at
an angle between one another, and the pair of termination ends of the plurality of outer
transmitter coils are arranged parallel to one another.
[0032]    In some further embodiments, a wireless charging system, includes: an electronic
device comprising a receiver coil configured to generate a current to charge a battery when
exposed to a time-varying magnetic flux; and a wireless charging mat configured to generate
the time-varying magnetic flux to wirelessly charge the electronic device. The wireless
charging mat includes: a transmitter coil arrangement positioned within the interior cavity,
the transmitter coil arrangement comprising a plurality of transmitter coils arranged in
different layers, each transmitter coil having a pair of termination ends; wherein the plurality
of transmitter coils comprises a plurality of inner transmitter coils and a plurality of outer
transmitter coils positioned around the inner transmitter coils; and wherein the pair of
                                                 15

termination ends of the plurality of outer transmitter coils are arranged differently than the
pair of termination ends of the plurality of inner transmitter coils.
[0033]     In some embodiments a wireless charging transmitter coil includes: a support
structure having an outer perimeter surrounding a contact housing and having first and
second channels extending from the outer perimeter to the contact housing; first and second
contacts positioned within the contact housing; and a wire wound around the outer perimeter
of the support structure, the wire having a first end that extends through the first channel and
a second end that extends through the second channel.
[0034]     In some additional embodiments, a wireless charging device configured to
wirelessly charge an electronic device includes: a housing having a charging surface, the
housing including first and second walls that define an interior cavity; a transmitter coil
arrangement disposed within the interior cavity, each transmitter coil of the transmitter coil
arrangement includes: a support structure having an outer perimeter surrounding a contact
housing and having first and second channels extending from the outer perimeter to the
contact housing; first and second contacts positioned within the contact housing; and a wire
wound around the outer perimeter of the support structure, the wire having a first end that
extends through the first channel and a second end that extends through the second channel.
[0035]     In some further embodiments, a wireless charging system includes: an electronic
device comprising a receiver coil configured to generate a current to charge a battery when
exposed to a time-varying magnetic flux; and a wireless charging mat configured to generate
the time-varying magnetic flux to wirelessly charge the electronic device. The wireless
charging mat includes: a housing having a charging surface, the housing including first and
second walls that define an interior cavity; a transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the
interior cavity, each transmitter coil of the transmitter coil arrangement includes: a support
structure having an outer perimeter surrounding a contact housing and having first and
second channels extending from the outer perimeter to the contact housing; first and second
contacts positioned within the contact housing; and a wire wound around the outer perimeter
of the support structure, the wire having a first end that extends through the first channel and
a second end that extends through the second channel.
[0036]     A better understanding of the nature and advantages of embodiments of the present
invention may be gained with reference to the following detailed description and the
accompanying drawings.
                                                  16

                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0037]    FIG. 1 is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary wireless charging mat and
two devices positioned on the charging mat, according to some embodiments of the present
disclosure.
[0038]    FIG. 2 is a simplified diagram illustrating a transmitter coil arrangement embedded
within a charging mat, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0039]    FIG. 3 is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary base pattern having three
transmitter coils, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0040]    FIG. 4 is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary transmitter coil
arrangement configured in a rosette pattern, according to some embodiments of the present
disclosure.
[0041]    FIGS. 5A-5C are simplified diagrams illustrating the different layers of a transmitter
coil arrangement configured in a rosette pattern, according to some embodiments of the
present disclosure.
[0042]    FIGS. 6A-6E are simplified diagrams illustrating an expansion of a pattern of
transmitter coils, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0043]    FIGS. 7A-7C are simplified diagrams and charts illustrating the formation of a
continuous charging surface, according to embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0044]    FIG. 8A is a simplified diagram illustrating exemplary radial directions for two
transmitter coils, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0045]    FIG. 8B is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary transmitter coil
arrangement formed of three transmitter coil layers where the transmitter coils of each layer
is arranged in a different radial direction than the other layers, according to some
embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0046]    FIGS. 9A-9C are simplified diagrams illustrating different transmitter coil layers of
the transmitter coil arrangement illustrated in FIG. 8B, according to some embodiments of
the present disclosure.
[0047]    FIG. 10 is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary transmitter coil
arrangement where transmitter coils are arranged in different radial directions based on their
                                                 17

position in the transmitter coil arrangement, according to some embodiments of the present
disclosure.
[0048]     FIGS. 11 A-1 IC are simplified diagrams illustrating different transmitter coil layers
of the transmitter coil arrangement illustrated in FIG. 10, according to some embodiments of
the present disclosure.
[0049]     FIG. 12A is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary transmitter coil
arrangement where all transmitter coils have substantially the same dimensions than other
transmitter coils in the transmitter coil arrangement, according to some embodiments of the
present disclosure.
[0050]     FIG. 12B is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary transmitter coil
arrangement where one or more transmitter coils have different dimensions than other
transmitter coils in the transmitter coil arrangement, according to some embodiments of the
present disclosure.
[0051]     FIG. 13A is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary coil of wire formed of a
plurality of thin wires, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0052]     FIG. 13B is a simplified diagram illustrating a cross-sectional view of a single turn
of a coil of wire formed of a plurality of thin wires, according to some embodiments of the
present disclosure.
[0053]     FIG. 13C is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary coil of wire formed of a
single core of conductive wire, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0054]     FIG. 13D is a simplified diagram illustrating a cross-sectional view of a single turn
of a coil of wire formed of a single core of conductive wire, according to some embodiments
of the present disclosure.
[0055]     FIG. 14A is a simplified diagram illustrating a top perspective view of a coil of wire
with termination ends positioned within an internal diameter of the coil of wire and arranged
at an angle with respect to one another, according to some embodiments of the present
disclosure.
[0056]     FIG. 14B is a simplified diagram illustrating a side view of the coil of wire
illustrated in FIG. 14A, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
                                                 18

[0057]     FIG. 14C is a simplified diagram illustrating a top perspective view of a coil of wire
with termination ends positioned within an internal diameter of the coil of wire and arranged
parallel to one another, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0058]     FIGS. 15A-15D are simplified diagrams illustrating top and side views of an
exemplary bobbin, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0059]     FIGS. 16A and 16B are simplified diagrams illustrating top and bottom perspective
views of an exemplary angle transmitter coil, according to some embodiments of the present
disclosure.
[0060]     FIG. 17A is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary transmitter coil
arrangement formed with angle transmitter coils, according to some embodiments of the
present disclosure.
[0061]     FIG. 17B is a simplified diagram illustrating a zoomed-in, bottom perspective view
of a portion of an exemplary transmitter coil arrangement formed with angle transmitter coils,
according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0062]     FIGS. 18A-18B are simplified diagrams illustrating top and bottom perspective
views of an exemplary parallel transmitter coil, according to some embodiments of the
present disclosure.
[0063]     FIG. 19 is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary transmitter coil
arrangement formed with parallel and angle transmitter coils, according to some
embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0064]     FIG. 20A is a simplified diagram illustrating an exploded side-view perspective of a
transmitter coil arrangement, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0065]     FIG. 20B is a simplified diagram illustrating side-view perspective of an assembled
transmitter coil arrangement, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0066]     FIG. 21 is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary transmitter coil without a
bobbin, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0067]     FIG. 22A is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary transmitter coil
arrangement formed of transmitter coils without bobbins, according to some embodiments of
the present disclosure.
                                                 19

[0068]    FIG. 22B is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary transmitter coil
arrangement formed of transmitter coils without bobbins and with similarly organized
termination ends, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0069]    FIGS. 22C-22E are simplified diagrams illustrating individual layers of an
exemplary transmitter coil arrangement shown in FIG. 22B, according to some embodiments
of the present disclosure.
[0070]    FIG. 23 is a simplified diagram illustrating an exploded view of an exemplary
wireless charging mat having transmitter coils with bobbins, according to some embodiments
of the present disclosure.
[0071]    FIG. 24 is a simplified diagram illustrating an exploded view of an exemplary
wireless charging mat having transmitter coils without bobbins, according to some
embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0072]    FIG. 25A is a simplified diagram illustrating a top-view of an exemplary
electromagnetic shield with a thin conductive border, according to some embodiments of the
present disclosure.
[0073]    FIG. 25B is a simplified diagram illustrating a top-view of an exemplary
electromagnetic shield with a conductive border that extends to edges of a transmitter coil
arrangement, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0074]    FIG. 26A is a simplified diagram illustrating a cross-sectional view of a part of a
faraday cage around a transmitter coil arrangement of a partially-formed wireless charging
mat, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0075]    FIG. 26B is a simplified diagram illustrating a close-up cross-sectional view of an
interface between a shielding body and a conductive border, according to some embodiments
of the present disclosure.
[0076]    FIGS. 27A and 27B are simplified diagrams illustrating an exemplary standoff,
according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0077]    FIGS. 28A and 28B are simplified diagrams illustrating an exemplary standoff with
hook structures, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
                                               20

[00781    FIG. 29 is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary assembled transmitter coil
arrangement attached to an underlying driver board, according to some embodiments of the
present disclosure.
[0079]    FIG. 30 is a simplified diagram illustrating a bottom-view of a drop frame coupled
to a driver board, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0080]    FIG. 31 is a simplified diagram illustrating a top-down view of an exemplary
bottom shield, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0081]    FIG. 32 is a simplified diagram illustrating an exploded view of an exemplary
wireless charging mat including more than one transmitter coil arrangement, according to
some embodiments of the present disclosure.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0082]    Embodiments of the disclosure describe a wireless charging mat where an electronic
device can be efficiently charged across a vast majority, if not an entire area, of a charging
surface of the wireless charging mat. Arrays of transmitter coils disposed below the charging
surface may generate time-varying magnetic fields capable of inducing current in a receiver
of the electronic device or of a docking station with which the electronic device is coupled.
[0083]    The wireless charging mat may include multiple transmitter coil layers. Each layer
can include an array of transmitter coils arranged in a grid pattern and configured to generate
magnetic fields in a corresponding grid pattern. Spaces between each transmitter coil in the
layer may be a "dead zone," i.e., a region where a magnetic field is not generated. Thus, the
multiple transmitter coil layers can be arranged so that there are minimal dead zones across a
charging surface of the wireless charging mat. In some embodiments, the wireless charging
mat includes three transmitter coil layers where each layer is arranged to fill dead zones in the
other two layers. For instance, magnetic fields generated by coils in a first layer can fill in
dead zones in the second and third layers. Likewise, magnetic fields generated by coils in the
second layer may fill in dead zones in the first and third layers; and magnetic fields generated
by coils in the third layer can fill in dead zones in the first and second layers. Accordingly,
the three transmitter coil layers can collectively generate magnetic fields that span across the
charging surface, thereby enabling an electronic device to be charged across a vast majority
of the charging surface. Aspects and features of embodiments of such a wireless charging
mat are discussed in further detail herein.
                                                 21

I.      WIRELESS CHARGING MAT
[0084]    Fig. 1 illustrates an exemplary wireless charging mat 100, according to some
embodiments of the present disclosure. Wireless charging mat 100 can include a charging
surface 102 upon which a device having a wireless power receiver can be placed upon to
wirelessly charge its battery. In some embodiments, charging surface 102 may be a region of
a top surface 104 of wireless charging mat 100 that spans across a vast majority, if not the
entire area, of top surface 104. Time-varying magnetic fields generated by wireless charging
mat 100 can propagate through regions of top surface 104 within charging surface 102 and
form a continuous region within which devices can wirelessly receive power.
[0085]    In some embodiments, devices can be placed in any location within charging
surface 102 to receive power. For instance, a first device 106 can be positioned on a left side
of wireless charging mat 100 within charging surface 102 and receive power from wireless
charging mat 100. And a second device, e.g., device 108, can be positioned on a right side of
wireless charging mat 100 within charging surface 102 to receive power from wireless
charging mat 100. It is to be appreciated that a device placed anywhere within charging
surface 102 can receive power from wireless charging mat 100 according to embodiments of
the present disclosure. In some embodiments, more than one device may be placed on
wireless charging mat 100 to receive power. As an example, both devices 106 and 108 may
be concurrently placed on wireless charging mat 100 and simultaneously receive power.
[0086]    Devices 106 and 108 can be any suitable device configured to receive power from
wireless charging mat 100. For example, device 106 and/or device 108 can be a portable
electronic device (e.g., a mobile phone, a media player, an electronic watch, and the like), a
docking station, or an accessory electronic device, each having a receiver coil configured to
receive power when exposed to magnetic fields produced by wireless charging mat 100.
[0087]    Wireless charging mat 100 can be shaped to provide a suitable surface upon which
one or more devices can be charged. For instance, wireless charging mat 100 can be in the
shape of a pill (a generally oval shape) as shown in FIG. 1, although other embodiments can
have different shapes. Some embodiments can have a circular shape, rectangular shape,
square shape, or any other suitable shape for providing a surface upon which a device can be
wirelessly charged without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.
                                               22

II.     ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSMITTER COILS
[0088]     Time-varying magnetic fields can be generated by multiple transmitter coils
embedded within wireless charging mat 100. For instance, wireless charging mat 100 can
include a transmitter coil arrangement as shown in FIG. 2. FIG. 2 illustrates transmitter coil
arrangement 200 embedded within charging mat 100, according to some embodiments of the
present disclosure. The illustration of FIG. 2 shows wireless charging mat 100 with top
surface 104 removed so that the embedded transmitter coil arrangement 200 may be seen.
Transmitter coil arrangement 200 can include multiple arrays of transmitter coils arranged in
different layers and in a non-concentric fashion so that when all of the transmitter coils are
operating, an array of magnetic fields can be generated across charging surface 102.
        A.      Transmitter Coil Patterns
[0089]     According to some embodiments of the present disclosure, the specific arrangement
of transmitter coils 200 enables wireless charging mat 100 to generate an array of magnetic
fields that forms a continuous charging surface upon which an electronic device can be
charged. The continuous charging surface allows an electronic device to be efficiently
charged at any location within the charging surface. The charging surface can span across a
vast majority, if not an entire area, of wireless charging mat 100. In some embodiments,
transmitter coil arrangement 200 can be arranged according to a base pattern that enables
transmitter coil arrangement 200 to generate magnetic fields that form the continuous
charging surface. The base pattern can be expanded to form more complex patterns that form
a larger continuous charging surface.
                1.       Base Pattern
[0090]     FIG. 3 illustrates an exemplary base pattern 300 having three transmitter coils: first
transmitter coil 302, second transmitter coil 304, and third transmitter coil 306, according to
some embodiments of the present disclosure. First, second, and third transmitter coils 302,
304, and 306 can be arranged in three separate layers, thereby forming a transmitter coil
stack. For example, first transmitter coil 302 can be positioned in a first layer, second
transmitter coil 304 can be positioned in a second layer above the first layer, and third
transmitter coil 306 can be positioned in a third layer above the first and second layers. Each
transmitter coil can be formed of a single layer of wire that is wound from an outer radius to
an inner radius so that it forms a flat, ring-like shape, as will be discussed in detail further
                                                  23

herein. As shown in FIG. 3, each transmitter coil is shown without a central member (e.g., a
"bobbin" as will also be discussed further herein) so that other transmitter coils located in
layers below the transmitter coil can be seen for ease of understanding.
[0091]     In some embodiments, first, second, and third transmitter coils 302, 304, and 306
can each include a central termination zone. A central termination zone can be a region at the
center of each transmitter coil that is reserved for interfacing with an interconnection layer,
such as a printed circuit board (PCB). As shown in FIG. 3, first, second, and third transmitter
coils 302, 304, and 306 can have central termination zones 316, 318, and 320, respectively.
Central termination zones 316, 318, and 320 can be regions at the center of each transmitter
coil reserved for interfacing with the interconnection layer, as will be discussed further
herein. Accordingly, first, second, and third transmitter coils 302, 304, and 306 can be
positioned in locations where their respective central termination zones can interface with the
interconnection layer without being blocked by a neighboring transmitter coil. For instance,
central termination zone 316 of transmitter coil 302 is laterally positioned outside of the outer
diameter of transmitter coil 304 and 306. The same can be said for central termination zones
318 and 320. Accordingly, central termination zones 316, 318, and 320 can extend through
the transmitter coil stack without intersecting another transmitter coil. In some embodiments,
central termination zones 316, 318, and 320 may be positioned equally spaced apart from one
another such that the central termination zones 316, 318, and 320 form an equilateral triangle
322.
                2.       Rosette Pattern
[0092]     As mentioned above, the base pattern can be expanded upon to form other patterns
for different shapes and sizes of wireless charging mats. One of such patterns is a rosette
pattern, which may be suitable for substantially circular wireless charging mats given its
circular profile. The rosette pattern can be a pattern where the transmitter coils are arranged
in an overlapping arrangement such that different coils in the plurality of coils are on
different planes and are non-concentric with each other. In an expanded base pattern, one or
more transmitter coil layers can include more than one transmitter coil.
[0093]     FIG. 4 illustrates an exemplary transmitter coil arrangement 400 configured in a
rosette pattern, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. Transmitter coil
arrangement 400 can include three separate transmitter coil layers where one or more of those
layers include multiple transmitter coils. For example, a first transmitter coil layer can
                                                24

include transmitter coils 402a-c, a second transmitter coil layer can include transmitter coils
404a-c, and a third transmitter coil layer can include transmitter coil 406. Each transmitter
coil in transmitter coil arrangement 400 can have an opening defined by an inner diameter of
the transmitter coil, where each opening includes a termination zone 418 (i.e. central portion)
that is not overlapping any portion of an adjacent transmitter coil. Additionally, the
transmitter coils are arranged such that no two coils in the plurality of coils are concentric
with each other.
[0094]     The base pattern may be pervasive throughout the rosette pattern such that every
group of three transmitter coils, one in each transmitter coil layer, that are closest together is
arranged in the base pattern. For instance, transmitter coils 402a, 404a, and 406 are arranged
in the base pattern. Likewise, transmitter coils 402a, 404b, and 406 are arranged in the base
pattern, transmitter coils 404b, 402c, and 406 are arranged in the base pattern, and so on and
so forth. By arranging transmitter coil arrangement 400 according to the base pattern,
transmitter coil arrangement 400 can create a continuous charging region within which an
electronic device can charge in any location.
[0095]     To better understand the arrangement of an expanded base pattern, FIGS. 5A-5C
illustrate the different layers of transmitter coil arrangement 400. Specifically, FIG. 5A
illustrates the first layer including transmitter coils 402a-c, FIG. 5B illustrates the second
layer including transmitter coils 404a-c, and FIG. 5C illustrates the third layer including
transmitter coil 406. According to embodiments, transmitter coils in the same layer can be
equally spaced apart so that the generated magnetic fields can be arranged in an evenly
spaced grid pattern. For example, transmitter coils 402a-c and 404a-c can be spaced apart by
a distance D1. The distance D1 may be selected to be wide enough for parts of transmitter
coils in other layers to fit within it for stacking purposes, as will be discussed further herein.
In other embodiments, the distance D1 may be selected to be wide enough so that adjacent
transmitter coils do not make contact with each other. For instance, distance D1 may be less
than 3 mm. In a particular embodiment, distance D1 is less than 1 mm.
[0096]     The center of each transmitter coil in the same layer can be separated by a distance
D2. Distance D2 can affect the uniformity of magnetic flux across the charging surface.
Larger distances D2 result in lower magnetic flux uniformity across the charging surface,
whereas smaller distances D2 result in higher magnetic flux uniformity across the charging
surface. In some embodiments, distance D2 is selected to be the smallest distance that allows
                                                   25

for a suitable distance D1 between transmitter coils while taking into consideration the outer
diameter of each transmitter coil. In additional embodiments, distance D2 is the same for all
adjacent transmitter coils in the same layer. Thus, groups of three transmitter coils (e.g.,
transmitter coils 402a-c and 404a-c in each of the first and second layers, respectively) can be
arranged according to the end points of an equilateral triangle 422.
[0097]     Although FIGS. 5A and 5B illustrate only three transmitter coils in a single
transmitter coil layer, it is to be appreciated that embodiments are not limited to transmitter
coil layers having only three coils. Instead, other embodiments can include transmitter coil
layers having more than three transmitter coils. In such embodiments, the transmitter coils
are arranged equally spaced apart and placed in positions corresponding to corners of
equilateral triangles.
        B.        Expanding Transmitter Coil Patterns
[0098]     Like the base pattern, the rosette pattern (or any other pattern formed from the base
pattern) can be expanded to form larger sets of transmitter coils for different shapes and sizes
of wireless charging mats. FIGS. 6A-6C illustrate an expansion of a pattern of transmitter
coils according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. FIG. 6A illustrates an initial
pattern 600, and FIGS. 6B and 6C each illustrate the initial pattern after it has been expanded
by an incremental transmitter coil layer.
[0099]     Initial pattern 600 in FIG. 6A is shown as a transmitter coil arrangement 600
arranged in a rosette pattern, though one skilled in the art understands that any initial pattern
formed from the base pattern can be used as the initial pattern. Initial pattern 600 includes
three transmitter coil layers where a first layer includes transmitter coils 602a-c, a second
layer includes transmitter coils 604a-c, and a third layer includes transmitter coil 606a. The
second layer can be disposed between the first and third layers.
[0100]     The way in which a pattern of transmitter coils may be expanded can be based on its
existing transmitter coil arrangement. For instance, adding a transmitter coil to the existing
pattern can be based on the layers in which the closest transmitter coils are positioned, where
the transmitter coil added to the pattern is placed in the layer in which the closest transmitter
coils are not positioned. As an example, if the closest transmitter coils are positioned in the
first and second layers, then the next transmitter coil used to expand the pattern is positioned
in the third layer. Likewise, if the closest transmitter coils are positioned in the first and third
                                                  26

layers, then the next transmitter coil is placed in the second layer; and if the closest
transmitter coils are positioned in the second and third layers, then the next transmitter coil is
placed in the first layer. This approach may be used to expand the pattern each time an
additional coil is added to the existing transmitter coil arrangement. Each transmitter coil
added to the pattern is positioned according to the base pattern discussed herein with respect
to FIG. 3.
[0101]     In the particular example shown in FIG. 6B, transmitter coils 606b and 606c are
added to transmitter coil arrangement 600 to form transmitter coil arrangement 601. Using
the approach discussed herein, transmitter coils 606b and 606c are placed in the transmitter
coil arrangement 601 according to the positions of the outermost transmitter coils. Since the
outermost transmitter coils 602b, 602c, and 604b, are positioned in the first and second
layers, transmitter coils 606b and 606c can be positioned in the third layer. Expanding the
pattern by another transmitter coil layer follows the same approach. For instance, as shown
in FIG. 6C, transmitter coil 602d is added to transmitter coil arrangement 601 to form
transmitter coil arrangement 603. Since the outermost transmitter coils 606b, 606c, and 604b
are positioned in the second and third layers, transmitter coil 602d can be positioned in the
first layer.
[0102]     Transmitter coil arrangement 600 can be expanded to any degree according to any
design. For instance, transmitter coil arrangement 600 can be expanded according to a 16
coil design. FIG. 6D illustrates exemplary transmitter coil arrangement 605 formed of 16
coils, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. As shown, the transmitter
coils in transmitter coil arrangement 605 can be organized in an overlapping arrangement
such that different coils in the plurality of coils are on different planes and are non-concentric
with each other. Transmitter coil arrangement 605 can be similar to the coil arrangement of
transmitter coil arrangement 200 briefly discussed herein with respect to FIG. 2. Thus, each
transmitter coil can be positioned to provide broad coverage across charging surface 102 of
charging mat 100.
[0103]     In some embodiments, transmitter coil arrangement 600 can be expanded further
according to a different design. As an example, transmitter coil arrangement 600 can be
expanded according to a 22-coil design. FIG. 6E illustrates exemplary transmitter coil
arrangement 607 formed of 22 coils, according to some embodiments of the present
disclosure. As shown, six additional coils can be added to the 16-coil design according to the
                                                  27

steps explained herein with respect to FIGS. 6A-6C. Adding additional coils can alter the
shape and coverage of charging surface 102. Furthermore, adding additional coils can
change the density of magnetic flux across charging surface 102. More coils may result in a
larger charging surface 102 and a greater density of magnetic flux across charging surface
 102 than a transmitter coil arrangement with less coils.
         C.      Coverage of Transmitter Coil Patterns
[0104]     According to embodiments of the present disclosure, transmitter coils arranged in
patterns formed from the base pattern can generate magnetic fields that form a continuous
charging surface. The continuous charging surface allows electronic devices resting upon the
charging surface to receive power in any location within it, thereby enhancing the ease at
which a user may charge his or her device.
[0105]     FIGS. 7A-7C illustrate how the pattern of the transmitter coils creates the
continuous charging surface, according to embodiments of the present disclosure. Each
figure illustrates a separate layer of a transmitter coil arrangement and shows a corresponding
graph plotting the strength of a magnetic field across a distance. The graph plots the strength
of one transmitter coil, but can be applied to all transmitter coils in the same layer. Each
graph has a Y-axis representing strength of the magnetic field (which may be expressed by
the unit H representing amperes per meter) increasing upward, and an X-axis representing
horizontal distance across a charging surface increasing to the right.
[0106]     FIG. 7A illustrates an array of transmitter coils 700 and a graph 708 representing a
strength-to-distance curve of a magnetic field generated by a transmitter coil 702, according
to some of the present disclosure. Array of transmitter coils 700 can be an array of
transmitter coils positioned within a first layer of a transmitter coil arrangement. In some
embodiments, transmitter coil 702 generates a magnetic field having a strength-to-distance
curve 714 that peaks near the center of transmitter coil 702 and decreases as you move farther
away from the center of curve 714.
[0107]     In order for the transmitter coil to perform wireless charging, the transmitter coil
may need to generate a magnetic field that is strong enough to extend above a charging
surface. The threshold at which wireless charging is enabled may be represented by a
strength threshold 715 shown in graph 708. Portion of curve 714 above strength threshold
715 may be sufficient for wireless charging, and those portions of curve 714 below strength
                                                  28

threshold 715 may be insufficient for wireless charging. Portions of curve 714 below
strength threshold 715 may be designated as "dead zones" 716 and 718 where the magnetic
field is not strong enough to wirelessly charge an electronic device resting on the charging
surface.
[0108]     Thus, according to embodiments, additional layers can be incorporated in the
transmitter coil arrangement to fill in the dead zones. As shown in FIG. 7B, a second
transmitter coil layer can be placed on top of the first transmitter coil layer in a manner
congruent to the arrangement of the base pattern discussed herein to fill in at least some of
the dead zones of the first layer, thereby resulting in transmitter coil arrangement 701. The
second transmitter coil layer can include a transmitter coil 704 that has a magnetic field
strength-to-distance curve 720. By including transmitter coil 704 in the second layer, the
magnetic fields generated by transmitter coil 704 (and other transmitter coils in the second
layer) can fill in dead zone 718 from the first layer. Thus, portions of the charging surface
corresponding to the transmitter coils in the second layer may be able to perform wireless
charging.
[0109]     As can be appreciated from chart 720, there may still be some dead zones even with
the addition of the second layer. For instance, portions of dead zone 716 may still exist,
thereby causing some regions of the charging surface to not be capable of performing
wireless charging, and resulting in a discontinuous charging surface. Thus, according to
some embodiments of the present disclosure, a third layer can be incorporated to fill in the
remaining dead zones.
[0110]     FIG. 7C illustrates a third transmitter coil layer formed on top of the first and
second transmitter coil layers to form transmitter coil arrangement 703. In some
embodiments, the second transmitter coil layer can be positioned between the first and third
transmitter coil layers. Third transmitter coil layer can include a transmitter coil 706 that has
a magnetic field strength-to-distance curve 722. By including transmitter coil 706 in the third
layer, the magnetic fields generated by transmitter coil 706 (and other transmitter coils in the
second layer) can fill in dead zone 716 from the first and second layers. Accordingly, there
may no longer be any dead zones within the charging surface, thereby creating a continuous
charging surface within which an electronic device can be wirelessly charged when resting in
any location.
                                                 29

[0111]    Although FIGS. 7A-7C illustrate a transmitter coil arrangement that has only three
layers to create a continuous charging surface, embodiments are not limited to such
configurations. Other embodiments can have more or less than three layers to form a
continuous charging surface, without departing from the spirit and scope of the present
disclosure.
        D.      RotationalArrangement of Transmitter Coils
[0112]    Arranging the transmitter coils so that they overlap one another in different layers
increases the z-height (e.g., thicknesses) of the transmitter coil arrangement when assembled
as compared to an array of similar coils arranged in a single layer. According to some
embodiments of the present disclosure, transmitter coils in a transmitter coil arrangement can
be oriented in various radial directions to minimize the z-height of a transmitter coil
arrangement as described in various embodiments discussed below. A radial direction is the
angle at which a transmitter coil is radially aligned with respect to a reference direction,
which may be any arbitrary angular direction such as true north. The radial direction of a
transmitter coil may be defined by an angular difference between a reference location of the
transmitter coil and the reference direction.
[0113]    FIG. 8A illustrates exemplary reference locations for transmitter coils 80 1a-b with
respect to an exemplary reference direction 807. Exemplary reference direction 807 may be
an angular direction corresponding to true north as shown in FIG. 8A. A reference location
may be represented by any structural part of a transmitter coil that is common in all other
transmitter coils. For instance, a reference location 803a of transmitter coil 801a can be
represented by a termination end 805a of transmitter coil 801a. Likewise, a reference
location 803b of transmitter coil 801b can be represented by a corresponding termination end
805b of transmitter coil 801b. The radial direction of transmitter coil 801a can be defined by
the angle between reference direction 807 and reference location 803a, and the radial
direction of transmitter coil 801b can be defined by the angle between reference direction 807
and reference location and 803b. Thus, transmitter coil 801a may be arranged in a different
radial direction than transmitter coil 801b as shown in FIG. 8A.
[0114]    The particular way these transmitter coils are arranged can be based on one or more
factors. For instance, the structure of the transmitter coil can include protrusions that can fit
in the spaces between transmitter coils in adjacent layers, thereby minimizing z-height. As an
example, a transmitter coil in the first layer can have protrusions that fit in the space between
                                                 30

adjacent transmitter coils in the second layer. Details of such structures will be discussed
further herein.
[0115]     Transmitter coils in different transmitter coil layers can be arranged in different
radial directions. FIG. 8B illustrates an exemplary transmitter coil arrangement 800 formed
of three transmitter coil layers: a first transmitter coil layer 802, a second transmitter coil
layer 804, and a third transmitter coil layer 806, where the transmitter coils of each layer is
arranged in a different radial direction than the other layers. Transmitter coil arrangement
800 is shown in an arrangement suitable for a pill-shaped wireless charging mat, such as
wireless charging mat 100 in FIGS. 1 and 2, though it is to be appreciated that embodiments
are not limited to such arrangements, and that other embodiments can have transmitter coil
arrangements suitable for other shapes of wireless charging mats without departing from the
spirit and scope of the present disclosure.
[0116]     As shown in FIG. 8B, transmitter coils of first transmitter coil layer 802 can be
arranged in a first radial direction 808, transmitter coils of second transmitter coil layer 804
can be arranged in a second radial direction 810, and transmitter coils of third transmitter coil
layer 806 can be arranged in a third radial direction 812. First, second, and third radial
directions 808, 810, and 812 can be offset from one another by an angular offset 814.
Angular offset 814 may be determined to be an angle that enables transmitter coils of first,
second, and third transmitter coil layers 802, 804, and 806 to achieve minimal z-height when
transmitter coil arrangement 800 is assembled, as will be discussed in detail further herein.
In some embodiments, angular offset 814 ranges between 110 to 130 degrees, particularly
around 120 degrees in certain embodiments.
[0117]     While transmitter coils in different layers can be arranged in different radial
directions, transmitter coils in the same coplanar layer can be arranged in the same radial
direction. To better illustrate this concept, FIGS. 9A-9C each illustrate a different transmitter
coil layer of transmitter coil arrangement 800 in FIG. 8B. Specifically, FIG. 9A illustrates
first transmitter coil layer 802, FIG. 9B illustrates second transmitter coil layer 804, and FIG.
9C illustrates third transmitter coil layer 806.
[0118]     As can be seen from FIGS. 9A-9C, transmitter coils 802 are all arranged in the same
radial direction, e.g., first radial direction 808. Likewise, transmitter coils 804 are all
arranged in radial direction 810, and transmitter coils 806 are all arranged in radial direction
812. In some embodiments, the transmitter coils in the same layer are substantially coplanar.
                                                   31

Additionally, adjacent transmitter coils in the same coplanar layer are positioned the same
distance away from one another, as discussed herein with respect to FIGS. 5A and 5B.
Furthermore, each set of transmitter coils in a coplanar layer are symmetrical across a
horizontal axis 900. In some embodiments, only two out of the three layers of transmitter
coils has the same number of transmitter coils. For instance, transmitter coils 802 in the first
layer has the same number of transmitter coils as transmitter coils 804 in the second layer.
Transmitter coils 806 in the third layer can have a different number of transmitter coils than
the other two layers, such as two less transmitter coils than the other two layers. This
phenomenon is an artifact of the expanded rosette pattern discussed herein above.
[0119]     FIGS. 8B and 9A-9C illustrate one exemplary transmitter coil arrangement;
however, embodiments are not limited to such arrangements. Other embodiments can have
different transmitter coil arrangements. As an example, FIG. 10 illustrates an exemplary
transmitter coil arrangement 1000 that includes sixteen individual coils where the transmitter
coils are arranged in different radial directions based on their position in the transmitter coil
arrangement, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. For instance,
transmitter coil arrangement 1000 can include twelve outer transmitter coils 1002 and four
inner transmitter coils 1004. Outer transmitter coils 1002 may be a set of transmitter coils
positioned near the outermost regions of transmitter coil arrangement 1000, while inner
transmitter coils 1004 may be those transmitter coils surrounded by outer transmitter coils
 1002. As shown in FIG. 10, inner transmitter coils 1004 are indicated by bolded lines, and
outer transmitter coils 1002 are indicated by non-bolded lines for ease of observation.
[0120]     In some embodiments, outer transmitter coils 1002 are arranged in a different radial
direction than inner transmitter coils 1004. As shown in FIG. 10, outer transmitter coils 1002
can be arranged in a radial direction pointing toward the outer edges of transmitter coil
arrangement 1000, while inner transmitter coils 1004 can be arranged in various radial
directions. Arranging outer transmitter coils 1002 in such a manner enables some portions of
outer transmitter coils 1002 to be positioned away from an inner region of a charging surface.
Such portions may be less efficient portions of the transmitter coils due to the structural
configuration of the transmitter coil, as will be discussed further herein.
[0121]     Given the multi-layered construction of transmitter coil arrangement 1000,
transmitter coils in the same coplanar layer can be arranged in different directions. FIGS.
 11 A-1 1C each illustrate a different transmitter coil layer of transmitter coil arrangement 1000
                                                  32

in FIG. 10. Specifically, FIG. 11 A illustrates a first transmitter coil layer 1102, FIG. 11 B
illustrates a second transmitter coil layer 1104, and FIG. 1 IC illustrates a third transmitter
coil layer 1106 of transmitter coil arrangement 1000.
[0122]      As can be seen from FIGS. 11 A-1 IC, one or more transmitter coils in first
transmitter coil layer 1102 are arranged in a different radial direction than other transmitter
coils in the same layer. Transmitter coils that are part of outer transmitter coils 1002 in FIG.
 10, e.g., transmitter coils 1 108a, 1 108b, 1 108d, 1 108e, and 1 108f, can be arranged so that
their radial direction face outward as discussed herein with respect to FIG. 10 to achieve a
more even charging surface across a wireless charging mat. Conversely, transmitter coils that
are part of inner transmitter coils 1104 in FIG. 10, e.g., transmitter coil 1108c, can be
arranged so that its radial direction is an increment of between 110 to 130 degrees, such as
 120 degrees discussed herein with respect to FIG. 8B. Transmitter coils that are part of
respective inner and outer transmitter coils in the second and third transmitter coil layers, as
shown in FIGS. 11 B and 1 IC, can also be arranged based on the same principles.
[0123]      Transmitter coils shown in FIGS. 2-11 C in respective transmitter coil arrangements
can have similar dimensions. For example, transmitter coils in each transmitter coil
arrangement can have the same inner diameter and outer diameter. FIG. 12A illustrates an
exemplary transmitter coil arrangement 1200 where all of the transmitter coils have
substantially the same dimensions, e.g., the same inner and outer diameters. An inner
diameter can be defined by the diameter of a perimeter formed by the turn of a transmitter
coil that is closest to its center, and an outer diameter can be defined by the diameter of a
perimeter formed by the turn of a transmitter coil that is farthest from its center. For instance,
transmitter coil 1202a can have an inner diameter 1204 and an outer diameter 1206. Even
transmitter coils 1202b and 1202c positioned at the farthest left and right positions in
transmitter coil arrangement 1200 can have substantially the same dimensions as all other
transmitter coils. In some embodiments, transmitter coils have substantially the same
dimensions when their respective inner and outer diameters differ by less than 10%,
particularly less than 5% in certain embodiments.
[0124]      Although transmitter coils arrangement discussed herein can have the substantially
the same dimensions, some embodiments can have transmitter coil arrangements where some
transmitter coils have different dimensions than other transmitter coils in the same transmitter
coil arrangement, as will be discussed herein with respect to FIG. 12B.
                                                  33

[0125]     FIG. 12B illustrates an exemplary transmitter coil arrangement 1201 where one or
more transmitter coils have different dimensions than other transmitter coils in transmitter
coil arrangement 1201, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. In some
embodiments, all other transmitter coils in transmitter coil arrangement 1200 can have the
same inner and outer diameters 1204 and 1206 except for the transmitter coils that are
positioned at the farthest left and right positions of transmitter coil arrangement 1200, such as
transmitter coils 1202b and 1202c.
[0126]     Transmitter coils 1202b and 1202c can have a smaller inner diameter than all other
transmitter coils in transmitter coil arrangement 1200 because of their positions. The farthest
left and right positions of transmitter coil arrangement 1200 have the least density of
transmitter coils by virtue of being at the very edge of the transmitter coil arrangement. Thus,
magnetic flux generated in those positions may be less dense than magnetic flux generated at
other areas of transmitter coil arrangement 1200, such as magnetic flux generated near the
center of transmitter coil arrangement 1200. Accordingly, one or more transmitter coils
located at the farthest left and right positions can have different coil dimensions to increase
the magnetic flux density produced at those areas of the transmitter coil arrangement. For
instance, transmitter coils 1202b and 1202c can have a smaller inner diameter 1208 but the
same outer diameter 1210 when compared to other transmitter coils in transmitter coil
arrangement 1200, e.g., transmitter coil 1202a. By having a smaller inner diameter,
transmitter coils 1202b and 1202c can have more turns, thereby being capable of generating a
greater amount of flux. In some embodiments, inner diameter 1208 is approximately three to
five mm less than inner diameter 1204. For instance, inner diameter 1208 can be
approximately 4 mm less than inner diameter 1204 such that inner diameter 1208 is 13 mm
and inner diameter 1204 is 17 mm. It is to be appreciated that other embodiments can modify
the shape and/or geometry of the transmitter coils to achieve a smoother charging region.
Additionally, the shape of one or more transmitter coils can be modified based on the
geometry of the wireless charging mat and the location of the transmitter coils with respect to
the wireless charging mat. For instance, if the wireless charging mat is in the general shape
of a square or of another shape that has several straight edges, some transmitter coils disposed
at the edges of the wireless charging mat can be in the shape of a "D" such that the straight
edges of the transmitter coil can correspond to the straight edges of the wireless charging mat.
                                                 34

III.    TRANSMITTER COIL STRUCTURE
[0127]     As illustrated in FIGS. 2-12, the transmitter coils are shown as circular "O"-shaped
rings. It is to be appreciated that the circular "O"-shaped rings represent a coil of wire for
generating time-varying magnetic fields capable of inducing a corresponding current in a
receiver coil for performing wireless charging. In some embodiments, the coil of wire may
be formed of a coil of wire where each turn of the wire includes a bundle of smaller coils of
wire. In other embodiments, the coil of wire may be formed of a coil of wire where each turn
of the wire includes a single core of conductive material. While FIGS. 2-12 illustrate the
transmitter coils as circular rings, in some embodiments each transmitter coil can have an
outer perimeter with a generally circular shape that is not a perfect circle due to the width of
the wire and the spiraling nature of the wire as described in further detail below. As used
herein, a "generally circular" coil refers to both a coil with a circular perimeter and a coil that
has a perimeter that is close to being circular as discussed below. In other embodiments,
transmitter coils may be non-circular, such as hexagonal so that the coils may maximize
usage of the space between adjacent transmitter coils, or any other suitable shape, e.g.,
square, oval, rectangular, triangular, and the like.
        A.       Transmitter Coil Wiring
[0128]     FIG. 13A illustrates an exemplary coil of wire 1300 formed of a plurality of thin
wires, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. A single turn of wire can
include a bundle 1302 of small conductive wires, as shown in FIG. 13B. FIG. 13B illustrates
a cross-sectional view 1301 of a single turn of wire of coil 1300. The single turn of wire can
include multiple thin wires 1305, which can be arranged in sub-bundles, such as sub-bundles
 1303a, 1303b, and 1303c. The overall width of bundle 1302 of wires may be determined by
the thickness of each thin wire 1305 and the manner in which the bundle 1302 of thin wires
are arranged (e.g., how many thin wires 1305 are stacked together in the z direction to define
the height, H, of each sub-bundle). In some embodiments, the thickness of each thin wire
 1305 may range between 110 and 120 microns, resulting in a bundle 1302 of thin wire having
a width ranging between 1 to 2 mm and a height (H) ranging between 0.4 to 0.7 mm. Using a
bundle of thin wire for each turn of the coil may be particularly useful for generating stronger
magnetic fields given its ability to achieve a large number of turns in a limited amount of
space.
                                                 35

[0129]     Coil of wire 1300 may be formed of a coil of wire that winds between an inner
radius 1304 to an outer radius 1306. In some embodiments, coil of wire 1300 can be a
flattened "O"-ring formed of single layer of wire that winds from inner radius 1304 to the
outer radius 1306, or vice versa. Inner radius 1304 can be a non-zero radius that allows coil
of wire 1300 to have a vacant inner space. Having the coil of wire 1300 wind in a single
layer of wire minimizes the overall height of the coil, which thereby decreases the overall
height of the wireless charging mat once the coils are assembled.
[0130]     In particular embodiments, each thin wire 1305 is an electrically insulated wire that
is covered in one or more layers of dielectric material, such as polyurethane. The layer of
electrical insulation prevents the thin wires from shorting with an adjacent thin wire when
coiled. Additionally, coil of wire 1300 as a whole can be covered with another layer of
insulating material, such as polyimide, to attach the wound wires together to form a single
structure of coiled wire. Coil of wire 1300 can be attached to a bobbin, as will be discussed
further herein, and can thus be easily picked up and placed (e.g., using a robot as part of a
manufacturing process) in a transmitter coil arrangement.
[0131]     In some embodiments, instead of using a bundle of smaller coils, a single core of
conductive material may be used for each turn of wire, as shown in FIG. 13C. FIG. 13C
illustrates an exemplary coil of wire 1307 formed of a single core of conductive wire,
according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. FIG. 13D illustrates a cross
sectional view 1309 of a single turn of wire of coil 1307. As shown in cross-sectional view
 1309, the single turn of wire may be formed of a single core of conductive wire 1311 instead
of a bundle of wires 1302 as shown in FIG. 13B. Using a single core of conductive wire for
each turn of the coil of wire may be particularly useful for applications where the transmitter
coil is formed in a PCB, which can be printed with conductive lines having very small
dimensions. In some embodiments, the single core of conductive wire can have a width
between 0.9 and 1.3 mm, and a height between 0.08 to 0.18 mm.
[0132]     With reference back to FIG. 13A, coil of wire 1300 can have two termination ends:
first termination end 1308 and second termination end 1310. The termination ends may be
the avenue through which current can enter and exit through coil of wire 1300. In some
embodiments, termination end 1310 can fold over coil 1300 to be positioned within an inner
diameter of coil 1300 as shown in FIGS. 14A and 14B.
                                                36

[0133]    Specifically, FIG. 14A illustrates a top perspective view of a coil of wire 1400 with
termination ends 1402 and 1404 positioned within an internal diameter 1406 of coil of wire
 1400, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure, and FIG. 14B illustrates a
side view of coil of wire 1400. Positioning termination ends 1402 and 1404 within the
internal diameter of coil of wire 1400 simplifies how coil 1400 is coupled to another
structure, such as a driver board, because it enables the coupling to be performed at a single
location, e.g., the center of coil of wire 1400.
[0134]    As shown in FIG. 14A, termination end 1402 bends over coil 1400 so that it is
positioned within internal diameter 1406. Although termination end 1402 appears to bend
over coil 1400 without folding over on itself, embodiments are not limited to such
arrangements and that embodiments where termination end 1402 folds over itself to be
positioned within internal diameter 1406 are envisioned herein as well. In some
embodiments, a portion 1408 of the termination end 1402 rests on coil 1400 so that it
protrudes above a plane of coil 1400. For instance, with reference to FIG. 14B, portion 1408
can extend above a plane 1410 of coil 1400 as defined by a surface formed by the winding of
wire of coil 1400. The protrusion may be positioned on only one side of coil 1400 so that the
other side of coil 1400 may not have a protrusion. Unlike termination end 1402, termination
end 1404 may not protrude above plane 1410 as it may already be positioned within internal
diameter 1406. In some embodiments, termination end 1404 can merely bend toward the
center of coil 1400 without folding over coil 1400.
[0135]    With reference back to FIG. 14A, the directions at which termination ends 1402 and
 1404 turn toward the center of coil 1400 can, in some embodiments, form an angle 1412 with
respect to each other. Angle 1412 may be determined based on an offset angle, such as offset
angle 814 discussed herein with respect to FIG. 8B. Offset angle 814 may enable the
overlapping portion 1408 of coil 1400 to be positioned in a gap between transmitter coils in
an adjacent layer to minimize the z-height of a transmitter coil stack, as will be discussed
further herein.
[0136]    As can be appreciated from FIG. 14A, a portion of coil of wire 1400 can have a
different number of turns than other regions. For example, region 1414 of coil 1400 can have
four turns of wire, while the rest of coil 1400 (e.g., regions of coil 1400 that is not part of
region 1414) has five turns of wire as shown in FIG. 14A. In another example (not shown in
FIG. 14A), region 1414 of coil 1400 can have more turns than the rest of coil 1400. It is to be
                                                 37

appreciated that having more or less turns in region 1414 depends on the arrangement of
termination ends 1402 and 1404 which define where the winding begins and ends.
Accordingly, region 1414 may have different coupling characteristics with other transmitter
coils when arranged in a transmitter coil arrangement than the other regions of coil 1400. As
an example, region 1414 may have more coupling with other transmitter coils in a transmitter
coil arrangement. Having more coupling may reduce the efficiency of the transmitter coil.
Thus, in some embodiments, region 1414 may be minimized to mitigate coupling with other
transmitter coils by reducing the angle at which termination ends 1402 and 1404 are
positioned. For example, termination ends 1402 and 1404 can be positioned parallel to one
another, as shown in FIG. 14C. In some embodiments, region 1414 is less than half of coil
 1400 such that region 1414 is a smaller portion of coil 1400 than the rest of coil 1400.
[0137]     FIG. 14C illustrates an exemplary coil of wire 1401 where termination ends 1402
and 1404 are arranged parallel to one another. By arranging termination ends 1402 and 1404
parallel to one another, region 1416 of coil 1401 having less turns than other regions of the
coil may be minimized. For instance, region 1416 having only four turns of wire may be
minimized to be the small distance between termination ends 1402 and 1404 shown in FIG.
 14C. In comparison, region 1416 may be substantially smaller than region 1414 in FIG. 14A.
Accordingly, by minimizing region 1416, coil 1401 may operate in a more efficient manner.
[0138]     In some embodiments, due to the width of each turn of the wire that makes up coils
 1400 and 1401, each coil can have a generally circular shape (as defined by the outer
perimeter of the coil) that is not a true circle. That is, some regions of the outer perimeter of
coils 1400 and 1401 may deviate from the outer perimeter of a true circle. For example, the
outer perimeter of a true circle 1418, represented by dashed and dotted lines, is superimposed
over coil 1400 and 1401 in FIGS. 14A and 14C. Portions of the outer perimeter of coils 1400
and 1401 having less turns, e.g., portions 1414 and 1416, may deviate from the outer
perimeter of a true circle 1418 by having a shorter radius. The non-circular shape of the
transmitter coils can dictate the organization of a transmitter coil arrangement to ensure an
even charging efficiency across the entire surface of the charging region, as will be discussed
further below.
[0139]     As will be appreciated further herein, the different ways the termination ends are
arranged may affect the radial directions of the coils as discussed herein with respect to FIGS.
                                                  38

8-1 IC. Details of this relationship will be discussed further herein with respect to FIGS.
 17A-19.
        B.       Bobbin
[0140]     According to some embodiments of the present disclosure, each coil of wire is
wound around, and the termination ends of each coil are attached to, a central, disc-shaped
support structure known as a "bobbin." The structure formed by combining the coil of wire
and the bobbin is sometimes referred to as "a transmitter coil" throughout the disclosure. The
bobbin is a support structure that not only provides structural integrity for the coil of wire, but
also provides a structure to which the termination ends can attach for coupling with a
respective pair of contact pins. The contact pins can electrically couple the coil of wire to a
driver board for operating the coil of wire as a transmitter coil for wireless charging.
[0141]     FIGS. 15A-15D illustrate an exemplary bobbin 1500 according to some
embodiments of the present disclosure. Specifically, FIG. 15A illustrates a top perspective
view of bobbin 1500, FIG. 15B illustrates a side-view of bobbin 1500, and FIGS. 15C and
 15D illustrate side-views of other exemplary bobbins. These exemplary bobbins may have
similar features as bobbin 1500, except that their contact housings and pins may be arranged
differently, as discussed below.
[0142]     Bobbin 1500 may be a generally flat and circular structure in the shape of a disc
including substantially planar surfaces. For example, bobbin 1500 can have a substantially
planar top surface 1502 and a substantially planar bottom surface 1504 as shown in FIG. 15B.
With reference back to FIG. 15A, bobbin 1500 includes a contact housing 1506 positioned
near the center of bobbin 1500. A pair of contact pins 1508a-b can reside within contact
housing 1502 for coupling with a respective pair of termination ends of a coil of wire.
Contact pins 1508a-b may be contacts in the form of cantilever beams (or any other suitable
form of contacts) that are configured to make contact with pads on a control board, e.g., a
driver board formed as a PCB, for operating a coil of wire (not shown) wound around angular
bobbin 1500.
[0143]     In some embodiments, contact housing 1506 can protrude past a planar surface of
bobbin 1500. As an example, contact housing 1506 can protrude past planar top surface 1502
as shown in FIG. 15B. In another example, contact housing 1506 can protrude past both top
and bottom surfaces 1502 and 1504, respectively, as shown in FIG. 15C, or can protrude past
                                                39

bottom surface 1504 as shown in FIG. 15D. Contact housing 1506 protrudes past a plane of
bobbin 1500 to provide additional vertical space for termination ends of a coil of wire to
couple with contact pins 1508a-b. For instance, contact housing 1506 may provide enough
space for the termination ends to be soldered to bobbin 1500. The resulting soldered
structure may occupy more vertical space than the thickness of bobbin 1500 defined by top
and bottom surfaces 1502 and 1504.
[0144]     Bobbin 1500 can also include a pair of contact pads 1512a-b. Contact pads 1512a-b
can provide a surface upon which termination ends of a coil of wire can attach to electrically
couple with contact pins 1508a-b. For instance, contact pads 1512a-b may be substantially
flat surfaces that are electrically coupled to respective contact pins 1508a-b. Bobbin 1500
may further include a pair of channels 151 Oa-b to allow termination ends to couple with
contact pads 1512a-b. In some embodiments, channels 15 1Oa-b extend from outer rim 1516
toward contact housing 1506, i.e., toward the center of bobbin 1500. Channels 1510a-b can
provide an avenue through which the termination ends traverse to make contact with contact
pads 1512a-b. As shown in FIG. 15A, channels 1510a-b can be vacant regions in bobbin
 1500 where termination ends can be positioned without substantially affecting the overall
thickness of bobbin 1500.
[0145]     Bobbin 1500 can further include one or more openings 1516a and 1516b. Each
opening 1516a and 1516b can be a vacant space that extends through bobbin 1500 so that
apparatuses can pass through from one side of bobbin 1500 to the other. In some
embodiments, openings 1516a and 1516b are features that can be used to grab bobbin 1500
and to pick up and accurately place bobbin 1500 in specific locations, such as in a transmitter
coil arrangement. Additionally, openings 1516a and 1516b provide avenues through which
apparatuses may traverse to secure bobbin 1500 in a transmitter coil arrangement after being
pick up and placed in its intended location.
[0146]     In some embodiments, bobbin 1500 can include attachment pads 1514 for attaching
the coil of wire to bobbin 1500. Any suitable adhesive, such as an epoxy adhesive, may
secure bobbin 1500 to the coil of wire by fixing the coil of wire to attachment pads 1514.
Although FIG. 15A shows three attachment pads 1514 disposed on only one side of bobbin
 1500, embodiments are not limited to such configurations. Other embodiments can have
more or less attachment pads and the attachment pads can be disposed on either or both sides
of the bobbin.
                                                 40

        C.      Angle Transmitter Coil
[0147]    As shown in FIG. 15A, channels 1510a-b of bobbin 1500 can be arranged at an
angle 1518 with respect to one another. Angle 1518 can be a non-zero angle that is
particularly suitable for allowing transmitter coils to be arranged in a stack with minimal z
height. For instance, angle 1518 may be between 110 to 130 degrees, such as 120 degrees in
particular embodiments. Angle 1518 may correspond to angle 1412 between the termination
ends of coil 1400 in FIG. 14. As such, a coil of wire wound about outer rim 1516 of bobbin
 1500 may result in the formation of coil 1400. According to some embodiments, winding a
coil of wire about bobbin 1500 results in the formation of an angle transmitter coil as shown
in FIGS. 16A and 16B.
[0148]    FIGS. 16A and 16B illustrate top and bottom perspective views, respectively, of an
exemplary angle transmitter coil 1600 formed of a coil of wire 1602 wound about bobbin
 1604, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. As shown in FIG. 16A,
termination ends 1606 and 1608 can be attached to respective contact pads on bobbin 1604 at
an angle, e.g., angle 1518 in FIG. 15A. Once attached to the contact pads, termination ends
 1606 and 1608 can be electrically coupled to respective contact pins 1610a-b in contact
housing 1612. Thus, when contact pads 1610a-b are coupled to a driver board (not shown),
the driver board can be electrically coupled to coil 1602 to control the operation of angle
transmitter coil 1600. Additionally, once coil of wire 1602 is wound about bobbin 1604,
angle transmitter coil 1600 is formed and constructed as a single structure that can be picked
up and placed on a driver board during assembly of a wireless charging mat.
[0149]    As can be seen from the bottom perspective view of angle transmitter coil 1600 in
FIG. 16B, termination end 1608 can bend over coil 1602. Thus, in addition to contact
housing 1612, termination end 1608 can also protrude from a plane of angle transmitter coil
 1600. In some embodiments, termination end 1608 and contact housing 1612 protrude from
the same plane of angle transmitter coil 1600. This protrusion may affect the way the
transmitter coils are radially oriented when implemented in a transmitter coil arrangement, as
will be further discussed with respect to FIGS. 17A and 17B.
[0150]    FIG. 17A illustrates an exemplary transmitter coil arrangement 1700 formed with
angle transmitter coils, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. Each angle
transmitter coil can be arranged in a radial direction suitable for minimizing the z-height of
transmitter coil arrangement 1700 while also enabling contact pins from each transmitter coil
                                                41

to make contact with a driver board (not shown). Specifically, transmitter coil arrangement
 1700 may be organized based on the transmitter coil arrangement shown in FIGS. 8-9C.
Similar to the discussion herein with respect to FIGS. 8-9C, transmitter coils in different
transmitter coil layers can be arranged in different radial directions, e.g., radial directions
 1704, 1706, and 1708 in the first, second, and third transmitter coil layers, to minimize the z
height of transmitter coil arrangement 1700. Similar to radial directions 808, 810, and 812 in
FIG. 8B, radial directions 1704, 1706, and 1708 can be arranged in angular offsets of
between 110 to 130 degrees, such as 120 degrees. The angular offset is selected so that the
termination ends that protrude from a plane of the transmitter coil can be tucked between
adjacent coils in another layer, thereby minimizing the z-height of transmitter coil
arrangement 1700.
[0151]     FIG. 17B illustrates a zoomed-in, bottom perspective view of a portion of
transmitter coil arrangement 1700. As shown, termination end 1710 of an angle transmitter
coil in a first transmitter coil layer can be tucked in the space between adjacent transmitter
coils 1712 and 1714 in a second transmitter coil layer. The space between adjacent
transmitter coils may correspond to distance D1 discussed herein with respect to FIGS. 5A
and 5B. Distance D1 may be larger than the width of a termination end, i.e., the width of a
wire of a transmitter coil. In some embodiments, distance D1 ranges between 1.5 to 2 mm.
[0152]     Contact housings of transmitter coils are positioned in locations where contact pins
can interface with the driver board without being blocked by another transmitter coil. For
instance, the contact housings can be positioned within central termination zones 1718 of the
transmitter coils. Central termination zones 1718 may correspond to central termination
zones 418 discussed herein with respect to FIG. 4.
        D.        ParallelTransmitter Coil
[0153]     FIGS. 18A-18B illustrate an exemplary parallel transmitter coil 1800 according to
some embodiments of the present disclosure. Specifically, FIG. 18A illustrates a top
perspective view of parallel transmitter coil 1800, and FIG. 18B illustrates a bottom
perspective view of parallel transmitter coil 1800.
[0154]     As shown in FIG. 18A, parallel transmitter coil 1800 can include a coil of wire 1802
wound about a bobbin 1804. Termination ends 1806 and 1808 can be attached to respective
contact pads on bobbin 1804 and arranged parallel to one another. When termination ends
                                                  42

 1806 and 1808 are arranged in parallel, a portion 1814 of coiled wire 1802 defined by the
region between termination ends 1806 and 1808 may be smaller than portion 1614 of coiled
wire 1602. Thus, parallel transmitter coil 1600 may be more efficient than angle transmitter
coil 1800. Once attached to the contact pads, termination ends 1806 and 1808 may be
electrically coupled to respective contact pins 1810a-b in contact housing 1812. Thus, when
contact pads 181 0a-b are coupled to a driver board (not shown), the driver board may be
electrically coupled to coil 1802 to control the operation of parallel transmitter coil 1800.
[0155]     As can be seen from the bottom perspective view of parallel transmitter coil 1800 in
FIG. 18B, contact housing 1812 can protrude from a plane of parallel transmitter coil 1800.
Termination end 1808 can bend over coil 1802 and also protrude from a plane of parallel
transmitter coil 1800. In some embodiments, termination end 1808 and contact housing 1812
protrude from the same plane of parallel transmitter coil 1800. This protrusion may affect the
way the transmitter coils are radially oriented when implemented in a transmitter coil
arrangement.
[0156]     FIG. 19 illustrates an exemplary transmitter coil arrangement 1900 formed with
parallel and angle transmitter coils, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
Each transmitter coil can be arranged in a radial direction suitable for maximizing efficiency
of an interior region of transmitter coil arrangement 1900 while also minimizing z-height and
enabling contact pins from each transmitter coil to make contact with a driver board (not
shown). Specifically, the transmitter coil stack can be arranged according to the transmitter
coil arrangement shown in FIGS. 10-11 C. Transmitter coil arrangement 1900 may similarly
include outer transmitter coils 1902 and inner transmitter coils 1904. Outer transmitter coils
 1902 may be a single line of transmitter coils positioned near the outermost regions of
transmitter coil arrangement 1900, while inner transmitter coils 1904 may be those
transmitter coils surrounded by outer transmitter coils 1902.
[0157]     In some embodiments, outer transmitter coils 1902 may be parallel transmitter coils
arranged in radial directions pointing toward the outer edges of transmitter coil arrangement
 1900, e.g., the outer perimeter of the wireless charging mat within which transmitter coil
arrangement 1900 is disposed. For instance, portions 1906 of outer transmitter coils 1902
that have less turns of wire, e.g., the less efficient portions of the coil of wire such as portion
 1814 in FIG. 18A, can be oriented toward the outer edges of transmitter coil arrangement
 1900. Accordingly, the rest of the portions of outer transmitter coils 1904 having more turns
                                                   43

and better efficiency may be concentrated toward the interior of transmitter coil arrangement
 1900. This helps ensure that the wireless charging mat has a more consistent and efficient
charging surface in the inner regions of the charging surface.
[0158]     While outer transmitter coils 1902 may be formed of parallel transmitter coils, inner
transmitter coils 1904 may be formed of angle transmitter coils because of the spatial
constraints caused by the arrangement of outer transmitter coils 1902. To fit inner transmitter
coils 1904 within transmitter coil arrangement 1900 while minimizing z-height, inner
transmitter coils 1904 may be arranged in various radial directions according to the principles
discussed herein with respect to FIG. 17A. That is, inner transmitter coils 1904 may be
arranged in different radial directions according to an angular offset of between 110 to 130
degrees, such as 120 degrees, so that the termination ends that protrude from a plane of the
angular transmitter coil can be tucked between adjacent coils in another layer, thereby
minimizing the z-height of transmitter coil arrangement 1900.
IV.     MULTI-LAYER ARRANGEMENT OF TRANSMITTER COILS
[0159]     To minimize the z-height of a transmitter coil arrangement, protrusions of
transmitter coils caused by contact housings and the folding-over of termination ends of coils
of wire may nest within the transmitter coil arrangement such that they do not protrude above
or below the transmitter coil arrangement as a whole. To better understand this concept,
FIGS. 20A and 20B illustrate side-views of an exemplary transmitter coil arrangement 2000
showing how the protrusion are positioned when assembled. The nesting of transmitter coil
arrangement 2000 may be similar to, and a suitable representation of, how other transmitter
coil arrangements are nested, such as transmitter coil arrangements 800, 1000, 1700, and
 1900 illustrated in FIGS. 8, 10, 17A, and 19.
[0160]     FIG. 20A illustrates an exploded view of transmitter coil arrangement 2000 to show
how the protrusions are positioned. Transmitter coil arrangement 2000 can include a first
transmitter coil 2002 in a first transmitter coil layer, a second transmitter coil 2004 in a
second transmitter coil layer, and a third transmitter coil 2006 in a third transmitter coil layer.
Each transmitter coil may be representative of other transmitter coils in the same layer. In
some embodiments, first transmitter coil 2002 is positioned apart from third transmitter coil
2006 while second transmitter coil 2004 is positioned between first and third transmitter coils
2002 and 2006, respectively.
                                                  44

[0161]     First transmitter coil 2002 can have a protrusion 2008 extending past a planar
surface 2010 of first transmitter coil 2002. Surface 2010 can include corresponding planar
surfaces of both the coil of wound wire and portions of the bobbin around which the coil of
wire is wound. Accordingly, in some embodiments, the planar surfaces of the coil of wound
wire and portions of the bobbin on corresponding sides of first transmitter coil 2002 may be
substantially coplanar. Because other portions of the bobbin may not substantially protrude
above surface 2010, the other portions are not shown as they are hidden behind the coil of
wire as perceived from the side-view perspective of FIG. 20A. In some embodiments,
protrusion 2008 can include the contact housing as well as the folded-over termination end of
the coil of wire. Contact pins 2026 of first transmitter coil 2002 can be positioned to extend
past a planar surface 2011 along a direction opposite of the protrusion. Contact pins 2026
protrude past planar surface 2011 to make contact with an underlying driver board, as will be
discussed further herein.
[0162]     Similar to first transmitter coil 2002, third transmitter coil 2006 can have a
protrusion 2012 extending past a planar surface 2014 of third transmitter coil 2002.
Protrusion 2012 can include a contact housing of a bobbin and a folded-over termination end
of a coil of wire wound around the bobbin of third transmitter coil 2006. Contact pins 2024
of third transmitter coil 2006 can be positioned to extend past an end of protrusion 2012 (e.g.,
past the contact housing of the bobbin) along a direction with the protrusion. Contact pins
2024 extends past an end of protrusion 2012 to make contact with the underlying driver
board.
[0163]     As further shown in FIG. 20A, second transmitter coil 2004 can have a protrusion
that includes two portions: a first portion 2016a and a second portion 2016b. First and
second portions 2016a and 2016b can include a contact housing of a bobbin and a folded
over termination end of a coil of wire wound around the bobbin of second transmitter coil
2004. First portion 2016a can extend past a surface 2018 of second transmitter coil 2004, and
second portion 2016b can extend past a surface 2020 opposite of surface 2018. Contact pins
2022 of second transmitter coil 2004 can be positioned to extend past an end of second
portion 2016b along a direction with second portion 2016b to make contact with the
underlying driver board.
[0164]     According to some embodiments of the present disclosure, protrusions 2008 and
2012 of first and third transmitter coils 2002 and 2006, respectively, can be positioned toward
                                                  45

second transmitter coil 2004 so that when the transmitter coils are assembled into transmitter
coil arrangement 2000, the protrusions do not protrude above or below transmitter coil
arrangement 2000 as a whole. Additionally, the position of the contact pads of the
transmitter coils are arranged such that when the transmitter coils are assembled into
transmitter coil arrangement 2000, the contact pins can extend past a bottom surface of
transmitter coil arrangement 2000 to make contact with an underlying driver board. The
distance at which contact pins are positioned away from respective surfaces of the transmitter
coils is configured such that they can make contact with the driver board even after being
assembled as transmitter coil arrangement 2000, as shown in FIG. 20B.
[0165]     FIG. 20B illustrates assembled transmitter coil arrangement 2000 attached to an
underlying driver board 2029. When assembled, the protrusions from the transmitter coils
can be nested within transmitter coil arrangement 2000 as shown by the dotted lines
representing protrusions 2008, 2012, and 2016a-b. In some embodiments, no protrusions in
transmitter coil arrangement 2000 extend above a top plane 2032 (i.e., surface 2013 of third
transmitter coil 2006) or extend below a bottom plane 2030 (i.e., surface 2011 of first
transmitter coil 2002) of transmitter coil arrangement 2000. Accordingly, protrusion 2008
can extend a distance from surface 2010 that is less than the combined thickness of the coil of
windings of second and third transmitter coils 2004 and 2006; likewise, protrusion 2012 can
extend a distance from surface 2014 that is less than the combined thickness of the coil of
windings of first and second transmitter coils 2002 and 2004. Because second transmitter
coil 2004 is positioned between first and third transmitter coils 2002 and 2006, portion 2016a
can extend a distance from surface 2018 that is less than the thickness of the coil of windings
of third transmitter coil 2006, and portion 2016b can extend a distance from surface 2020 that
is less than the thickness of the coil of windings of first transmitter coil 2002.
[0166]     In some embodiments, contact pins may be arranged to make contact with driver
board 2029 when transmitter coil arrangement 2000 is assembled. Thus, those transmitter
coils that are positioned farthest away from driver board 2029 in the transmitter coil
arrangement can have their contact pins positioned farthest away from its coil of wire. For
instance, as shown in FIG. 20B, third transmitter coil 2006 can be positioned farthest away
from driver board 2029. Thus, contact pins 2024 can be positioned farthest away from the
coil of wire of third transmitter coil 2006 so that they can make contact with driver board
2029 when transmitter coil arrangement 2000 is assembled. In some embodiments, as shown
in FIG. 20A, contact pins 2024 are positioned a distance 2028 from surface 2014 of third
                                                46

transmitter coil 2006, contact pins 2022 are positioned a distance 2030 from surface 2020 of
second transmitter coil 2004, and contact pins 2026 are positioned a distance 2032 from
surface 2011 of first transmitter coil 2002. Accordingly, distance 2028 may be greater than
distance 2030 and 2032, distance 2030 may be less than distance 2028 but greater than
distance 2032, and distance 2032 may be less than distances 2028 and 2030. By arranging
the contact pins of respective transmitter coils according to these distances, the contact pins
can be positioned to make contact with underlying driver board 2029, as shown in FIG. 20B,
even though the coils with which they are coupled are positioned at different distances away
from driver board 2029.
[0167]    It is to be appreciated that contact pins 2022, 2024, and 2026 extend toward driver
board 2029 regardless of which direction protrusions 2016a-b, 2012, and 2008 extend. As an
example, contact pins 2026 of first transmitter coil 2002 extend downward toward driver
board 2029 even though its protrusion 2008 extends upward. Contact pins 2022, 2024, and
2026 extend toward driver board 2029 to make contact with driver board 2029 so that control
board 2028 can operate the transmitter coils to perform wireless charging.
V.      TRANSMITTER COILS WITHOUT BOBBINS
[0168]    Aforementioned embodiments discussed herein are directed to transmitter coil
arrangements formed of transmitter coils with bobbins. However, it is to be appreciated that
transmitter coil arrangements according to embodiments of the present disclosure are not
required to be formed of transmitter coils with bobbins. In some embodiments, the
transmitter coil arrangements may be formed of transmitter coils without bobbins and yet still
achieve the same coverage, performance, and efficiency of transmitter coil arrangements
formed of transmitter coils with bobbins.
[0169]    FIG. 21 illustrates an exemplary transmitter coil 2100 without a bobbin, according
to some embodiments of the present disclosure. Transmitter coil 2100 can include a coil of
wire 2102 wound between an inner radius 2104 and an outer radius 2106. Coil of wire 2102
can be formed of a plurality of thin wires, similar to coil of wire 1200 in FIG. 12A, or formed
of a single core of conductive material, similar to coil of wire 1300 in FIG. 13A.
[0170]    In some embodiments, coil of wire 2102 may wind from an initial location 2108 to a
termination location 2110. Initial location 2108 may be a position along coil of wire 2102
where the wire initiates winding, and termination location 2110 may be a position along coil
                                                 47

of wire 2102 where the wire terminates winding. The windings of wire may not substantially
diverge from one another between initial location 2108 and termination location 2110. In
some embodiments, termination location 2210 can be positioned based on initial location
2210 to achieve a substantially even winding profile. For instance, termination location 2108
can be positioned directly across coil of winding 2102 from initial location 2108. By
positioning initial location 2108 and termination location 2110 this way, the number of
windings may be as close to a whole integer as possible, thereby achieving a substantially
even winding profile. The substantially even winding profile can minimize the size of a
portion 2116 that has a different number of turns than the rest of transmitter coil 2100, as
discussed herein with respect to FIGS. 14A and 14C. Furthermore, the number of turns may
be determined according to a target inductance value determined by design. As more turns
are formed in a transmitter coil, the inductance of the transmitter coil increases. Having too
much inductance in a transmitter coil may create inefficient power delivery. In particular
embodiments, the number of turns may range between six to eight turns, such as seven turns
in some embodiments.
[0171]     Transmitter coil 2100 can also include a first termination end 2112 and a second
termination end 2114. Each termination end 2112 and 2114 can be a point at which coil of
wire 2102 physically ends. Unlike transmitter coils with bobbins, second termination end
2114 may not fold over coil of wire 2102 to be positioned within the inner diameter of
transmitter coil 2100. Instead, second termination end 2114 may begin to diverge away from
coil of wire 2102 at termination location 2110 and stop outside of coil of wire 2102. First
and second termination ends 2112 and 2114 can couple with first and second termination
zones 2118 and 2120 to make contact with an underlying driver board. First termination zone
2118 may be positioned within the inner diameter of transmitter coil 2100, but second
termination zone 2120 may be positioned outside of the inner diameter of transmitter coil
2100. In some embodiments, second termination zone 2120 may be positioned within
another transmitter coil when transmitter coil 2100 is assembled in a transmitter coil
arrangement, as discussed herein with respect to FIG. 22.
[0172]     FIG. 22A illustrates an exemplary transmitter coil arrangement 2200 formed of
transmitter coils without bobbins, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure.
Positions of the transmitter coils in transmitter coil arrangement 2200 can be controlled by
carriers that define the positions of the transmitter coils according to the respective positions
shown in FIG. 22A during assembly. Each carrier can include an array of bosses that define
                                                 48

the location of the transmitter coils. The bosses can protrude from the carrier surface and
provide a structure around which the transmitter coils may be positioned. In some
embodiments, each carrier temporarily holds the transmitter coils in place until they are
secured to contacts on a driver board. Each carrier may be specific to a different layer of the
transmitter coil arrangement. Once the transmitter coils are secured to the driver board, the
carrier may be removed, thereby leaving the transmitter coils in their respective positions
according to the transmitter coil arrangement. Each layer is assembled, one-by-one, until all
the layers are assembled to form the transmitter coil arrangement shown in FIG. 22. As will
be discussed further herein, each layer of transmitter coils in transmitter coil arrangement
2200 can be fixed in position by a cowling.
[0173]    Each transmitter coil can be arranged in a radial direction suitable for minimizing
coupling within an interior region of transmitter coil arrangement 2200, while also enabling
termination ends of each transmitter coil to make contact with a driver board (not shown).
Similar to transmitter coil arrangement 1900 in FIG. 19, transmitter coil arrangement 2200
can be arranged in three transmitter coil layers according to the transmitter coil arrangement
shown in FIGS. 10-11 C. Thus, transmitter coil arrangement 2200 can include outer
transmitter coils 2202 and inner transmitter coils 2204. Outer transmitter coils 2202 may be a
single line of transmitter coils positioned near the outermost regions of transmitter coil
arrangement 2200, while inner transmitter coils 2204 may be those transmitter coils
surrounded by outer transmitter coils 2202.
[0174]    In some embodiments, outer transmitter coils 2202 may be arranged in a first radial
arrangement where its radial directions point toward the outer edges of transmitter coil
arrangement 2200 so that their regions that have a different number of turns, e.g., region 2116
in FIG. 21, are oriented toward the outer edges of transmitter coil arrangement 2200. Thus,
the portions of outer transmitter coils 2204 having more turns and lower coupling tendencies
may be concentrated toward the interior of transmitter coil arrangement 2200. This helps
ensure that the wireless charging mat has a more consistent and efficient charging surface in
the inner regions of the charging surface. Additionally, inner transmitter coils 2204 may be
arranged in a second radial arrangement different than the first radial arrangement. The
second radial arrangement can be where inner transmitter coils 2204 are arranged according
to different angular offsets with respect to one another as shown in FIG. 22. For instance,
inner transmitter coils 2204 can be arranged in angular offsets between 50-70 degrees,
particularly 60 degrees in some embodiments. Arranging inner transmitter coils 2204
                                                49

according to the second radial arrangement allows their termination ends to reach an
underlying interconnection structure by terminating in the inner diameters of adjacent
transmitter coils.
[0175]    Given that transmitter coils without bobbins do not have a folding-over portion nor
a bobbin that protrudes from a plane of a winding of coil, inner transmitter coils 2204 do not
need to be arranged in a radial direction that nests the protrusions in adjacent layers to
minimize z-height. Instead, inner transmitter coils 2204 may only need to be arranged so that
their second termination ends can make contact with an underlying driver board (not shown).
The second termination ends of the transmitter coils can make contact with the underlying
driver board when the second termination zones are positioned so that they are not blocked
by another transmitter coil. Accordingly, the second termination zones for the inner
transmitter coils 2204 can be positioned within an inner diameter of an adjacent transmitter
coil. As shown in FIG. 22, inner transmitter coils 2204 can be arranged in various radial
directions offset from one another at an angular offset of between 50 and 70 degrees, such as
approximately 60 degrees in some embodiments. Arranging inner transmitter coils 2204 in
this way allows their second termination zones to be positioned within the inner diameter of
neighboring transmitter coils so that their second termination ends can make contact with the
underlying driver board.
[0176]    As can be seen in FIG. 22A, each transmitter coil can have an outer termination
zone 2208 and an inner termination zone 2206 where respective termination ends reside. As
mentioned herein, each termination zone may be a region where a termination end is
positioned. The termination end can be a point at which a winding of the respective
transmitter coil physically ends, but whose electrical connection can continue if it is coupled
with a standoff for connecting with an underlying driver board. Outer termination zone 2208
can be a termination zone that is positioned outside of an outer diameter of its respective
transmitter coil, e.g., transmitter coil 2210. Inner termination zone 2206 can be a termination
zone that is positioned inside an inner diameter of its respective transmitter coil. Thus, outer
transmitter coils can have an outer termination zone that is positioned near an outer perimeter
of the transmitter coil arrangement, and inner transmitter coils can have outer termination
zones that are positioned within an inner diameter of an adjacent transmitter coil. For
instance, transmitter coil 2212 can be positioned as an inner transmitter coil and have an outer
termination zone 2214 that is positioned in an inner diameter of adjacent transmitter coil
2218.
                                                 50

[0177]     Given that each transmitter coil has two termination zones, it can be appreciated that
a transmitter coil arrangement can have numerous termination zones for coupling with an
underlying driver board. In many cases, the positions of these termination zones can affect
the efficiency at which the transmitter coil arrangement operates. Thus, in some
embodiments, termination zones of a transmitter coil arrangement can be arranged to have a
degree of similarity to improve simplicity in design and improvement in operating efficiency,
as discussed herein with respect to FIGS. 22B-22E.
[0178]     FIG. 22B is a simplified diagram illustrating an exemplary transmitter coil
arrangement 2201 formed of transmitter coils without bobbins and with similarly organized
termination ends, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. Transmitter coil
arrangement 2201 is formed of 22 transmitter coils arranged in an overlapping arrangement
such that different coils in the plurality of coils are on different planes and each transmitter
coil of the transmitter coil arrangement has a central axis that is positioned a lateral distance
away from central axes of all other transmitter coils, as discussed herein with respect to
FIGS. 3-7C. According to some embodiments of the present disclosure, the organization of
termination zones can be derived according to a base pattern of termination zones that is
repeated substantially throughout the transmitter coil arrangement. As an example,
transmitter coil arrangement 2201 can have termination zones that are substantially
positioned according to a base pattern 2220. In some embodiments, base pattern 2220 is
established by the termination zones of five transmitter coils shown with bolded lines in FIG.
22B. The termination zones of base pattern 2220 can be repeated throughout a majority of
transmitter coil arrangement 2201 except for the termination zones of the farthest left and
right transmitter coils. The termination zones of those farthest left and right transmitter coils
can be positioned such that one termination zone is outside of the coil and the other
termination zone is inside of the coil.
[0179]     A more detailed view of the transmitter coils in transmitter coil arrangement 2201
can be seen in FIGS. 22C-E. FIGS. 22C-E are simplified diagrams of sets of transmitter coils
in each layer of transmitter coil arrangement 2201. FIG. 22C illustrates the angular
orientations of a first set of transmitter coils 2222. As shown in FIG 22C, transmitter coils
2228b, 2228c, 2228e and 2228f that are positioned amongst the outer transmitter coils can
have angular orientations that are either vertically upward or downward, except for the
farthest right transmitter coil 2228g when arranged in transmitter coil arrangement 2201.
Transmitter coils 2228a and 2228d that are positioned amongst the inner transmitter coils can
                                                  51

have angular orientations that are vertically upward. As shown in FIG. 22D, transmitter coils
2230a, 2230b, 2230d, 2230e, 2230g, and 2230h that are positioned amongst the outer
transmitter coils can have angular orientations that are either vertically upward or downward.
Transmitter coils 2230c and 2230f that are positioned amongst the inner transmitter coils can
have angular orientations that are vertically upward. And, as shown in FIG. 22E, transmitter
coils 2232c, 2232b, 2232e, and 2232f that are positioned amongst the outer transmitter coils
can have angular orientations that are either vertically upward or downward, except for the
farthest right transmitter coil 2232a when arranged in transmitter coil arrangement 2201.
Transmitter coils 2232d and 2232g that are positioned amongst the inner transmitter coils can
have angular orientations that are vertically upward.
[0180]     As can be appreciated by FIGS. 22C-E, the outer transmitter coils of a transmitter
coil arrangement can be arranged in an angular direction that are either facing vertically
upward or downward, except for the farthest left and right transmitter coils. And, the inner
transmitter coils of a transmitter coil arrangement can be arranged in an angular direction that
is facing in the same direction, e.g., vertically upward. In this manner, the position of
termination zones for the transmitter coils in transmitter coil arrangement 2201 can be
substantially similar to each other, thereby simplifying design and enhancing charging
efficiency.
[0181]     Unlike transmitter coils with bobbins that have contact pins that extend below a
plane of the coil of wire to make contact with the underlying driver board, transmitter coils
without bobbins can make contact with the underlying driver board by making contact with
surface-mounted standoffs having contact pads that are elevated from the underlying driver
board once installed on a driver board. Thus, the contact pads can be positioned in the same
plane as the respective transmitter coils to which they are coupled. Details of such standoffs
will be discussed further herein.
VI.     WIRELESS CHARGING MAT ASSEMBLY
[0182]     FIG. 23 illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary wireless charging mat 2300
having transmitter coils with bobbins, according to some embodiments of the present
disclosure. Transmitter coils with bobbins can correspond to transmitter coils discussed
herein with respect to FIGS. 16A-20B. Wireless charging mat 2300 can include a housing
formed of two shells: a first shell 2302 and a second shell 2304. First shell 2302 can mate
with second shell 2304 to form an interior cavity within which internal components may be
                                                 52

positioned. Specifically, surfaces of first and second shells 2302 and 2304 can form walls
that define the internal cavity. For instance, first shell 2302 can have a bottom surface that
forms a first wall defining a top boundary of the internal cavity. Further, second shell 2304
can have a top surface that forms a second wall defining a bottom boundary of the internal
cavity. Side surfaces of both first and second shells 2302 and 2304 can have sidewalls that
form the lateral boundaries of the internal cavity. First and second shells 2302 and 2304 can
also include notches 2306a and 2306b, respectively, that form an opening within the housing
when first and second shells 2302 and 2304 are mated. An electrical connector 2308, such as
a receptacle connector, can be positioned within the opening so that wireless charging mat
2300 can receive power from an external power source through a cable connected to
electrical connector 2308. In some embodiments, electrical connector 2308 may include a
plurality of contact pins and a plurality of terminals electrically coupled to the contact pins so
that power can be routed from the external power source to the wireless charging mat 2300 to
provide power for wireless power transfer.
[0183]     First and second shells 2302 and 2304 may each be formed of more than one layer.
For instance, first shell 2302 can include a top covering 2310, a compliant layer 2312, and a
stiffening layer 2314. In some embodiments, compliant layer 2312 can be disposed between
top covering 2310 and stiffening layer 2314. Top covering 2310 may be a cosmetic layer that
is exposed when wireless charging mat 2300 is assembled. According to some embodiments,
a top surface of top covering 2310 includes a charging surface 2316 upon which a device
2340 having a wireless power receiver coil 2342 may be placed to receive power from
wireless charging mat 2300. The size and dimensions of charging surface 2316 can be
defined by one or more transmitter coil arrangements (e.g., any transmitter coil arrangement
discussed herein) encased between first and second shells 2302 and 2304.
[0184]     Stiffening layer 2314 can be a rigid structure that gives wireless charging mat 2300
structural integrity. Any suitable stiff material may be used to form stiffening layer 2314
such as fiberglass. Compliant layer 2312 can be positioned under top covering 2310 to
provide a soft, pillow-like texture for devices to rest on when contacting with top covering
2310 to receive power. Compliant layer 2312 can be formed of any suitable compliant
material, such as a foam or any other porous material.
[0185]     Second shell 2304 can include a bottom covering 2318, a bottom chassis 2320, and
a drop frame 2322. In some embodiments, bottom chassis 2320 can be positioned between
                                                 53

bottom covering 2318 and drop frame 2322. Bottom covering 2318 may be an outer covering
that is exposed when wireless charging mat 2300 is assembled. Bottom chassis 2320 can be a
stiff structure for providing structural rigidity for wireless charging mat 2300. In some
embodiments, bottom chassis 2320 can be formed of any suitable stiff materials, such as
fiberglass or carbon fiber. Drop frame 2322 may be a structural support layer that forms the
backbone of wireless charging mat 2300. In some embodiments, drop frame 2322 is a stiff
layer of plastic within which a plurality of openings 2348 are formed. Each opening 2348
can be formed to have dimensions corresponding to an electronic device, such as an inverter
for operating one or more transmitter coils, as will be discussed further herein.
[0186]     As mentioned above, top and bottom shells 2302 and 2304 can mate to form an
inner cavity. Several internal components as shown in FIG. 23 can be positioned within the
inner cavity. The internal components may include detection coils 2324 positioned below
first shell 2302. Detection coils 2324 can be an arrangement of coils designed to operate at a
predetermined frequency that enables detection coils 2324 to detect the presence of a device
positioned on top covering 2310 within charging surface 2316.
[0187]     In some embodiments, the internal components can also include a transmitter coil
arrangement 2326 disposed below detection coils 2324. According to some embodiments of
the present disclosure, transmitter coil arrangement 2326 can be formed of a plurality of
generally planar transmitter coils arranged in multiple layers and in an overlapping and non
concentric arrangement where no two coils are concentric with each other. In other words,
each transmitter coil can have a central axis that is positioned a lateral distance away from
central axes of all other transmitter coils in the plurality of transmitter coils. For instance,
transmitter coil arrangement 2326 can include three layers of transmitter coils (e.g., first layer
2328, second layer 2330, and third layer 2332) where each layer includes a plurality of
transmitter coils that are arranged coplanar with one another. Some exemplary transmitter
coil arrangements include transmitter coil arrangements 800, 1000, 1900, and 2200 in FIGS.
8, 10, 19, and 22 discussed herein above. Transmitter coil arrangement 2326 can be formed
of stranded transmitter coils as discussed herein with respect to FIGS. 16A-16B and 18A
 18B. In some other embodiments, transmitter coil arrangement 2326 can be formed as an
array of patterned conductive wires in a PCB.
[0188]     Transmitter coil arrangement 2326 can be operated to generate time-varying
magnetic fields that propagate above the top surface of first shell 2302 to induce a current in
                                                  54

receiver coil 2342 in electronic device 2340. Coverage of the time-varying magnetic fields
generated by transmitter coil arrangement 2326 may coincide with the dimensions of
charging surface 2316. In some embodiments, every transmitter coil in transmitter coil
arrangement 2326 includes a coil of wire that is wound in the same direction. Receiver coil
2342, on the other hand, can include a coil of wire that is wound in the opposite direction as
the transmitter coils. For instance, every coil of wire in transmitter coil arrangement 2326 is
wound in a clockwise direction, while the coil of wire of receiver coil 2342 is wound in a
counter-clockwise direction.
[0189]    In some embodiments, a ferrite layer 2334 can be disposed below transmitter coil
arrangement 2326. Ferrite layer 2334 may be a layer of ferromagnetic material configured to
prevent magnetic fields generated by transmitter coil arrangement 2326 from disrupting
components disposed below transmitter coil arrangement 2326. Ferrite layer 2334 can be
sized and shaped to correspond to charging surface 2316 and/or to transmitter coil
arrangement 2326. In certain embodiments, ferrite layer 2334 can be positioned directly
below first transmitter coil layer 2328. In such embodiments, first transmitter coil layer 2328
can include coils of wire that have less turns than the coils of wire in second and third
transmitter coil layers 2330 and 2332. Ferrite layer 2334 can include a plurality of openings
corresponding to the positions of contacts pins of transmitter coils in transmitter coil
arrangement 2326. The plurality of openings allow the transmitter coils to make contact with
components disposed below ferrite layer 2334. For instance, the plurality of openings can
allow the transmitter coils to make contact with a driver board 2336 disposed below ferrite
layer 2334.
[0190]    Driver board 2336 may be an electrical interconnection structure, such as a PCB,
flex circuit, patterned ceramic board, patterned silicon substrate, and the like, configured to
route signals and power for operating transmitter coil arrangement 2326. In some
embodiments, driver board 2336 includes plurality of contacts 2346 positioned to make
contact with corresponding contact pins of transmitter coils in transmitter coil arrangement
2326. A plurality of inverters can be mounted on an underside of driver PCB 2336 for
operating the transmitter coils in transmitter coil arrangement 2326. Each inverter can be
positioned at locations corresponding to respective transmitter coils with which the inverter
makes contact. In some embodiments, the plurality of inverters can be surface mounted to
the bottom surface of driver PCB 2336 such that they extend below driver PCB 2336.
Accordingly, the plurality of inverters can insert into respective openings 2348 in drop frame
                                                55

2322. Openings 2348 can be positioned at locations corresponding to respective inverters
mounted on driver PCB 2336. As shown in FIG. 23, notches 2350 may be formed in ferrite
layer 2334 and driver PCB 2336 for receptacle connector 2308 to be positioned within
wireless charging mat 2300 when assembled.
[0191]     In some embodiments, a ground ring 2338 can be wound along at least a portion of
the outer perimeter of driver PCB 2336. Ground ring 2338 may be a conductive wire wound
along the outer perimeter of driver PCB 2336 except for a location where receptacle
connector 2308 is coupled to driver PCB 2336.
[0192]     FIG. 24 illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary wireless charging mat 2400
having transmitter coils without bobbins, according to some embodiments of the present
disclosure. Transmitter coils without bobbins can correspond to transmitter coils discussed
herein with respect to FIGS. 21 and 22. Like wireless charging mat 2300, wireless charging
mat 2400 can include a housing formed of two shells: a first shell 2402 and a second shell
2404. First shell 2402 can mate with second shell 2404 to form an interior cavity within
which internal components may be positioned. Similar to wireless charging mat 2300, first
and second shells 2402 and 2404 can also include notches 2406a and 2406b, respectively,
that form an opening within the housing when first and second shells 2402 and 2404 are
mated. An electrical connector 2408, such as a receptacle connector, can be positioned
within the opening so that wireless charging mat 2400 can receive power from an external
power source through a cable connected to electrical connector 2408. In some embodiments,
electrical connector 2408 may include a plurality of contact pins and a plurality of terminals
electrically coupled to the contact pins so that power can be routed from the external power
source to the wireless charging mat 2400 to provide power for wireless power transfer.
[0193]     First and second shells 2402 and 2404 can each be formed of more than one layer.
For instance, first shell 2402 can include a top covering 2410 and a stiffening layer 2412.
Top covering 2410 can be a cosmetic layer that is exposed when wireless charging mat 2400
is assembled. According to some embodiments, a top surface of top covering 2410 includes a
charging surface 2414 upon which a device 2416 having a wireless power receiver coil 2415
may be placed to receive power from wireless charging mat 2400. The size and dimensions
of charging surface 2414 can be defined by one or more transmitter coil arrangements (e.g.,
any transmitter coil arrangement discussed herein) encased between first and second shells
2402 and 2404.
                                                56

[0194]     In some embodiments, top covering 2410 can include a compliant layer (not shown)
disposed below charging surface 2414. The compliant layer can be configured to provide a
soft, pillow-like texture for devices to rest on when contacting with top covering 2410 to
receive power. The compliant layer can be formed of any suitable compliant material, such
as a foam or any other porous material. Stiffening layer 2412 can be positioned below top
covering 2410, and be composed of a rigid structure that gives wireless charging mat 2400
structural integrity. Any suitable stiff material may be used to form stiffening layer 2412
such as fiberglass or a stiff polymer (e.g., molded Kalix).
[0195]     Second shell 2404 can include a bottom covering 2418 and a bottom chassis 2420.
In some embodiments, bottom chassis 2420 can be positioned against bottom covering 2418
such that bottom chassis 2420 is not shown when wireless charging mat 2400 is assembled.
Bottom covering 2418 may be an outer covering that is exposed when wireless charging mat
2400 is assembled. Bottom chassis 2420 can be a stiff structure for providing structural
rigidity for wireless charging mat 2400. In some embodiments, bottom chassis 2420 can be
formed of any suitable stiff materials, such as fiberglass, carbon fiber, or stainless steel.
[0196]     As mentioned above, top and bottom shells 2402 and 2404 can mate to form an
inner cavity. As shown in FIG. 24, various internal components can be positioned within the
inner cavity. For instance, the internal components can include a transmitter coil
arrangement 2429. According to some embodiments of the present disclosure, transmitter
coil arrangement 2429 can be formed of a plurality of generally planar transmitter coils
arranged in multiple layers and in an overlapping and non-concentric arrangement where no
two coils are concentric with each other. For instance, transmitter coil arrangement 2429 can
include three layers of transmitter coils (e.g., first layer 2428a, second layer 2428b, and third
layer 2428c) where each layer includes a plurality of transmitter coils that are arranged
coplanar with one another. Some exemplary transmitter coil arrangements include those that
have transmitter coils wound about a bobbin, such as transmitter coil arrangements 800,
 1000, and 1900 in FIGS. 8, 10, and 19 discussed herein, and those that include transmitter
coils that are not wound about a bobbin, such as transmitter coil arrangement 2200 shown in
FIG 22, discussed herein. Furthermore, transmitter coil arrangement 2429 can have any
suitable number of transmitter coils. For instance, transmitter coil arrangement 2429 can
have a total of 16 coils, such as transmitter coil arrangement 605 in FIG. 6D, or a total of 22
coils, such as transmitter coil arrangement 607 in FIG. 6E.
                                                  57

[0197]    Transmitter coil arrangement 2429 can be operated to generate time-varying
magnetic fields that propagate above the top surface of first shell 2402 to induce a current in
receiver coil 2415 in electronic device 2416. Coverage of the time-varying magnetic fields
generated by transmitter coil arrangement 2429 may coincide with the dimensions of
charging surface 2414.
[0198]    Wireless charging mat 2400 can also include a plurality of cowlings 2431 for
housing transmitter coil arrangement 2429. For instance, plurality of cowlings 2431 can
include a first cowling 2430a, a second cowling 2430b, and a third cowling 2430c. Each
cowling can be a substantially planar structure that has openings 2431 a-c within which
transmitter coils can reside. For instance, first cowling 2430a can house first transmitter coil
layer 2428a, second cowling 2430b can house second transmitter coil layer 2428b, and third
cowling 2430c can house third transmitter coil layer 2428c. When the transmitter coils are
housed within the cowling, the cowling can confine the transmitter coils to their respective
positions and prevent them from shifting in any lateral direction. Some parts of each cowling
can also reside within an inner diameter of transmitter coils to avoid any vacant space within
the layer. Vacant space can allow deflection of structures in adjacent layers, which can cause
physical stress upon one or more components and lead to excessive wear and tear. In some
embodiments, the thickness of each cowling 2430a-c is equal to the thickness of a transmitter
coil. Thus, when transmitter coils are housed within a respective cowling, the cowling and
transmitter coils combine to form a substantially planar structure that does not have large
open spaces within it.
[0199]    In some embodiments, wireless charging mat 2400 can also include one or more
spacers for separating each layer of transmitter coils and cowlings. For instance, wireless
charging mat 2400 can include a first spacer 2444a, a second spacer 2444b, and a third spacer
2444c. First spacer 2444a can be positioned between first transmitter coil layer 2428a and
second transmitter coil layer 2428b to separate the two transmitter coil layers 2428a and
2428b by a set distance defined by the thickness of first spacer 2444a. Similarly, second
spacer 2444b can be positioned between second transmitter coil layer 2428b and third
transmitter coil layer 2428c to separate the two transmitter coil layers 2428b and 2428c by a
set distance defined by the thickness of second spacer 2444b. Furthermore, third spacer
2444c can be positioned between third transmitter coil layer 2428c and electromagnetic
shield 2422 to separate them by a set distance defined by the thickness of third spacer 2444c.
In some embodiments, the thickness of spacers 2444a-c are equal such that each transmitter
                                                58

coil layer 2428a-c and electromagnetic shield 2422 are separated from each other by the same
distance. One purpose of spacers 2444a-c is to define a degree of parasitic capacitance
between adjacent conductive layers (e.g., transmitter coil layers 2428a-c and electromagnetic
shield 2422). By defining the space between the conductive layers to be equal, it provides an
increase of sensitivity to detection of foreign objects on charging surface 2414, specifically in
the high frequency range.
[0200]    During wireless power transfer, transmitter coil arrangement 2429 can generate
time-varying magnetic fields for inducing a corresponding current in receiver coil 2415.
These generated magnetic fields, if not controlled, can generate noise and detrimentally affect
surrounding components. Thus, transmitter coil arrangement 2429 can be surrounded by
several components to confine the magnetic fields such that they are generated in one
direction and do not disturb neighboring components. In some embodiments, the components
include a ferromagnetic shield 2432, an electromagnetic shield 2422, a grounding fence 2424,
and a driver board 2426 as will be discussed further herein.
[0201]    Ferromagnetic shield 2432 can be a layer of ferromagnetic material that is disposed
below transmitter coil arrangement 2429 and configured to prevent magnetic fields generated
by transmitter coil arrangement 2429 from disrupting components disposed below
ferromagnetic shield 2432. Ferromagnetic shield 2432 can be sized and shaped according to
charging surface 2414 and/or to transmitter coil arrangement 2429. In certain embodiments,
ferromagnetic shield 2432 can be positioned directly below first transmitter coil layer 2428a.
In such embodiments, first transmitter coil layer 2428a can include coils of wire that have
less turns than the coils of wire in second and third transmitter coil layers 2428b and 2428c.
Ferromagnetic shield 2432 can include a plurality of openings corresponding to the positions
of contacts pins of transmitter coils in transmitter coil arrangement 2429. The plurality of
openings allow the transmitter coils to make contact with components disposed below
ferromagnetic shield 2432, such as driver board 2426.
[0202]    As mentioned herein, electromagnetic shield 2422 can also be included with
wireless charging mat 2400. Electromagnetic shield 2422 can be positioned below first shell
2402 and can be configured to prevent the generation of detrimental voltages on a receiver
coil during wireless power transfer. Particularly, electromagnetic shield 2422 can be
configured to intercept electric fields generated by transmitter coils within wireless charging
mat 2400 during wireless power transfer so that detrimental voltages are prevented from
                                                59

being generated on a receiver coil, e.g., receiver coil 2415. The structure and material
composition of electromagnetic shield 2422 is discussed further herein with respect to FIGS.
25A and 25B.
[0203]    FIG. 25A is a top-view illustration of an exemplary electromagnetic shield 2500,
according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. Electromagnetic shield 2500 can
include a shielding body 2502 and a conductive border 2504 around a perimeter of shielding
body 2502. Shielding body 2502 can intercept electric fields generated by one or more
transmitter coils in wireless charging mat 2400 and discharge the voltage generated by the
intercepted electric fields to ground through conductive border 2504. In some embodiments,
shielding body 2502 is constructed of a material having properties that enable magnetic flux
to pass through the shielding body but prevent electric fields from passing through. For
instance, shielding body 2502 can be formed of silver laminated on a layer of pressure
sensitive adhesive (PSA). The silver layer can have a thickness of approximately 30-40 pim,
particularly 35 pm in one embodiment. As further shown in FIG. 25A, conductive border
2504 can be constructed as a thin conductive region around shielding body 2502; however,
embodiments are not so limited. Other embodiments can have different configurations of
conductive border 2504, as shown in FIG. 25B.
[0204]    FIG. 25B is a top-view illustration of another exemplary electromagnetic shield
2501, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. Electromagnetic shield
2501 can include shield body 2502 and a conductive border 2506 that extends to edges of a
transmitter coil arrangement, such as any transmitter coil arrangement discussed herein. By
extending conductive border 2506 to edges of the transmitter coil arrangement, transmission
efficiency of magnetic fields thorough electromagnetic shield 2501 can be improved over the
transmission efficiency of electromagnetic shield 2500.
[0205]    Conductive border 2504 and 2506 can be formed of a conductive material, such as
copper. The conductive border 2504 and 2506 can be a thin sheet of copper that is adhered
onto the surface of shielding body 2502. The conductive properties of conductive border
2504 and 2506 allows voltage generated by intercepted electric fields to be routed to ground.
In some embodiments, conductive border 2504 can route voltage to a grounding fence, such
as grounding fence 2424 shown in FIG. 24.
[0206]    Referring back to FIG. 24 and as aforementioned herein, wireless charging mat
2400 can include grounding fence 2424, according to some embodiments of the present
                                                60

disclosure. Grounding fence 2424 can be wound along at least a portion of the outer
perimeter of driver board 2426 and attach to at least a portion of the outer perimeter of
electromagnetic shield 2422. Grounding fence 2424 can be formed of a length of wire having
conductive properties, as well as shielding properties to inhibit propagation of magnetic fields
through grounding fence 2422. For instance, grounding fence 2422 can be formed of a metal,
e.g. steel, or a coated metal, e.g., nickel plated steel.
[0207]     Driver board 2426 can be a PCB configured to route signals and power for
operating transmitter coil arrangement 2429. In some embodiments, driver board 2426 can
include a plurality of bonding pads 2442 for routing power to transmitter coil arrangement
2429 via a plurality of standoffs, as will be discussed further herein. Electrical connector
2408 can be mounted on driver board 2426 so that driver board 2426 can receive power from
an external source to operate transmitter coil arrangement 2429. The combination of driver
board 2426, grounding fence 2424, ferromagnetic shield 2432 and electromagnetic shield
2422 can form a faraday cage that encloses transmitter coil arrangement 2429 to control the
emission of time-varying magnetic fields generated by transmitter coil arrangement 2429.
For instance, the faraday cage can direct magnetic flux out of the faraday cage in a single
direction while substantially preventing the propagation of magnetic flux in all other
directions out of the faraday cage. A better understanding and a different perspective of this
faraday cage is discussed with respect to and shown in FIGS. 26A and 26B.
[0208]     FIG. 26A is a cross-sectional view of a part of the faraday cage around transmitter
coil arrangement 2429 (not shown) of a partially-formed wireless charging mat, according to
some embodiments of the present disclosure. It is to be appreciated that transmitter coil
arrangement 2429 is not shown because only an edge of the faraday cage is shown and that
transmitter coil arrangement 2429 is positioned away from the edges of the faraday cage, but
edges of plurality of cowlings 2431 can be seen. Furthermore, it is to be appreciated that the
part of the faraday cage shown in FIG. 26A is only for one side of the wireless charging mat
and that one skilled in the art understands that this illustration is representative of
substantially all edges of a wireless charging mat. As shown in FIG. 26A, plurality of
cowlings 2431 (and transmitter coil arrangement 2429) are enclosed by a faraday cage
formed of electromagnetic shield 2422, grounding fence 2424, ferromagnetic shield 2432,
and driver board 2426.
                                                  61

[0209]     According to some embodiments, the faraday cage can be configured to allow
magnetic flux to propagate in one direction. For instance, grounding fence 2424 can be
configured to substantially resist propagation of magnetic flux from transmitter coil
arrangement 2429 through grounding fence 2424 so that magnetic fields are contained within
the faraday cage in a lateral direction. Additionally, ferromagnetic shield 2432 can be
configured to redirect magnetic flux to substantially mitigate the propagation of magnetic
flux into driver board 2426 from transmitter coil arrangement 2429, i.e., downward and out of
the faraday cage. However, electromagnetic shield 2422 can be configured to allow magnetic
flux to propagate through so that the magnetic flux is directed out of the faraday cage in a
single direction, e.g., upwards toward a receiver coil in an electronic device. By configuring
the faraday cage to allow the propagation of magnetic flux in one direction, the faraday cage
can prevent the generated magnetic flux from creating noise in other electrical systems in the
wireless charging mat while purposefully allowing magnetic flux to propagate in a direction
toward a receiver coil to perform wireless charging.
[0210]     In some embodiments, electromagnetic shield 2422 is attached to grounding fence
2424 so that voltages generated on electromagnetic shield 2422 during wireless charging can
be discharged to ground. In some instances, conductive border 2506 of electromagnetic
shield 2422 is attached to grounding fence 2424 via laser welding to achieve a robust
electrical and physical connection. Furthermore, ferromagnetic shield 2432 can be positioned
on a surface of driver board 2426 to mitigate the propagation of magnetic flux into driver
board 2426. In some embodiments, ferromagnetic shield 2432 is positioned on driver board
2426 and laterally from grounding fence 2424 such that ferromagnetic shield 2432 is not
positioned between grounding fence 2424 and driver board 2426. By not attaching
ferromagnetic shield 2432, its brittle structure will not be exposed to physical stresses at the
interface between grounding fence 2424 and driver board 2426, thereby minimizing damage
to ferromagnetic shield 2432.
[0211]     As mentioned herein with respect to electromagnetic shield 2501 shown in FIG.
25B, conductive border 2506 is adhered to shielding body 2502. In some embodiments, one
or more adhesives can be used to attach conductive border 2506 to an edge of shielding body
2502. FIG. 26B is a close-up cross-sectional view of an interface between shielding body
2502 and conductive border 2506. As shown, conductive border 2506 can be attached to
shielding body 2502 by adhesive layers 2602 and 2604. Adhesive layers 2602 and 2604 can
be any suitable conductive adhesive, such as a single or double sided copper tape. In some
                                                62

embodiments, adhesive layer 2602 is a layer of double-sided copper tape and adhesive layer
2604 is a layer of single-sided adhesive tape. Using a conductive adhesive allows voltage
captured on electromagnetic shield 2502 to be routed to grounding fence 2424 through
conductive border 2506. Although FIG. 26B illustrates conductive border 2506, it is to be
appreciated that disclosures herein also apply to embodiments where conductive border 2504
is used instead. In some embodiments, shield 2422 can be secured to third cowling layer
2430c with an adhesive so that it does not substantially move in place during use. For
instance, shield 2422 can be secured via an adhesive 2606, such as PSA.
[0212]     As discussed herein, a driver board can be a PCB configured to operate a transmitter
coil arrangement. Thus, with reference back to FIG. 24, driver board 2426 can be electrically
coupled to the transmitter coils in transmitter coil arrangement 2429 via a plurality of
standoffs 2434, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. In some
embodiments, each standoff is coupled to a respective bonding pad 2442 for enabling power
transfer from driver board 2426 to transmitter coil arrangement 2429. Standoffs 2434 can be
configured to route power between driver board 2426 and each layer of transmitter coil
arrangement 2429. For instance, standoffs 2434 can be composed of a plurality of conductive
posts that can route power from one end of the post to an opposite end of the post, as
discussed herein with respect to FIGS. 27A-B and 28A-B.
[0213]     FIGS. 27A and 27B illustrate an exemplary standoff 2700, according to some
embodiments of the present disclosure. Standoff 2700 can include a first contact 2702 on one
end and a second contact 2704 on an opposite end. A connector 2706 can electrically couple
first contact 2702 to second contact 2704 so that power can be routed between contacts 2702
and 2704. In some embodiments, first contact 2702, second contact 2704, and connector
2706 form one monolithic structure that is shaped like the letter "U" tilted on its side. This
monolithic structure can have a degree of mechanical compliance when pressure is applied in
the vertical direction. Thus, in some embodiments, first contact 2702, second contact 2704,
and connector 2706 can be formed of a substantially stiff material that is highly conductive,
such as a copper alloy with a conductivity of approximately 60%-90% of the conductivity of
copper. Some exemplary copper alloys include, but are not limited to, NKC4419, NKE 010,
and C19210.
[0214]     In addition to using mechanically strong conductive materials for forming the
monolithic structure, separate support structures can be used to strengthen standoff 2700 as
                                                63

well. For example, a support component 2708 can be positioned between first and second
contacts 2702 and 2704 to provide structural support for standoff 2700. Support component
2708 can also extend over sidewalls of first and second contacts 2702 and 2704 so that only
the top surface of first contact 2702 and the bottom surface of second contact 2704 are
exposed. To strengthen the structural coupling between support component 2708 and the
monolithic structure, one or more hook structures can be implemented in first and/or second
contacts 2702 and 2704, as shown in FIG. 28A.
[0215]    FIGS. 28A and 28B illustrate an exemplary standoff 2800 with hook structures
2810, according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. Like standoff 2700, standoff
2800 can include a first contact 2802 and a second contact 2804 that are coupled together via
connector 2806. First connect 2802, second contact 2804, and connector 2806 can form a
monolithic structure that is similar to standoff 2700. In some embodiments, standoff 2800
includes hook structures 2810 that extend from first contact 2802 and/or second contact 2804.
As shown in FIG. 28A, hook structures 2810 extend from first contact 2802 and also form
part of the monolithic structure. Hook structures 2810 provide additional surface area for
making contact with a support structure 2808 shown in FIG. 28B to enhance the mechanical
coupling with support structure 2808.
[0216]    As discussed herein, standoffs 2434 can be configured to couple driver board 2426
with each transmitter coil of transmitter coil arrangement 2429. Accordingly, standoffs 2434
can be configured to have different heights to couple driver board 2426 with transmitter coils
in different layers.
[0217]    FIG. 29 illustrates an exemplary assembled transmitter coil arrangement 2900
attached to an underlying driver board (e.g., driver board 2426) with standoffs 2902, 2904,
and 2906. according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. Transmitter coil
arrangement 2900 can include transmitter coil 2908 in a first transmitter coil layer,
transmitter coil 2910 in a second transmitter coil layer, and transmitter coil 2912 in a third
transmitter coil layer. Only one transmitter coil from each layer of transmitter coil
arrangement 2429 is shown in FIG. 29 for clarity purposes.
[0218]    When assembled, standoffs 2902, 2904, and 2906 can be nested within transmitter
coil arrangement 2900 as shown by the dotted lines. Each standoff 2902, 2904, and 2906 can
be configured to have a different height that corresponds to the respective layer of a
transmitter coil to which it is coupled. For instance, standoff 2902 can have a first height
                                                64

suitable for coupling driver board 2426 with transmitter coil 2908 in the first transmitter coil
layer, standoff 2904 can have a second height suitable for coupling driver board 2426 with
transmitter coil 2910 in the second transmitter coil layer, and standoff 2906 can have a third
height suitable for coupling driver board 2426 with transmitter coil 2912 in the third
transmitter coil layer. Accordingly, standoff 2906 can be taller than both standoffs 2902 and
2904, and standoff 2904 can be taller than standoff 2902 but shorter than standoff 2906.
Once the three layers of transmitter coils are assembled, adjacent transmitter coils can rest
against each other yet still couple with driver board 2426, thereby minimizing the z-height of
transmitter coil arrangement 2900.
[0219]    With reference back to FIG. 24, wireless charging mat 2400 can also include a drop
frame 2436 and a bottom shield 2438 for drop frame 2436, according to some embodiments
of the present disclosure. When assembled in wireless charging mat 2400, bottom shield
2438 can be adhered to drop frame 2436. Drop frame 2436 can be a structural support layer
that forms the backbone of wireless charging mat 2400. In some embodiments, drop frame
2436 is a stiff layer of plastic within which a plurality of openings 2440 are formed. Each
opening 2440 can be formed to have dimensions and a position corresponding to one or more
electronic devices, such as a plurality of inverters for operating one or more transmitter coils,
as will be discussed further herein.
[0220]    FIG. 30 is a bottom-view illustration of drop frame 2436 coupled to driver board
2426 , according to some embodiments of the present disclosure. The illustration shows drop
frame 2436 and driver board 2426 without a bottom shield so that the placement of a plurality
of packaged electrical components 3002 can be seen with respect to drop frame 2436. Thus,
openings 2440 of drop frame 2436 can allow driver board 2426 to be seen through each
opening 2440 when viewed from the bottom-view perspective. In some embodiments,
packaged electrical components 3002, shown as a plurality of black components of various
sizes and shapes, can be disposed on driver board 2426 within openings 2440. Electrical
components 3002 can be any suitable electrical component utilized for operating wireless
charging mat 2400. For instance, electrical components 3002 can be power electronics,
microcontrollers, capacitors, resistors, and the like. In some embodiments, electrical
components 3002 include a plurality of inverters that can be mounted on a corresponding
underside region of driver board 2426 for operating the transmitter coils in transmitter coil
arrangement 2429.
                                                 65

[0221]    In particular embodiments, some of openings 2440 can provide space within which
packaged inverters are disposed to operate an arrangement of transmitter coils, such as
arrangement of transmitter coils 605 or 607 shown in FIGS. 6D and 6E. For instance,
inverter openings 2442 can be used to provide space in which the packaged inverters are
positioned. Inverter openings 2442 are shown with bolded lines so that they are easier to be
seen. In some embodiments, the number of inverter openings 2442 for the packaged inverters
correspond with the number of transmitter coils used in the arrangement of transmitter coils.
For instance, if wireless charging mat incorporates an arrangement of transmitter coils that is
composed of 22 coils, then drop frame 2436 can include 22 inverter openings 2442, where
each inverter opening corresponds with a respective inverter for supporting a respective
transmitter coil. In some embodiments, inverter openings 2442 are disposed such that the
packaged inverters can be positioned directly below respective transmitter coils that they
support. In other embodiments, one or more inverter openings 2442 may not be positioned to
allow a packaged inverter to be disposed directly below its respective transmitter coil.
However, these inverter openings nevertheless can allow the packaged inverter to be placed
very close to its respective transmitter coil and not at an edge of the wireless charging mat
where it is far from its respective transmitter coil. By allowing the packaged inverters to be
positioned close to, if not directly below, their respective transmitter coils, timing delays and
losses caused by high resistances from long trace lengths (as experienced by conventional
charging mats where inverters are placed at the perimeter of a charging mat and need to be
routed to transmitter coils in the center of the charging mat) can be minimized.
[0222]    According to some embodiments of the present disclosure, bottom shield 2438 (not
shown in FIG. 30) can be laminated on a side of drop frame 2436 opposite of the side to
which driver board 2426 is coupled. Bottom shield 2438 thus encloses electrical components
3002 within respective openings 2440 so that not only are the electrical components protected
from outside electrical disturbances, but that components of wireless charging mat 2400
outside of openings 3002 are not disturbed by noises generated from electrical components
3002. In some embodiments, bottom shield 2438 is formed of shielding layer and a plurality
of insulating layers as shown in FIG. 31.
[0223]    FIG. 31 is a top-down view of an exemplary bottom shield 3100, according to some
embodiments of the present disclosure. Bottom shield 3100 can include a shielding layer
3102 and a plurality of insulating layers 3104 attached to shielding layer 3102. In some
embodiments, insulating layers 3104 correspond to one or more openings of a drop frame,
                                                 66

such as openings 2440 in FIG. 30. For instance, insulating layers 3104 can be configured as
strips that correspond to more than one opening 2440/2442, as shown in FIG. 31. When
constructed in the wireless charging mat, insulating layer 3104 can be attached to drop frame
2436 and positioned between drop frame 2436 (along with its one or more openings) and
shielding layer 3102. Insulating layers 3104 can prevent electrical coupling of electrical
components 3002 with the shielding layer 3102. In some embodiments, shielding layer 3102
is a thin material that is flexible. Thus, areas of shielding layer 3102 directly above openings
2440 can deflect into openings 2440 and make contact with one or more electrical
components 3002. Accordingly, insulating layers 3104 can prevent electrical coupling
between shielding layer 3102 and one or more electrical components 3002.
[0224]     Shielding layer 3102 can be formed of any material suitable for shielding against
electrical emissions to and from electrical components 3002. For instance, shielding layer
3102 can be formed of copper. Insulating layers 3104 can be formed of any electrically
insulating material, such as polyimide.
[0225]     In some embodiments, a plurality of posts can be disposed within openings 2440 to
mitigate the degree of travel when shielding layer 3102 is depressed into openings 2440. For
instance, with reference back to FIG. 30, posts 3004 can be positioned on driver board 2426
in areas where there are open spaces to mitigate deflection of bottom shield 2438.
Additionally, posts 3004 can also prevent electrical components 3002 from damage caused
by external objects pressing to openings 2440.
VII.     HYBRID PCB AND STRANDED COIL WIRELESS CHARGING MAT
[0226]     According to some embodiments of the present disclosure, a wireless charging mat
can be configured to provide power to more than one different device. For instance, one
device can be a larger device with larger receiving coils, e.g., a smart phone, tablet, laptop,
and the like, while the other device can be a smaller device with smaller receiving coils, e.g.,
a smart watch, a small portable music player, and the like. In such embodiments, the wireless
charging mat can include more than one transmitter coil arrangement where each transmitter
coil arrangement is optimized for charging a different electronic device. Accordingly, the
wireless charging mat can advantageously charge more than one different device at a time
and/or be equally efficient at charging multiple different devices.
                                                 67

[0227]     FIG. 32 illustrates an exploded view of an exemplary wireless charging mat 3200
including more than one transmitter coil arrangement, according to some embodiments of the
present disclosure. Wireless charging mat 3200 can include a first shell 3202 and a second
shell 3204, each of which may be constructed similar to first and second shells 2302 and
2304 in FIG. 23. First and second shells 3202 and 3204 can mate to form an inner cavity
within which internal components can be housed. In some embodiments, the inner cavity can
include more than one transmitter coil arrangement. For instance, the inner cavity can
include two transmitter coil arrangements: first transmitter coil arrangement 3206 and second
transmitter coil arrangement 3208. It is to be appreciated that wireless charging mat 3200 can
further include other internal components similar to wireless charging mat 2300 in FIG. 23
but are not shown for clarity purposes.
[0228]     First transmitter coil arrangement 3206 may be optimized to charge a first device
3212 including a first receiver coil 3214 and second transmitter coil arrangement 3208 may
be optimized to charge a second device 3216 including a second receiver coil 3218 that has a
different size and shape, and thus different electrical characteristics, than the first receiving
coil. For example, first device 3212 can be a larger device than second device 3216, and first
receiver coil 3214 can be larger than second receiver coil 3218. Although each transmitter
coil arrangement 3206 and 3208 can be optimized to charge a different device, each
transmitter coil arrangement may still charge other devices that they are not optimized to
charge but in a less efficient manner. It is to be appreciated that even though FIG. 32
illustrates only two devices, embodiments discussed herein may be configured to charge
more than two devices, each having different sizes and shapes than those shown in FIG. 32.
Furthermore, it is to be appreciated that each transmitter coil arrangement can charge an
electronic device across the entire charging surface. It is not the case where one transmitter
coil arrangement can only charge devices in a sub-region of the charging surface, and that the
other transmitter coil arrangement can only charge devices in another sub-region of the
charging surface.
[0229]     In some embodiments, first and second transmitter coil arrangements 3206 and 3208
can be formed of transmitter coils where the sizes of the transmitter coils are optimized for a
different electrical device. As an example, first transmitter coil arrangement 3206 can be
formed of transmitter coils of a first size, while second transmitter coil arrangement 3208 is
formed of transmitter coils of a second size. The first size can correspond to the size of
receiver coil 3214 in first electronic device 3212, whereas the second size can correspond to
                                                 68

the size of receiver coil 3218 in second electronic device 3216. Accordingly, first transmitter
coil arrangement 3206 may be particularly efficient at inducing a current in receiver coil 3214
of first device 3212 but less efficient at inducing a current in receiver coil 3218 of second
device 3216. Conversely, second transmitter coil arrangement 3208 may be particularly
efficient at inducing a current in receiver coil 3218 of second device 3216 but less efficient at
inducing a current in receiver coil 3214 of first device 3212. It is to be appreciated that each
transmitter coil arrangement can charge an electronic device across the entire charging
surface.
[0230]     In additional embodiments, first and second transmitter coil arrangements 3206 and
3208 can be arranged in different patterns where each pattern is optimized for a different
electrical device. As an example, first transmitter coil arrangement 3206 can be arranged in a
single row of transmitter coils, while second transmitter coil arrangement 3208 is arranged
according to any of transmitter coil arrangements 800, 1000, 1900, and 2200 in FIGS. 8, 10,
 19, and 22 discussed herein above. Accordingly, first transmitter coil arrangement 3206 may
be particularly efficient at inducing a current in receiver coil 3214 of first device 3212 but
less efficient at inducing a current in receiver coil 3218 of second device 3216, and vice
versa.
[0231]     As discussed herein, transmitter coil arrangements can generate time-varying
magnetic fields. Thus, first and second transmitter coil arrangements 3206 and 3208 can be
operated at various frequencies to generate the time-varying magnetic fields. In some
embodiments, first transmitter coil arrangement 3206 can operate at a first frequency while
second transmitter coil arrangement 3208 operates at a second frequency. The first and
second frequencies may be the same or different when first and second transmitter coil
arrangements 3206 and 3208 are arranged in different patterns. However, the first and
second frequencies are different when first and second transmitter coil arrangements 3206
and 3208 are arranged in the same pattern. For instance, first and second transmitter coil
arrangements 3206 and 3208 can both be arranged according to any of transmitter coil
arrangements 800, 1000, 1900, and 2200 in FIGS. 8, 10, 19, and 22 discussed herein above,
or any other transmitter coil arrangement. In such cases, first transmitter coil arrangement
3206 may operate at a frequency that is particularly efficient at inducing a current in receiver
coil 3214 of first device 3212 but less efficient at inducing a current in receiver coil 3218 of
second device 3216. Conversely, second transmitter coil arrangement 3208 can operate at a
frequency that is particularly efficient at inducing a current in receiver coil 3218 of second
                                                 69

device 3216 but less efficient at inducing a current in receiver coil 3214 of first device 3212.
The difference in operating frequencies may depend on the particular operating frequencies
of the respective receiver coils. In some embodiments, the difference can range between
orders of magnitudes. As an example, the first frequency can be an order of one or two
magnitudes higher than the second frequency. In particular embodiments, the first device
3212 is a smart watch and second device 3216 is a smart phone.
[0232]     Furthermore, in some embodiments, first and second transmitter coil arrangements
3206 and 3208 can be formed from the same or different transmitter coils. That is, first
transmitter coil arrangement 3206 can be formed from transmitter coils having stranded
coiled wire with or without bobbins, e.g., transmitter coils 1600, 1800, and 2100 in FIGS. 16,
 18, and 21, while second transmitter coil arrangement 3208 can be formed within a PCB.
Each form of construction can be tailored to efficiently induce power in a respective device.
For instance, the stranded coil construction of second transmitter coil arrangement 3208 may
be particularly efficient at inducing a current in receiver coil 3218 of second device 3216 but
less efficient at inducing a current in receiver coil 3214 of first device 3212.
[0233]     Although the invention has been described with respect to specific embodiments, it
will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents
within the scope of the following claims.
                                                 70

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
                 1.      A wireless charging device comprising:
                 a housing having an outer perimeter and a charging surface within the outer
perimeter, the housing including a first wall and a second wall that define an interior cavity;
and
                 a transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior cavity and below
the planar charging surface, the transmitter coil arrangement comprising:
                         a plurality of transmitter coils arranged in different layers, each
         transmitter coil having a first termination end, a second termination end, and a coil of
         wire that winds from an inner diameter to an outer diameter between the first and
         second termination ends;
                         wherein the first termination end of each transmitter coil is disposed
         within the inner diameter of its respective coil of wire and the second termination end
         of each transmitter coil is disposed outside the outer diameter of its respective coil of
         wire.
                 2.      The wireless charging device of claim 1, wherein the second
termination end terminates in an inner diameter of another coil of wire for an adjacent
transmitter coil.
                 3.      The wireless charging device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of
transmitter coils comprises a plurality of inner transmitter coils and a plurality of outer
transmitter coils positioned around the inner transmitter coils.
                 4.      The wireless charging device of claim 3, wherein the plurality of outer
transmitter coils is arranged in a first radial arrangement and the plurality of inner transmitter
coils is arranged in a second radial arrangement different than the first radial arrangement.
                 5.      The wireless charging device of claim 4, wherein the first radial
arrangement is such that the plurality of outer transmitter coils is oriented toward the outer
perimeter of the wireless charging device.
                 6.      The wireless charging device of claim 4, wherein the second radial
arrangement is such that the plurality of inner transmitter coils is oriented in radial directions
that are at an angular offset with each other.
                                                  71

                  7.      The wireless charging device of claim 6, wherein the angular offset is
between 50 to 70 degrees.
                  8.      The wireless charging device of claim 1, wherein the transmitter coil
arrangement includes a left-most transmitter coil and a right-most transmitter coil, and
wherein the left-most transmitter coil and the right-most transmitter coil have smaller inner
diameters than all other transmitter coils in the transmitter coil arrangement.
                  9.      The wireless charging device of claim 1, wherein at least one
transmitter coil is non-circular in shape, and wherein the at least one transmitter coil is in the
shape of a letter "D".
                  10.    A wireless charging device comprising:
                  a housing having an outer perimeter and a planar charging surface within the
outer perimeter of the wireless charging device, the housing including first and second shells
defining an interior cavity;
                  a transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior cavity and below
the planar charging surface, the transmitter coil arrangement comprising:
                          a plurality of transmitter coils arranged in different layers, each
        transmitter coil having a first region and a second region having more turns than the
         first region;
                         wherein the plurality of transmitter coils comprises a plurality of inner
        transmitter coils and a plurality of outer transmitter coils positioned around the inner
        transmitter coils;
                          and wherein the first regions of the outer transmitter coils are oriented
        toward the outer perimeter of the wireless charging device.
                  11.     The wireless charging device of claim 10, wherein the first region has
less turns than the second region.
                  12.     The wireless charging device of claim 10, wherein the plurality of
inner transmitter coils is oriented in radial directions that are at an angular offset with each
other.
                  13.     The wireless charging device of claim 10, wherein the angular offset is
between 50 to 70 degrees.
                                                   72

                 14.     The wireless charging device of claim 10, wherein the plurality of
outer transmitter coils is a single line of transmitter coils positioned closest to the outer
perimeter of the wireless charging device.
                 15.     The wireless charging device of claim 10, wherein the transmitter coil
arrangement includes a left-most transmitter coil and a right-most transmitter coil, and
wherein the left-most transmitter coil and the right-most transmitter coil have smaller inner
diameters than all other transmitter coils in the transmitter coil arrangement.
                 16.     The wireless charging device of claim 10, wherein at least one
transmitter coil is non-circular in shape, and wherein the at least one transmitter coil is in the
shape of a letter "D".
                 17.     A wireless charging system, comprising:
                an electronic device comprising a receiver coil configured to generate a
current to charge a battery when exposed to a time-varying magnetic flux; and
                a wireless charging mat configured to generate the time-varying magnetic flux
to wirelessly charge the electronic device, the wireless charging mat comprising:
                         a housing having an outer perimeter and a charging surface within the
        outer perimeter, the housing including a first wall and a second wall that define an
        interior cavity; and
                         a transmitter coil arrangement disposed within the interior cavity and
        below the planar charging surface, the transmitter coil arrangement comprising:
                                 a plurality of transmitter coils arranged in different layers, each
                transmitter coil having a first termination end, a second termination end, and a
                coil of wire that winds from an inner diameter to an outer diameter between
                the first and second termination ends;
                                wherein the first termination end of each transmitter coil is
                disposed within the inner diameter of its respective coil of wire and the second
                termination end of each transmitter coil is disposed outside the outer diameter
                of its respective coil of wire.
                 18.     The wireless charging system of claim 17, wherein the second
termination end terminates in an inner diameter of another coil of wire for an adjacent
transmitter coil.
                                                   73

                19.      The wireless charging system of claim 17, wherein the plurality of
transmitter coils comprises a plurality of inner transmitter coils and a plurality of outer
transmitter coils positioned around the inner transmitter coils.
                20.      The wireless charging system of claim 19, wherein the plurality of
outer transmitter coils is arranged in a first radial arrangement and the plurality of inner
transmitter coils is arranged in a second radial arrangement different than the first radial
arrangement.
                                                  74

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
