                                             Abstract
Disclosed is an antibody which binds to aripiprazole, which can be used to detect aripiprazole
in a sample such as in a competitive immunoassay method. The antibody can be used in a
lateral flow assay device for point-of-care detection of aripiprazole, including multiplex
detection of aripiprazole, olanzapine, quetiapine, and risperidone in a single lateral flow assay
device.

                    Antibodies to Aripiprazole Haptens and Use Thereof
                           Cross-Reference to Related Applications
[0000]     The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2013305970, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
[0001]     This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/691,544,
filed August 21, 2012.
                                     Field of the Invention
[0002]     The present invention relates to the field of immunoassays, and in particular to
antibodies that bind to aripiprazole which can be used in immunoassays for detection of
aripiprazole.
                                           Background
[0003]     Schizophrenia    is  a  chronic    and   debilitating  psychiatric  disorder   affecting
approximately 0.45-1 % of the world's population (van Os, J.; Kapur, S. "Schizophrenia" Lancet
2009, 374, 635-645). The principal goals of treatment are to achieve sustained remission from
psychotic symptoms, reduce the risk and consequences of relapse, and improve patient
functioning and overall quality of life. While many patients with schizophrenia are able to
achieve symptom stability with the available antipsychotic medications, poor adherence to
medication is a common reason for relapse with daily administered oral medications. Several
studies (Abdel-Baki, A.; Ouellet-Plamondon, C.; Malla, A. "Pharmacotherapy Challenges in
Patients with First-Episode Psychosis" Journal of Affective Disorders 2012, 138, S3-S14)
investigating the outcomes of non-compliance have shown that patients with schizophrenia
who do not take their medication as prescribed have higher rates of relapse, hospital
admission and suicide as well as increased mortality. It is estimated that 40 to 75% of patients
with schizophrenia have difficulty adhering to a daily oral treatment regimen (Lieberman, J. A.;
Stroup, T. S.; McEvoy, J. P.; Swartz, M. S.; Rosenheck, R. A.; Perkins, D. 0.; Keefe, R. S. E.;
Davis, S. M.; Davis, C. E.; Lebowitz, B. D.; Severe, J.; Hsiao, J. K. "Effectiveness of
Antipyschotic Drugs in Patients with Chronic Schizophrenia" New England Journal of Medicine
2005, 353(12), 1209-1223).
[0004]     Therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) is the quantification of serum or plasma
concentrations of drugs, including anti-psychotic drugs, for treatment monitoring and
optimization. Such monitoring permits, for example, the identification

of patients that are not adhering to their medication regimen, that are not achieving
therapeutic doses, that are non-responsive at therapeutic doses, that have
suboptimal tolerability, that have pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions, or that have
abnormal     metabolism      resulting   in   inappropriate    plasma     concentrations.
Considerable individual variability exists in the patient's ability to absorb, distribute,
metabolize, and excrete anti-psychotic drugs, Such differences can be caused by
concurrent disease, age, concomitant medication or genetic peculiarities. Different
drug formulations can also influence the metabolism of anti-psychotic drugs. TDM
permits dose optimization for individual patients, improving therapeutic and functional
outcomes. TDM further permits a prescribing clinician to ensure compliance with
prescribed dosages and achievement of effective serum concentrations.
[0005]       To date, methods for determining the levels of serum or plasma
concentrations of anti-psychotic drugs involve the use of liquid chromatography (LC)
with UV or mass spectrometry detection, and radioimmunoassays (see, for example,
Woestenborghs et al., 1990 "On the selectivity of some recently developed RIAs" in
Methodological Surveys in Biochemistry and Analysis 20:241-246. Analysis of Drugs
and Metabolites, Including Anti-infective Agents; Heykants et al., 1994 "The
Pharmacokinetics of Risperidone in Humans: A Summary", J Clin Psychiatry 55/5,
suppl:13-17; Huang et al., 1993 "Pharmacokinetics of the novel anti-psychotic agent
risperidone and the prolactin response in healthy subjects", Clin Pharmacol Ther
54:257-268).      Radioimmunoassays detect one or both of risperidone and
paliperidone. Salamone et al. in US Patent No. 8,088,594 disclose a competitive
immunoassay for risperidone using antibodies that detect both risperidone and
paliperidone but not pharmacologically inactive metabolites. The antibodies used in
the competitive immunoassay are developed against a particular immunogen,               ID
Labs Inc. (London, Ontario, Canada) markets an ELISA for olanzapine, another anti
psychotic drug, which also utilizes a competitive formal. The Instructions For Use
indicate that the assay is designed for screening purposes and intended for forensic
or research use, and is specifically not intended for therapeutic use. The Instructions
recommend       that   all  positive   samples    should    be    confirmed   with    gas
chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC-MS), and indicate that the antibody used
detects olanzapine and clozapine (see ID Labs Inc., "Instructions For Use Data Sheet
IDEL-FO83*, Rev. Date Aug. 8, 2011). Some of these methods, namely HPLC and
                                            2

GC/MS, can be expensive and labor-intensive, and are generally only performed in
large or specialty labs having the appropriate equipment.
[0006]       A need exists for other methods for determining the levels of anti
psychotic drugs, particularly methods that can be performed in a prescribing
clinician's office (where the treatment for an individual patient can be adjusted
accordingly in a much more timely manner) and in other medical settings lacking LC
or GC/MS equipment or requiring rapid test results.
[0007]       Aripiprazole is:
                            S   N        CI
                              Summary of the Invention
[0008]       The present invention is directed to an isolated antibody or a binding
fragment thereof, which binds to aripiprazole and which: (i) is generated in response
to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier; or (ii)
competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope bound by the antibody of
(i).
[0009]        Formula 1:
 0    N          O    "'N
                IC                   cl
            RN                           CI
wherein:
                                  0   0
                   0O_,         N      r N
                                H N           N      OH
R' is H,                0,                      0         , CH2 NH,
CH2 NHC(O)(CH 2 )mCO 2H, or Z-(Y)-G;
                                            3

                0    o
                              NHOH
R2 is H,                         0    0        , NH2, NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2H, or Z-(Y)-G;
R 3is H, or W-(Y)p-G; provided that two of R', R2, R3 must be H, and further provided
that R1, R2 and R3 may not all be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R4 )-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -arninoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-,
alkylcarbonylk
   o                         R4              0
       SF-H4             I         NH            NH
   0,       OR       0
wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-;
R4 is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0 or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
[0010)         Presently preferred embodiments of the antibody of the subject invention
are the antibodies designated 3C1, 3D7, and 5C7, generated against the compound
having Formula 1l.
[0011]         Formula II (Compound 6):
                                   o                                Compound 6
 Protein -
                                                           I                                C-S
                  0           0             H YyNH                          K             C
                                                     0                                K
                                                 4

[0012]        The antibodies of the subject invention can be provided in assay kits and
assay devices, with a presently preferred device being a lateral flow assay device
which provides for point-of-care analysis.
[0013)        The invention further provides a method of producing an antibody which
binds to aripiprazole, the method comprising: (i) selecting a host cell for antibody
production; and (ii) inoculating the host with a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
and an immunogenic carrier, wherein the host produces an antibody which binds to
aripiprazole. Further provided is a method of producing a hybridoma cell line capable
of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to aripiprazole.             The method
comprises: (I) selecting a host for antibody production; (ii) inoculating the host with a
conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier: (iii) fusing a cell
line from the inoculated host with a continuously dividing cell to create a fused cell
capable of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to aripiprazole; and (iv)
cloning the fused cell so as to obtain a hybridorna cell line.
[0014]        The invention further provides a method of detecting aripiprazole in a
sample. The method comprises: (i) contacting a sample with an antibody according
to the subject invention which is labeled with a detectable marker, wherein the
labeled antibody and aripiprazole present in the sample form a labeled complex; and
(ii) detecting the labeled complex so as to detect aripiprazole in the sample.
[0015]        Further provided is a competitive immunoassay method for detecting
aripiprazole in a sample. The method comprises: (i) contacting a sample with an
antibody according to the subject invention, and with aripiprazole or a competitive
binding partner of aripiprazole. wherein one of the antibody and the aripiprazole or
competitive binding partner thereof is labeled with a detectable marker, and wherein
sample aripiprazole competes with the aripiprazole or competitive binding partner
thereof for binding to the antibody; and (ii) detecting the label so as to detect sample
aripiprazole.
[0016]         Further objects, features and advantages of the present invention will be
apparent to those skilled in the art from detailed consideration of the preferred
embodiments that follow.
                           Brief Description of the Drawings
[0017]         Fig. 1 shows Competitive ELISA results generated with hybridoma 3C1;
[0018]         Fig. 2 shows Competitive ELISA results generated with hybridoma 3D7;
                                             5

[0019]       Fig. 3 shows the competitive immunoassay format used on a lateral flow
assay device;
[0020]       Fig. 4 shows the chip design of a lateral flow assay device according to
the subject invention;
[0021]       Fig. 5 shows a typical dose response curve for an aripiprazole positive
control generated with antibody 5C7 and a labeled aripiprazole competitive binding
partner;
[0022]       Fig. 6 shows a typical dose response curve for an olanzapine positive
control generated with antibody 4G9-1 and a labeled olanzapine competitive binding
partner;
10023]       Fig. 7 shows a typical dose response curve for a quetiapine positive
control generated with antibody 11 and a labeled quetiapine competitive binding
partner;
[0024]       Fig. 8 shows a typical dose response curve for a risperidone positive
control generated with antibody 5-9 and a labeled risperidone competitive binding
partner;
[0025]       Fig. 9 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
aripiprazole generated with aripiprazole antibody 5C7 inthe presence of labeled
adpiprazole competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for olanzapine,
quetiapine, or risperidone in the presence of a labeled competitive binding partner for
each;
[00261       Fig. 10 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
olanzapine generated with olanzapine antibody 4G9-1 in the presence of a labeled
olanzapine competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
quetiapine, or risperidone in the presence of a labeled competitive binding partner for
each;
[0027]       Fig. 11 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
quetiapine generated with quetiapine antibody 11 in the presence of a labeled
quetiapine competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
olanzapine, or risperidone in the presence of a labeled competitive binding partner
for each;
[0028]       Fig. 12 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
risperidone generated with risperidone antibody 5-9 in the presence of a labeled
risperidone competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
                                           6

olanzapine. or quetiapine in the presence of a labeled competitive binding partner for
each;
[0029]       Fig. 13 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
aripiprazole generated with aripiprazole antibody 5C7 inthe presence of a labeled
aripiprazole competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for olanzapine,
quetiapine, or risperidone in the presence of antibody and labeled competitive
binding partner for each;
[0030]       Fig. 14 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
olanzapine generated with olanzapine antibody 4G9-1 in the presence of a labeled
olanzapine competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
quetiapine, or risperidone in the presence of antibody and labeled competitive
binding partner for each;
[0031]       Fig. 15 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
quetiapine generated with quetiapine antibody 11 in the presence of labeled
quetiapine competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
olanzapine, or risperidone in the presence of antibody and labeled competitive
binding partner for each;
[0032]       Fig. 16 shows a typical dose response curve for a sample containing
risperidone generated with risperidone antibody 5-9 in the presence of a labeled
risperidone competitive binding partner, with no dose response curve for aripiprazole,
olanzapine, or quetiapine in the presence of antibody and labeled competitive binding
partner for each;
[0033]       Fig. 17 shows a comparison of the aripiprazole dose response curve
generated as a positive control to the aripiprazole dose response curve generated in
the multiplex format;
[0034)       Fig. 18 shows a comparison of the olanzapine dose response curve
generated as a positive control to the olanzapine dose response curve generated in
the multiplex format;
[0035]       Fig. 19 shows a comparison of the quetiapine dose response curve
generated as a positive control to the quetiapine dose response curve generated in
the multiplex format; and
[0036]       Fig. 20 shows a comparison of the risperidone dose response curve
generated as a positive control to the risperidone dose response curve generated in
the multiplex format.
                                            7

                     Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments
[0037]        The invention provides an isolated antibody which binds to aripiprazole.
The invention further provides an assay kit and an assay device comprising the
antibody. Also provided are methods of producing the antibody and of producing a
hybridoma cell line capable of producing the antibody. Further provided is a method
of detecting aripiprazole in a sample, including a competitive immunoassay method.
[0038]         In one embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to aripiprazole and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i).
[0039]        Formula I:
 0
                                        CI
      SN                                    cI
wherein:
                                      0   0
                  O           N     H             N~r,"
                                                      NTOH
R' is H.                   0,                           0        , CH 2 NH,
CH 2 NHC(O)(CH 2 )mCO 2H, or Z-(Y)p-G;
                0   0
                          KN       hOH
R' is H,                         0    0        , NH2 , NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2H, or Z-(Y)p-G;
R3 is H, or W-(Y)-G; provided that two of R', R2, R3 must be H, and further provided
that R', R2 and R3 may not all be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R4 )-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-,
alkylcarbonyl-,
                                                 8

    0       o               R4             0
 -j-j    |-j         r1          N-NH          NH--.
    0 ,       R4,    0
wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thicalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-;
R4 is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0 or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
(0040]         In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to aripiprazole and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i); wherein:
                                     0 0
                                   H              Njg         OH
R' is H,       I       m 0,                           0    0      CH2 NH2,
CH2 NHC(O)(CH 2 ),IC0 2H, or Z-(Y)p-G;
                0    0
                              NHO
R' is H,                        0    0        NH2 , NHC(O)(CH 2 )mCO 2H, or Z-(Y),-G;
R3 is H, provided that either R' or R2 must be H, and further provided that both R'
and R2 may not be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R4 )_, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-,
alkylcarbonylk
                                               9

    0       o               R4           0
 -j-j    |-j         r1        N-NH         NH--.
    0 ,OR4        ,0
R4 is H, an aikyl group, cycloalkyl group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0. or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
[0041]         In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to aripiprazole and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
Immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i); wherein:
R' is H, or CH2 NH-(Y)p-G;
R2 is H. or NH-(Y)p-G;
R3 is H, provided that either R' or R2 must be H, and further provided that both R'
and R2 may not be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier; and
p is 1.
[0042]         In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to aripiprazole and which: (I) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (I): wherein:
                                   0   0
                     0           NJ41      N
                          \      HA            N          OH
R' is H,       H          0,                      0    0       CH2NH2, or
CHzNHC(O)(CH2)mCO2H:
                                            10

                0     0
                  N lNr              OH
R2 is H,                      0    0     , NH2, or NHC(O)(CH 2)nCO 2H; provided that
either R' or R2 must be H, and further provided that both R' and R2 may not be H
simultaneously;
R3 is H;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5;
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
[00431         In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to aripiprazole and which: (I) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i); wherein:
R' is H,CH2 NH2 , or CH2NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2H; R2 is H, NH2 , or NHC(O)(CH 2)nCO 2H;
provided that either R' or R2 must be H, and further provided that both R' and R2
may not be H simultaneously;
R3 is H:
m is 1, 2 or 3;
n is 1, 2 or 3.
[0044]         In a further embodiment, the present invention is directed to an isolated
antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to aripiprazole and which: (i) is
generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope
bound by the antibody of (i); wherein:
R is H, CH2NH2, or CH2NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2H;
R2 is H, NH2 , or NHC(O)(CH 2)CO 2H; provided that either R' or R2 must be H, and
further provided that both R' and R2 may not be H simultaneously;
R3 is H;
m is 2;
n is 2.
[0045]         In a preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to aripiprazole and
which: (i) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula IlIl and
                                            11

an immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an
epitope bound by the antibody of (i).
[0046]       Formula III:
      H
 0    N        O            N        C
                                 N      ,C1
        NH2
[0047]       In a further preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to aripiprazole and
which: (i) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula IV and
an immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an
epitope bound by the antibody of (i).
[0048]       Formula IV:
      H
                            N    N      CI
                                         INH2
[0049]       In another preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed to an
isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to aripiprazole and
which: (I) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula V and
an immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an
epitope bound by the antibody of (i).
[0050]       Formula V:
 0                  N                C1
                                            S0OH
[0051]       In an additional preferred embodiment, the present invention is directed
to an isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to aripiprazole and
which: (I) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula VI and
an immunogenic carrier or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the same as an
epitope bound by the antibody of (i).
(0052]       Formula VI:
                                             12

      H
                               N        C    0CI
                                         QN              OH
                                           H
[0053]        In yet another additional preferred embodiment, the present invention is
directed to an isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to
aripiprazole and which: (i) is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of
Formula VII and an immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an epitope which is the
same as an epitope bound by the antibody of (i).
10054]        Formula VII:
                  H
            0O    NN        0         NN    N     C
                                                  Cl
     HQ       .
[0055]        In yet an additional additional preferred embodiment, the present
invention is directed to an isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which
binds to aripiprazole and which: (I) is generated in response to a conjugate of a
compound of Formula VIll and an immunogenic carrier; or (ii) competes for an
epitope which is the same as an epitope bound by the antibody of (i).
[0056]       Formula Vill:
                H
         0      N       ON                     CI
            NN                                       C
  0         H
[0057]        Preferably, the antibody of the subject invention is generated in response
to a conjugate of a compound selected from the compounds of: Formula I, Formula
Ill, Formula IV, Formula V, Formula VI, Formula VII, and Formula VIII; and an
immunogenic carrier.
[00581        Further details of the compounds described by the formulas above and
the conjugates formed by the compounds and an immunogenic carrier are provided
in the section below entitled "Compounds, Conjugates and Immunogens".
(0059]        Further details of the antibodies of the subject invention are provided in
the section below entitled "Antibodies".
                                            13

[0060]        The subject invention further provides an assay kit comprising the
antibody, as well as an assay device comprising the antibody. Preferably, the assay
device is a lateral flow assay device. Further details of the assay kits and assay
devices are provided below in the section entitled "Assay Kits and Devices".
[0061]        The invention further provides a method of producing an antibody which
binds to aripiprazole, the method comprising: (i) selecting a host cell for antibody
production: and (ii) inoculating the host with a conjugate of a compound of Formula I
and an immunogenic carrier, wherein the host produces an antibody which binds to
aripiprazole. In additional embodiments, the conjugate used in the method can be a
conjugate of a compound selected from the compounds of: Formula III, Formula IV,
Formula V, Formula VI, Formula Vil, and Formula Vill; and an immunogenic carrier.
Further details or the production of the antibodies of the subject invention are
provided in the section below entitled "Antibodies",
[0062]        Further provided is a method of producing a hybridoma cell line capable
of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to aripiprazole.             The method
comprises: (i) selecting a host for antibody production; (ii) inoculating the host with a
conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier; (iii) fusing a cell
line from the inoculated host with a continuously dividing cell to create a fused cell
capable of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to aripiprazole; and (iv)
cloning the fused cell so as to obtain a hybridoma cell line.               In additional
embodiments, the conjugate used in the method can be a conjugate of a compound
selected from the compounds of: Formula III, Formula IV, Formula V, Formula VI,
Formula VII, and Formula VIII; and an immunogenic carrier. Further details of the
production of hybridomas in accordance with the subject invention are provided in the
section below entitled "Antibodies".
[0063]        The invention further provides a method of detecting aripiprazole in a
sample. The method comprises: (i) contacting a sample with an antibody according
to the subject invention which is labeled with a detectable marker, wherein the
labeled antibody and aripiprazole present in the sample form a labeled complex; and
(ii) detecting the labeled complex so as to detect aripiprazole in the sample. Further
details of the method of detecting aripiprazole in accordance with the subject
invention are provided in the section below entitled "Immunoassays".
[0064]        Further provided is a competitive immunoassay method for detecting
adpiprazole in a sample. The method comprises: (i) contacting a sample with an
                                           14

antibody according to the subject invention, and with aripiprazole or a competitive
binding partner of aripiprazole, wherein one of the antibody and the aripiprazole or
competitive binding partner thereof is labeled with a detectable marker, and wherein
sample aripiprazole competes with the aripiprazole or competitive binding partner
thereof for binding to the antibody; and (ii) detecting the label so as to detect sample
aripiprazole. Further details of the competitive immunoassay method of detecting
aripiprazole in accordance with the subject invention are provided in the section
below entitled "Immunoassays".
[0065]       In a preferred embodiment of the subject invention, the detection of
aripiprazole is accompanied by the detection of one or more analytes in addition to
aripiprazole. Preferably the one or more analytes are anti-psychotic drugs other than
aripiprazole, and more preferably the anti-psychotic drugs other than aripiprazole are
selected from the group consisting of:           risperidone, paliperidone, quetiapine,
olanzapine, and metabolites thereof.
[0066]       As discussed above, the antibodies of the subject invention can be used
in assays to detect the presence and/or amount of the anti-psychotic drug in patient
samples. Such detection permits therapeutic drug monitoring enabling all of the
benefits thereof. Detection of levels of anti-psychotic drugs may be useful for many
purposes, each of which represents another embodiment of the subject invention,
including: determination of patient adherence or compliance with prescribed therapy;
use as a decision tool to determine whether a patient should be converted from an
oral anti-psychotic regimen to a long-acting injectable anti-psychotic regimen; use as
a decision tool to determine if the dose level or dosing interval of oral or injectable
anti-psychotics should be increased or decreased to ensure attainment or
maintenance of efficacious or safe drug levels; use as an aid in the initiation of anti
psychotic drug therapy by providing evidence of the attainment of minimum pK
levels;   use to determine bioequivalence of anti-psychotic drug in multiple
formulations or from multiple sources; use to assess the impact of polypharmacy and
potential drug-drug interactions: and use as an indication that a patient should be
excluded from or included in a clinical trial and as an aid in the subsequent
monitoring of adherence to clinical trial medication requirements.
                                            15

COMPOUNDS, CONJUGATES AND IMMUNOGENS
[00671        In relation to the compounds and conjugates and immunogens. the
following abbreviations are used:        AIBN is azobisisobutyronitrile; AMAS is N-(a
maleimidoacetoxy)succinimide       ester;    BTG   is bovine thyroglobulin;       Bu3 N is
tributylamine;         DMF        is        NN-dimethylformamide:           EDTA         is
ethylenediaminetetraaceticacid:     EtOH is ethyl alcohol; KLH is keyhole limpet
hemocyanin;       NBS    is  N-bromo      succinimide;   SATA     is    N-succinimidyl  S
acetylthioacetate; THF is tetrahydrofuran; TFA is trifluoroacetic acid; DCC              is
dicyclohexylcarbodilmide; DIC is diisopropylcarbodiinide DMAP is NN-dimethyl-4
aminopyridine; EDC is 1-ethyl-3(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiinidehydrochloride;
NHS is N-hydroxysuccinimide; TFP is Tetrafluorophenyl; PNP is p-nitrophenyl; TBTU
is O-(Benzotriazol-1-yl)-N,N,N',N-tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate; HOBT is N
Hydroxybenzotriazole;       DEPBT     is   3-(diethoxyphosphoryoxy)-1,2,3-benzotrazin
4(3H)-one;     BOP-CI     is Bis(2-oxo-3-oxazolidinyl)phosphonic chloride;        DTT    is
dithioerythritol.
[0068]        The term "conjugate" refers to any substance formed from the joining
together of separate parts. Representative conjugates include those formed by the
joining together of a small molecule, such as the compounds of Formula I, and a
large molecule, such as a carrier or a polyamine polymer, particularly a protein. In the
conjugate the small molecule may be joined at one or more active sites on the large
molecule.
[0069]        The term "hapten' refers to a partial or incomplete antigen. A hapten is a
protein-free substance, which is not capable of stimulating antibody formation, but
which does react with antibodies. The antibodies are formed by coupling a hapten to
a high molecular weight immunogenic carrier, and then injecting this coupled product,
i.e., an immunogen, into a human or animal subject.
[0070]        The term "immunogen" refers to a substance capable of eliciting.
producing, or generating an immune response in an organism.
[0071]        An   "immunogenic     carrier,"  as used    herein,    is  an  immunogenic
substance, commonly a protein, that can join at one or more positions with haptens,
thereby enabling the production of antibodies that can bind with these happens.
Examples of immunogenic carrier substances include, but are not limited to, proteins,
glycoproteins, complex polyamino-polysaccharides, particles, and nucleic acids that
are recognized as foreign and thereby elicit an immunologic response from the host.
                                              16

The polyamino-polysaccharides may be prepared from polysaccharides using any of
the conventional means known for this preparation.
[0072]       Various protein types may be employed as immunogenic carriers,
including without limitation, albumins, serum proteins, lipoproteins, etc. Illustrative
proteins include bovine serum albumin, keyhole limpet hemocyanin, egg ovalbumin,
bovine thyroglobulin, fraction V human serum albumin, rabbit albumin, pumpkin seed
globulin, diphtheria toxoid, tetanus toxoid, botilinus toxin, succinylated proteins, and
synthetic poly(aminoacids) such as polylysine.
[0073]        Immunogenic carriers can also include poly amino-polysaccharides,
which are a high molecular weight polymers built up by repeated condensations of
monosaccharides. Examples of polysaccharides are starches, glycogen, cellulose,
carbohydrate gums such as gum arabic, agar, and so forth. The polysaccharide also
contains poly(amino acid) residues and/or lipid residues.
[0074]       The immunogenic carrier can also be a poly(nucleic acid) either alone or
conjugated to one of the above mentioned poly(amino acids) or polysaccharides.
[0075]         The immunogenic carrier can also include solid particles. The particles
are generally at least about 0.02 microns (im) and not more than about 100 4m, and
usually about 0.05 m to 10 m in diameter. The particle can be organic or inorganic,
swellable or non-sweilable, porous or non-porous, optimally of a density
approximating water, generally from about 0.7 to 1.5 g/mL, and composed of material
that can be transparent, partially transparent, or opaque. The particles can be
biological materials such as cells and microorganisms, including non-limiting
examples      such    as    erythrocytes,   leukocytes,     lymphocytes,    hybridomas,
Streptococcus, Staphylococcus aureus, E. coli, and viruses. The particles can also
be comprised of organic and inorganic polymers, liposomes,           latex, phospholipid
vesicles, or lipoproteins.
[0076]       The term "derivative" refers to a chemical compound or molecule made
from a parent compound by one or more chemical reactions.
[0077]       The term "analogue" of a chemical compound refers to a chemical
compound that contains a chain of carbon atoms and the same particular functional
groups as a reference compound, but the carbon chain of the analogue is longer or
shorter than that of the reference compound.
[0078]       A "label, "detector molecule," "reporter" or "detectable marker" is any
molecule which produces, or can be induced to produce, a detectable signal. The
                                           17

label can be conjugated to an analyze, immunogen, antibody, or to another molecule
such as a receptor or a molecule that can bind to a receptor such as a ligand,
particularly a hapten or antibody. A label can be attached directly or indirectly by
means of a linking or bridging moiety.         Non-limiting examples of labels include
radioactive isotopes (e.g.,  li), enzymes (e.g. p-galactosidase, peroxidase), enzyme
fragments,     enzyme     substrates,   enzyme      inhibitors, coenzymes,      catalysts,
fluorophores (e.g., rhodamine, fluorescein isothiocyanate or FITC, or Dylight 649),
dyes, chemiluminescers and luminescers (e.g., dioxetanes, luciferin), or sensitizers.
[0079]        As used herein, a "spacer" refers to a portion of a chemical structure
which connects two or more substructures such as haptens, carriers, immunogens,
labels or binding partners through a functional linking group. These spacer groups
are composed of the atoms typically present and assembled in ways typically found
in organic compounds and so may be referred to as "organic spacing groups". The
chemical building blocks used to assemble the spacers will be described hereinafter
in this application. Among the preferred spacers are straight or branched, saturated
or unsaturated carbon chains. These carbon chains may also include one or more
heteroatoms within the chain, one or more heteroatoms replacing one or more
hydrogens of any carbon atom in the chain, or at the termini of the chains. By
"heteroatoms" is meant atoms other than carbon which are chosen from the group
consisting of oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorous and sulfur, wherein the nitrogen,
phosphorous and sulfur atoms may exist in any oxidation state and may have carbon
or other heteroatoms bonded to them. The spacer may also include cyclic or
aromatic groups as part of the chain or as a substitution on one of the atoms in the
chain.
10080)        The number of atoms in the spacing group is determined by counting the
atoms other than hydrogen. The number of atoms in a chain within a spacing group
is determined by counting the number of atoms other than hydrogen along the
shortest route between the substructures being connected. Preferred chain lengths
are between 1 to 20 atoms.
[0081]        A "unctional linking group" refers to a reactive group that is present on a
hapten and may be used to provide an available reactive site through which the
hapten portion may be coupled to another moiety through formation of a covalent
chemical bond to produce a conjugate of a hapten with another moiety (such as a
                                            18

label or carrier). The hapten may be linked in this way to a moiety such as biotin to
form a competitive binding partner.
[0082]        Spacer groups may be used to link the hapten to the carrier. Spacers of
different lengths allow one to attach the hapten with differing distances from the
carrier for presentation to the immune system of the animal or human being
immunized for optimization of the antibody formation process. Attachment to different
positions in the hapten molecule allows the opportunity to present specific sites on
the hapten to the immune system to influence antibody recognition. The spacer may
contain hydrophilic solubilizing groups to make the hapten derivative more soluble in
aqueous media.       Examples of hydrophilic solubilizing groups include but are not
limited to polyoxyalkyloxy groups, for example, polyethylene glycol chains; hydroxyl,
carboxylate and sulfonate groups.
[0083]        The term "nucleophilic group" or "nucleophile" refers to a species that
donates an electron-pair to form a chemical bond in a reaction. The term
"electrophilic group" or "electrophile" refers to a species that accepts an electron-pair
from a nucleophile to form a chemical bond in a reaction,
[0084]        The term "substituted" refers to substitution of an atom or group of atoms
in place of a hydrogen atom on a carbon atom in any position on the parent
molecule. Non limiting examples of substituents include halogen atoms, amino,
hydroxy, carboxy, alkyl. aryl, heteroalkyl. heteroaryl, cyano, alkoxy, nitro, aldehyde
and ketone groups.
[00851         The term "alkyl" refers to saturated or unsaturated linear and branched
chain radicals of up to 12 carbon atoms, unless otherwise indicated, and is
specifically intended to include radicals having any degree or level of saturation. Alkyl
includes, but is not limited to, methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, sec
butyl, tert-butyl, pentyl, isopentyl, hexyl, isohexyl, heptyl, octyl. 2,2,4-trimethylpentyl,
nonyl, decyl, undecyl and dodecyl.
[0086]        The term "cycloalkyl" refers to a saturated or partially unsaturated
monocyclic or bicyclic hydrocarbon ring radical composed of from 3 to 10 carbon
atoms. Alkyl substituents may optionally be present on the ring. Examples include
cyclopropyl, 1,1-dimethyl cyclobutyl, 1,2,3-trimethylcyclopentyl, cyclohexyl and
cyclohexenyl.
                                              19

[0087]       The term "heteroalkyl" refers to an alkyl group that includes one or more
heteroatoms within the chain, one or more heteroatorns replacing one or more
hydrogens of any carbon atom in the chain, or at termini of the chains.
[00881       The term "aminoalkyl" refers to at least one primary or secondary amino
group bonded to any carbon atom along an alkyl chain.
[0089]       The term "alkoxy" refers to straight or branched chain radicals of up to 12
carbon atoms, unless otherwise indicated, bonded to an oxygen atom. Examples
include but are not limited to methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy, isopropoxy and butoxy.
[0090]       The term "alkoxyalkyl" refers to at least one alkoxy group bonded to any
carbon atom along an alkyl chain.
100911       The term "thioalkyl" refers to at least one sulfur group bonded to any
carbon atom along an alkyl chain. The sulfur group may be at any oxidation state
and includes sulfoxides, sulfones and sulfates.
[0092]       The term "carboxylate group" includes carboxylic acids and alkyl,
cycloalkyl, aryl or aralkyl carboxylate esters.
[0093]       The term "alkylcarbonyl" refers to a group that has a carbonyl group
bonded to any carbon atom along an alkyl chain.
[00941       The term "heteroaryl" refers to 5- to 7-membered mono- or 8- to 10
membered bicyclic aromatic ring radicals, any ring of which may consist of from one
to four heteroatorns selected from N, 0 or S where the nitrogen and sulfur atoms can
exist in any allowed          oxidation state.     Examples     include  benzimidazolyl,
benzothiazolyl, benzothieny, benzoxazolyl, furyl, imidazolyl, isothiazolyl, isoxazolyl,
oxazolyl, pyrazinyl, pyrazolyl, pyridyl, pyrimidinyl, pyrrolyl, quinolinyl, thiazolyl and
thienyl.
10095]       The term "aryl" refers to monocyclic or bicyclic aromatic ring radicals
containing from 6 to 12 carbons in the ring. Alkyl substituents may optionally be
present on the ring. Examples include phenyl, biphenyl and napththalene.
[0096]       The term "aralkyl" refers to a Cj         alkyl group containing an aryl
substituent. Examples include benzyl, phenylethyl or 2-naplithylmethyl.
[0097]       The term "acyl" refers to the group -C(O)R , where Ra is hydrogen, alkyl,
cycloalkyl, heteroalkyl, aryl, aralkyl and heteroaryl, An "acylating agent" adds the
C(O)Ra group to a molecule.
                                            20

[0098]        The term "sulfonyl" refers to the group --S(O) 2 Rb, where Rb is hydrogen,
alkyl, cycloalkyl, heteroalkyl, haloalkyl, aryl, aralkyl and heteroaryl . A "sulfonylating
agent" adds the -S(O)2Ra group to a molecule.
[0099]        Spacers bearing reactive functional linking groups for the attachment of
haptens to carrier moieties may be prepared by a wide variety of methods. The
spacer may be formed using a molecule that is differentially functionalized or
activated with groups at either end to allow selective sequential reaction with the
hapten and the carrier, but the same reactive moiety may also be used at both ends.
The groups selected for reaction with the hapten and the functional linking group to
be bound to the carrier are determined by the type of functionality on the hapten and
the carrier that the hapten is to be bonded with. Spacers and methods of attachment
to haptens and carriers include but are not limited to those described by Brinkley, M.,
A.,   SBioconjugate Chem.      1992,   3:2-13,    Hermanson,    Greg T.,    Bioconjugate
 Techniques,.Acadernic Press, London, Amsterdam, Burlington, MA, USA, 2008 and
 Thermo Scientific Pierce Crosslinking Technical Handbook; available for download or
hard copy request from Thermo Scientific 3747 N Meridian Rd, Rockford, IL USA
61101, ph 800-874-3723 or at: http://www.piercenet.com/ and references within.
Many differentially activated molecules for formation of spacer groups are
commercially available from vendors, for example Thermo Scientific.
[00100]       For haptens bearing an amino group, modes of attachment of the spacer
to the hapten include reaction of the amine on the hapten with a spacer building
block bearing an acyl halide or active ester. "Active esters" are defined as esters that
undergo reaction with a nucleophilic group, for example an amino group, under mild
conditions to form a stable linkage. A stable linkage is defined as one that remains
intact under conditions of further use, for example subsequent synthetic steps, use
as an immunogen, or in a biochemical assay. A preferred example of a stable
linkage is an amide bond. Active esters and methods of formation are described by
Benoiton, N.L., in Houben-Weyl, Methods of Organic Chemistry, Thierne Stuttgart,
New York, vol E22 section 3.2:443 and Benoiton, N.L., Chemistry of Peptide
Synthesis, Taylor and Francis, NY, 2006.             Preferred active esters include p
nitrophenyl ester (PNP), N-hydroxysuccinirnide ester (NHS) and tetrafluorophenyl
ester (TFP). Acyl halides may be prepared by many methods known to one skilled in
the art for example, reaction of the carboxylic acid with thionyl chloride or oxalyl
chloride, see: Fieser, L.F. and Fieser, M. Reagents for Organic Synthesis, John
                                            21

Wiley and Sons, NY, 1967 and references within. These may be converted to other
active esters such as p-nitrophenyl esters (PNP) which may also be used in active bi
functional spacers as described by Wu et.al, Organic Letters. 2004 ,6 (24):4407. N
hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) esters may be prepared by reaction of NN-disuccinimidyl
carbonate (CAS 74124-79-1) with the carboxylic acid of a compound in the presence
of an organic base such as triethylamine or diisopropylethylamine in an aprotic
solvent under anhydrous conditions as described in Example 35 of W02012012595
or by using N-hydroxysuccinimide and dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC) or other
dehydrating agent, under anhydrous conditions. Tetrafluorophenyl esters (TFP) may
be      prepared       by      reaction   of     carboxylic   acids   with    2,3,5,6
tetrafluorophenyltrifluoroacetate in the presence of an organic base such as
triethylamine or diisopropylethylamine in an aprotic solvent under anhydrous
conditions as reported by Wilbur, et.al, Bioconjugate Chem., 2004,15(1):203. One
skilled in the art will recognize that spacers shown in Table 1, among others, can be
obtained using known methods and attached to amino-bearing haptens utilizing
routine optimization of reaction conditions. These spacers allow attachment of the
hapten to a thiol group on a carrier.
[00101]       Table 1
        0 0                                   C0
                                                                 Br
    o
                          0           0         0
       o                   H0                    0
                      00 O                 t~O         C     NH     i
         -0               N
            0
                            02                 02
                                             22

  O
                                         n                 ad 0
          0                                     0
                0                             00
                             00
                        0
                                0        Reasonable values formi and
                       H                 n are between 1 and 10
100102]       Direct coupling of the amine on the hapten and a carboxylic acid
functionality on the spacer building block in the presence of a coupling agent may
also be used as a mode of attachment. Preferred reagents are those typically used in
peptide synthesis. Peptide coupling reagents include but are not limited to 0
(Benzotriazol-1-yl)-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium   tetrafluoroborate  (TBTU,   CAS
#125700-67-6),     see: Pruhs, S., Org. Process. Res. Dev. 2006, 10:441;          N
Hydroxybenzotriazole (HOBT, CAS #2592-95-2) with a carbodilmide dehydrating
agent, for example N-N-dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC), diisopropylcarbodiimide
(DIC), or 1-ethyl-3(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimidehydrochloride    (EDC),   see:
Kbnig W., Geiger, R. Chem. Ber., 1970, 103 (3):788 ; 3-(diethoxyphosphoryloxy)
1,2,3-benzotrazin-4(3H)-one    (DEPBT,      CAS#165534-43-0),    see: Liu, H. et.al.,
Chinese Chemical Letters, 2002, 13(7):601: Bis(2-oxo-3-oxazolidinyl)phosphonic
chloride; (BOP-CI, CAS# 68641-49-6), see: Diago-Meseguer, J et.al. Synthesis,
1980, 7:547-51 and others described in detail by Benoiton in Chemistry of Peptide
Synthesis, CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, 2005, Chapter 2, and the technical bulletin
provided by Advanced Automated Peptide Protein Technologies (aapptec), 6309
Shepardsville Rd., Louisville KY 40228, ph 888 692 9111; wwwaapptec.com, and
references within.    These methods create a stable amide linkage attaching the
hapten to the spacer.      Examples of spacers that can be obtained using known
methods and attached to amino-bearing haptens utilizing routine optimization of
reaction conditions employing the methods described and cited above are shown, but
                                           23

not limited to those in Table 2. These spacers allow attachment of the hapten to a
thiol group on a carrier.
100103]       Table 2
            00                                                  0
   jN'ICtO2H                   aN       DC02 H                   N       CO2H
    00                                                          0
reasonable range for n is
between 1-10
(00104]       Spacers may also be constructed in a step-wise fashion by sequential
attachment of appropriate chemical groups to the hapten including the step of
forming the functional linking group that is capable of binding to the carrier.    See
illustrative examples under General Reaction Schemes.
[00105]       Additionally, when the hapten has a nucleophilic group, for example a
thiol group, an amino group or a hydroxyl group which will become the point of
attachment of the spacer, the spacer may also be constructed by alkylation of the
thiol, amine or hydroxyl group. Any alkyl group that is appropriately substituted with
a moiety capable of undergoing a substitution reaction, for example, an alkyl halide,
or sulfonic acid ester such as p-Toluenesulfonate, may be used to attach the spacer.
Many examples of alkylation reactions are known to one skilled in the art and specific
examples may be found in the general chemical literature and optimized through
routine experimentation      A discussion of alkylation reactions with many references
can be found in Chapter 10 of March's Advanced Organic Chemistry, Smith, M.B.,
and March, J., John Wiley & sons, Inc. NY, 2001. Other linkages may also be
employed such as reaction of the nucleophilic moiety, for example an amine, on the
hapten with an isocyanate to form a urea or reaction with an isothiocyanate to form a
thiourea linkage, see: Li. Z. et.al., Phosphorus, Sulfur and Silicon and the Related
Elements, 2003, 178(2):293-297. Spacers may be attached to haptens bearing
hydroxyl groups via reaction with isocyanate groups to form carbamate or urethane
linkages. The spacer may be differentially activated with the isocyanate functional
group on one end and a functional linking group capable of reacting with the carrier,
                                           24

see: Annunziato, M.E., Patel, U.S., Ranade, M. and Palumbo, P.S., Bioconjugafe
Chem., 1993, 4:212-218.
[00106]        For haptens bearing a carboxylic acid group, modes of attachment of a
spacer portion to the hapten include activation of the carboxylic acid group as an acyl
halide or active ester, examples of which are shown in Table 3, preparation of which
are described previously, followed by reaction with an amino (-NH 2-), hydrazino (-NH
NH2-) , hydrazido (-C(O)-NH-NH-) or hydroxyl group (-OH) on the spacer portion to
form an amide, hydrazide, diacylhydrazine or ester linkage, or direct coupling of the
carboxylic acid group with an amino group on the spacer portion or directly on the
carrier with a peptide coupling reagent and/or carbodiimide dehydrating reagent,
described previously, examples of which are shown in Tables 4 and 5. Procedures
found in references cited previously for formation of activated esters and use of
peptide coupling agents may be employed for attachment of carboxylic acid-bearing
haptens to spacer building blocks and protein carriers with available amino groups
utilizing routine optimization of reaction conditions.
[00107]        Table 3
 +Na-0S                                            ICOxX              O           N
                -O-             N-O     1             F   X=CI, Br
                   O                O
              SF0    o         oF                     F   Acyl      PNP
Sulfo NHS and NHS                          TFP            chloride
[00108]        Table 4
                             0N
                             O                    O                       N       e
            II'N                  0     Ot                                     BF
                            S N'         -           N
                                                        C
                                                          A.,              1(, 0
                                                                            _N N(CH3)
                             NN      O0 t       '_
          OH                           Et0                                o-KN
HOBT                  DEPT                     BOP-Cl                          N(CH 3)2
                                                                   TBTU
                                             25

[00109]        Table 5
   -NCN                              NCN-Q                                Cl~
diisopropyicarbodiimide     Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide      '    NCN            1-ethyl-3(3
(DIG)                       (DCC)                         dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide.HCI
                                                          (EDC)
[00110]        Other electrophilic groups may be present on the hapten to attach the
spacer, for example, a sulfonyl halide
    0
    11S CI
or electrophilic phosphorous group, for example:
    OR,
See: Malachowski, Williarn P., Coward, James K., Joumal of Organic Chemistry,
1994, 59(25):7616
or:
  |Tor '
      oRC
     6R,
R, is alkyl, cycloalkyl, aryl, substituted aryl, aralkyl.
See: Aliouane, L., et.al, Tetrahedron Letters, 2011, 52(28):8681.
[001111        Haptens that bear aldehyde or ketone groups may be attached to
spacers using methods including but not limited to reaction with a hydrazide group
H2 N-NH-C(O)- on the spacer to form an acylhydrazone, see: Chamow. S.M., Kogan,
T.P., Peers, D.H., Hastings, R.C., Byrn, R.A. and Askenaszi, A., J. Biol. Chem., 1992,
267(22): 15916. Examples of bifunctional hydrazide spacer groups that allow
attachment to a thiol group on the carrier are shown in Table 6.
[00112]        Table 6
                              C0
      N                   NHNHN
            'NJ                                            -_     __0
                                                      0          NHNH2
                                                26

[00113]       Haptens may also contain thiol groups which may be reacted with the
carrier provided that the carrier has been modified to provide a group that may react
with the thiol. Carrier groups may be modified by methods including but not limited to
attachment of a group containing a maleimide functional group by reaction of an
amino group on the carrier with N-Succinimidyl maleimidoacetate, (AMAS, CAS
#55750-61-3), Succinimidyl lodoacetate (CAS# 151199-81-4), or any of the
bifunctional spacer groups shown in Table 1 to introduce a group which may undergo
a reaction resulting in attachment of the hapten to the carrier.
[00114]       The functional linking group capable of forming a bond with the carrier
may be any group capable of forming a stable linkage and may be reactive to a
number of different groups on the carrier. The functional linking group may preferably
react with an amino group, a carboxylic acid group or a thiol group on the carrier, or
derivative thereof. Non-limiting examples of the functional linking group are a
carboxylic acid group, acyl halide, active ester (as defined previously), isocyanate,
isothiocyanate, alkyl halide, amino group, thiol group,      maleimide group, acrylate
group (H2C=CH-C(O)-) or vinyl sulfone group H2C=CH-SO 2-) See: Park, J.W, et.al.,
Bioconjugate Chem., 2012, 23(3): 350. The functional linking group may be present
as part of a differentially activated spacer building block that may be reacted
stepwise with the hapten and the resulting hapten derivative may then be reacted
with the carrier. Alternatively, the hapten may be derivatized with a spacer that bears
a precursor group that may be transformed into the functional linking group by a
subsequent reaction. When the functional linking group on the spacer is an amine or
a carboxylic acid group, the coupling reaction with the carboxylic acid group or amine
on the carrier may be carried out directly through the use of peptide coupling
reagents according to procedures in the references cited above for these reagents.
[00115]       Particular disulfide groups, for example, pyridyldisulfides, may be used
as the functional linking group on the spacer which may undergo exchange with a
thiol group on the carrier to from a mixed disulfide linkage, see: Ghetie, V., et al.,
Bioconjugate Chem., 1990, 1:24-31. These spacers may be attached by reaction of
the amine-bearing hapten with an active ester which is attached to a spacer bearing
the pyridyldisulfide group, examples of which include but are not limited to those
shown in Table 7.
                                             27

[00116]       Table 7
                0
 ~NaS             OIN       NSS'            N           O        S
                                                     N'0
            0             0
[00117]       Most often the carrier is a protein and the c-amino groups of the lysine
residues may be used for attachment, either directly by reaction with an amine
reactive functional linking group or after derivitization with a thiol-containing group,
including N-Succinimidyl S-Acetyithioacetate, (SATA, GAS 76931-93-6), or an
analogue thereof, followed by cleavage of the actetate group with hydroxylamine to
expose the thiol group for reaction with the functional linking group on the hapten.
Thiol groups may also be introduced into the carrier by reduction of disulfide bonds
within protein carriers with mild reducing reagents including but not limited to 2
mercaptoethylamine, see: Bilah, M., etal., Bioelectrochemistry, 2010, 8O(1):49,
phosphine reagents, see: Kirley, TL. Analytical Biochemistry, 1989, 180(2):231 or
dithioerythritol (DTT, GAS 3483-12-3) Cleland, WBiochemi/stry, 1964, 3:480-482.
[00118]       GENERAL REACTION SCHEMES
[00119]       Compounds useful for producing antibodies according to the subject
invention can be synthesized in accordance with the general synthetic methods
described below. Compounds of Formula ican be prepared by methods known to
those who are skilled in the art. The following reaction schemes are only meant to
represent examples of the invention and are irt no way meant to be a limit of the
invention.
                                            28

[00120]       Scheme 1
                                     H             0
       C         N                   N   O    O        O
C1          N,)
                Example 1       H2 N
                Cl                           0
         NH
            CIN    N
                                                OH
                                        H
[00121]       The hapten of Example I may be elaborated with spacers by reaction
with a cyclic anhydride compound, such as succinic anhydride or glutaric anhydride,
as shown in Scheme 1. The reaction may be carried out in a solvent such as THF, at
room temperature, overnight.
 00122]       Scheme 2
   Cl          I N-Y-
           C,Nr"             T--f0
                            On                 0--l/FO
H2 N             Example 2
                                                H
                                       _O            O
                  C C       N -
           O
    HOIH90 YHj NX
[00123]       The hapten of Example 2 may be elaborated with spacers by reaction
with a cyclic anhydride compound, such as succinic anhydride or glutaric anhydride,
as shown in Scheme 2.       The reaction may be carried out in a solvent such as
pyridine, and heated to about 110 *Cin a microwave oven for 3-6 hours.
                                          29

[00124]      Scheme 3
               Example 1                 NH2          DMF, Bu3 N
                                       H
        Cl                           N  NO
             C1             N
                                               H    0
[00125]      Haptens which terminate in an alkyl amine group, such as Example I
may be further functionalized with a maleimide group. Those skilled in the art will
recognize that the same methodology will be applicable to other alkyl amino
derivatives of aripiprazole. Reaction of the aripiprazole derived amine with alkyl
maleimide functionalizing group, such as 2,5-dioxopyrrolidin-l-y 2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5
dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-1-yl)acetate, in a solvent such as DMF, in the presence of a base,
such as tributyl amine, at 200C, for one hour. generates haptens of aripiprazole with a
maleinide spacer.
                                           30

[00126]      Scheme 4
                                    H
      C1        N                   N     0
Co         N,O                                       H      HN     N
                                       N                 ____     ____ ___
                                       H
                                     H
                             O    ,  N     0                   1.TFA
       Ci        NN'
                                                               2.
                                        H              N<A O
                                      H
  CI,        N                              O   O
                                         H              NrN        OH
                                                         0      0
[00127]      Spacers on haptens may be extended as shown in Scheme 4. Haptens
with spacers bearing a carboxylic acid functionality may be dissolved in a suitable
solvent, such as dichioromethane, under inert atmosphere, and treated with N+
butoxycarbonylpiperazine and an appropriate base, such as diisopropylethylamine.
The solution may then be treated with diethyl cyanophosphonate to install a
piperazine moiety onto the spacer.          Deprotection of the piperazine may be
accomplished with trifluoroacetic acid or other methods known in the art. Reaction
with a cyclic anhydride gives compounds of Formula I where R' is
       0   0
                      0    N
                                           31

[00128]      Scheme 5
                       CI     CN              OO
                                                                  HN     N
        HO      1 N         N
                   H
                                                             H
                             CI   rN-              O        ,N  ,.1.   TFA
                                                                     2.O
                        N
                                                                   H
                                              N          O         N   ,
                                   C1
                     N         N1
   HOCN                        H
       0     0
[00129]      Spacers on haptens may also be extended as shown in Scheme 5.
Haptens with spacers bearing carboxylic acid functionality may be dissolved in a
suitable solvent, such as dichloromethane, under inert atmosphere, and treated with
N-t-butoxycarbonylpiperazine       and      an     appropriate     base,     such     as
diisopropylethylamine.      The    solution    may   then    be  treated   with   diethyl
cyanophosphonate to install a piperazine moiety onto the spacer. Deprotection of
the piperazine may be accomplished with trifluoroacetic acid or other methods known
in the art. Reaction with a cyclic anhydride gives compounds of Formula I where R2
is
      0    0
           WnN
                     N       OH
                     0    o
100130]      Haptens may also be generated directly from the parent molecule
aripiprazole by either acylation or alkylation of the quinolinone nitrogen. Scheme 6
depicts a synthetic route in which an acyl group may be appended to aripiprazole by
                                            32

reaction with the acid chloride of 4-chlorobutyric acid using N,N-dimethyl-4
aminopyridine (DMAP) as a catalyst in the presence of a base such as pyridine in an
aprotic     solvent,     for  example     N,N-dinethylformamide,          see:    Example 5,
US20110230520.           Nucleophilic substitution of the chloride by N-methyl-o-alanine
methyl ester may be carried out in the presence of sodium iodide and a base, for
example potassium carbonate in a dipolar aprotic solvent such as N,N
dimethylformamide, see: Penning, T., D., et.al., J Mod Chen, 2002, 45:3482.
Hydrolysis of the ester group using standard methods known to one skilled in the art,
such as exposure to aqueous base, yields a carboxy-functionalized hapten which
may be further elaborated using the methods described previously, one example of
which is depicted in Scheme 9 below, to provide a suitably functionalized compound
for attachment to an immunogenic carder.
[00131]         Scheme 6:
                                                       0
                               O         N    O     C1A       -    c
        CI    -    N'
 CI           N
                                                      Pyridine
                                                     CHC12
                                                                       0
                  C CO                              C1NNK2CO,             Oo
           CI    CNN
  CI        N N~N,N)                                        -dimethylforman de
                                                               0
                                        o            N%          O       base hydrolysis
    C1,      NN      )
                                                      N    O      OH
    CI           N     N
                                               33

[00132]        Scheme 7 illustrates a mode of attachment of an alkyl group to the
nitrogen of the quinolinone group of aripiprazole using standard alkylation chemistry.
An iodo compound, for example methyl-4-iodobutyrate may be reacted with
aripiprazole in the presence of a base such as cesium carbonate in a dipolar aprotic
solvent such as N,N-dimethylformamide using the method of Example 6 in
US20120004165. Hydrolysis of the ester group using standard methods known to
one skilled in the art, such as exposure to aqueous base, yields a carboxy
functionalized hapten which may be further elaborated using the methods described
previously, one example of which is depicted in Scheme 9 below, to provide a
suitably functionalized compound for attachment to an immunogenic carrier.
[00133]        Scheme 7
                                                      0
                                                   0)             I
                                      H
                             O             O      CS2CO3
     CI C         'N'
           N,,
                                                N N-dirmethylformamide
                                             0
                            N0      N   O            base hydrolysis
 CI           N
                                               OH
        C1      N           O             O0
                                          34

[00134]        Scheme 8
                                  0
                              VNOks        CH,
                 PRO                     0PROTEIN-N
  PROTEIN-NH2                                        PROTEIN-N         SH
                                                               H
                         2.   H2N-OH
           0     Aripiprazole     PROTEIN-NH              0
   O N      l                              O                0    Aripiprazole
     o        H                                                N
                                                        0     H
[00135]        Maleimide functionalized haptens may be conjugated to proteins
according to the method shown in Scheme 8. Activation of protein lysine residues by
acylation of the epsilon-nitrogen with N-succinimidyl S-acetylthioacetate (SATA),
followed by subsequent hydrolysis of the S-acetyl group with hydroxylamine
produces a nucleophilic sulfhydryl group.      Conjugation of the sulfhydryl activated
protein with the maleimide derivatized hapten (prepared as described in general
Scheme 3) proceeds via a Michael addition reaction. Suitable proteins are known to
those skilled in the art and include keyhole limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin,
and ovalbumin. While Scheme 8 illustrates protein-hapten conjugation where R' is
         0
              N
     N
                 0 , the same chemistry can be used to conjugate any maleimide
functionalized hapten to a protein.
                                          35

[00136]       Scheme9:
     0   0                        CN-OH             0
 HO)        N,.Aripiprazole          0            N O3     NAripiprazole
                                DCC/DMF        0            H
   PROTEIN-NH,                            0 0
                              PROTEIN N JL(INAripiprazolo
                                        H        H
    where x is m or n, as defined in Formula .
[00137]       Carboxylic acid functionalized haptens may be conjugated to proteins
according to the method shown in Scheme 9. Reaction with N-hydroxysuccinimide
and a suitable coupling agent, such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide (DCC) and a base
such as tributylamine (BusN), in a solvent such as DMF at a temperature of about
20 0 C, for about 18 hours, activates the carboxylic acid with the hydroxypyrrolidine
2,5-dione leaving group. The activated spacer and hapten may then be conjugated
to a protein in a solvent, such as pH 7.5 phosphate buffer, at about 20 *C for about
2.5 hours. Suitable proteins are known to those skilled in the art and include keyhole
limpet hemocyanin, bovine thyroglobulin, and ovalbumin. While Scheme 9 illustrates
protein-hapten conjugation where R2 is NHC(O)(CH2)nCO 2 H, the same chemistry can
be used to conjugate any CO2H functionalized hapten to a protein.
ANTIBODIES
[00138]       The present invention is directed to an isolated antibody or a binding
fragment thereof, which binds to aripiprazole and which: (i) is generated in response
to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier; or (ii)
competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope bound by the antibody of
(i). The term "antibody" refers to a specific protein capable of binding an antigen or
portion thereof (in accordance with this invention, capable of binding to an anti
psychotic drug or metabolite thereof). An antibody is produced in response to an
immunogen which may have been introduced into a host, e.g., an animal or a human,
by injection. The generic term "antibody" includes polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal
antibodies, and antibody fragments.
                                              36

[00139]        "Antibody" or "antigen-binding antibody fragment" refers to an intact
antibody, or a fragment thereof, that competes with the intact antibody for binding.
Generally speaking, an antibody or antigen-binding antibody fragment, is said to
specifically bind an antigen when the dissociation constant is less than or equal to I
pM, preferably less than or equal to 100 nM and most preferably less than or equal to
10 nM. Binding can be measured by methods know to those skilled in the art, an
example being the use of a BlAcore        instrument.
[00140]        Antibody fragments comprise a portion of an intact antibody, preferably
the antigen binding or variable region of the intact antibody.       Binding fragments
include Fab, Fab, F(ab'), and Fv fragments; diabodies; linear antibodies; single
chain antibody molecules; and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody
fragments.      An antibody other than a "bispecific" or "bifunctional" antibody is
understood to have each of its binding sites identical.
[00141]        As used herein, "epitope" includes any protein determinant capable of
specific binding to an immunoglobulin or T-cell receptor.        Epitopic determinants
usually consist of chemically active surface groupings of molecules such as amino
acids or sugar side chains and usually have specific three dimensional structural
characteristics, as well as specific charge characteristics, Two antibodies are said to
"bind the same epitope" if one antibody is shown to compete with the second
antibody in a competitive binding assay, by any of the methods well known to those
skilled in the art (such as the BlAcoreM method referred to above). In reference to a
hapten (such as aripiprazole or other anti-psychotic drug), an antibody can be
generated against the non-antigenic hapten molecule by conjugating the hapten to
an immunogenic carrier. An antibody is then generated which recognizes an
"epitope" defined by the hapten.
[00142]       "Isolated" when used in the context of an antibody means altered "by the
hand of man" from any natural state; i.e., that, if it occurs in nature, it has been
changed or removed from its original environment, or both. For example, a naturally
occurring antibody naturally present in a living animal in its natural state is not
"isolated", but the same antibody separated from the coexisting materials of its
natural state is "isolated", as the term is employed herein. Antibodies may occur in a
composition, such as an immunoassay reagent, which are not naturally occurring
compositions, and therein remain isolated antibodies within the meaning of that term
as it is employed herein.
                                             37

[00143]      "Cross-reactivity" refers to the reaction of an antibody with an antigen
that was not used to induce that antibody.
[00144]       Preferably, the antibody of the subject invention will bind to the drug and
any desired pharmacologically active metabolites.        By altering the location of the
attachment of the immunogenic carrier to the compounds of the invention, selectivity
and cross-reactivity with metabolites can be engineered into the antibodies.          For
aripiprazole, cross-reactivity with dehydroaripiprazole may be desirable. Antibodies
may be generated        that detect both aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole, or
antibodies may be generated that detect each separately (thus defining the antibody
"specific binding" properties). An antibody specifically binds one or more compounds
when its binding of the one or more compounds is equimolar or substantially
equimolar.
[00145]      Methods of producing such antibodies comprise inoculating a host with
the conjugate described herein. Suitable hosts include, but are not limited to, mice,
rats, hamsters,     guinea pigs,    rabbits, chickens, donkeys, horses, monkeys,
chimpanzees, orangutans, gorillas, humans, and any species capable of mounting a
mature immune response. The immunization procedures are well established in the
art and are set forth in numerous treatises and publications including "The
Immunoassay Handbook", 2nd Edition, edited by David Wild (Nature Publishing
Group, 2000) and the references cited therein.
[00146]       Preferably, an immunogen embodying features of the present invention
is administered to a host subject, e.g., an animal or human, in combination with an
adjuvant.    Suitable adjuvants include, but are not limited to, Freund's adjuvant,
powdered aluminum hydroxide (alum), aluminum hydroxide together with Bordetella
perfussis, and monophosphory lipid A-synthetic trehalose dicorynomycolate (MPL
TDM).
[00147]      Typically, an immunogen or a combination of an immunogen and an
adjuvant is injected into a mammalian host by one or multiple subcutaneous or
intraperitoneal injections. Preferably, the immunization program is carried out over at
least one week, and more preferably, over two or more weeks. Polyclonal antibodies
produced in this manner can be isolated and purified utilizing methods well know in
the art.
100148]      Monoclonal antibodies can be produced by the well-established
hybridoma methods of Kohler and Milstein, e.g., Nature 256:495-497 (1975).
                                            38

Hybridoma methods typically involve immunizing a host or lymphocytes from a host,
harvesting the monoclonal antibody secreting or having the potential to secrete
lymphocytes, fusing the lymphocytes to immortalized cells, and selecting cells that
secrete the desired monoclonal antibody.
[00149]      A host can be immunized to elicit lymphocytes that produce or are
capable of producing antibodies specific for an immunogen.             Alternatively, the
lymphocytes can be immunized in vitro. If human cells are desired, peripheral blood
lymphocytes can be used, although spleen cells or lymphocytes from other
mammalian sources are preferred.
(00150]      The lymphocytes can be fused with an immortalized cell line to form
hybridoma cells, a process which can be facilitated by the use of a fusing agent, e.g.,
polyethylene glycol. By way of illustration, mutant rodent, bovine, or human myeloma
cells immortalized by transformation can be used. Substantially pure populations of
hybridoma cells, as opposed to infused immortalized cells, are preferred. Thus,
following fusion, the cells can be grown in a suitable medium that inhibits the growh
or survival of unfused, immortalized cells, for example, by using mutant myeloma
cells that lack the enzyme hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase
(HGPRT). In such an instance, hypoxanthine, aminopterin, and thymidine can be
added to the medium (HAT medium) to prevent the growth of HGPRT-deficient cells
while permitting hybridomas to grow.
[00151]      Preferably, immortalized cells fuse efficiently, can be isolated from mixed
populations by selection in a medium such as HAT, and support stable and high-level
expression of antibody following fusion.     Preferred immortalized cell lines include
myeloma cell lines available from the American Type Culture Collection, Manassas,
VA.
[00152]      Because hybridoma cells typically secrete antibody extracellulary, the
culture media can be assayed for the presence of monoclonal antibodies specific for
the anti-psychotic drug. limmunoprecipitation of in vitro binding assays, for example,
radiioimmunoassay (RIA) or enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), can be
used to measure the binding specificity of monoclonal antibodies.
[00153]      Monoclonal antibody-secreting hybridoma cells can be isolated as single
clones by limiting dilution procedures and sub-cultured.         Suitable culture media
include, but are not limited to, Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium, RPMI-1640, and
polypeptide-free, polypeptide-reduced, or serum-free media, e.g., Ultra DOMA PF or
                                           39

HL-1, available from Biowhittaker, Walkersvilie, MD.       Alternatively, the hybridoma
cells can be grown in vivo as ascites.
[00154]      Monoclonal antibodies can be isolated and/or purified from a culture
medium or ascites fluid by conventional immunoglobulin (Ig) purification procedures
including,   but    not  limited to,   polypeptide    A-SEPHAROSE,        hydroxylapatite
chromatography, gel electrophoresis, dialysis, ammonium sulfate precipitation, and
affinity chromatography.
[00155]      Monoclonal antibodies can also be produced by recombinant methods
such as are described in U.S. Patent No. 4,166,452. DNA encoding monoclonal
antibodies can be isolated and sequenced using conventional procedures, e.g., using
oligonucleotide probes that specifically bind to murine heavy and light antibody chain
genes, preferably to probe DNA isolated from monoclonal antibody hybridoma cells
lines secreting antibodies specific for anti-psychotic drugs.
[00156]      Antibody fragments which contain specific binding sites for the anti
psychotic drug may also be generated. Such fragments include, but are not limited
to, the F(ab') 2 fragments which can be produced by pepsin digestion of the antibody
molecule and the Fab fragments which can be generated by reducing the disufide
bridges of the F(ab') 2 fragments.     Alternatively, Fab expression libraries may be
constructed to allow rapid and easy identification of monoclonal Fab fragments with
the desired specificity (Huse et al., Science 256:1270-1281 (1989)). Fab, Fv and
ScFv antibody fragments can all be expressed in and secreted from Escherichia coli,
allowing for the production of large amounts of these fragments. Alternatively, Fab
SH fragments can be directly recovered from E. coil and chemically coupled to form
F(ab') 2 fragments (Carter et al., BioTechnology 10:163-167 (1992)).               Other
techniques for the production of antibody fragments are known to those skilled in the
art. Single chain Fv fragments (scFv) are also envisioned (see U.S. Patent Nos.
5,761,894 and 5,587,458). Fv and sFv fragments are the only species with intact
combining sites that are devoid of constant regions; thus, they are likely to show
reduced non-specific binding. The antibody fragment may also be a "linear antibody"
e.g., as described in U.S. Patent No. 5.642.870, for example. Such linear antibody
fragments may be monospecific or bispecltic.
                                            40

ASSAY KITS AND DEVICES
[00157]      An assay kit (also referred to as a reagent kit) can also be provided
comprising an antibody as described above.          A representative reagent kit may
comprise an antibody that binds to the anti-psychotic drug, aripiprazole, a complex
comprising an analog of an anti-psychotic drug or a derivative thereof coupled to a
labeling moiety, and may optionally also comprise one or more calibrators comprising
a known amount of an anti-psychotic drug or a related standard.
[00158]      The phrase "assay kit" refers to an assembly of materials and reagents
that is used in performing an assay. The reagents can be provided in packaged
combination in the same or in separate containers, depending on their cross
reactivities and stabilities, and in liquid or in lyophilized form.  The amounts and
proportions of reagents provided in the kit car be selected so as to provide optimum
results for a particular application. An assay kit embodying features of the present
invention comprises antibodies which bind aripiprazole. The kit may further comprise
competitive binding partners of aripiprazole and calibration and control materials.
[00159]      The phrase "calibration and control material" refers to any standard or
reference material containing a known amount of an analyte. A sample suspected of
containing an analyte and the corresponding calibration material are assayed under
similar conditions. The concentration of analyte is calculated by comparing the
results obtained for the unknown specimen with the results obtained for the standard.
This is commonly done by constructing a calibration curve.
[00160]      Antibodies embodying features of the present invention can be included
in a kit, container, pack, or dispenser together with instructions for their utilization.
When the antibodies are supplied in a kit, the different components of the
immunoassay may be packaged in separate containers and admixed prior to use.
Such packaging of the components separately may permit long-term storage without
substantially diminishing the functioning of the active components.         Furthermore,
reagents can be packaged under inert environments, e.g., under a positive pressure
of nitrogen gas, argon gas, or the like, which is especially preferred for reagents that
are sensitive to air and/or moisture.
[00161]       Reagents included in kits embodying features of the present invention
can be supplied in all manner of containers such that the activities of the different
components are substantially preserved while the components themselves are not
substantially adsorbed or altered by the materials of the container.             Suitable
                                            41

containers include, but are not limited to, ampules, bottles, test tubes, vials, flasks,
syringes, envelopes, e.g., foil-lined, and the like. The containers may be comprised
of any suitable material including, but not limited to, glass, organic polymers, e.g.,
polycarbonate, polystyrene, polyethylene, etc., ceramic, metal, e.g., aluminum, metal
alloys, e.g., steel, cork, and the like. In addition, the containers may comprise one or
more sterile access ports, e.g., for access via a needle, such as may be provided by
a septum. Preferred materials for septa include rubber and polytetrafluoroethylene of
the type sold under the trade name TEFLON by DuPont (Wilmington, DE).                  In
addition, the containers may comprise two or more compartments separated by
partitions or membranes that can be removed to allow mixing of the components.
100162]       Reagent kits embodying features of the present invention may also be
supplied with instructional materials. Instructions may be printed, e.g., on paper
and/or supplied in an electronically-readable medium. Alternatively, instructions may
be provided by directing a user to an internet website, e.g., specified by the
manufacturer or distributor of the kit and/or via electronic mail.
[00163]       The antibody may also be provided as part of an assay device. Such
assay devices include lateral flow assay devices. A common type of disposable
lateral flow assay device includes a zone or area for receiving the liquid sample, a
conjugate zone. and a reaction zone. These assay devices are commonly known as
lateral flow test strips. They employ a porous material. e.g.. nitrocellulose, defining a
path for fluid flow capable of supporting capillary flow,         Examples include those
shown in US Patent Nos. 5,559,041, 5,714,389, 5,120,643, and 6,228,660 all of
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
[00164]       Another type of assay device is a non-porous assay device having
projections to induce capillary flow.      Examples of such assay devices include the
open lateral flow device as disclosed in PCT International Publication Nos. WO
2003/103835, WO 2005/089082, WO 2005/118139, and WO 2006/137785, all of
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
[00165]       In a non-porous assay device, the assay device generally has at least
one sample addition zone. at least one conjugate zone, at least one reaction zone,
and at least one wicking zone. The zones form a flow path by which sample flows
from the sample addition zone to the wicking zone.             Also included are capture
elements, such as antibodies, in the reaction zone, capable of binding to the analyte,
optionally deposited on the device (such as by coating); and a labeled conjugate
                                             42

material also capable of participating in reactions that will enable determination of the
concentration of the analyte, deposited on the device in the conjugate zone, wherein
the labeled conjugate material carries a label for detection in the reaction zone. The
conjugate material is dissolved as the sample flows through the conjugate zone
forming a conjugate plume of dissolved labeled conjugate material and sample that
flows downstream to the reaction zone. As the conjugate plume flows into the
reaction zone, the conjugated material will be captured by the capture elements such
as via a complex of conjugated material and analyte (as in a "sandwich" assay) or
directly (as in a "competitive" assay). Unbound dissolved conjugate material will be
swept past the reaction zone into the at least one wicking zone. Such devices can
include projections or micropillars in the flow path.
[00166]       An instrument such as that disclosed in US Patent Publication Nos.
US20060289787A1 and US 20070231883A1, and US Patent Nos. 7.416,700 and
6,139,800, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties, is able
to detect the bound conjugated material in the reaction zone.            Common labels
include fluorescent dyes that can be detected by instruments which excite the
fluorescent dyes and incorporate a detector capable of detecting the fluorescent
dyes.
IMMUNOASSAYS
[00167]       The antibodies thus produced can be used in immunoassays to
recognize/bind to the anti-psychotic drug, thereby detecting the presence and/or
amount of the drug in a patient sample. Preferably, the assay format is a competitive
immunoassay format. Such an assay format and other assays are described, among
other places, in Hampton et al. (Serological Methods, A Laboratory Manual, APS
Press, St. Paul, MN 1990) and Maddox et al. (J. Exp. Med. 168:12111, 1983).
[00168]       The term "analyte" refers to any substance or group of substances, the
presence or amount of which is to be determined.           Representative anti-psychotic
drug analytes include, but are not limited to, risperidone, paliperidone, olanzapine,
aripiprazole, and quetiapine.
[00169]       The term "competitive binding partner" refers to a substance or group of
substances, such as may be employed in a competitive immunoassay, which behave
similarly to an analyte with respect to binding affinity to an antibody. Representative
                                             43

competitive binding partners include, but are not limited to, anti-psychotic drug
derivatives and the like.
[00170]       The term "detecting" when used with an analyte refers to any
quantitative, semi-quantitative, or qualitative method as well as to all other methods
for determining an analyte in general, and an anti-psychotic drug in particular. For
example, a method that merely detects the presence or absence of an anti-psychotic
drug in a sample lies within the scope of the present invention, as do methods that
provide data as to the amount or concentration of the anti-psychotic drug in the
sample. The terms "detecting", "determining", "identifying", and the like are used
synonymously herein, and all lie within the scope of the present invention.
100171]       A preferred embodiment of the subject invention is a competitive
immunoassay wherein antibodies which bind the anti-psychotic drug, or the drug or
competitive binding partner thereof, are attached to a solid support (such as the
reaction zone in a lateral flow assay device) and labeled drug or competitive binding
partner thereof, or labeled antibody, respectively, and a sample derived from the host
are passed over the solid support and the amount of label detected attached to the
solid support can be correlated to a quantity of drug in the sample.
100172]       Any sample that is suspected of containing an analyte, e.g., an anti
psychotic drug, can be analyzed in accordance with the methods of the presently
preferred embodiments.       The sample can be pretreated if desired and can be
prepared in any convenient medium that does not interfere with the assay.
Preferably, the sample comprises an aqueous medium such as a body fluid from a
host, most preferably plasma or serum.
[00173]       It is to be understood that all manner of immunoassays employing
antibodies are contemplated for use in accordance with the presently preferred
embodiments, including assays in which antibodies are bound to solid phases and
assays in which antibodies are in liquid media. Methods of immunoassays that can
be used to detect analytes using antibodies embodying features of the present
invention include, but are not limited to, competitive (reagent limited) assays wherein
labeled analyte (analyte analog) and analyte in a sample compete for antibodies and
single-site immunometric assays wherein the antibody is labeled; and the like.
[00174]       The present invention is further described by the following examples.
The examples are provided solely to illustrate the invention by reference to specific
embodiments.       These exemplifications, while illustrating certain specific aspects of
                                            44

the invention, do not portray the limitations or circumscribe the scope of the disclosed
invention.
[00175]              All examples were carried out using standard techniques, which are
well known and routine to those of skill in the art, except where otherwise described in detail.
Routine molecular biology techniques of the following examples can be carried out as
described in standard laboratory manuals, such as Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning: A
Laboratory Manual, 2nd Ed., Cold Spring Habor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY
(1989).
[00176]              Copending applications entitled "Haptens of Aripiprazole" (Attorney
Docket    No.  PRD3265USPSP,       US     Provisional   Patent   Appl. No.   61/691,450,   (US
20140163206), filed August 21, 2012), "Haptens of Olanzapine" (Attorney Docket No.
PRD3266USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,454, (US 20140213766), filed
August 21, 2012), "Haptens of Paliperidone" (Attorney Docket No. PRD3267USPSP, US
Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,459, (US 20140213767), filed August 21,              2012),
"Haptens of Quetiapine" (Attorney Docket No. PRD3268USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl.
No. 61/691,462, (US 20140221616), filed August 21, 2012), "Haptens of Risperidone and
Paliperidone" (Attorney Docket No. PRD3269USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No.
61/691,469, (US 20140155585), filed August 21, 2012), "Antibodies to Olanzapine Haptens
and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No. CDS5132USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No.
61/691,572, (US 20140057303), filed August 21, 2012), "Antibodies to Paliperidone Haptens
and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No. CDS5126USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No.
61/691,634, filed August 21, 2012), "Antibodies to Quetiapine Haptens and Use Thereof"
(Attorney Docket No. CDS5134USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,598, (US
20140059305), filed August 21, 2012), "Antibodies to Risperidone Haptens and Use Thereof"
(Attorney Docket No. CDS5130USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,615, (US
20140057301), filed August 21,      2012), "Antibodies to Aripiprazole and Use Thereof"
(Attorney Docket No. CDS5129USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,522, (US
20140057300), filed August 21, 2012), "Antibodies to Olanzapine and Use Thereof" (Attorney
Docket    No.  CDS5133USPSP,       US     Provisional   Patent   Appl. No.   61/691,645,   (US
20140057309), filed August 21, 2012), "Antibodies to Paliperidone and Use Thereof"
(Attorney Docket No. CDS5127USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,692, (US
20140057298), filed August 21, 2012), "Antibodies to Quetiapine and Use Thereof" (Attorney
Docket    No.  CDS5135USPSP,       US     Provisional   Patent   Appl. No.   61/691,659,   (US
20140057306), filed August 21,      2012), "Antibodies to Risperidone and Use Thereof"
(Attorney Docket No. CDS5131USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/691,675, (US
20140057302), filed

August 21, 2012), and "Antibodies to Risperidone and Use Thereof" (Attorney Docket No.
CDS5145USPSP, US Provisional Patent Appl. No. 61/790,880, (US 20140057302), filed
March 15, 2013) are all incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.
                                             EXAMPLE 1
4-(aminomethyl)-7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1 -yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin
2(1 H)-one
                                            H
                   NN                            0
       CI
 CI           N
                                               NH2
[00177]       Step A
1-(bromomethyl)-4-methoxy-2-nitrobenzene
  02 N          0N
 Br7)
[00178]       To a well-stirred solution of compound 4-methoxy-1-methyl-2-nitrobenzene (218
g, 1.30mol) in CC14 (1500 mL) was added AIBN (21.7 g, 0.13 mol), and NBS (348 g, 1.96
mol). After the reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 16 h under N2 , water was added and
the product extracted from the aqueous phase with CH 20 2 . The resultant organic phase was
washed with brine, dried over Na2 SO 4 and the solvent was evaporated to give a solid which
was purified by silica gel chromatography (eluting with petroleum ether / ethyl acetate, 20 : 1)
to the title compound as a yellow solid. ESI-MS (M+1) 246. 'H NMR: (CDCl 3, 400 MHz): 5
(ppm) 7.55 (s, 1H), 7.46-7.42 (d, 1H), 7.14-7.11 (d, 1H), 4.79 (s, 2H), 3.90 (s, 3H).
[00179]       Step B
2-(4-methoxy-2-nitrophenyl)acetonitrile
   NO
[00180]          To a stirred solution of 1-(bromomethyl)-4-methoxy-2-nitrobenzene, prepared
as described in Step A, (40 g, 0.163 mol) in THF (500 mL) and ETOH (100 mL) was added a
solution of KCN (26.6 g, 0.408 mol) in water (100 mL). The reaction mixture was stirred at 0
LC for 1 h and then further for 3 h at room

temperature.      The reaction mixture was diluted with water (500 mL) and aqueous
phase was extracted with DCM (500 mL) and then washed with brine, dried over
Na2SOA and evaporated in vacuo. The residue was purified by chromatography on a
silica gel column to give the title compound. ESI-MS (M+1) 193. 'H NMR: (CDC,
400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 7.72 (s, 1H), 7.63-7.61 (d, 1H), 7.26-7.23 (d, 1H), 4.14 (s, 2H),
3.93 (s, 3H).
[00181]        Step C
ethyl 3-cyano-3-(4-methoxy-2-nitrophenyl)propanoate
         0 2N        Os
 EtO 2C
            CN
[00182]        To a solution of 2-(4-methoxy-2-nitrophenyl)acetonitrile, prepared as
described in Step B, (5.5 g, 0.0286 mol) in DMF (100 mL) was added BrCH 2CO 2 Et
(5.71 g, 0.034 mol) and K2C0 3 (11.86 g, 0,086 mol) at 0 0C. The reaction mixture
was stirred at 0 OC for 1 h and at room temperature for another 2 h. After the reaction
was completed by TLC monitoring, water was added. The reaction was extracted
with ethyl acetate; the organic phase was washed with brine, dried over Na2SOA, and
concentrated in vacuo. The crude product was purified by chromatography on a
silica gel column to give the title compound. ESI-MS (M+1) 279. 'H NMR: (CDCk,
400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 7.70-7.68 (d, 1H), 7.57-7.56 (s, 1H), 7.24-7.21 (d, 1H), 5.13-4.98
(in, 1H), 4,20-4.18 (m, 2H), 3,89 (s, 3H), 2.99-2,97 (d, 2H), 1.28-1.24 (t, 3H).
[00183]        Step D
7-methoxy-2-oxo-1,2,3.4-tetrahydroquinoline-4-carbonitrile
       H
 O     Ns
       CN
[00184]        To a solution of ethyl 3-cyano-3-(4-methoxy-2-nitrophenyl)propanoate,
prepared as described in Step C, (9.0 g, 0.032 mol) in MeOH (100 mL), Sn (19.3 g,
0.162 mol) was added, followed by hydrochloric acid/MeOH (40 ml, 1:1) all at once.
The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The solvent was removed in
vacuo. Then ethyl acetate was added, and aqueous NaHCO 3 solution was added to
neutralize the solution. The organic phase was concentrated to get crude product
which was used for next step without further purification.
                                           47

[00185]       Step E
4-(aminorethyl)-7-methoxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(1 H-one
      H
 0    N
 H2N
[00186]       Crude         7-methoxy-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline-4-carbonitrile,
prepared as described in Step D, (6 g, 0.03 mol) and Raney Ni (10 g) was
suspended in a mixture of MeOH (100 ml) and 3 mL of triethylanine. The reaction
mixture was stirred under H2 (50 Psi) atmosphere at room temperature for 4 h. After
the reaction was completed by monitoring by TLC, the catalyst was filtered off, and
then the solvent was removed in vacuo to afford the crude product which was used
for next step without further purification.
[00187]       Step F
4-(aminomethyl)-7-hydroxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(1 H)-one
      H         0
 O    IN        OH
 H2 N
[00188]       To a solution of crude 4-(aminomethyl)-7-methoxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin
2(1 H)-one, prepared as described in Step E, (8.8 g, 0.0427 mol) in dichloromethane
(100 mL), BBr 3 (85 g, 0.342 mol) in dichloromethane (1M) was added dropwise at-14
*C, and the reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight. After the reaction
was completed by monitoring through TLC, methanol was added slowly at 0 "C to
quench the reaction, and the solvent was evaporated in vacuo to get crude product
which was used directly in the next step.
[00189]       Step G
tert-butyl ((7-hydroxy-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-4-yl)mnethyl)carbamate
        H
   0 N            OH
 BocHN
[00190]       Crude          4-(aminomethyl)-7-hydroxy-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(1H)-one,
prepared as described in Step F, (8.2 g, 0.0427 mol) and (Boc) 20 (4.65 g, 0.021
                                            48

mol), triethylamine (10 mL) were added to 100 mL of methanol. The reaction was
stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After the reaction was stopped, the solvent was
removed in vacuo, and ethyl acetate was added. The organic phase was washed
with water, aqueous NaHCO 3 solution, dried over Na2SO4 and concentrated in vacuo.
The crude product was purified by chromatography to give the title compound. ESI
MS (M+1) 292. 'H NMR: (DMSO-de, 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 9.96 (s, IH), 9.31 (s, 1H).
6.95-6.89 (m, 2H), 6.33 (d, 2H), 3.00-2.97 (m, 2H), 2.90-2.96 (m, 1H), 2.56 (m, 1H),
2.30-2.34 (m, 1H), 1.37 (s, 9H).
[00191]       Step H
tert-butyl ((7-(4-bromobutoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-4
yl)methyl)carbamate
         H
        0N   AO    O    ~        Br
 BocHN
[00192]       To a solution of tert-butyl ((7-hydroxy-2-oxo-1 2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-4
yl)methyl)carbamate, prepared as described in Step H, (1.0 mmol, 292 mg) and 1,4
dibromobutane (1.1 mmol, 237.5 mg) in DMF (1.5 mL) was added anhydrous K2CO3
(1.2 mmol, 166 mg). The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight until
HPLC and LCIMS indicated that the reaction was complete to give the title
compound, which was subjected to next reaction without purification. MS m/z 428
(MH*).
(00193]       Step I
tert-butyl ((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2.3,4
tetrahydroq uinolin-4-yl)methyl)carbamate
         H
   O     N         ON                    CI
                                    N          Cl
 BocHN
[00194]       To     a    solution   of   tert-butyl  ((7-(4-brorobutoxy)-2-oxo-1,2.3,4
tetrahydroquinolin-4-yl)methyl)carbamate, prepared as described in Step H, in DMF
was added 1-(2,3-dichloro-phenyl)-piperazine hydrochloride (1.0 mmol, 268 mg) and
K2 C0  3 (1.23 mmol, 170 mg). The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight.
The solvent was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was partitioned between
                                              49

dichloromethane and saturated aqueous NaHCO3 solution. The organic layer was
separated and aqueous layer was extracted with additional dichloromethane.
Organic layers were combined, concentrated. The residue was then subjected to
column    chromatography on        silica  gel with   gradient     0-10%   methanol    in
dichloromethane to give the title compound as a solid. MS m/z 578 (MH*).
[00195]     Step J
4-(aminomethyl)-7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1 -yl)butoxy)-3,4
dihydroquinolin-2(1 H)-one
      H
 0    IN       O--         N          CI
                                N         cl
 H2 N
[00196]     To a solution      of tert-butyl ((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1
yl)butoxy-2-oxo-1,2.3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-4-yl)methyl)carbamate,        prepared     as
described in Step I, (200 mg, 0,35 mmol) in dichlorornethane (5 mL) was added I mL
of TFA.   The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2.5 hr. The solvent was
evaporated in vacuo and the residue was partitioned between dichloromethane and
saturated NaHCO3 solution. The organic layer was separated and aqueous layer
was extracted with additional dichloromethane. The organic layers were combined,
dried over Na2SO4, filtered and concentrated. The residue was then subjected to
column chromatography on silica gel with 10% methanol in dichloromethane,
followed by 10% 7N ammonia methanol in dichloromethane, to give the title
compound as a solid.      This product was further purified by recrystalization from
dichloromethane and heptanes to give final product as a white solid. MS m/z 477
(MH'). 'H NMR: (CDC,, 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 7.40 (s, 1H), 7.25-7.05 (m, 3H), 7.00 (d,
1H), 6.60 (d, 1H), 6.30 (s, 1H), 4.00 (m, 2H), 3.10 (m, 4H), 3.00-2.60 (m, 9H), 2.50
(m, 2H), 1.90-1.40 (m, 6H).      Calculated for C24 H3 Cl 2 N4 0 2 C, 60.38; H, 6.33; N,
 11.74. Found C. 60.32; H, 5.89; N, 11.26.
                                            50

                                      EXAMPLE 2
7-(4-(4-(4-amino-2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1 -yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(I H)
one
      H
                                 N        CI
[00197]       Step A
4-brom<-2,3-dichioro-N-(4-methoxybenzyl)aniline
 MeO
                  H
                 ,N
                C     T   Br
                     CI
[00198]       To a solution of 4-brorno-2,3-dichloro-phenylamine (3.215 g, 13.3 mmol)
and 1-chloromethyl-4-nethoxy-benzene (2.297 g, 14.7 mmol) in 23 mL of DMF was
added potassium iodide (2.214 g,13.3 mmol) and 647 mg of sodium hydride (60% oil
dispersion). After stirring at room temperature overnight, the reaction mixture was
evaporated in vacuo and the residue was partitioned between dichioromethane and
saturated NaHCO 3 aqueous solution. The organic layer was separated and aqueous
layer was extracted with additional dichloromethane.          The organic layers were
combined, dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtrated, and concentrated.     The residue was then
subjected to column chromatography on silica gel with 30% ethyl acetate in heptanes
to give the title compound as a yellow solid; MS m/z 362 (MH').
[00199]       Step B
2,3-dichloro-N-(4-methoxybenzyl)-4-(piperazin-1-yl)aniline
 Meo
                  H
                    N
                  CI     -N
[00200]       A mixture of 4-bromo-2,3-dichloro-N-(4-methoxybenzyl)aniline, prepared
as described in the previous step, (3.61g, 10 mmol), piperizine (1.034 g, 12 mmol),
sodium t-butoxide (1.16 g, 12 mmol), and tris(dibenzylideneacetone) dipalladium(0)
(180 mg, 2 mol%) in 16 mL of toluene in a sealed thick-wall flask was stirred and
heated in arn oil bath at 1000C for 2.5 days.    After cooling to room temperature, the
                                            51

reaction mixture was partitioned between dichloromethane and water. The organic
layer    was separated      and   aqueous      layer  was extracted     with   additional
dichloromethane. The organic layers were combined, dried over Na2SOA, filtered,
and concentrated. The residue was purified by column chromatography on silica gel
column with 10% methanol in dichloromethane. followed by 10% 7N ammonia
methanol in dichloromethane, to give the title compound as a light brown solid. MS
m/z 367 (MH'). 'H NMR: (CDCl 3, 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 7.28 (d, 2H), 6.98 (d, 2H), 6.50
(d, 1H), 4.60 (s, 1H), 4.30 (m, 2H), 3.80 (m, 3H), 3.10-2.85 (m, SH), 2.30 (s, 1H).
[00201]      Step C
2,3-dichloro-4-(piperazin-1-yl)aniline
H2 N /         N    NH
      Cl    CI
[00202]      To    a   solution  of    2,3-dichloro-N-(4-rnethoxybenzyl)-4-(piperazin-1
yl)aniline, prepared as described in the previous step. (562 mg, 1.54 mmol) in
dichloromethane (5 mL) was added 5 mL of TFA.           The reaction mixture was stirred
at room temperature for 5 hr, and then was evaporated in vacuo to dryness. The
residue was re-dissolved in dichioromethane and evaporated to dryness. The title
compound was used in the next reaction without purification, MS m/z 245 (MH').
[00203]      Step D
7-(4-(4-(4-amino-2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl)butoxy)-3,4-dihydroquinolin-2(1 H)
one
      H
                     ()-ci'             C t
                                    N      NH2
[00204]      To a solution of 2.3-dichloro-4-(piperazin-1-yl)aniline, prepared as
described in the previous step, (1.535 mmol) as TFA salt in DMF (6 mL) was added a
solution of commercially available 7-(4-bromo-butoxy)-3,4-dihydro-1 H-quinolin-2-one
(1.535 mrmol) in DMF (I mL, K2CO3 (2.121 g), and 1 mL of DMF. The resultant
mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solid was filtered and rinsed
with dichloromethane. The solution was evaporated in vacuo and the residue was
then subjected to column chromatography on silica gel with gradient 0-10% methanol
in dichloromethane, followed by 10% 7N ammonia methanol in dichloromethane, to
                                            52

give the title compound as a solid. MS m/z 463 (MH*). 'H NMR: (DMSO-d,               400
MHz): 6 (ppm) 10.0 (s, 1H), 7.05 (d, iH), 695 (d, 1H). 6.75 (d, 1H), 6.50 (d, 1H), 6.45
(s, 1H), 5.3 (s, 2H), 3.90 (m, 2H), 2.90-2.70 (m, 6H), 2.50-2.30 (m, 8H), 1.80-1.50 (in,
4H). Calculated for C23 H28 Cl 2N4 0 2 is C, 59.61; H, 6.09; N, 12.09. Found C, 59.44;
H. 5.87; N, 11.77.
                                       EXAMPLE 3
4-((2,3-dichloro-4-(4-(4-((2-ox-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-7-yl)oxy)butyl)piperazin-1
yl)phenyl)anino)-4-oxobutanoic acid
0O
                O
                            N   N
                                   Cl
                                CI)P        N       CO2H
                                        ofH
[00205]       A solution of Example 2 (115.5 mg, 0.25 mmol) and succinic anhydride
(50 mg, 0.5 mmol) in pyridine (1.5 mL) was stirred and heated at 110 "C in a
microwave oven for 5.5 hr. The solution was evaporated in vacuo to dryness. The
residue was re-dissolved in dichloromethane and evaporated to dryness; and then
re-dissolved in methanol and evaporated to dryness.             The crude product was
purified on a Agea hilic column with gradient 0-20% methanol in dichioromethane to
give a solid, which was further purified by recrystalization from methanol and dried at
40-50 "C in a vacuum oven to give the title compound. MS m/z 563 (MH). 'H NMR:
(DMSO-d, 400 MHz): 6 (ppm) 12.1 (s, 1H), 10.0 (s, 1H), 9.60 (s, 1H), 7.5 (d, 1H),
7.15 (d, IH), 7.05 (d, IH), 6.50 (d, IH), 6.45 (s, 1H), 3.90 (m, 2H), 3.00 (m, 4H), 2.30
(m, 2H), 2.20-2.30 (m, 12H), 1.80-1.55 (m, 4H). Calculated for C27 H33 Cl2 N4 0 5 is C,
57.55; H, 5.72; N, 9.94. Found C, 55.92; H, 5.85; N, 9.58.
                                       EXAMPLE 4
5-((2,3-dichloro-4-(4-(4-((2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-7-yl)oxy)butyl)piperazin-1
yl)phenyl)amino)-5-oxopentanoic acid
0     N                       N0
                                C         -            CO 2 H
                                             53

[00206]       A solution of Example 2 (83 mg, 0.18 mmol) and glutaric anhydride (41
mg, 0.36 mrnol) in pyridine (1.0 mL) was stirred and heated at 110 *C in a microwave
oven for 4.5 hr. The solution was evaporated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was
purified on an Agela hilic column (12 g) with gradient 0-30% methanol and dried at
40-50 *C in a vacuum oven to give the title compound. MS m/z 578 (MH*).
                                      EXAMPLE 5
4-(((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4
tetrahydroquinolin-4-yl)methyl)amino)-4-oxobutanoic acid
                  H
            O     N                              CI
                                                       C1
            HON
     H         H
[00207]       A solution of Example 1 (24.1 mg, 0.05 mmol) and succinic anhydride
(10 mg, 0.10 mmol) in THF (1.0 mL) was stirred at room temperature overnight. The
solution was evaporated in vacuo to dryness. The residue was purified on a silica gel
column (12 g) with gradient 0-30% methanol in dichloromethane and dried at 40-50
*C in a vacuum oven to give the title compound. MS m/z 578 (MH).
                                      EXAMPLE 6
N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-I-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4
tetrahydroquinolin-4-yl)methyl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-1-yl)acetarnide
               H
          0    N         O           N         C
              T"P-I                          --  CI
            N                            N          C1
 0 O        N
            H
[00208]       To a solution of Example 1 (MW 477.4 2.2 mg, 4.61 pmoles) in 110 pL
of DMF and 2.3 pL of tributylamine was added 116 pL of a DMF solution of N-(a
maleimidoacetoxy) succinimide ester (AMAS, MW 252.2, 10 mg/mL, 1.16 mg, 4.61
pmoles). The resulting solution was allowed to stir for 90 minutes at 20 *C, and then
used as such in conjugation reaction with thiol-activated protein.
                                            54

                                      EXAMPLE 7
N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4
tetrahydroquinolin-4-yl)methyl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)acetamide
keyhole limpet hemocyanin conjugate
[00209]      To 3.23 mL of a solution of keyhole limpet hemocyanin (KLH            MW
100,000     14.6 mg. 0.146 prmoles) in 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M sodium
chloride, pH 7.4 was added 33.7 pL of a DMF solution of N-Succinimidyl-S
acetylthioacetate (SATA MW 231.2, 25 mg/mL, 0.84 mg, 3.65 moless.         The resulting
solution was incubated at 20 "C for I hour on a roller mixer. The reaction was
purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100 mM phosphate buffer, 0.46M sodium
chloride, and 5mM EDTA, at pH 6.0. To 6.46 mL of the KLH-SATA solution (13.7
mg, 0.137 pmoles) was added 646 pL of 2.5M hydroxylamine, and 50mM EDTA, at
pH 7.0. The resulting solution was incubated at 20 "C for I hour on a roller mixer.
The reaction was treated with 169.6 pL of N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin
 1-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-4-y)methyl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro
1H-pyrrol-1-yl)acetarnide solution (prepared as described in example 6) (3.43
pmoles). The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 2 hours at 20 *C on a roller
mixer. The reaction was filtered through a 0.2 pm syringe filter then purified on a
Sephadex G-25 column using 100mM phosphate buffer and 0.46M sodium chloride
at pH 7.4, to give the KLH conjugate of Example 6.
                                      EXAMPLE 8
N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4
tetrahydroquinolin-4-yl)methyl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)acetamide
bovine thyroglobulin conjugate
[00210]      To 2.14 mL of a solution of bovine thyroglobulin (BTG, MW 660,000,
21.8 mg, 0,033 poles) in a 100 mM phosphate buffer at pH 7.5 was added 61.1 pL
of a DMF solution of N-succinimidyl-S-acetylthioacetate (SATA, MW 231.2, 25
mg/mL, 1.53 mg, 6.6 pmoles). The resulting solution was incubated at 20 "C for I
hour on a roller mixer. The reaction was purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using
100mM phosphate buffer, 5mM EDTA, at pH 6,0.
[00211]      To 5.79 mL of BTG-SATA (20.5 mg, 0.031 poles ) was added 579 pL
of 2.5M hydroxylamine, and 50mM EDTA, at pH 7.0. The resulting solution was
incubated at 20 *C for 1 hour on a roller mixer. The reaction was treated with 304.0
                                           55

 pL-       of      N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4
tetrahydroquinoin-4-yl)rnethyl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1 H-pyrrol-I-yl)acetarnide
solution (prepared as described in example 6) (6.2 pmoles). The resulting cloudy
mixture was incubated for 2 hours at 20 *C on a roller mixer. The reaction was
filtered through a 0.45 pm syringe filter then purified on a Sephadex G-25 column
using 100 mM phosphate buffer and 0.14M sodium chloride at pH 7.4, to give the
bovine thyroglobulin conjugate of Example 6.
                                       EXAMPLE 9
N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1-yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4
tetrahydroquinolin4-yl)methyl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)acetamide
ovalbumin conjugate
[00212]       StepA
[00213]       To 1.0 mL of a solution of ovalbumin (MW 44,300, 10.0 mg, 0.23
pmoles) in 100 mM phosphate buffer at pH 7.5 was added 31.3 pL of a DMF solution
of N-Succininidyl-S-acetylthioacetate (SATA, MW 231.2, 25 mg/rL, 0.78 mg, 3.4
pmoles). The resulting solution was incubated at 20 *C for 1 hour on a roller mixer.
The reaction was treated with 100 pL of 2.5M hydroxylamine and 50 mM EDTA at pH
7.0. The resulting solution was incubated at 20 *Cfor 15 minutes on a roller mixer.
The reaction was purified on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100mM phosphate
buffer and 5 mM EDTA at pH 6.0.
[00214]       Step B
[00215]       To the ovalbumin-SH, (3.1mL,          8.3mg, 0.1        mol), prepared as
described in Step A, was added               N-((7-(4-(4-(2,3-dichlorophenyl)piperazin-1
yl)butoxy)-2-oxo-1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinolin-4-yl)methyl)-2-(2,5-dioxo-2,5-dihydro-1H
pyrrol-1-yl)acetamide solution (prepared as described in example 6) ((185.7 pL, 3.75
proles). The resulting cloudy mixture was incubated for 2.5 hours at 20 *C on a
roller mixer. The reaction was filtered through a 0.45 pm syringe filter, then purified
on a Sephadex G-25 column using 100mM phosphate buffer, 0.14M sodium chloride
at pH 7.4, to give the ovalbumin conjugate of Example 6.
                                      EXAMPLE 10
Competitive Immunoassay for Aripiprazole and Multiplex Competitive Immunoassay
for Aripiprazole, Olanzapine, Quetiapine, and Risperidone
                                            56

[00216]       Following a series of immunizations with the immunogen having Formula
II (compound 6) described above, mouse tail bleeds were tested for reactivity using
an ELISA. Hybridoma supernatants were also tested, and the ELISA data shown in
Table 8 below shows reactivity of several hybridomas (fusion partner was NSO cells).
[00217]       Table 8
                         Pate1I
                Dlutior      1         23                       45
                    400
                    400
                   1200
                   1200
                                                   6C           C           iC
                   3600
                   3600
                  10800
                  1080
                    400     0M165      0.7299'         0.196   329531          0.0373.
                    400     0.7057     0.6671'        0.1525   2.19591         0.01371
                   [000     02413 t.hyEe0.21Sp 0a01            1w9242
                   sin      02474       0.2278w        oaripip.729             0.032
                   3600)     0.102      0,0963~       0.0472     0.739,        0.0288
                   woo0.099:            0,0954         0051  .72253              ms
                  1osd0     0.0644      0.0S88,       0.041    0.2799i         0.0326
[00218]       Supernatant was then tested by competition ELISA to determine if the
signal was specific to either aripiprazole or dehydroaripipi-azole.     Figs. 1 and 2 show
the results from two representative hybridomas, 301 and 307. Data shows reactivity
to both aripiprazole and dehydroaripiprazole.
[00219]       Fig. 3 shows the competitive immunoassay format used on a lateral flow
assay device in which the capture antibody, aripiprazole clone 5C7, was deposited
on a chip along with a detection conjugate consisting of aripiprazole conjugated to a
fluorophore.    In this competitive format as show in Fig. 3, a low level of analyte
(aripiprazole) results in high signal, whereas a high level of analyte (aripiprazole)
results in low signal.
[00220]       Fig. 4 shows the chip design of a lateral flow assay device according to
one embodiment of the subject invention. The device includes a zone or area for
receiving the sample, a conjugate zone (which contains desired labeled competitive
binding partner(s)), and a reaction zone (eight areas within the reaction zone are
                                                57

indicated; each area can contain a separate desired antibody). Sample flows from
the sample zone through the conjugate zone and to the reaction zone.
[00221]         Figs. 5-8 show typical dose response curves for an aripiprazole positive
control (sample containing aripiprazole) generated with antibody 507 deposited in
reaction zone 2 and a labeled aripiprazole competitive binding partner in the
conjugate zone (Fig. 5), an olanzapine positive control (sample containing
olanzapine) generated with antibody 4G9-1 deposited in reaction zone 4 and a
labeled olanzapine competitive binding partner in the conjugate zone (Fig. 6), a
quetiapine positive control (sample containing quetiapine) generated with antibody 11
deposited in reaction zone 6 and a labeled quetiapine competitive binding partner in
the conjugate zone (Fig. 7), and a risperidone positive control (sample containing
risperidone) generated with antibody 5-9 deposited in reaction zone 8 and a labeled
risperidone competitive binding partner in the conjugate zone (Fig. 8). The labeled
competitive binding partners in the conjugate zone compete with the drugs present in
the samples for binding to the antibodies. The amount of label is detected and is an
indication of the amount of drug present in the sample (the amount of signal being
inversely proportional to the amount of drug in the sample - see Fig. 3).
100222]          In order to confirm that conjugates of labeled competitive binding
partners do not bind to antibodies deposited in the reaction zones, negative controls
were conducted by using samples containing no drugs.                       Referring to Table 9, a
sample containing no aripiprazole is deposited in the sample zone and moves by
capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time containing labeled olanzapine,
labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone, but no labeled aripiprazole) and to the
reaction zone.         The reaction zone again contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in
reaction zone 2. Table 9 below shows the results, confirming that there is no dose
response and the olanzapine, quetiapine, and risperidone conjugates that move by
capillary action through the reaction zone do not bind to the aripiprazole antibody.
[00223]         Table9
 Aripipraol-Clone SC7-Math Model I (O1g/rLCohc)
                            meaclon| Read       peakMean PeakMean   Mean
 Ams -MM          Cvn         Zone     Position    Aea      Helht 8a] round
       AMMIO2AN QUa. r                                 58      6     3
                        ~S0
                    AH~l-MM      OIA,     QU,      0.0    t~iW~      429
                                                       58

[00224          Referring to Table 10, a sample containing no olanzapine is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone, but no
labeled olanzapine) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains
olanzapine antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4. Table 10 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response and the aripiprazole, quetiapine, and
risperidone conjugates that move by capillary action through the reaction zone do not
bind to the olanzapine antibody.
[00225]         Table 10
 OLM-Cone4' 9-Math Model ItCOnt/mLConc.l
                           Reaian        e      IkMean PeakMen          MAn
 aMyaMM           cn        Zone      PoMion       Ara:       Ieh     Bakround
iOAuN-MMt AIuP,          I         |om 2       r           r
                                                           |m             .38O'
             ArctrrI
       OLAN-MM              OlAN                      74
[002261         Referring to Table 11, a sample containing no quetiapine is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine, and labeled risperidone, but no
labeled quetiapine) and to the reaction zone.                      The reaction zone again contains
quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6. Table 11 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response and the aripiprazole, olanzapine, and
risperidone conjugates that move by capillary action through the reaction zone do not
bind to the quetiapine antibody.
[00227]         Table 11
 Quetiapine-cUonetl-Math Model    a    tmLCon.)
                           Reacion      RAd      PeakMean PeakMean       Mean
 Assay-MM         Conj       Z e      Position      Area       Hei~gt  Bacirund
 QUEFMM1 ARIP,OLAN,RISP                   2         -001        007        15
 QUET-MMI ARIP,OLAN,RISP                  4          0.0        0.2        4.01
 QUET-MMI ARIP,OLAN,RISP                  8          0.04          7
[00228]         Referring to Table 12, a sample containing no risperidone is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine, and labeled quetiapine, but no
labeled risperidone) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8. Table 12 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response and the aripiprazole, olanzapine, and
                                                         59

quetiapine conjugates that move by capillary action through the reaction zone do not
bind to the risperidone antibody.
[00229]              Table 12
   isperidone-Clone5S-9-Math Mode  l1ing/mLConc.l
                               Reaction     Read      PeakMean PeakMean           Mean
  AssapMM             Con        Zone     Positlon       Area       Heit       B     n d
   RISP-MM1    AR1P,OlAN Q2                              002         0.11          7.4
   RiSP MM1    ARIP,OtAN Q -        M         4          005         014           7.73
   RISP-MMI    ARPOLM UU                      6      1 1.20         0. 1           8.11
   RisP-MMt   1AinIP LAN          - -~S                  1L97     '  3.23          8.85~z
[00230]              In order to confirm that conjugates of labeled competitive binding
partners bind only to their respective antibodies deposited in the reaction zones,
additional negative controls were conducted by again using samples containing no
drugs. Referring to Table 13, a sample containing no aripiprazole is deposited in the
sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled aripiprazole) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again
contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as olanzapine
antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6, and
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8.                          Table 13 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response except to the aripiprazole antibody 5C7 (in
reaction zone 2).
100231]              Table 13
  A.gi!P!teCone.K 7Math Mode         iOaf-nL Corx.]
                                        eat     (7         ireacn           on
                                                                          eAnt        (11)n rzd
                       C-            Zin 1
                               reactone         e d 4, qu eap n
 aAfLPMMI
     ntiy-Mm Ann'ol.IAN0U1JTR;SPIARId'              2.34                qs
  ARIP-MM1 IARIP,OANQUETRIP.J                            F.12
                                             .......6.......4                  r      310
  ARFPM             tJAIlPOIANQIJET$Pj16P                               4.19   [J         J
[00232]              Referring to Table 14, a sample containing no olanzapine is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled olanzapine) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again
contains aripiprazole antibody (507) in reaction zone 2, as well as olanzapine
antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, queiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6, arid
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8. Table 14 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response except to the olanzapine antibody 4G9-1
(in reaction zone 4).
                                                              60

[00233]          Table 14
 .OLM Clone 4C94*Math Modell1lOni~mtConc4j
                                                      p,k    Peak
                               Reaction               Mean  Mer        Mean
 Assa-MM            Conj        Zone    ReadPosition  Area  Helght   Background
 Oi LANM   1R!IPOLANQUET                      2        0.02   )0A       4.86
        otANMM3IUPOANQUE                      4       3423   518           9
 Ol.AN-MMAIARIP,0EAN,QJUTIS                   6        0.22  0359
 OLAN-MM-ARlP,OL.AN,QUETl5                    a        0.15  017   ~    5.19
[00234]           Referring to Table 15, a sample containing no quetiapine is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled quetiapine) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again
contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as olanzapine
antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6, and
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8.               Table 15 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response except to the quetiapine antibody 11 (in
reaction zone 6).
100235]          Table 15
                   kMode l9r!4~mL CJ.
 Quootiapine-CiaeIwt
                                                      Peak   Peak
                               Reaction               Mean  Mean       Mean
 AswMM              c.1         Zone    Read Poton    Are   Hei      B"m-.d
                                                                       cu-
[00236]          Referring to Table 16, a sample containing no risperidone is deposited in
the sample zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time
containing labeled risperidone) and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again
contains aripiprazole antibody (SC7) in reaction zone 2, as well as olanzapine
antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction zone 6. and
risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8. Table 16 below shows the results,
confirming that there is no dose response except to the risperidone antibody 5-9 (in
reaction zone 8).
                                                     61

[00237]            Table 16
 ffisperidone-CloneS: 9-Math Model I eo/ml-Conc         I.
                                                         pe,kA  PeA
                                  Reaction               Mn    Mer        Mean
   sa -MM               ij          Zon     R
                                            Iex Positon  Area  Height   Backgoud
  A MI$   MIA1U10LNQJEI
              A               1P                 2        1.03    .         9.07
  R-SP MMI       -ARh'OANQUERI$P        *Jfl     6       139               10.48
                                                         5 98    1 91      1 .58
                                                   8
      --
[00238]            The results shown above confirm that conjugates of labeled competitive
binding partners bind only to their respective antibodies in the reaction zone.
[00239]            Figs. 9-12 show typical dose response curves in specific antibody
reaction zones, and proof of dose response low/high concentration for each specific
assay in the presence of other conjugates.                          In Fig. 9, a sample containing
aripiprazole is deposited in the sample zone and moves by capillary action through
the conjugate zone (this time containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine,
labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone) and to the reaction zone. The reaction
zone again contains aripiprazole antibody (507) in reaction zone 2. A typical dose
response curve was generated as is shown in Fig. 9 only for aripiprazole, and not for
olanzapine, quetiapine, or risperidone.
[00240]            In Fig. 10, a sample containing olanzapine is deposited in the sample
zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time containing
labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine. labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone)
and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains olanzapine antibody
(4G9-1) in reaction zone 4. A typical dose response curve was generated as is
shown in Fig. 10 only for olanzapine, and not for aripiprazole, quetiapine. or
risperidone.
[00241]            In Fig. 11, a sample containing quetiapine is deposited in the sample
zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time containing
labeled aripiprazole. labeled olanzapine, labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone)
and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains quetiapine antibody (11)
in reaction zone 6. A typical dose response curve was generated as is shown in Fig.
10 only for quetiapine, and not for aripiprazole, olanzapine, or risperidone.
[00242]            In Fig. 12, a sample containing risperidone is deposited in the sample
zone and moves by capillary action through the conjugate zone (this time containing
labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine, labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone)
                                                        62

and to the reaction zone. The reaction zone again contains risperidone antibody (5
9) in reaction zone 8. A typical dose response curve was generated as is shown in
Fig. 12 only for risperidone, and not for aripiprazole, olanzapine, or quetiapine.
100243]       Figs. 13-16 show typical dose response curves for each assay In the
presence of other conjugates and antibodies. In Fig. 13, a sample containing
aripiprazole is deposited in the sample zone and moves by capillary action through
the conjugate zone (again containing labeled aripiprazole, labeled olanzapine,
labeled quetiapine, and labeled risperidone) and to the reaction zone. The reaction
zone again contains aripiprazole antibody (5C7) in reaction zone 2, as well as
olanzapine antibody (4G9-1) in reaction zone 4, quetiapine antibody (11) in reaction
zone 6, and risperidone antibody (5-9) in reaction zone 8. A typical dose response
curve was generated for aripiprazole, as is shown in Fig. 13.           When a sample
containing olanzapine was deposited in the sample zone of this chip, a typical dose
response curve was generated for olanzapine as shown in Fig. 14. When a sample
containing quetiapine was deposited in the sample zone of this chip, a typical dose
response curve for quetiapine was generated as shown in Fig. 15. When a sample
containing risperidone was deposited in the sample zone of this chip, a typical dose
response curve for risperidone was generated as shown in Fig. 16.
[00244]       Figs. 17-20 show comparisons of dose response curves generated as
positive controls (Figs. 5-8) to dose response curves generated in the multiplex
format (Figs. 13-16).     The comparison for aripiprazole is shown in Fig. 17; for
olanzapine in Fig. 18; for quetiapine in Fig. 19; and for risperidone in Fig. 20. These
figures show that the positive control curves are similar to the multiplex curves.
[00245]      These data show that a lateral flow assay device of the subject invention
can be used to detect multiple anti-psychotic drugs using a single sample from a
patient on one portable, point-of-care device.
                                            63

What is claimed is:
1.            An isolated antibody or a binding fragment thereof, which binds to
aripiprazole and which:
(i)           is generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and
an immunogenic carrier; or
(ii)          competes for an epitope which is the same as an epitope bound by an
antibody generated in response to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier,
Formula I:
0     N          O              N          CI
                                 'KN            Cl
      R'                               -        R2
wherein:
                                        0     0
                     o                             N
R' is H,                   0,                          0    0     CH2 NH2 ,
CH2NHC(O)(CH 2 )nCO 2H, or Z-(Y),-G;
                0   0
                  N    'N                  OH
R2 is H,                          0      0      , NH2, NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2H, or Z-(Y),-G;
R3 is H, or W-(Y)rG; provided that two of R', R2, R3 must be H, and further provided
that R', R2 and R3 may not all be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R4 )-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-,
alkylcarbonyl-,
    o       0                R4
                              --   N--NH-J        NH-NH
    0   ,   OR 4 ,   0
                                                  64

wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-;
R4 is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0 or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
2.            The antibody of claim 1, wherein the antibody is generated in response
to a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an immunogenic carrier.
3.            The antibody of claim 1, wherein the antibody fragment is selected from
the group of fragments consisting of Fv, F(ab'), F(ab')2, scFv, minibody and diabody
fragments.
4.            The antibody of claim 1, wherein the antibody is a monoclonal antibody.
5,            An assay kit comprising the antibody of claim 1.
6.            An assay device comprising the antibody of claim 1.
7.            The assay device of claim 6 wherein the device is a lateral flow assay
device.
8.            A method of producing an antibody which binds to aripiprazole, the
method comprising:
(i)           selecting a host for antibody production; and
(ii)          inoculating the host with a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier, wherein the host produces an antibody which binds to
aripiprazole,
                                             65

Formula 1:
 O    N           0            N         CI
          R                         N       CI
wherein:
                                      0 0
                   O                N          N
                N      "\           H               Ne4i0OH
RI is H,                   0,                         0    0      CH2 NH2 ,
CH2NHC(O)(CH 2)mnCO 2H, or Z-(Y),-G;
                0 0
                  H       LN     01,OH
R2 is H,                         0     O        NHz, NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2H, or Z-(Y)p-G;
Ris H, or W-(Y)p-G; provided that two of R', R2 , R3 must be H, and further provided
that R', R' and R3 may not all be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R4 )-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyaikyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-,
alkylcarbonyl-,
   0                         R4
           -  [-H                 N-NH         -NH-NH
                4
   0         OR ,    o
wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-;
R4 is H. an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group:
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0 or 1;
m is 1. 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
                                                66

9.            A method of producing a hybridorna cell line capable of producing a
monoclonal antibody which binds to aripiprazole, the method comprising:
(i)           selecting a host for antibody production;
(ii)          inoculating the host with a conjugate of a compound of Formula I and an
immunogenic carrier;
(iii)         fusing a cell line from said inoculated host with a continuously dividing
cell to create a fused cell capable of producing a monoclonal antibody which binds to
aripiprazole; and
(iv)          cloning the fused cell so as to obtain a hybridoma cell line,
Formula 1:
 O      N        O      -     N          C1
                                   N        C1
        R
                                       -      R2
wherein:
                                      0   0
                     0O                       N
                       N              N           NrhYOH
R' is H,                  0,                         0    0     ,CH 2 NH2 ,
CHzNHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2H, or Z-(Y),G;
               0    0
            H                N           OH
R2 is H,                        0      0       NH2, NHC(O)(CH 2)mCO 2 H, or Z-(Y),G;
R3 is H, or W-(Y)rG; provided that two of R', R, R3 must be H, and further provided
that R', R2 and R3 may not all be H simultaneously;
wherein:
Z is selected from the group consisting of:
-N(R4)-, -0-, -S-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-,
alkylcarbonyl-,
      o                     R4              0
  -               1              Ni'l
                             )Z4-NH             NH-NH
      0   , OR4           ,
                                               67

wherein:
W is selected from the group consisting of:
-C(O)-, -alkyl-, -alkoxyalkyl-, -aminoalkyl-, -thioalkyl-, -heteroalkyl-, -alkylcarbonyl-;
R4 is H, an alkyl group, cycloalkyl group, aralkyl group or substituted or unsubstituted
aryl group;
Y is an organic spacer group;
G is a functional linking group capable of binding to a carrier;
p is 0 or 1;
m is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5; and
n is 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5.
10.           A method of detecting aripiprazole in a sample, the method comprising:
(i)           contacting a sample with an antibody of claim 1 labeled with a detectable
marker, wherein the labeled antibody and aripiprazole present in the sample form a
labeled complex; and
(ii)          detecting the labeled complex so as to detect aripiprazole in the sample.
11.           A competitive immunoassay method for detecting aripiprazole in a
sample, the method comprising:
(i)           contacting a sample with the antibody of claim 1, and with aripiprazole or
a competitive binding partner of aripiprazole, wherein one of the antibody and the
aripiprazole or competitive binding partner thereof is labeled with a detectable
marker, and wherein sample aripiprazole competes with the aripiprazole or
competitive binding partner thereof for binding to the antibody; and
(ii)          detecting the label so as to detect sample aripiprazole.
12.           The method of claim 11 wherein the aripiprazole or competitive binding
partner thereof is labeled with the detectable marker.
 13.          The method of claim 11 wherein the antibody is labeled with a detectable
marker.
14.           The method of claim 11 wherein the immunoassay is performed on a
lateral flow assay device and the sample is applied to the device.
                                             68

15.           The method of claim 10 or 11, further comprising detecting the presence
of one or more analyses in addition to aripiprazole.
16.           The method of claim 15 wherein the one or more analytes are anti
psychotic drugs other than aripiprazole.
17.           The method of claim 16 wherein the anti-psychotic drugs other than
aripiprazole are selected from the group consisting of:        risperidone, paliperidone,
quetiapine, olanzapine, and metabolites thereof.
18.           The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein the detection of aripiprazole is an
indication of patient adherence with prescribed aripiprazole therapy.
19.           The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein the detection of aripiprazole is
used to determine whether a patient should be converted from an oral aripiprazole
regimen to an injectable anti-psychotic regimen.
20.           The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein the detection of aripiprazole is
used to determine if the dose level or dosing interval of oral or injectable aripiprazole
should be increased or decreased to ensure attainment or maintenance of efficacious
or safe drug levels.
21.           The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein the detection of aripiprazole is an
aid in the initiation of aripiprazole therapy by providing evidence of the attainment of
minimum pK levels.
22.           The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein the detection of aripiprazole is
used to determine bioequivalence of aripiprazole in multiple formulations or from
multiple sources.
23.           The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein the detection of aripiprazole is
used to assess the impact of polypharmacy and potential drug-drug interactions.
                                             69

24.          The method of claim 10 or 11, wherein the detection of aripiprazole is an
indication that a patient should be excluded from or included into a clinical trial and is
an aid in the subsequent monitoring of adherence to clinical trial medication
requirements.
                                          70

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
