C:\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16989406
                                     _.docx-17/052018
ABSTRACT
               A method is provided of targeted genome editing of an animal using site specific
homologous integration. A composition comprising a single stranded oligonucleotide or
double stranded nucleic acid molecule comprising a nucleic acid molecule of interest and
sequences flanking a target locus cleavage site is injected into the zygote of an animal along
with a nuclease and a guide nucleic acid molecule that targets the nuclease to a target locus.
The composition is injected into the zygote after fertilization and prior to formation of a
nucleus. The nucleic acid molecule of interest is recombined into the genome with high
efficiency. The process allows for integration of nucleic acid molecules into the genome of
animals in which the pronuclei cannot be visually observed during injection.

                                               -1
TITLE:         TARGETED GENOME EDITING IN ZYGOTES OF DOMESTIC
               LARGE ANIMALS
This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. 2015236033, the entire
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. § 119 to provisional application
Serial No. 61/970,794 filed March 26, 2014, herein incorporated by reference in its
entirety.
SEQUENCE LISTING
        The instant application contains a Sequence Listing which has been submitted in
ASCII format via EFS-Web and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The
ASCII copy, created on March 22, 2015, is named Univerisity of Maryland and is 16,384
bytes in size.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
        Modification of animal genomes has multiple uses. Where a gene is modified, by,
for example, silencing the gene, prohibiting the expression of protein, changing expression
product or expression levels, the function of the gene or region of the gene becomes
apparent. Changes to the gene may also result in modification to a more desired
phenotype. Treatment of disease is also possible, where defective genes can be modified.
Effective gene targeting of animals and in particular large domestic animals in which the
pronuclei are difficult to visually identify in a fertilized zygote has numerous challenges
preventing reliable delivery of targeting constructs in order to effectively target a specific
region in such animal genome.

                                              -2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         The present method allows for injection of nucleic acid molecules into zygotes of
large animals followed by incorporation of the nucleic acid molecule into the nucleus of
the cell, such that one need not visually identify the pronuclei of the zygote. The method
provides for injecting nucleic acid molecules into the zygote after fertilization of an egg by
sperm and prior to formation of a nucleus. Methods in one embodiment employ
homologous recombination with the resulting nucleus that is formed having the nucleic
acid molecule of interest targeted. A double stranded break may be induced at the target
locus in an embodiment of the invention. A nuclease and either single stranded
oligonucleotides or a double stranded targeting vector is provided with heterologous
nucleic acid molecules of interest and sequences having homology to sequences flanking
the site of the double stranded break, which allows for homologous recombination at the
site. In an embodiment, the flanking sequences may be 50 base pairs (bp) or more when
using single stranded oligonucleotides, and may be 500 bp or more when using a double
stranded targeting vector. The method may be used for modifying expression of sequences
in the animal by, for example, inhibiting expression, deletion, replacement of alleles, or
introducing into the animal genome a sequence, which in one embodiment expresses a
unique protein.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
         Figure 1 is a photomicrograph of porcine and murine zygotes.
         Figure 2 shows CRISPR-mediated knockin of GFP transgene into the PRNP locus.
A) is a schematic drawing of the targeting vector showing targeting arms homologous to
endogenous PRNP locus. The term "upper" refers to the 500 bp of the targeted PRNP locus
upstream of the cleavage site and "lower" refers to the 1000 bp of the downstream flanking
sequence. UBC refers to (human ubiquitin C promoter), GFP refers to green fluorescent
protein; bPA (bovine poly adenlyation transcription terminator sequence); PGK/EM7 - is a
hybrid eukaryotic (phosphoglycero kinase) and prokaryotic (EM7, a synthetic bacterial
promoter derived from the T7 promoter that enables the constitutive expression of the
antibiotic resistance gene in E.coli

                                              -3
patents/US7244609) RNA polymerase II promoter sequences driving the expression of
Neo/kan which are neomycin (or G418 for eukaryotic) and kanamycin resistance (for
prokaryotic) selectable markers. The linearized targeting vector alongside, Cas9 mRNA
and single guide (sgRNA )targeting PRNP are injected into the porcine zygotes. B) is a
schematic showing an embodiment of the process. Cas9 induces double strand break in
3rd exon of PRNP. The broken DNA is then repaired with the targeting vector, resulted in
the targeted allele.
         Figure 3 A and B are photos showing representative embryos that have developed
to the blastocyst stage show expression of GFP, with A) showing the embryo under green
fluorescent microscope and B) showing bright field microscope view.
         Figure 4 is a gel where use of primers, one within the targeting vector and another
outside of the homologous region, shows specific band of right size confirming targeting to
the intended locus.
         Figure 5A and B show CRISPR mediated homology directed repair and editing of
porcine genomes using a single stranded oligonucleotide incorporation into the zygote. A)
is a schematic of Cas9 vector, sgRNA targeting ZBED6 locus and a single stranded oligo
containing a LoxP site and a EcoR1 restriction enzyme site injected into porcine zygotes.
CMV and T7 refer to the promoters HA is HA tag, NLS is nuclear localization signal. B)
is a gel showing the PCR amplicon contains the recombined EcoRI site, which can be
digested to produce two fragments, confirming the recombination of a functional EcoR1
enzyme site.
         Figure 6 shows sequencing of the recombined ZBED6 allele (the entire sequence
shown is SEQ ID NO: 13) showing the EcoR1 site (underlined) and the LoxP (SEQ ID
NO: 11) site in the inset.
         Figure 7 shows A) a schematic of the pronuclei with loxP targeting; and two gels,
B) a gel showing ZBED6 with loxP targeting and C) PRNP with loxP targeting.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
         Transfer of genetic material into mammalian cells was first reported 50 years ago
(Szybalska, E.et al. Genetics of human cell line. IV. DNA-mediated heritable

                                              -4
transformation of a biochemical trait. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 48, 2026-2034 (1962))
when cells were made resistant to hypoxanthine, aminopterin and thymidine (HAT)
selection medium by calcium phosphate mediated transfection. The efficiency of
exogenous transfer was further improved by injection of DNA directly into tissue culture
cells with the aid of micropipettes mounted on micromanipulators. (Graessmann, et al.
Retransformation of a simian virus 40 revertant cell line, which is resistant to viral and
DNA infections, by microinjection of viral DNA. J Virol 32, 989-994 (1979); Capecchi, et
al. High efficiency transformation by direct microinjection of DNA into cultured
mammalian cells. Cell 22, 479-488 (1980)). This served as a prelude for injection of
transgenes into the pronucleus (PN) of mouse zygotes (Gordon, Jet al. Genetic
transformation of mouse embryos by microinjection of purified DNA. Proc.Natl. A cad.
Sci. USA 77, 7380-7384 (1980)) and the production of the first transgenic mice. (Brinster,
R.L. et al. Somatic expression of herpes thymidine kinase in mice following injection of a
fusion gene into eggs. Cell 27, 223-23 1 (1981)). Soon after the first demonstrated success
in generating transgenic mice by PN injection, similar procedures were used to generate
growth hormone transgenic pigs. (Hammer, R.E. et al. Production of transgenic rabbits,
sheep and pigs by microinjection. Nature 315, 680-683 (1985)). The PN injection
procedure remains a widely used technique for making transgenic domestic large animals,
such as pigs, cattle, sheep, goats, camelids, dogs, cats, etc., however, only 1% of injected
zygotes produce stable transgenic founders. (Niemann, H. Transgenic pigs expressing plant
genes. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 101,7211-7212 (2004); Prather, et al. Genetically
modified pigs for medicine and agriculture. Biotechnology & Genetic EngineeringReviews
25, 245-265 (2008)). In addition to low efficiencies in generating founder animals, the
technique is challenging in pig and other large animal models, where the embryo is murky
and the pronucleus is difficult to localize for injecting large DNA constructs (Figure 1).
        Besides PN injection, other methods for generating transgenic animals have been
attempted, which included sperm-mediated gene transfer, oocyte transduction, and
transposons, with varying degree of success. (Park, et al. Role of stem cells in large
animal genetic engineering in the TALENs-CRISPR era. Reprod FertilDev 26, 65-73
(2013)). Specifically in conjunction with the use of CRISPR/Cas system or other site

                                               -5
specific nucleases, such DNA constructs can be targeted to a specific region of the gene,
allowing for site-specific knockin of the candidate genes, modification of nucleotides or
replacement of alleles. However, all the methods suffer from somewhat similar limitations,
including (but not limited to): (1) random integration in the genome; (2) insertional
mutagenesis; (3) positional silencing; (4) lack of control over the number of integrants and
expression; (5) an inability to pre-screen for stable integrations before embryo transfer; and
(6) the inability to delete endogenous genes (i.e. gene "knockout" or "KO", where the gene
expression is inactivated or inoperative). "Gene targeting", whereby the intended gene
sequences can be targeted for deletion, or exogenous DNA incorporated, offsets all the
disadvantages described above.
         Success in gene targeting can be attributed to the discovery that flanking
homologous isogenic sequences combined with a positive and negative selection scheme
facilitates the creation and identification of recombination events at the intended locus
(Luciw, et al. Location and function of retroviral and SV40 sequences that enhance
biochemical transformation after microinjection of DNA. Cell 33, 705-716 (1983);
Kucherlapati, R.S. et al. Homologous recombination in monkey cells and human cell-free
extracts. Cold Spring Harbor Symposia on Quantitative Biology 49, 191-197 (1984)).
However, one of the major limitations of homologous recombination (HR)-based gene
targeting for knocking out genes, introducing point mutations, or knocking-in genes is the
poor efficiency of achieving correct recombination events, typically in the range of 1 in
106-107 cells. In addition, these modifications are often monoallelic in nature, requiring a
second round of targeting for bi-allelic (homozygous) modifications. In pigs and other
livestock species that lack genuine embryonic stem cells (ESC), somatic cells, typically
fetal fibroblasts are used for gene targeting, and the modified cells are used as donor cells
in nuclear transfer or cloning to generate the genetically modified (GM) animals. The gene
targeting efficiencies are relatively poor when using somatic cells as precursors, which is
further compounded by the relatively early senescence of the fibroblasts precluding
characterization of the desired knock in (KI) or other genetic alterations in the course of
the experiment. With the long gestation length and maturation to reproduction age of pigs
and other large animals, the generation of homozygous knockin (or "KI", where a nucleic

                                                -6
acid sequence is inserted at a particular locus) animals by nuclear transfer or cloning to
produce recombinant pigs is both technically challenging and cost prohibitive.
         An improved method is shown here of targeting genome editing in zygotes that
allows for genome targeting in animals including animals having a zygote with optical
density such that the pronuclei are obscured as a result of lipid granules in the cytoplasm
interfering with visualization. This makes it difficult to visually identify the pronuclei of
the zygote with the naked human eye and inject nucleic acid molecules into the nuclei. A
pronucleus is the haploid nucleus of a sex cell, here the male and female pronuclei present
following fertilization of the oocyte (egg) by the spermatatozoa (sperm). The membranes
of the pronuclei dissolve and the chromosomes align, then becoming part of a single
diploid nucleus and cell division occurs.      One skilled in the art appreciates that it is
possible to determine the time frame prior to formation of the pronuclei into nucleus.
Using homologous recombination techniques, precise targeting of a nucleic acid molecule
to a location of the genome is now possible using direct injection into such animal zygotic
cells where the injection occurs after fertilization and prior to the pronuclei forming a
nucleus. Using this method it has been found the nucleic acid molecule will be efficiently
recombined into the nucleus. One embodiment provides for injection up to 18 to 24 hours
after fertilization. In an embodiment the time frame is at up to five hours in one
embodiment, and up to 12 hours in another embodiment. At embodiment provides
injection occurs at three, four or five hours after fertilization. For about three to five hours
after fertilization the cells are typically kept in a fertilization medium, and would be
injected after removal from the medium. In a further embodiment injection occurs about
up to 16 hours after fertilization, in an embodiment is three to four to five to six to seven to
eight to nine to ten to twelve to thirteen to fourteen to fifteen hours after fertilization up to
16 hours, and in further embodiment is 8 to 12 hours after fertilization. This avoids the
need to use fetal fibroblasts or a system of nuclear transfer or cloning. A nucleic acid
sequence of interest is injected along with components which target the sequence to the
desired target locus in the genome and provide for homologous recombination at the site.
Such components in an embodiment include a nuclease for cleaving the target locus, along
with a guide RNA that directs the nuclease to the targeted locus.

                                               -7
        Any method which provides for targeting of the nucleic acid molecule of interest
(NOI) to the target site of the target gene may be utilized in the method.    The following is
provided by way of example rather than limitation. A guide nucleic acid molecule is one
that directs the nuclease to the specific cut site in the genome, whether via use of a binding
domain, recognition domains, guide RNAs or other mechanisms. The guide nucleic acid
molecule is introduced into the cell under conditions appropriate for operation of the guide
nucleic acid molecule in directing cleavage to the target locus. A person of skill in the art
will have available a number of methods that may be used, the most common utilizing a
nuclease to cleave the target region of the gene, along with sequences which will recognize
sequences at the target locus and direct cleavage to the locus.   Any nuclease that can
cleave the phosphodiester bond of a polynucleotide chain may be used in the methods
described here. By way of example without limitation, available systems include those
utilizing site specific nucleases (SSN) such as ZFNs (Zinc finger nuclease), (Whyte, J.J. et
al. Gene targeting with zinc finger nucleases to produce cloned eGFP knockout pigs. Mol
Reprod Dev 78, 2 (2011); Whyte, et al. Cell Biology Symposium: Zinc finger nucleases to
create custom-designed modifications in the swine (Sus scrofa) genome. JAnim Sci 90,
1111-1117 (2012)); TALENs (Transcription activator-like effector nucleases) (see,
Carlson, D.F. et al. Efficient TALEN-mediated gene knockout in livestock. Proc Natl Acad
Sci U SA 109, 17382-17387 (2012); Tan, W. et al. Efficient nonmeiotic allele
introgression in livestock using custom endonucleases. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110,
16526-16531 (2013); Lillico, S.G. et al. Live pigs produced from genome edited zygotes.
Scientific reports 3, 2847 (2013)), and the CRISPR (Clustered regularly interspaced short
palindromic repeats) -associated (Cas) nuclease system (Hai, T., Teng, F., Guo, R., Li, W.
& Zhou,   Q. One-step   generation of knockout pigs by zygote injection of CRISPR/Cas
system. Cell Res 24, 372-375 (2014)) that have permitted editing of animal genomes such
as pig genomes with relative ease. The use of recombinases such as FLP/FRT as described
in US Patent No. 6,720,475, or CRE/LOX as described in US Patent No. 5,658,772, can be
utilized to integrate a polynucleotide sequence into a specific chromosomal site.
Meganucleases have been used for targeting donor polynucleotides into a specific
chromosomal location as described in Puchta et al., PNAS USA 93 (1996) pp. 5055-5060.

                                               -8
ZFNs work with proteins or domains of proteins binding to a binding domain having a
stabilized structure as a result of use a zinc ion. TALENs utilize domains with repeats of
amino acids which can specifically recognize a base pair in a DNA sequence. For a
discussion of both systems see Voytas et al. US Patent No. 8,697,853, incorporated herein
by reference in its entirety. These systems utilize enzymes prepared for each target
sequence.
         The CRISPR/Cas nuclease system has evolved in archaea and bacteria as a RNA
based adaptive immunity system to detect and cleave invading viruses and plasmids.
(Horvath, P. & Barrangou, R. CRISPR/Cas, the immune system of bacteria and archaea.
Science 327, 167-170 (2010); Wiedenheft, et al. RNA-guided genetic silencing systems in
bacteria and archaea. Nature 482, 331-338 (2012)). Unlike ZFNs and TALENs, which
require assembly of DNA binding domain (DBD) to direct the nuclease to the target site,
the CRISPR/Cas system utilizes RNA as a guide. The CRISPR locus is a distinct class of
interspersed short sequence repeats (SSRs) recognized in bacterial genes. The repeats are
short elements occurring in clusters that are regularly spaced by unique intervening
sequences with a substantially constant length. They were observed as an immunity
system in which nucleic acid molecules homologous to virus or plasmid sequences are
integrated into the CRISPR loci. The foreign DNA or RNA is targeted and cleaved. The
system has been adapted for targeted insertion of a nucleic acid molecule at a defined
locus. In general, a CRISPR system is characterized by elements that promote the
formation of a CRISPR complex at the site of a target sequence to which a guide sequence
is designed to have complementarity, where hybridization between a target sequence and a
guide sequence promotes the formation of a CRISPR complex. Full complementarity is not
necessarily required, provided there is sufficient complementarity to cause hybridization
and promote formation of a CRISPR complex. In the CRISPR system one enzyme, a
CRISPR enzyme is used for targeting using short RNA molecules.
        Two basic components are used with the system, a guide RNA and an
endonuclease. The guide RNA is endogenous sequence specifying the target site and
tracrRNA, needed to bind to the enzyme. The guide sequence provides target specificity
and the tracrRNA provides scaffolding properties. These guide sequences are typically

                                             -9
about 15 up to 20 to 25 base pairs (bp) that hybridize with the target site and direct binding
of a CRISPR complex to a target sequence. A sequence encoding a CRISPR-associated
enzyme may be provided on the same or different vectors. Non-limiting examples of Cas
proteins include Cas1, Cas1B, Cas2. Cas3, Cas4, Cas5, Cas6. Cas7, Cas8, Cas9 (also
known as Csn1 and Csxl2), CasIO, Csyl, Csy2, Csy3, Csel, Cse2, Cscl, Csc2, Csa5,
Csn2, Csm2, Csm3, Csm4, Csm5, Csm6, Cmrl, Cmr3, Cmr4, Cmr5, Cmr6, Csbl, Csb2,
Csb3, Csx17, Csx14, Csx1O, Csx16, CsaX, Csx3, Csxl, Csx15, Csfl, Csf2, Csf3, Csf4,
homologs thereof, or modified versions thereof. In one embodiment the enzyme is a type II
CRISPR system enzyme and is Cas9 or variants or modifications thereof. These enzymes
are known; for example, the amino acid sequence of S. pyogenes Cas9 protein may be
found in the SwissProt database under accession number Q99ZW2. The enzyme or Cas9
protein can be used as a nickase or nuclease and cleave one or two strands of DNA. Cas9
has two functional domains, RuvC and HNH and when both are used both strands are
cleaved. Cas9 nuclease forms a ribonuclease complex with target CRISPR RNAs
(crRNAs) and transactivating RNAs (tracrRNA), and uses the chimeric RNA to target the
genomic sequence and induce DSB. The CRISPR/Cas nuclease and other SSN can
introduce a targeted double strand break (DSB) in the genomic DNA, which in the
presence of a single stranded (SS) DNA oligonucleotide or a double stranded (DS)
targeting vector, result in homologous recombination (HR) based alteration of selected
nucleotides or KI of transgenes respectively, into the target loci. In another embodiment a
SS oligonucleotide having the nucleic acid molecule of interest may be used with Cas9
mRNA and sgRNA to target modification of a particular target gene region. In further
embodiments the target gene is complementary to the gRNA sequence and will have a
protospacer adjacent motif or PAM sequence. This aids in binding by Cas9. For a
discussion of details of the CRISPR/Cas system see Cong et al., US Patent Nos. 8,932,814;
8,871,445 and 8,906,616, incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
        Breaks in the genome can be repaired by the non-homologous end joining DNA
repair pathway (NHEJ) or by homology directed repair pathway (HDR). NHEJ can disrupt
the gene, by causing frame shifts or premature stop codons to occur. HDR is an
embodiment that provides for insertion of a nucleic acid molecule that avoids such issues.

                                             - 10
With a double strand break a DNA repair template is provided in which sequences are
provided that have homology to and hybridize with genome sequences flanking the
cleavage site (homology arm). In one embodiment the DNA template or flanking
sequences are transfected into the cell with the CRISPR/Cas vector.
        Even though HDR-based gene targeting events are extremely rare, the efficiencies
can be improved by several orders of magnitude (>1000-fold) by introducing a DSB at the
target locus (Moehle, E.A. et al. Targeted gene addition into a specified location in the
human genome using designed zinc finger nucleases. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 104, 3055
3060 (2007)). Following DSB, either a SS oligo, or a DS vector with homology to the
ends flanking the DSB, can produce animals with targeted genomic alterations or transgene
integrations (Cui, Let al. The permissive effect of zinc deficiency on uroguanylin and
inducible nitric oxide synthase gene upregulation in rat intestine induced by interleukin
alpha is rapidly reversed by zinc repletion. The Journal ofNutrition 133, 5 1-56 (2003);
Meyer, M et al. Gene targeting by homologous recombination in mouse zygotes mediated
by zinc-finger nucleases. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107, 15022-15026 (2010)).
        In the inventors laboratory, CRISPR/Cas mediated HDR and editing of nucleotides
and gene KI by injections directly into the porcine zygotes bypassing the need for nuclear
transfer/cloning to generate genetically modified (GM) animals. The length of each
homology arm will vary depending on the size of the modification to the genome. Here,
the inventors have discovered far smaller homology arms may be utilized than previously
employed when not using the present method. Previously the sequence homologous to the
target gene flanking sequences were required to be of a size in the region of 6000 bp.
However, here with use of a double stranded break and site specific nuclease systems, it is
demonstrated the methods need less than 6000bp homologous regions, and operate with
only at least about 40 bp, at least about 50 bp and amounts in-between, or more upstream
and about 40 bp, at least about 50 bp and amounts in-between, or more downstream
sequences for use with single stranded oligo and about at least 300 bp, at least 500 bp up to
1000 bp and amounts in-between or more with a double stranded targeting vector. This
provides for a much less laborious process in preparing such sequences, reducing the time

                                              - 11
for preparation of a target vector to one to two weeks or less instead of six months. These
homologous arms are provided with the SS oligonucleotide or DS vector.
         The present methods provide for expansion of use in gene editing to provide greater
efficiencies, by 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, up to 100% increase
and amounts in-between in the number of recombination events obtained. The fold
increase in events recovered is up to 1000 fold or more. This results in high efficiency and
usefulness with large animal gene editing and use in many settings.
         In referring to a target gene is meant to refer to any nucleic acid molecule within
the animal genome desired to be modified as described or where it is desired to insert a
nucleic acid molecule. The target polynucleotide can be a sequence coding a gene product
(e.g., a protein) or a non-coding sequence (e.g., a regulatory polynucleotide or a junk
DNA).
         The process is useful with knockins and knockouts. One can upregulate gene
transcription through insertion of a transcriptional activator, for example, or repress
expression using transcriptional repressors. Without intending to be limiting, among the
variety of utilities of gene editing include modifying (e.g., deleting, inserting,
translocating, inactivating, activating, mutating) a target polynucleotide in a multiplicity of
cell types. In some embodiments the polypeptide expressed may be modified. There are a
broad spectrum of applications in, e.g., gene therapy, drug screening, disease diagnosis,
prognosis, increasing or decreasing growth and body composition, and improving quality
or composition of animal products. The methods are useful in any situation where
modification of a disease gene is desired. Further examples include improved feed use and
meat composition, enhanced reproductive performance, changing component content of
animal products such as milk (such as lactose content), and, reduce or eliminate
phenotypes such as boar taint phenotype. The process is useful with so-called knockins
where a sequence is inserted in the genome or knockouts where gene expression is reduced
or eliminated or interrupted. This allows for understanding and control of the gene and its'
downstream impact.
         The target nucleotide may include a number of disease-associated genes and
polynucleotides as well as signaling biochemical pathway-associated genes and

                                              - 12
polynucleotides. Examples of target polynucleotides include a sequence associated with a
signaling biochemical pathway, e.g., a signaling biochemical pathway-associated gene or
polynucleotide. Examples of target polynucleotides include a disease gene or
polynucleotide. A "disease" gene or polynucleotide includes any gene or polynucleotide
associated with impacting disease in and animal and can include a gene or polynucleotide
which is yielding transcription or translation products at an abnormal level or in an
abnormal form in cells derived from a disease-affected tissues compared with tissues or
cells of a non-disease control. A disease gene is any gene associated with an increase or
decrease in the risk of having or developing a disease or recovery from disease. It may be
a gene that becomes expressed at an abnormally high level; it may be a gene that becomes
expressed at an abnormally low level, where the altered expression correlates with the
occurrence and/or progression of the disease. A disease gene also refers to a gene
possessing mutation(s) or genetic variation that is directly responsible or is in linkage
disequilibrium with a gene(s) that is responsible for the etiology of a disease. The
transcribed or translated products may be known or unknown, and may be at a normal or
abnormal level. A vast array of animal diseases may be treated, prevented or studied by
use of the methods here with genes or proteins encoded associated with the disease. A few
examples include the PRNP gene providing resistance to transmissible spongiform
encephalopathies; upregulation of SOCS], SOD2, RBP4, HLA-B, HLA-G, PPP2R1A and
TAP] gene or downregulation of IL18, TF, C4BPA, CJQA, CJQB and TYROBP genes of
immune response genes in protection from PRRSV; KI decoys to combat zoonotic flu
disease, eliminating negative phenotypes such as boar taint, and introgress agriculturally
beneficial traits.
         A still further example of potential uses provides for introduction into the animal
cell of interfering nucleic acid molecules. For example, double-stranded RNA molecules
(dsRNA) may be employed. In this process, in summary, RNA which is double stranded,
in part, or completely, is produced based upon the sequence of the target nucleic acid
molecule. Specifics of the means of producing the dsRNA may vary as one skilled in the
art appreciates, and include, by way of example without intending to be limiting, the
approach of Graham et al., US Patent No. 6,573,099 where two copies of a sequence

                                               - 13
corresponding to a target sequence is used, or that of Fire et al., US Patent 6,326,193 (both
incorporated herein by reference), where the first strand is an RNA sequence
corresponding to the target nucleic acid, and the second is one which is complementary to
the target sequence, each of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
These strands hybridize with each other to form the inhibiting dsRNA. The strand which
corresponds to the target nucleic acid molecule can correspond to all or a portion thereof,
as long as a dsRNA is formed. Where a strand is used which is the complement (antisense)
of the target nucleic acid is used, it can be complementary to all or a portion of the target
nucleic acid molecule, so long as the dsRNA formed interferes with the target nucleic acid
molecule. The dsRNA triggers a response in which the RNAse III Dicer enzyme process
dsRNA into small interfering RNAs (siRNA) of approximately 21 - 23 nucleotides, which
are formed into a RNA-induced silencing complex RISC which destroys homologous
mRNAs. (See, Hammond, S. M., et al., Nature (2000) 404:293-296). Generally,
sequences of up to 10 nucleotides 20 nucleotides, 30 nucleotides, 40 nucleotides, 50
nucleotides, 100 nucleotides, 200 nucleotides, 300, 500, 550, 500, 550, or greater and any
amount in-between may be used.
        One skilled in the art appreciates there are many uses available and which will
become available for the methods described here.
        The methods may be used in any animal. They are most useful with animals
having pronuclei following fertilization that is at least partially visually obscured, making
injection into the pronuclei difficult. Such pronuclei cannot be visually observed by the
unaided human eye, that is, with the human eye and where visualized with a microscope,
unaided by contrast, or other process to allow visualization. Such animals include "large
domestic animals" that is, pigs, cattle, horses, dogs, cats, and other ruminant animals such
as sheep, goats, oxen, musk ox, llamas, alpacas, guanicos, deer, bison, antelopes, camels,
and giraffes oxen, musk ox, llamas, alpacas, guanicos, deer, bison, antelopes, camels, and
giraffes. Livestock animals are among those included in the animals for which the
processes can be used. Besides, in other animal models in which the cytoplasm is clear
such as primates, rabbits, minks and other models, the procedure is still an attractive

                                               - 14
option, as it allows for not having to guess when the pronuclei are being formed, and
instead the material can be injected into the cytoplasm.
         The methods are particularly useful with swine. Pig is an economically important
agricultural animal. Additionally, pigs are coveted for their biomedical applications.
Similar to humans and mouse, the pigs are mono-gastric, and as such are playing a
dominant role in investigations of nutrient uptake, trafficking and metabolism. (Patterson,
et al. The pig as an experimental model for elucidating the mechanisms governing dietary
influence on mineral absorption. Experimental biology and medicine 233, 651-664 (2008)).
Advances in the field of animal genome editing have included sequencing of pig genome.
(Groenen, M.A. et al. Analyses of pig genomes provide insight into porcine demography
and evolution. Nature 491, 393-398 (2012)). Taken together, depending on the biological
question that needs to be addressed, a suitable pig model is available for investigation.
However, until now there has been a lack of incentive for the use of pig as "preferred
models", due to the GM technologies that lag behind the mouse models. The present
methods address these shortcomings.
         In recent years, there is an increasing consensus that the mouse, although still a
powerful genetic model species, has limitations and cannot fulfill the full spectrum of
biomedical demands to address preventative medicine (obesity, infertility, cardiovascular
disorders), identification of new or improved diagnostics, and models of farm derived
zoonotic diseases. As an alternative, large domesticated animals such as pig are gaining
favor, because they are more similar anatomically, physiologically, and immunologically
to humans, while maintaining the advantages of being a litter bearing species and a
relatively long life span permitting long term investigations. Examples where the mouse
model has not met expectations due to differences in anatomy or physiology include, cystic
fibrosis, ocular and cardiac diseases.    (Rogers, C.S. et al. Disruption of the CFTR gene
produces a model of cystic fibrosis in newborn pigs. Science 321, 1837-1841 (2008);
Welsh, M et al. Development of a porcine model of cystic fibrosis. Transactionsof the
American Clinicaland ClimatologicalAssociation 120, 149-162 (2009); Zhou, L. et al.
Differentiation of induced pluripotent stem cells of swine into rod photoreceptors and their
integration into the retina. Stem Cells 29, 972-980 (2011); Whyte, J.J. et al. Vascular

                                               - 15
endothelium-specific overexpression of human catalase in cloned pigs. Transgenic Res 20,
989-1001 (2011 )). As almost all domestic pigs are crossbreeds, the resulting phenotype
from these animal models is more reliable and applicable to the human diseases than
inbred mouse strains. Likewise, the domestic pigs are better suited for zoonotic or
infectious disease research, where they serve as reservoir or carriers of the disease, or are
natural hosts to the pathogen. In addition to serving as models of human disease, the
domestic pig is coveted for studies where the relatively long life span, close similarity in
body size and physiology to humans offer an advantage. Briefly, pigs are preferred models
for nutritional studies.
        In referring to injection is meant any convenient method of inserting a device into
the cell and passage of the nucleic acid molecules into the cell. By way of example
without limitation, this can be accomplished with an injection pipette which may include a
syringe holding the nucleic acid molecules. The pipette is inserted through the zona
pellucida. Contrary to present techniques, one need not be able to visually observe the
pronuceli in order to contact the injection device with the pronuclei. Instead, one need
only introduce the nucleic acid molecules into the fertilized oocyte, without concern if the
pronuclei are contacted, and introduction into the cytoplasm is sufficient. The injection
occurs after fertilization and prior to the pronuclei forming a nucleus. Prior to fertilization,
the female DNA will be at metaphase II stage and not have completed meiosis. The sperm
stimulates meiosis and eventual formation of a nucleus. Here injection occurs before the
nucleus forms. An embodiment provides the injection occurs up to 16 hours and, in an
embodiment, 12 to 16 hours after fertilization, in another embodiment three, four, five or 6
to 12 hours after fertilization and in a further embodiment 16 hours after fertilization. As
noted herein, one skilled in the art can determine when, in a particular animal, the nucleus
will be formed and inject prior to that time. In pigs and cows for example, the time frame
is 12 to 16 hours after fertilization. Without wishing to be bound by any theory it is
believed this provides sufficient time to dissipate the molecules in the cytoplasm and for
the nuclease recombination components to integrate the nucleic acid molecule into the
eventual nucleus. Not only does this allow for introduction of nucleic acid molecules into
large animals in which injection of the pronuclei was difficult, but also provides high event

                                             - 16
recovery, here, up to 100%, and avoids problems with production of a mosaic which can
occur if recombination occurs after DNA replication.
        As used herein, the terms nucleic acid or polynucleotide refer to
deoxyribonucleotides or ribonucleotides and polymers thereof in either single- or double
stranded form unless indicated otherwise. As such, the terms include RNA and DNA,
which can be a gene or a portion thereof, a cDNA, a synthetic polydeoxyribonucleic acid
sequence, or the like, and can be single-stranded or double-stranded, as well as a
DNA/RNA hybrid. Unless otherwise indicated, a particular nucleic acid sequence also
implicitly encompasses conservatively modified variants thereof (e.g. degenerate codon
substitutions) and complementary sequences as well as the sequence explicitly indicated.
Specifically, degenerate codon substitutions may be achieved by generating sequences in
which the third position of one or more selected (or all) codons is substituted with mixed
base and/or deoxyinosine residues (Batzer et al. (1991) Nucleic Acid Res. 19:5081;
Ohtsuka et al. (1985) J. Biol. Chem. 260:2605-2608; Rossolini et al. (1994) Mol. Cell.
Probes 8:91-98). The term nucleic acid is used interchangeably with gene, cDNA, and
mRNA encoded by a gene.
        A "polypeptide" refers generally to peptides and proteins. In certain embodiments
the polypeptide may be at least two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine or ten or more
amino acids or more or any amount in-between. A peptide is generally considered to be
more than fifty amino acids. The terms "fragment," "derivative" and "homologue" when
referring to the polypeptides according to the present invention, means a polypeptide
which retains essentially the same biological function or activity as said polypeptide. Such
fragments, derivatives and homologues can be chosen based on the ability to retain one or
more of the biological activities of the polypeptide. The polypeptides may be recombinant
polypeptides, natural polypeptides or synthetic polypeptides.
        Thus when referring to a nucleic acid molecule of interest (NOI) is meant a nucleic
acid molecule which is desired to be introduced into the animal cell nucleus. An NOI,
then, by way of example without limitation, may be the target gene and may be modified;
RNA; interfering RNA; a nucleic acid molecule that can have various impact on the target
gene or another gene, as discussed herein; a nucleic acid molecule newly inserted into the

                                              - 17
genome and that may produce an additional polypeptide within the genome, or a
combination of any of these. Any nucleic acid molecule desired to be introduced into the
animal cell genome can be the NOI.
         "Codon optimization" can be used to optimize sequences for expression in an
animal and is defined as modifying a nucleic acid sequence for enhanced expression in the
cells of the animal of interest, e.g. swine, by replacing at least one, more than one, or a
significant number, of codons of the native sequence with codons that are more frequently
or most frequently used in the genes of that animal. Various species exhibit particular bias
for certain codons of a particular amino acid. Cas9 can be one of the sequences codon
optimized for improved expression.
         In one aspect, polynucleotides comprising nucleic acid fragments of codon
optimized coding regions which may produce RNA, encode polypeptides, or fragments,
variants, or derivatives thereof, with the codon usage adapted for optimized expression in
the cells of a given animal. These polynucleotides are prepared by incorporating codons
preferred for use in the genes of the host of interest into the DNA sequence.
         A "heterologous" nucleic acid molecule is any which is not naturally found next to
the adjacent nucleic acid molecule. A heterologous polynucleotide or a heterologous
nucleic acid or an exogenous DNA segment refers to a polynucleotide, nucleic acid or
DNA segment that originates from a source foreign to the particular host cell, or, if from
the same source, is modified from its original form in composition and/or genomic locus
by human intervention. A heterologous gene in a host cell includes a gene that is
endogenous to the particular host cell, but has been modified or introduced into the host.
Thus, the terms refer to a nucleic acid molecule which is foreign or heterologous to the
cell, or homologous to the cell but in a position within the host cell nucleic acid in which
the element is not ordinarily found.
         A nucleic acid may then be introduced into an animal host cell through the use of a
vector, plasmid or construct and the like. A "vector" is any means for the transfer of a
nucleic acid into a host cell. Vectors can be single stranded, double stranded or partially
double stranded, may have free ends or no free ends, may be DNA, RNA or both. A
variety of polynucleotides are known to be useful as vectors. A plasmid is a circular

                                              - 18
double stranded DNA loop. Referring to one or more expression vectors is meant to refer
to one or more vectors comprising necessary regulatory elements for proper expression of
the operably linked nucleic acid molecules. A vector may be a replicon to which another
DNA segment may be attached so as to bring about the replication of the attached segment.
A replicon is any genetic element (e.g., plasmid, phage, cosmid, chromosome, virus) that
functions as an autonomous unit of DNA or RNA replication in vivo, i.e., capable of
replication under its own control. The term "vector" includes both viral and nonviral means
for introducing the nucleic acid into a cell in vitro, ex vivo or in vivo. Viral vectors include
but are not limited to adeno-associated viruses, lentiviruses, alphavirus, retrovirus, pox,
baculovirus, vaccinia, herpes simplex, Epstein-Barr, rabies virus, and vesicular stomatitis
virus. Non-viral vectors include, but are not limited to plasmids, liposomes, electrically
charged lipids (cytofectins), DNA- or RNA protein complexes, and biopolymers. In
addition to a nucleic acid, a vector may also contain one or more regulatory regions, and/or
selectable markers useful in selecting, measuring, and monitoring nucleic acid transfer
results (transfer to which tissues, duration of expression, etc.). Transformed cells can be
selected, for example, by resistance to antibiotics conferred by genes contained on the
plasmids, such as the amp, kan, gpt, neo and hyg genes. The techniques employed to insert
such a sequence into the viral vector and make ether alterations in the viral DNA, e.g., to
insert linker sequences and the like, are known to one of skill in the art. (See, e.g.,
Sambrook et al., 2001. Molecular Cloning: A Laboratory Manual, 3'd Edition. Cold Spring
Harbor Laboratory Press, Plainview, NY). A "cassette" refers to a segment of DNA that
can be inserted into a vector at specific restriction sites. The segment of DNA encodes a
polypeptide of interest or produces RNA, and the cassette and restriction sites are designed
to ensure insertion of the cassette in the proper reading frame for transcription and
translation.
         The nucleic acid molecule may be operably linked to a suitable promoter at the 5'
end and a termination signal and poly(A) signal at the 3' end. As used herein, the term
"operably linked" means that the nucleic acid molecule containing an expression control
sequence, e.g., transcription promoter and termination sequences, are situated in a vector or
cell such that expression of the polypeptide or RNA produced by the nucleic acid molecule

                                             - 19
is regulated by the expression control sequence. Methods for cloning and operably linking
such sequences are well known in the art. Promoters may direct constitutive expression or
tissue preferred expression. Tissue-preferred (sometimes called tissue-specific) promoters
can be used to target enhanced transcription and/or expression within a particular cell or
tissue. Such promoters express at a higher level in the particular cell region or tissue than
in other parts of the cell or tissue and may express primarily in the cell region or tissue.
Examples include promoters that secrete to the cell wall, retain expression in the
endoplasmic reticulum, or target vacuoles or other cell organelles. Other may direct
expression primarily to muscle, neuron, bone, skin, blood or specific organs or cell types.
Such promoters may also direct expression in a temporal manner, expressing at a particular
stage of development or cycle of the cell. The promoter(s) utilized in one example may be
polymerase (pol) I, pol II or pol III promoters. Examples of pol I promoters include the
chicken RNA pol I promoter. Examples of pol II promoters include but are not limited to
the cytomegalovirus immediate-early (CMV) promoter, the Rous sarcoma virus long
terminal repeat (RSV-LTR) promoter, and the simian virus 40 (SV40) immediate-early
promoter. Examples of pol III promoters includes U6 and HI promoters. Inducible
promoters may be used such as the metallothionein promoter. Other examples of promoters
include, T7 phage promoter, T3 phage promoter, beta-galactosidase promoter, and the Sp6
phage promoter. An example of a DNA having a termination and poly(A) signal is the
SV40 late poly(A) region. The use of these commercially available expression vectors and
systems are well known in the art. The vector may contain multiple copies of a nucleic acid
molecule of interest or a combination of nucleic acid molecules; also multiple vectors may
be introduced simultaneously or sequentially into the cell.
        Other components may be included in the vector or in vectors also introduced into
the cells, such as polyadenylation sequences, enhancers, signal peptides, inducible
elements, introns, translation control sequences or the like. As noted above, selectable
markers allowing survival of cells with the vector or other identification of cells having the
vector may be used.
        A nucleic acid molecule is introduced into a cell when it is inserted in the cell. A
cell has been "transfected" by exogenous or heterologous DNA or RNA when such DNA

                                              - 20
or RNA has been introduced inside the cell. When referring to integration of a nucleic acid
molecule into a cell is meant that the molecule has recombined and become part of the
genome.
         The presence of the nucleic acid molecule of interest may be determined by any
convenient technique, such as identifying the presence of a marker gene; detecting the
presence of the inserted sequence via PCR or the like; detecting expression product from
animal cells, tissue or fluids; Northern or Western blot analysis; or any other readily
available method.
         All references cited herein are incorporated herein by reference. The examples
presented are provided by way of illustration and not meant to limit the scope of the
invention.
                                          EXAMPLES
CRISPR mediated gene knock-ins:
         In the inventors' laboratory, major prion protein (PRNP) has been used as a so
called "safe harbor" locus for targeted KI of transgenes. In mouse, transgenes are typically
knocked into the Rosa26 locus, which is ubiquitously expressed in all target tissues, and
has been shown not to be vital for the survival of offspring if deleted. (SEQ ID NO: 1 is
the PRNP protein Gene ID: 494014) Therefore, Rosa26 has been the preferred site for
inserting transgenes to prevent both: a) inadvertent silencing of the transgene; and b)
insertional mutagenesis caused by random insertion of a transgene into an off-target site in
the genome. In mouse, besides Rosa26, PRNP is another ubiquitously expressed gene, and
is not required for viability, thereby qualifying as a safe harbor locus. Such a safe harbor
gene is one that meets the criteria of having no known adverse effect on the cell by
introduction of the vector or nucleic acid molecule into the site and has transcriptional
competence across cell types. Besides mice, PRNP-/- cattle are also healthy. (Richt, J.A. et
al. Production of cattle lacking prion protein. Nat Biotechnol 25, 132-138 (2007)). Any
safe harbor gene may be utilized as desired for knockin of a nucleic acid molecule.

                                             - 21
        In pigs, and other large animals, the Rosa26 locus has not been characterized
adequately. Hence, PRNP was selected as a safe harbor locus for targeted KO and KI of
transgenes and establishing recombinant pigs. The results are discussed below.
A) Assembly of targeting vector:
        A gene targeting vector was generated consisting of 500 bp upper arm and 1000 bp
lower arm homologous to the Cas9 cut site (SEQ ID NO: 2 and 3 respectively) bordering
exon-3 of PRNP gene. Using primers bearing unique restriction sequences AscI and XhoI,
1000 bp of sequence of upper arm was cloned into the corresponding sequences in the GFP
(green fluorescent protein; see SEQ ID NO: 4 and GenBank U73901) expressing
piggyBac vector. (SEQ ID NO: 5, 6,) Likewise, using primers consisting of BsiWI and
MluI, 1000 bp of sequence downstream of the cut site were amplified and cloned into the
same GFP piggyBac vector. (SEQ ID NO: 7, 8. The final targeting vector is generated by
digesting the vector with AscI and HpaI and the linearized vector without prokaryotic
sequences is injected into the embryos.
B) CRISPR mediated targeted gene knock-in in porcine embryos:
        We investigated whether the gene targeting can be achieved by direct injections
into the embryos thereby avoiding the need for targeting in an intermediate cell type and
generating GM animals by cloning experiments. As noted in Figure 2a and 2B, by
coinjection of targeting vector and CRISPRs (for generating DSB), we have demonstrated
successful KI of GFP transgene into PRNP locus in embryos. In Figure 2, UBC refers to
(human ubiquitin C promoter), GFP refers to green fluorescent protein; bPA (bovine poly
adenlyation transcription terminator sequence); PGK/EM7 - is a hybrid eukaryotic
(phosphoglycero kinase) and prokaryotic (EM7, a synthetic bacterial promoter derived
from the T7 promoter that enables the constitutive expression of the antibiotic resistance
gene in E.coli patents/US7244609) RNA polymerase II promoter sequences driving the
expression of Neo/kan which are neomycin (or G418 for eukaryotic) and kanamycin
resistance (for prokaryotic) selectable markers .In the figure "Upper" refers to the upper

                                             - 22
500 bp homologous sequences flanking the Cas9 cut site, and the "lower" refers to 1000
bp downstream sequences flanking the cleavage site.
        Briefly, maturing oocytes from sows were purchased from ART Inc. (Madison, WI)
and shipped to the lab overnight in their commercial maturation medium #1. Twenty-four
hours after being placed in the maturation medium #1 (provided by ART), 50 to 75
cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) were placed in 500 [d of tissue culture medium 199
(TCM 199) containing 0.14% PVA, 10 ng/ml epidermal growth factor, 0.57 mM cysteine,
0.5 IU/ml porcine FSH, and 0.5 IU/ml ovine LH and cultured for an additional 20 hours at
38.5'C and 5% C02 in air, 100% humidity. (Abeydeera, Let al. Maturation in vitro of pig
oocytes in protein-free culture media: fertilization and subsequent embryo development in
vitro. Biol Reprod 58, 1316-1320 (1998)).      COCs were vortexed in 0.l1% hyaluronidase in
HEPES-buffered medium containing 0.01% PVA for 4 minutes to remove the cumulus
cells following maturation. Groups of 30-35 mature, denuded oocytes were placed in 100
[d of a modified Tris-buffered medium (mTBM) and fertilized according to established
protocol (Abeydeera, L.R. & Day, B.N. Fertilization and subsequent development in vitro
of pig ooytes inseminated in a modified tris-buffered medium with frozen-thawed
ejaculated spermatozoa. Biol Reprod 57, 729-734 (1997)) using fresh extended boar
semen. 1-2 ml of extended semen was mixed with Dulbecco' s Plosphate Buffered Saline
(DPBS) containing 1 mg/ml BSA to a final volume of 10 ml and centrifuged at 1000xg,
25'C for four minutes; spermatozoa were washed in DPBS a total of three times. After the
final wash, spermatozoa were resuspended in mTBM medium and added to oocytes at a
final concentration of 5x10 5 spermatozoa /ml, and co-incubated for 5 hours at 38.5'C and
5% CO 2 . Five hours following fertilization, the presumptive zygotes were injected with
100 ng/ul of Cas9 mRNA alongside 50 ng/ul sgRNA targeting PRNP, and 2 ng/ul of
linearized targeting vector using Eppendorf Transjector. Approximately, 50 nl of the
mixture is injected into the porcine zygotes, and cultured in porcine in vitro culture PZM3
medium (Yoshioka, K et al. Birth of piglets derived from porcine zygotes cultured in a
chemically defined medium. Biol Reprod 66, 112-119(2002)) for 6 additional days. The
injected embryos, which have now grown to blastocyst stage were screened for the

                                              - 23
expression of inserted GFP cassette. In Figure 3A and 3B, expression of GFP was apparent
in the expanded blastocysts at day 6 of in vitro culture.
         Targeted integration of GFP was also confirmed by PCR amplification of
blastocyst DNA using primers both within and outside the targeting vector (Figure 4).
(SEQ ID NO: 9, 10) A final confirmation was obtained by sequencing of the PCR
amplicon. We have performed transfers of these GFP KI embryos to recipient sows and the
animals are pregnant at day 60 of gestation, and will likely give rise to the birth of live
animals.
Single stranded oligo mediated genome editing in embryos:
         With the sequencing of animal genomes it is now possible to identify quantitative
trait loci (QTL) and in some cases quantitative trait nucleotides (QTN) that can influence
the phenotype in question. It is imperative that these QTL and QTNs be tested. The ability
to specifically alter nucleotides to accurately reflect superior or disease genotypes will be a
powerful approach for improving animal agriculture and for generating disease models
respectively. We have investigated if it will be possible to alter nucleotides to obtain
desired phenotypes. This approach has the most direct applicability to animal agriculture
where the negative traits such as boar taint, horned phenotype, disease susceptibility, and
other parameters be altered with pinpoint accuracy to benefit the animals.
         We have tested if specific loci can be targeted for introducing nucleotides by using
single stranded oligo bearing the desired nucleotide modifications.      In this case, we have
investigated if we can target the PRNP loci to modify one of the existing nucleotides to
generate a novel EcoR1 restriction enzyme (Figure 5A). The promoters used were CMV
and T7, HA refers to _HA tag, NLS is the nuclear localization signal which may be used to
facilitate nuclear localization.  In addition, for ease of analysis, a 34 nucleotide LoxP site
(SEQ ID NO: 11 has been engineered on the oligo (Figure 5A). As shown in Figure 5B,
we were able to alter a candidate ZBED6 locus by injecting the LoxP and EcoR1 restriction
enzyme bearing oligo, along with Cas9 mRNA and sgRNA targeting ZBED6. (SEQ ID
NO: 12). ZBED6 is a zinc finger protein that regulates expression of the insulin-like
growth factor 2 gene in pigs. See Markljung et al., "ZBED6, a novel transcription factor

                                             - 24
derived from a domesticated DNA transposon regulates IGF2 expression and muscle
growth. PLoS Biol. 7(12) e1000256. As mentioned above, the engineered ZBED6 locus
could be visualized by a 34 nucleotide increase in the length of the PCR product, which
was then verified by EcoR1 digestion. A final confirmation was evident from the
sequencing of the targeted loci where the restriction site is shown as underlined (Figure 6).
We were able to repeat the results with PRNP (See Figure 7. Cas9 was introduced at 100
ng/ul; sgRNA at 50 ng/ul and LoxP oligo at 2ng/ul)
         We have established a very efficient way for generating transgenic and/or edited
animals, by eliminating intermediate steps and performing gene targeting directly in the
embryos. The advantages with our approach are two-fold, one in generating targeting
vectors and second in delivery of constructs. In terms of the targeting vector, a principle
advantage is the less stringent requirement for lengthy homology arms in the targeting
construct. In our experiments, gene targeting could be achieved with as small 300, up to
500, up to 1000 bp of homology on each targeting arm, a DNA fragment that is readily
obtained by PCR of genomic DNA or can be synthesized as a G-block and obtained from
IDT Inc. (Figure 2A). This is in stark contrast to at least 6 kb of homology required for
gene targeting in porcine fetal fibroblasts (PFF). In terms of delivery of the DNA
constructs, we have identified a window of time post fertilization, where DNA and the
CRISPR/Cas can be injected into the cytoplasm of the primitive pig zygote that allows the
DNA to become packaged in the pronucleus when the nuclear envelopes are formed,
thereby allowing for homologous recombination mediated gene targeting in the embryos.
This strategy eliminates another major bottleneck in generating transgenic animals in pigs
where locating pronucleus in the zygote for injecting transgenes has been a limiting factor.
Additionally, the efficiencies of gene targeting were 80 to 100% with all of the blastocysts
screened, showing accurate targeting of a KI construct in embryos. A final advantage is the
ability to edit only few nucleotides precisely in the embryos, which have the ability to alter
phenotype for agricultural applications, and for generating biomedical models. In
summary, we have developed technologies to usher large animal biotechnology into the
genomics era.

                                      -25
LIST OF SEQUENCES
SEQ ID NO: 1 the PRNP protein
NCBI Reference Sequence: NC_010459.4
ACGTACGCGGCCAAAAGAGTCTCAACTCCCTCCCAGAGACTCAGATTTCCGACCAGCTTGGCAGATCCCG
GGCGCCGGAGCGCCAGAGCGCGCGCGCGCGCCGCCGCCGCCTCCCTTCCCCGCCCGCGCGCCTCGCCACC
CCTCGGCGCCAGACACTGACAGCCCCGGAGCTGCGAGCGTCTTCTGTTCCAGCGGTGGCAGGTAAACAGC
CGGGTCGCCCCGAGAACTGGGGGTGCCAAGGTCGGGAGTCAGAACCCCCCGCCTTGGAGCTTAGGCGCAA
GGGTGAGCGGCCCACTTGGGGCGCTAGGGAAACCTTGACAGAGAGGGGGGCGGGGGACTTCCGGCGGGCG
GGGGGCGCGACAGGCCTGCCCCCGCTTGTTCGTCGGCTTAACATTGGCCCCGCTCACATTTGCTTTCCAG
GTGGGGTGAGGGCCCTTTACTCGGAATGGGGCTTGGTGGGGGAAGGGGGTGCCTGGGGCTGGCCGCGACC
CCTGGGCAGGGAGGCGGATGGTGGCGGGGAGTCTAGCCCTCTCCCACGCGCGTCCGCGGCTGGCGGAGGA
TGGGAGAGGCGCGCCGGCACCGGGGCCGCAGGGCCGGGAACTCAAGGAGGGTCGCCCACGGCCTCCGCTG
AGGCGCTCGGAGGAGAACCAGGGAGAGGGGCCGGCGTGCGGCTCTCCCGAGGCCCCAGGGGCACGTGGGG
TGGGGATGATGGCCCCGNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN
NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNAGCCCCAAGGGGCCCGTTGGGGG
GGGGTGATGGCCCAGGCCCCGGCGGGAGGGGCCCTTGCCGCCGCCACCATGGAGCTCCTCCGGAGAGACG
GCCCACCTGCCATCCACGCGGCCCGGGGGTGCTGGGGAGGCCGCAGCGGGGTGGGCCTCCTGCATCCCTG
GGGATGGAGACCGGGCACGTGGTCCGACCTTCGGGCCTCGGCGGGCGGAGTCTCGGGCGGCCCCACCCTC
ACTGTCGGCCGAGACGTCCAGGTCCCTGGGGGCCGAGTGTCCGGAGAGCCCAGGTGCTTTGCTTTTCACT
GTCTCCACTGCCCCTCCCCGAAGGGAACTGGGCGGTCAGAGGCTCCTCTCAAGGGGATCAGGGCCGGACA
GCTCTCCTCCTGATCCACTTGTGTGGGCTGCCCTTTCAGGCTTGATTGTAAACAACGAGGAGAAGTCCAT
TTTTACTGTCCCTTTTCATTTTTTTCCCTTTTCTAAATTTGTAGCAACCATGGCAAATCAGTTTTTAAAA
TCATAACCCACAGCCATCAATCCACCCTTACCATCTCAAAGCCACTGCTTTCTGTTTTTCAGTTTTCTGT
CTCCAGATTCGTACATAACGCAAAGAAATTTCAACTGCCCTGATTATGATTATCCTCCTCTAATGGCCGA
GTTATTTTCTTCTGCTTAAAGCGTCGCAGTTTAATAAGCAGTTCCCCGAATGCTGAACATTTGAAATGTT
TCGTTTTTTCTTGCAAAAAAACCTTCCAGGTATAACAGTATTAAAGAAAGAATAGGAATAGGAGTTCCCT
GGTGGCCTGGTGGTTAAGGATCCCATATTGTCGCTGCTGTGGCTAGAGTTCCATCCCTGGCCCGGAAACT
TC TGTATACC TCAGGCAAGCCAACAAAAAGAAAAAAAGAAGGGAAGAAAAGAAAAAAATAGTAACAGAAA
ATTGAATTAAAATGTCAAACCCCTGGAAAAATTAACAACTATCTCAGATTTGAGGAAGAAAAAAAAAATC
AACAGTTTTACCTGCAGTAAACACTGAGGCGCTCTTACAATGAAAAAGAACTAACCGGAAAGGGAAAGAA
AGCAGAGCTAGGATGTGATTTGTATATGATTTGTATCTGACACAAAATTTTCATAGTTATGAAAGGAAAA
TATGAAAATTATAATAAATGATGAATCAATTATAGAATAAAATGTAAATTAAAGCACTCTGGATTATCAT
TTTACAATTACTAACAAATACAACAACAGTAATAGTAACAGCAACCACTGTTGGAAGATTGCCTAGAAAT
TTTCACATTCAGTTATTTTGAGAGGTGGCAGGACTTTGGGGTTAGAAGAATGGCTCTGCACCTAATTTCA
TAGCATGGAATGGGTTACCTAATTTCCTCATCCTCCTTTTGTGCATTCATAAAATAGAGGAAATTATACC
TACTTCAGGAAATTGCTAAGATTAACCATCTATGTAAAACTGACCTTTGGTATGTAATCCTTTTTCTATT

                                       - 26
CTTGGGCACACTGCACTGGGGACATTGTGAATTTACTGTA/\AGCAATTTGGTAATGCATTAGGCCATGAC
CCAGAAT TTACC TGCAATGGAAGAACAACAAGAAAGGGGGGGAAAAAAAGCCATATGCAGTCA
CAGAAT TCAGAATGATC TAZ\AAT TAGACCCAACGGAAAIAACAACC TAAATGTATAACAGCAGGGCAGCAG
CTGAGGAAATCATGGCTCTTTAACTGAAAGAAACATTATGTAACTATCAAAAGTCGGTGGTACATGAGAA
A/AACTGATAAATCAGTGTAGATTACATTACCAAACTGTATCTACTTACTCAGTGAATGCATATGTGGAA
AATCTGAAGGAAAGCATACAAAGGAATTGAATAGAATTAAAATGAAGTTAGAAATTATGGGTCAGTTT
AATTTTCTTTTTTATTTATATACTGCTTTTCTAAGTAACGA\ATTTTTAAGATAATTATTCATCGTTCTC
AATTTTTGTAATGAAATGGAGCCATAGTTTTCTGTATGTGGGAGAGGGAGAGCTCAGTGTCATGTTAGCT
GACTTCATTTCTTCAGATATTGTCTCTTTTTTTTTCTCGTGTAGATGGATTAGGGGGTTAGTAATGTATA
TATTAGGATCCTTCTTTAAGGAATAGNNTCTAAAAATTATTATCAATTCTAGNTTTTTCTTTTTTTGGTG
TTTCTAAGGACCCTGAATATATTTGAAAACTGAACAGTTTCAGCTAAGCCGAAGCATTCTGTCTTCCCCA
GAACACAAATCCAGCCTCGCTGAGCCATTACAGATGTACATACTGCAGAGTCCCTTTGATCTCGTGATGG
CTCAGAGTCCCTATCTGTCACAGA/\AAGAAGGGCCTAGAAAGGCTATGATGACAGTCCTTGCTCTGAGGC
AACTTAGGGTTATATGTGTAACCCACACCTCTTA/\ATCATCCTTTCTTGTAAAATCATTTTGATTTTGCA
GGCAAAGGGCCACGGATTTCTTTAGAATCACTCTGAGTTATACAAGGAATCAACCATTTAAAAAATACAA
TAAAAAGCAATTACAAATATTTCTGTACCAGATTAACACTGAAGGTGACTATCAGCCAACAAAAGGTTG
ACAGTTTTTCTAAGCTGTGGTTTTAGTTTACCTATTCCATTCTCCCTTTTCAGTTCTTATTTCCTATTCC
AAGACAACTGTATATCAGCTGTGAACTGCTGCATGTGAAACATTCA\AACATGCCTCTACATA\AGTGGT
GGCTGCTGCAGAAGAATCTGAGTGGATAGCATATATAGCAGTTCTTACAGTGGGAGTATTTTTTTCTCAA
TTTGTTCATCCTTTTTCTTCTAACTATATTCTGCTTATTGCTGTTCCAGTATTGTGTGATCACATCAAGG
GAGGGGTACCCTGTTATGCTTTATAAGTGTTAAGTTTTGTGCTCCTGGGACCTAGCTCTGAAGCCTGGCT
AGGAGTGCAGTTCTCTGGGAAGCTTTCCTGTCTTTCCTGAGCTAAGGTGGAACTCAGCAGTCATATTTTC
ATCTTTTGAAGTCATTGTCCCTTA\AGAATCTAATGCAAGCTATATAAAATTTTTACA\ACCATTCTGGG
GTGGGGGGTTTTCACTGGCACTCTGAGACTTAGCCCTCGACTGAATAGGGCAAGGGGCCCCCAACCTGGC
CATCCTCAGA/\ATAGGTGAAGAGCTTTTAAAAATGTAACATTGCTAGAACCTATCCCAGGCTGACAGCCA
GGTGTTTTCTAGTGATGGGATTTAGGAATCTATATTGTAGCAGGATTTAACAGTATCTGATAACAGTATA
TTCTCTCTTCTTTCCTCTTCCTTTTTA/\AGTTGAGTTTGTTATTTGTACACATTCCTTACCCCTTATGGT
TTTATTGAACTCAUA/\AATTGAGCTGGAGTTTTGTCATTTTATTGAGATTATAAATTCACTTAGGGGTA
ACTGACATCTTTAGAATACTAAATTGTTCCAACCAAGACTTTCCCATTTTTATGGGTCATTTTCTTTTTT
TTTCTTTTTTTTTTTTTAATTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTGGCCTTTTTTTGTCTTTTGTTGTTG
TTGCTATTTCTTGGACCGCTCCCGCGGCATATGGAGGTTCCCAGGCTAGGGGTCGAATCGGAGCTGTAGC
CACCGGCCTACGCCAGAGCCACAGCAACGGTGGATCCGAGCCGCGTCTGCAACCTACACCACAGCTCACG
GCAACGCCGGATCGTTAACCCACTGAGCAAGGGCAGGGACTGAACCCGCAACCTCATGGTTCCTAGTCGG
ATTCGTTAACCACTGCGCCACGACGGGAACTCCTTTATGGGTCATTTTCTATCTTCTTTATTAATGTTTA
AATTTTTTCCCCAGTCTTAATTTCTCTTAAGTCAGTCCTAGTTACATTACAGTTCTGGTTGAAATTATGG
CTATTTTATTAATTTTTTTCCTAGTTGATTATTGCTGCTGTAGAGA\ATGCTATTGATTTTTATAGGCCA
ATCTTGTATCCCACAACCTTGCCAAACTCTAGTACTGAGTCTAGTACTGAAGTCCCCTTGTGGCGCAGGG

                                    - 27
GGTTAAGGATCAGGCATTGCAAGCAGCTGTGGTGCAGGCTGCAATTGCAGAGTGGTTTCAATCCCTGGCC
CAGA/\ACTTCCACATGCCACAAGTACAGCCAAACAAACA\ACAAACAAACAAAAACTTGTGTCAGGTCT
GTTGAATTTTTTATGTATATGATCATCCA/\ATTCCAAATAGTGACAGCTGGAGCTCTTTCCTTGCAGTTC
TTGCACCAGTTACTTCGTTGCTTACAGCGTTGGAAGGACCTCCAGTCCCATGACAGTTGGCATCCTTGTC
TTGCTTCTGATTTTAAAGGGACTGCATTCCAAAGTTATCTATTAAGTACTGTTTTGTGGTATAATCTTTA
TCAAGTTAAGGA/\ATTCCCTCCTATTCCTGGTCTACTAAAAGTATTTTTTTTAGTGATAAATAGATATTG
ACCTTTATCA/\ATACTTAATGTTTTA/AATGTATCAGAGGATTAGGCCACAGAATGACTGTTCAGGAGTA
TCTTATATGAAATGTTATAACACAGCCAGGCATTCAGAAACCCAGTCTCCATTCCCAGCAATCTCACTAA
TTAGCATTTTAATCGCAGATATGTCACTTGACTTAGCTGAATCTTGGTGGCCTAATTTGTAGAGTGCGAG
ATTGGGATTAAATAATACAAGGTCTTTCTTATTTTATCACA\ACAGAGATTTTCCATGGTCTCATTAAGT
TTTGAGTCTTCCTGGAGTTGCGGCTGTGGCTCAGTGGTAGTGAACCTGACGGGTATCCATGAGGACATGG
TTCAATCCCTGGCCTTCTCAGTGGGTTAAGAATCCAGCCTTGCTGTGAGCTGTGATGTAGGTCACAGAAG
TGGCTTGGATCCTGCGTTGCTGTGGCTGTGGTATAGGCCAGCAGCTGTAGTTCCTATTTGACTCCTAGCC
AGGGAATTACTATATGCTGCAGGTGGGGCCCAAGTTTTGAGTCTTCCGTATCCTTAGA\ATGAGTCTCTC
CTTCA/AATGTAGTTGTTATTTTTTTATGCTTTTCATAAGTAGATGTTGCTTTTGTCATTCTCAACTGGT
TTTAAAACGATCCTGTCTTAATATAGTCTATGATTATCCAGCTTTACCTAGTATTCAGTGTTTAAGTACT
AATGGCAACATATGCCTGCTCCCCTTACACACTGTTGCCTGTATCTCCAGACCCTGTTCATTCCTCAGCT
CCAGATTCCCCAAGCTAACTGCCTACTTGTCTCTCTTGTCCCACATGCAGCTGGAGGATCGCATTGCCAA
AGCCACACCCCTCATTTGTCTCCCTCCAAATTTGCTCCACCTTCTGTGTTCTGTCTACTCAATTGCCCGA
TCTGGAAACTTGGGTACCACCTCGATTCTTCCATACTCTTACTTTCCACATCAAACTGCAAGCCTTCCAG
AAGGTGCTAATCCACCTTGTTCAGGCCCCTGAGGTGTTGGAACAGAATTGTGAGCAGTATGGAGGCGAAG
AGTTGAGCCCCATCAGCAAATGGATCCTGGTTAGGTTCATTAACCGCTAAGCCATGAAGGGAACTCCCTA
ATTGGCATATTTTGAGCAGTTTGTGCTGATAATGTTCAAATAAATTTTTATTTACACCAAGACCTTTCAA
AAGGTGTTTCTTGGTGACCTAGCAGGTTAAGGATCCAGGGTTGTAACTGCTATGGCTCGGGTCAGTGCTG
TAGCATGGGTGAGCTTGATCCCTGGCTCTGGGACTTCAGCATGCCATGCGTGCAGCCAAAAAAAAAAAAA
AATTTTTTTAATA/\ATGATAGTAGA/\ACAAATGAAATATTAACTACTTTATTTCTTTAATCATTCTTCCT
CTGAATATTATACAATTTAATCTTTAACTCTGAAGGTTATGAAAAATAATTTTATATTTGATGCCACTTT
TATTTGAAGATACCCTGGTGCTGGGGATAAAACTAGTATCAGGGTTATAGCATGTGCCGTTTTTGGTTTT
ATGGCACATGGTGTTTTGGAGTAGTACATGGTTTGACATGAGGTCCAGTAGAGTCTGTTTAATGGTCATT
CTATTCTGTGTCTTTAATCACTGCCCTTGGAACCCAGCACCCAGGGTAAATGACATCTTCAGTCTGAAAG
GATGTTTAATTTGATGAATGTACATTGTTTATTCTTAAGTTATTCTAGCCCTTTTATGTCTTAATATGTG
TCTTTTGCACCA/AAATTAGGAGGAAGTAACTCACTCATGAACTACCGAATGCCAAACTAAAACTTATTC
AGTGACTGAGTGACTGTAAATCTTGTGAACACAGACTTTCTTTTTTTTTTTATTAAAAATGTTCTTTTTA
A/AAAATTTTTTTTGGCCAACCACTCATGGCATGTTTGATCAGGCCAGGGATCAAACCTGAGGCAGAGGC
GTAACCAGAGCCACAGCAGTGACAATGCTGAATCCTTAACCTGCTGAGCCACCGGGGAACTCCTGAATGC
AGCCTTTCTTACCCCATTTTGAGCAGCCTCATTTGTCTGCCTATAGA\AGAAAGATGAATTTATAGATGG
GCTTGCA/\AATCTTGCATGTTTTCTGTTTCCAAAAACTGTTGAGAATTCCTTTGAGGA\ATTATTGTAGG

                                   -28
TATTTATATATTCAGAGGATATTAATTTCTTTACTTAATAGATACTTATTGTGTACCTGCCCTATACCAG
GCACTGCCCAAGCCCCTGAGGATATAGCAGCAAACAAAAGAGACTCATTCCCTGCTTACATTCCCACTCA
AGGAAGAAGGACACAAGTCAGCTATTTA/\AAATTATTTCATGATCTCAACACCTACCTGGGGGCTTCACT
TCCAGAGGGGCCTGCCAGGTCCCTCAAGGTAGTCCACACAGCAGTTAGGGCCTTGGCTTCACTCCCAGCC
CCAGCCCCCACAAGTGACCGCTCAGGTACAAAGGAATGAGTCTGTGCGTAGAGGGTTCCCCTTGGCACAG
GGGCCCTAGGCCCCATAGGTGCTGATAGCCCTCATTATAGCCCCATTAGCAGAGCTGCCAGGGTCCCTAC
AAGAAGGTGCCTGGTTACAAGAATTATTACTTTACTTATTTATGCACCATGTGGAAGTTTCCAGGCTAGA
AGTCGAATCAGAGATGTAGCTGCTGGCCTACGCCACAGCCATACCAGATCTGAGCTGCATCTGCGACCTC
ACCACAGCACACGGCAAGGCCAGGGATCGAACCCGCGTCCTCATGGATACTAATCCATGGCTGGTTTCTG
CTGAGTCATGATGGGAACTCCCAGAATCACAA/\AGCTCAAAGCTGTGGCAAACCCACCAGGTGTTTATTG
GTTTTTCCAGTTTAGATACAATGTATCAAGCAGAGGTTATTTTTACCATAAGCATGTTGCTGGCATTCCA
CCTTTATCTTTTCTAAGAAACAGAGCCAGAAAATTATCTGAAGGTCAAATTTGTCCTTAGAGAAGGAGAA
AGAGTTGAGTTAACCCTTCACCTACAGTTGTTTTTGTTGTAAGTGTTGCACAGGAGACAAATGGAGTATA
AAGAACATTCACAGCTGATGCCGCTACTATGTTCATTATGCTGCAGACATTAAGTGATTTCAATATAAAC
AGGACACTGACACCCTCTTTATTTTGTATTTTGCAGATAAGTAATCATGGTGA\AAGCCATATAGGTGGC
TGGATCCTCGTTCTCTTTGTGGCCGCATGGAGTGACATAGGGCTCTGCAAGAAGCGACCAAAGCCTGGCG
GAGGATGGAACACTGGGGGGAGCCGATACCCAGGGCAGGGTAGTCCTGGAGGCAACCGCTATCCACCCCA
GGGAGGGGGTGGCTGGGGACAGCCCCACGGAGGTGGCTGGGGACAGCCCCACGGAGGCGGCTGGGGACAG
CCCCACGGTGGCGGCTGGGGACAGCCCCATGGTGGCGGAGGCTGGGGTCAAGGTGGTGGCTCCCACGGTC
AGTGGAACAAGCCCAGTAAGCCGAAAACCAACATGAAGCATGTGGCAGGCGCCGCTGCAGCTGGGGCAGT
GGTAGGGGGCCTCGGCGGTTACATGCTGGGGAGTGCCATGAGCAGACCCCTGATACACTTTGGCAGTGAC
TATGAGGACCGTTACTATCGTGAAAACATGTACCGTTACCCCAACCAAGTGTACTACAGGCCAGTGGATC
AGTACAGCAACCAGAACAGTTTTGTGCATGACTGCGTCAACATCACCGTCAAGCAGCACACAGTGACCAC
GACCACCAAGGGGGAGAACTTCACCGAGACGGACGTCAAGATGATAGAGCGCGTGGTGGAACAGATGTGC
ATCACCCAGTACCAGAAAGAGTACGAGGCGTACGCCCA\AGAGGGGCCAGTGTGATCCTCTTCTCCTCCC
CTCCTGTGATCCTCCTCATCTCTTTCCTCCTTTTCCTCATAGTGGGCTGAGGGTGGCCTTTCTGTCGGCA
TCATCTTCTTAATCTTTATCAGGTTGGGGGAGGGAATATCTACCTGCAGCCCTTTAGTGGTGGTGTCTCA
TTCTTGCTTCTCTCTTCGGCACCCATAGGCTAACATCCATGGCGCTTGTAGCACTGGA\AAGGAGAGTAG
ACCTGAGATGTGATGTATTTAAGCCCCATTTGATTGAATCCTTCATAGGCCAGTGCTAGTGCTGGACTGG
TAAGAGCGTAACAGCA/\ATAATCATTGGTTGATCTGGGCTCATTTTTTGTCTGGTGCAACAGATTGAGGC
TA/AACAATTCTCAAAACACACTTCAAGTACCTTTACCTAAATACCTCCAGCTCCTTCTCCAGCTAGAGC
TCAGTACACAAATGCCCCGCCATAGTAGTGATTTTGTAGCAACTTTCCCATTTAAGAAAACCTGACTACA
TTTTCCTGTTCAAATAGCATTTCTACTGAGTTGGGGAGGAGGCCACATAATACTCATTCAAAA/\ATGAA
ACTGGAAATCCTTAGCTCCTGGGCCCAGGGTCAGCCCAGTGGAAAGCATGTGTCCTGTGTCTGCAGAGAA
CTAAGGATATTTTGCAATTTGCAGTACAGGTTACACAGCAGCTATTGCATCAAGAATGGATGTCTGTGCA
ACACTAGACTTCTGGGCAGAGGGCATTTTCACAGGCAATGAACATAACTCACATAATATGAAAGGCTCTG
AAACTTA/AAAATTCCCACCTGTGTGAGGAACCCTCAGAGGCAGCCTTCTGTTATGGATGTTTAAAGCAC

                                     -29
CTTCATGGGGTAGTTCTTTCTTTAGTAATACAAACTATAGATAATTAAGGTAGTAGGACATGAAACAATC
TTCTGGACATTGAGAACAAATCTCTTTTGTTTGTTTATCTGGGAACTGGAGTGATTTTGCCATTTCTTGG
ATGAAGCCAGGAGATTTTAACATAGAGGAAGCTGCAGCTATAAAAACATCATATTTATTCATTTGATTGA
GTCTTTCATGGGCCAGTGCCGGTGTTGGGCTAGCAAGCATATGATACCAAATATAGAGGGTTATGAAGAA
AATGATTAGTGTACAAAAAAGAGAAATGCTTACATTTCTTTATTGCTGTGTCATAATTGTCAAAAATCAG
AATTAGGTCCTCAATTTCTATAATTGGCTTTTGAATCAAAGAATAGGAAGGCATTCCCCCCCAAAAAAGT
TAAAGATGATAGAAATATGATCCATTCATATTAGGAAAAGAAATTCTGGTACTGTTATTTAAATAAGGCA
AAATTATTCCCTGGATTGTTTGGTGTTGTCACCTAGCAGATATACATTACTCTTCTGCATTGTTATTGGC
TTGCACTTTGTGGGTATCCTATGTAAAAAAAATATATGTATATATATATATTGCATATGACAAACTTGGA
GATTTTGGTTAGAGCTGTTAACATCTGAATTATCAAATGCATTACTTGTTTTTGTAAGGTACTAAATATT
TAATAATACTTAAAGGAAACCCTTTTGTGTGGTCCTTCGGCTTACAATGTGCACTGAATAGTTTTGTATA
AGGATCCAGAGTGGCATTTGAAATTCGCATGTGCTTTATATTTTCTATATTTGTAACTTTGCATGTACTT
GTTTTATTGTATTAAAAGTTTATAAATGTTTATTATCTGACTAAAATTAAAACAGGAGCTACAATGAG
SEQ ID NO: 2 500bp of upper homologous arm
CTTGGCACAGGGGCCCTAGGCCCCATAGGTGCTGATAGCCCTCATTATAGCCCCATTAGC
AGAGCTGCCAGGGTCCCTACAAGAAGGTGCCTGGTTACAAGAATTATTACTTTACTTATT
TATGCACCATGTGGAAGTTTCCAGGCTAGAAGTCGAATCAGAGATGTAGCTGCTGGCCTA
CGCCACAGCCATACCAGATCTGAGCTGCATCTGCGACCTCACCACAGCACACGGCAAGGC
CAGGGATCGAACCCGCGTCCTCATGGATACTAATCCATGGCTGGTTTCTGCTGAGTCATG
ATGGGAACTCCCAGAATCACAAAAGCTCAAAGCTGTGGCAAACCCACCAGGTGTTTATTG
GTTTTTCCAGTTTAGATACAATGTATCAAGCAGAGGTTATTTTTACCATAAGCATGTTGC
TGGCATTCCACCTTTATCTTTTCTAAGAAACAGAGCCAGAAAATTATCTGAAGGTCAAAT
TTGTCCTTAGAGAAGGAGAAAGAGTTGAGTTAAC
SEQ ID NO: 3 1000 bp lower homologous arm
CGGTTACATGCTGGGGAGTGCCATGAGCAGACCCCTGATACACTTTGGCAGTGACTATGA
GGACCGTTACTATCGTGAAAACATGTACCGTTACCCCAACCAAGTGTACTACAGGCCAGT
GGATCAGTACAGCAACCAGAACAGTTTTGTGCATGACTGCGTCAACATCACCGTCAAGCA
GCACACAGTGACCACGACCACCAAGGGGGAGAACTTCACCGAGACGGACGTCAAGATGAT
AGAGCGCGTGGTGGAACAGATGTGCATCACCCAGTACCAGAAAGAGTACGAGGCGTACGC
CCAAAGAGGGGCCAGTGTGATCCTCTTCTCCTCCCCTCCTGTGATCCTCCTCATCTCTTT
CCTCCTTTTCCTCATAGTGGGCTGAGGGTGGCCTTTCTGTCGGCATCATCTTCTTAATCT
TTATCAGGTTGGGGGAGGGAATATCTACCTGCAGCCCTTTAGTGGTGGTGTCTCATTCTT
GCTTCTCTCTTCGGCACCCATAGGCTAACATCCATGGCGCTTGTAGCACTGGAAAAGGAG
AGTAGACCTGAGATGTGATGTATTTAAGCCCCATTTGATTGAATCCTTCATAGGCCAGTG

                                           - 30
CTAGTGCTGGACTGGTAAGAGCGTAACAGCAAATAATCATTGGTTGATCTGGGCTCATTT
TTTGTCTGGTGCAACAGATTGAGGCTAAAACAATTCTCAAAACACACTTCAAGTACCTTT
ACCTAAATACCTCCAGCTCCTTCTCCAGCTAGAGCTCAGTACACAAATGCCCCGCCATAG
TAGTGATTTTGTAGCAACTTTCCCATTTAAGAAAACCTGACTACATTTTCCTGTTCAAAT
AGCATTTCTACTGAGTTGGGGAGGAGGCCACATAATACTCATTCAAAAAAATGAAACTGG
AAATCCTTAGCTCCTGGGCCCAGGGTCAGCCCAGTGGAAAGCATGTGTCCTGTGTCTGCA
GAGAACTAAGGATATTTTGCAATTTGCAGTACAGGTTACACAGCAGCTATTGCATCAAG
SEQ ID NO: 4 Green fluorescent protein encoding sequence
ATGGTGAGCAAGGGCGAGGAGCTGTTCACCGGGGTGGTGCCCATCCTGGTCGAGCTGGAC
GGCGACGTGAACGGCCACAAGTTCAGCGTGTCCGGCGAGGGCGAGGGCGATGCCACCTAC
GGCAAGCTGACCCTGAAGTTCATCTGCACCACCGGCAAGCTGCCCGTGCCCTGGCCCACC
CTCGTGACCACCCTGACCTACGGCGTGCAGTGCTTCAGCCGCTACCCCGACCACATGAAG
CAGCACGACTTCTTCAAGTCCGCCATGCCCGAAGGCTACGTCCAGGAGCGCACCATCTTC
TTCAAGGACGACGGCAACTACAAGACCCGCGCCGAGGTGAAGTTCGAGGGCGACACCCTG
GTGAACCGCATCGAGCTGAAGGGCATCGACTTCAAGGAGGACGGCAACATCCTGGGGCAC
AAGC TGGAGTACAAC TACAACAGCCACAACGTC TATATCATGGCCGACAAGCAGAAGAAC
GGCATCAAGGTGAACTTCAAGATCCGCCACAACATCGAGGACGGCAGCGTGCAGCTCGCC
GACCACTACCAGCAGAACACCCCCATCGGCGACGGCCCCGTGCTGCTGCCCGACAACCAC
TACCTGAGCACCCAGTCCGCCCTGAGCAAAGACCCCAACGAGAAGCGCGATCACATGGTC
CTGCTGGAGTTCGTGACCGCCGCCGGGATCACTCACGGCATGGACGAGCTGTACAAGTAA
SEQ ID NO: 5, 6, 7, 8 primers used to obtain the upper and lower arms
PRNP upper arm Mlul for: CTAGACGCGTCTTGGCACAGGGGCCCTAG
PRNP upper arm BsiW1 rev: GACTACGTACGCCTACCACTGCCCCAGCTG
PRNP lower arm XhoI for: GACTCTCGAGCGGTTACATGCTGGGGAGT
PRNP lower arm AscI rev: GTCAGGCGCGCCTTGATGCAATAGCTGCTGT
Targeting vector is generated by digesting with AscI (introduced by the primer) and HpaI
enzyme on the endogenous sequence.
SEQ ID NO: 9 and 10 primers inside and outside vector to confirm GFP
Inside the GFP expression vector: CCAGCTGGGGCTCGACTAGA
Outside the homology arm: CCATTTTGAGCAGCCTCATTTG

                                            -31
SEQ ID NO: 11 LoxP nucleotide sequence
ATAACTTCGTATAATGTATGCTATACGAACGGTA
SEQ ID NO: 12: single stranded oligo used to target ZBED
GGTGGCAGAA GGAGTGGATA AAGAGGCAAA ATTGCCTGCC AAAAAGAAAA
GAAAGAAGGGTTTGC (EcoR1 site follows in italics) GAATTC (LoxP site follows in
lower case) taccgttcgtatagcatacattatacgaagttat AGGGGAAAA GGCGACGAAA
GAAACTGATC CTTGCAAAAA AGTTTAGTAA GGATTTGGGA TCTGGGAGGC
CTGTTGCAAG
SEQ ID NO: 13 is the ZBED6 sequences shown in Figure 6 with the EcoRI and LoxP
insert Blastocyst 1 and 5
    AGAAGGGTTTGCGAATTCTACCGTTCGTATAGCATACATTATACGAAGTTATAGGGGAAAAGGCGAC
SEQ ID NO: 14 and 15 flanking sequence for ss oligo
Upper: GGTGGCAGAA GGAGTGGATA AAGAGGCAAA
ATTGCCTGCCAAAAAGAAAA GAAAGAAGGGTTTGCGAATTC
Lower: AGGGGAAAA GGCGACGAAA GAAACTGATC CTTGCAAAAA
AGTTTAGTAA GGATTTGGGA TCTGGGAGGC CTGTTGCAAG
SEQ I DNO:16
ZBED insert from Balstocyst 3 and 4 from Figure 6
      AGAAGGGTTTGCGAATCCTACCGTTCGTATGCATACATTATACGAAGTTAAGGGGAAAAGGCGAC
SEQ ID NO:17
ZBED insert blastocyst 2 from Figure 6
AGAAGGGTTTGCGAATTCTACCGTTCGTATGCATACATTATACGAAGTTAAGGGGAAAAGGCGGC

                                             - 32
Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word "comprise"
or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply the
inclusion of a stated element or integer or method step or group of elements or integers or
method steps but not the exclusion of any element or integer or method step or group of
elements or integers or method steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it),
or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgement or
admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or information derived
from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of
endeavour to which this specification relates.

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16989441- .docx-I7 05/2018
                                                                 - 33
CLAIMS:
1.             A method of targeted gene editing of an animal genome, the method comprising:
                a)            producing a zygote comprising said genome of said animal by fertilizing
                              animal oocyte and animal spermatozoa;
               b)             injecting into said zygote a composition one or more vectors comprising:
                              i.            a nuclease;
                              ii.           at least one guide nucleic acid molecule that targets said nuclease to a
                                            target gene of said genome at a target locus;
                              iii.          a single stranded oligonucleotide or double stranded nucleic acid
                                            molecule comprising a heterologous nucleic acid molecule of interest
                                            (NOI);
                              iv.           a sequence homologous to a first flanking sequence upstream of said
                                            target locus and a second sequence comprising a second flanking
                                            sequence downstream of said target locus;
                c)            said composition injected into said cell before said zygotic cell forms a single
                              nucleus;
                d)            said nuclease introducing a double stranded break at said target locus of said
                              target gene of said animal genome; and
                e)            said NOI recombined into said target locus of said target gene of said animal
                              genome.
2.              The method of Claim 1, where the composition is injected into the cytoplasm of said
zygotic cell.
3.              The method of Claim 1, wherein said composition is injected up to 24 hours after
fertilization.
4.              The method of Claim 1, wherein said composition is injected at least three hours to 16
hours after fertilization

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16989441- .docx-I7 05/2018
                                                         - 34
5.              The method of Claim 1, wherein said composition is injected 12 to 16 hours after
fertilization.
6.              The method of Claim 1, wherein said composition is injected 16 hours after
fertilization.
7.              The method of Claim 1, where expression of said target gene is modified.
8.              The method of Claim 1, wherein said NOI expresses a polypeptide.
9.              The method of Claim 1, wherein at least one phenotype of said animal is modified after
said NOI is recombined into said animal genome.
10.             The method of Claim 1, wherein said animal is a ruminant animal.
11.             The method of Claim 1, wherein said animal is swine or bovine.
12.             The method of Claim 1, wherein said animal is swine.
13.             The method of Claim 1, wherein said composition comprises a single stranded
oligonucleotide comprising said NOI.
14.             The method of Claim 13, wherein said flanking sequences comprise 50 or fewer base
pairs.
15.             The method of Claim 1, wherein said composition comprises a double stranded nucleic
acid molecule comprising said NOI.
16.             The method of Claim 15, wherein said flanking sequences comprise 1000 or fewer
base pairs.

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16989441- .docx-I7 05/2018
                                                                      - 35
17.             The method of Claim 1, wherein said flanking sequences comprise less than 5000 base
pairs.
18.             The method of Claim 1, wherein said composition comprises a Clustered Regularly
Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeat (CRISPR) - CRISPR associated (Cas) system
comprising one or more expression vectors comprising a guide RNA that hybridizes with said
target gene and a Cas9 protein.
19.            A method of targeted gene editing of an animal genome of an animal having pronuclei
that cannot be visually observed by the unaided human eye, the method comprising:
                a)            producing a zygote comprising said genome of said animal by fertilizing
                              animal oocyte and animal spermatozoa;
               b)             injecting into said zygote a composition comprising one or more vectors
                              comprising:
                              i.            at least one nucleotide sequence encoding a Clustered Regularly
                                            Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeat (CRISPR) - CRISPR associated
                                            (Cas) system comprising one or more expression vectors comprising:
                                            (a)          a guide RNA that hybridizes with a target gene of said animal;
                                            (b)          a nucleotide sequence encoding a Cas9 protein;
                              ii.           a single stranded oligonucleotide or double stranded nucleic acid
                                            molecule comprising a heterologous nucleic acid molecule of interest
                                            (NOI);
                              iii.          a sequence homologous to a first flanking sequence upstream of said
                                            target locus and a second sequence comprising a second flanking
                                            sequence downstream of said target locus;
                c)            said composition injected into said cell before said zygotic cell forms a single
                              nucleus;
                d)            said nuclease introducing a double stranded break at said target locus of said
                              target gene of said animal genome; and
                e)            said NOI recombined into said target locus of said target gene of said animal
                              genome.

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16989441- .docx-I7 05/2018
                                                                 - 36
20.            A method of predicting impact of integration of a nucleic acid molecule into human
genome, the method comprising:
                a)            producing a zygote comprising said genome of a porcine animal by fertilizing
                              porcine animal oocyte and porcine animal spermatozoa;
               b)             injecting into said zygote a composition comprising one or more vectors
                              comprising:
                              i.            a nuclease;
                              ii.           at least one guide nucleic acid molecule that targets said nuclease to a
                                            target gene of said genome at a target locus;
                              iii.          a single stranded oligonucleotide or double stranded nucleic acid
                                            molecule comprising a heterologous nucleic acid molecule of interest
                                            (NOI);
                              iv.           a sequence homologous to a first flanking sequence upstream of said
                                            target locus and a second sequence comprising a second flanking
                                            sequence downstream of said target locus;
                c)            said composition injected into said zygote before said zygote forms a single
                              nucleus;
                d)            said nuclease introducing a double stranded break at said target locus of said
                              target gene of said porcine animal genome;
                e)            said NOI recombined into said target locus of said target gene of said porcine
                              animal genome;
                f)            producing a porcine animal from said zygote;
                g)            determining any genotypic or phenotypic changes in said porcine animal and
                              predicting impact of integration of said NOI into a human genome as a result
                              of said changes in said porcine animal.
21.            An edited ZBED nucleic acid sequence having an insertion sequence.
22.             The edited ZBED sequence of Claim 21 comprising SEQ ID NO 13, 16 or 17.

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\16989441- .docx-I7 05/2018
                                                         - 37
23.            A pig with an edited ZBED sequence having increased growth performance when
compared to a pig with a wild type ZBED sequence.
24.             The pig of Claim 23 wherein said ZBED sequence is SEQ ID NO:13, 16, or 17.

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E>
<U+2702><U+2701>
 <U+260E><U+2704>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                       <U+260E><U+271D><U+271E>
<U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+2706>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+271D>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                                 <U+2738><U+271D><U+271E>
              <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2704><U+271E><U+271F><U+2704><U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+260E> <U+270E><U+2711><U+2702><U+2720><U+270E> <U+2712><U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2726>
              <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2731>     <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2732>     <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2733>     <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2734>
              <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2731>     <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F>
              <U+2732>     <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2735>
              <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2731>     <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2732>     <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2733>     <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2736>
              <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2731>     <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2732>     <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272F><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725><U+271C><U+2722> <U+2737>
              <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A><U+272B> <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+2730><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2731>     <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
              <U+2732>     <U+272C><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272E><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272F><U+272D><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272C><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272E><U+272E><U+272C><U+272E><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272D><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+272D><U+272D><U+272F><U+272D><U+272C><U+272F>
                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2738>

<removed-date>
                           <U+271E><U+271D><U+271E>
<removed-apn>                               <U+2737>
                                         <U+2736>
                                                 <U+272E>
                                                 <U+272A>
                                                 <U+272D>
                                                 <U+272C>
                                         <U+2735>
                                         <U+2734>       <U+2727>
                                                         <U+273A>
                                                 <U+272B>
                                         <U+2733>
                                                         <U+2704>
                                                         <U+2739>
                                                 <U+272A>
                                     <U+2727>
                                     <U+272C>
                                                 <U+2729>
                                         <U+2732>
                                                 <U+2605>
                                                 <U+2727>
                                                         <U+2702><U+2701>
                                         <U+272F>
                                                 <U+2726>
                                         <U+2731>
                                                 <U+2725>
                                         <U+2730>
                                                 <U+2725>
                                                     <U+2738>
                                         <U+272F>
                                                 <U+2723>
              <U+2721>
                  <U+270D>
              <U+2720>
                  <U+270F>
              <U+271F>
                  <U+260E>
              <U+271E>
                  <U+2706>
                      <U+273B>
                  <U+270E>
              <U+271D>
                      <U+2704>
                  <U+270D>
                      <U+2739>
              <U+2706>
              <U+260E>
                  <U+270C>
                      <U+2702><U+2701>
                  <U+261E>
              <U+2704>
                  <U+261B>
                  <U+2720>
              <U+2702>
                  <U+271F>
              <U+2701>
                  <U+271E>
                                 <U+2722>
                                             <U+272E>
                                 <U+271C>
                                             <U+272A>
                                 <U+271B>
                                             <U+272D>
                                 <U+271A>
                                             <U+272C>
                                             <U+2727>
                                                         <U+273C>
                                             <U+272B>
                                 <U+2719>
                                                         <U+2704>
                                                         <U+2739>
                                 <U+2718>
                                 <U+2717>
                                             <U+272A>
                                                         <U+2702><U+2701>
                                             <U+2729>
                                 <U+2716>
                                             <U+2605>
                                             <U+2727>
                                 <U+2715>
                                 <U+2714>
                                             <U+2726>
                                 <U+2713>
                                             <U+2725>
                                 <U+2712>
                                             <U+2724>
                                             <U+2723>
                                 <U+2711>

                                                  <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
                                        <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+2721><U+270C><U+270D><U+2721> <U+270E><U+270F><U+2720><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2712>
              <U+2713>   <U+2714><U+2715> <U+261E><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+2717><U+271E><U+271C> <U+2722><U+2723> <U+2724><U+2725><U+271A><U+271C><U+2726><U+2725><U+2716><U+2727><U+2605> <U+270D><U+2722><U+2726><U+2726><U+2719><U+2729><U+2719> <U+272A><U+2725><U+271A><U+272B>
              <U+2713> <U+272C><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2711><U+272D><U+272E><U+2712><U+2721><U+2711><U+2721><U+272F> <U+2712><U+2721><U+270C><U+2730><U+2724><U+2721> <U+2721><U+272F><U+270F><U+2711><U+270F><U+270C><U+2712> <U+270F><U+270C> <U+2731><U+2732><U+2712><U+2730><U+2711><U+2721><U+2720> <U+2730><U+2733> <U+272F><U+2730><U+2724><U+2721><U+2720><U+2711><U+270F><U+270D> <U+270E><U+272D><U+272E><U+2712><U+2721> <U+272D><U+270C><U+270F><U+2724><U+272D><U+270E><U+2720>
              <U+2713> <U+2704><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+272A><U+272C><U+2734><U+2714><U+2735><U+272C><U+2714><U+2701>
              <U+2713> <U+2734><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702> <U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2714><U+2605><U+2738><U+2737><U+2701>
              <U+2713> <U+2734> <U+2715> <U+272C><U+2714> <U+2701><U+2735><U+2714><U+2704><U+2735><U+272C><U+2702>
              <U+2713> <U+2702><U+2714><U+2715>    <U+2738>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713> <U+2738><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+272A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2719><U+2716><U+271E><U+270F><U+2716> <U+2718><U+2719><U+271A><U+271B><U+2717><U+2722><U+2716> <U+2704><U+271D><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715>   <U+2714><U+2737><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+272C><U+272C><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+272C><U+272C> <U+2715>   <U+273B><U+2717><U+271B><U+273A><U+2706><U+2723><U+2719><U+2725><U+271E><U+2739><U+271A><U+2719>
              <U+2713><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2715>   <U+273C><U+2738> <U+260E><U+273D><U+271D><U+271D><U+273C><U+260E> <U+2738><U+273D>
              <U+2713><U+272C><U+272C><U+2704><U+2715>   <U+2716> <U+2717><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2605> <U+273A><U+2605> <U+2729><U+2605> <U+2722><U+271A> <U+271E>
              <U+2713><U+272C><U+272C><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+272C><U+272C> <U+2715>   <U+273B><U+2717><U+271B><U+273A><U+2706><U+2723><U+2719><U+2725><U+271E><U+2739><U+271A><U+2719>
              <U+2713><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2715>   <U+273C><U+272C><U+2737><U+2702><U+2738><U+273D><U+271D><U+271D><U+273C><U+272C><U+2737><U+2702><U+260E><U+273D>
              <U+2713><U+272C><U+272C><U+2704><U+2715>   <U+2716> <U+2717><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2605> <U+273A><U+2605> <U+2729><U+2605> <U+2722><U+271A> <U+271E>
              <U+2713><U+272C><U+272C><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+272C><U+272C> <U+2715>   <U+273B><U+2717><U+271B><U+273A><U+2706><U+2723><U+2719><U+2725><U+271E><U+2739><U+271A><U+2719>
              <U+2713><U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2715>   <U+273C><U+272C><U+2737><U+2737><U+2704><U+273D><U+271D><U+271D><U+273C><U+272C><U+2737><U+2737><U+2704><U+273D>
              <U+2713><U+272C><U+272C><U+2704><U+2715>   <U+2716> <U+2717><U+271B> <U+2725><U+2605> <U+273A><U+2605> <U+2729><U+2605> <U+2722><U+271A> <U+271E>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729>      <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A>      <U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E>      <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729>      <U+272C><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729>      <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725>      <U+2704><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729>      <U+2701><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E>      <U+2701><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729>      <U+2734><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725>      <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729>      <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716>      <U+2738><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716> <U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716> <U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716> <U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716> <U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716> <U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716>      <U+2738><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716> <U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716> <U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716> <U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2716><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729>      <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A>      <U+2737><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729>      <U+2737><U+2702><U+2714>
                                                   <U+272A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2719>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729>    <U+2714><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729>    <U+2714><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729>    <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A>   <U+272C><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+272C><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725>   <U+2704><U+272C><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E>    <U+2734><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725>    <U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725>    <U+2738><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E>    <U+2737><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729>    <U+2737><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+272C><U+2714><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+272C> <U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725>   <U+272C> <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+272C><U+272C><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+272C><U+272C><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725>   <U+272C><U+2704><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+272C><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+272C><U+2701><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+272C><U+2734><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+272C><U+2734><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+272C><U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+272C><U+2738><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+272C><U+2738><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725>   <U+272C><U+260E><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+272C><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+272C><U+2737><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2716><U+2716><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2716><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714>
                                                   <U+272A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2719> <U+272C>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A>   <U+2704><U+2714><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725>   <U+2704> <U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2704> <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+2704><U+272C><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A>   <U+2704><U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2704><U+2704><U+2702><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2704><U+2701><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2704><U+2734><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A>   <U+2704><U+2738><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+2704><U+2738><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2704><U+2737><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725>   <U+2704><U+2737><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2701><U+2714><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725>   <U+2701><U+2714><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A>   <U+2701> <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+272C><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725>   <U+2701><U+272C><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2704><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A>   <U+2701><U+2734><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+2701><U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+2701><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+2701><U+2738><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729>   <U+2701><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+260E><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A>   <U+2701><U+2737><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A>   <U+2701><U+2737><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+2734><U+2714><U+2701><U+2714>
                                                   <U+272A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2719> <U+2704>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A>   <U+2734> <U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725>   <U+2734> <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+2734><U+272C><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729>   <U+2734><U+272C><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+2734><U+2704><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725>   <U+2734><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2734><U+2701><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E>   <U+2734><U+2734><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+2734><U+2734><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+2734><U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+2734><U+2738><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A>   <U+2734><U+2738><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+2734><U+260E><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A>   <U+2734><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2734><U+2737><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E>   <U+2702> <U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A>   <U+2702> <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+272C><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2702><U+2701><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2702><U+2734><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+2738><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2738><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2737><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2737><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729>   <U+2738><U+2714><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+2738><U+2714><U+260E><U+2714>
                                                   <U+272A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2719> <U+2701>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A>   <U+2738> <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+2738><U+272C><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+2738><U+272C><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+2738><U+2704><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A>   <U+2738><U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E>   <U+2738><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+2738><U+2734><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+2738><U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725>   <U+2738><U+2702><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+2738><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725>   <U+2738><U+2738><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725>   <U+2738><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E>   <U+2738><U+260E><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A>   <U+2738><U+2737><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725>   <U+2738><U+2737><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+260E><U+2714><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+260E> <U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+260E> <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+260E><U+272C><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+260E><U+272C><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E>   <U+260E><U+2704><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+260E><U+2734><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+260E><U+2734><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A>   <U+260E><U+2702><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+260E><U+2738><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729>   <U+260E><U+2738><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+260E><U+260E><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A>   <U+260E><U+2737><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A>   <U+2737><U+2714><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729>   <U+2737><U+2714><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+2737> <U+272C><U+2714>
                                                   <U+272A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2719> <U+2734>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E>   <U+2737> <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A>   <U+2737><U+272C><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2737><U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A>   <U+2737><U+2704><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+2737><U+2701><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2737><U+2701><U+260E><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+2734><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2737><U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A>   <U+2737><U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+2738><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+2738><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E>   <U+2737><U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+2737><U+2737><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+2737><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2714><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+2714><U+2714><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725>   <U+2714> <U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725>   <U+2714><U+272C><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+2714><U+272C><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A>   <U+2714><U+2704><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2704><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A>   <U+2714><U+2701><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E>   <U+2714><U+2734><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2714><U+2734><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+2714><U+2702><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+2714><U+2702><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+2714><U+2738><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+2714><U+260E><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725>   <U+2714><U+260E><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2714><U+2737><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+2714><U+2737><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729>                                                            <U+2714><U+2737><U+260E><U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+272C>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+2734> <U+2701>
                                                   <U+272A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2719> <U+2702>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272C>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725>   <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A>   <U+272C><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729>   <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A>   <U+2701><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A>                               <U+2734> <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715>    <U+2714> <U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704>
              <U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E>   <U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725>   <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+272C><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A>   <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2701><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+2734><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E>   <U+2738><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+2738><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+260E><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+2737><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725>   <U+2737><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729>    <U+2714> <U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+2738><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
                                                      <U+272A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2719> <U+2738>

                                                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A>   <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+272C><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729> <U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A>   <U+2704><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729>   <U+2704><U+2702><U+2714>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+2701><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+2701><U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A>   <U+2734><U+2701><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+2702><U+2714><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+273A>   <U+2702><U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E> <U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A> <U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A> <U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2738><U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+272C><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2734>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729>                                     <U+272C><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729>                                    <U+2704><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+272C><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2738>
              <U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E>                                     <U+272C><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+260E>
              <U+2729><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729> <U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729> <U+271E>                                  <U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
                                                     <U+272A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2719> <U+260E>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2737>
              <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725>                                               <U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715>  <U+2714>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+272C><U+272C>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729> <U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+271E><U+2729>                                            <U+272C><U+272C>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>
              <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2729> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725>                               <U+2704><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+272C>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+272C>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729> <U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A>   <U+272C><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729>   <U+260E><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729>                                                                <U+260E><U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+2702><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2704>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2725><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A>                                                             <U+2702><U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2701>
              <U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E> <U+273A>                                                        <U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715>  <U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+2738><U+2737>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2734>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725> <U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729> <U+2729><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+271E>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+273A><U+271E><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A><U+273A> <U+271E><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729>                                                <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                      <U+272A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2719> <U+2737>

                                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706> <U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+271E>
<removed-date>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715> <U+2702>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+273A><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+273A>                                                               <U+2702><U+2734>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2714><U+2715>  <U+2738>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2715> <U+2702><U+2734>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+272C><U+2715> <U+272F><U+270C><U+272D>
              <U+2713><U+272C> <U+2704><U+2715> <U+2720><U+2739><U+271B> <U+271B><U+273A><U+271A><U+2722><U+2723><U+2725>
              <U+2713><U+2701><U+2714><U+2714><U+2715>   <U+2738>
              <U+2725><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+271E><U+2725> <U+273A><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+273A><U+2729><U+271E><U+2725><U+271E> <U+2729><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2725><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+271E><U+2725><U+273A><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729><U+271E><U+271E><U+2725> <U+2725><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2729><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2725><U+2729>   <U+2702><U+2714>
              <U+2729><U+273A><U+2729><U+2729><U+273A>                                                               <U+2702><U+2734>
                                                  <U+272A><U+2725><U+2729><U+2719>   <U+2714>

