  ABSTRACT
  The present disclosure provides compounds effective in increasing mucociliary clearance in a
  subject. In one embodiment, the compounds are of the general formula I. The present disclosure
  further shows that such compounds are effective in increasing activation of the CFTR, thereby
5 increasing mucociliary clearance in the subject. The present disclosure further shows that such
  compounds are effective in increasing the depth of ASL, thereby increasing mucociliary
  clearance in the subject. In one embodiment of each of the foregoing, the subject is free from
  congenital or genetic defect in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus and/or acquired
  abnormality in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.

                METHODS FOR INCREASING CFTR ACTIVITY
                                   Steven M. Rowe and Mark Dransfield
   FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
            The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
 5 2013243857, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
            The present disclosure relates to methods of augmenting mucociliary clearance in a
   subject.   In a specific embodiment, the present disclosure relates to methods of augmenting
   mucociliary clearance in a subject wherein the subject is free from a congenital or genetic defect
   in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus and/or an acquired abnormality in the cellular
 0 mucociliary clearance apparatus.
   BACKGROUND
            Disorders of mucus clearance (mucous stasis) and increased mucous production are
   common problems that impact a variety of human conditions. This is true even in the setting of
   normal epithelial function and a normally functioning cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus
 5 whereupon mucociliary clearance is suboptimal for the particular condition.           A number of
   diseases and/or conditions may lead to suboptimal mucous clearance and/or excess mucous
   production. In such situations, mucociliary clearance may be considered impaired even though
   no defects or abnormalities exist in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus as the normall
   functioning cellular mucociliary apparatus is not sufficient given the underying condition of the
 0 patient.
            For example, individuals with neuromuscular weakness caused by congenital or genetic
   conditions, such as, but not limited to, muscular dystrophy, spinal muscular atrophy, and ALS,
   suffer from recurrent pneumonia due to poor cough clearance which leads to mucous stasis. In
   addition, individuals with acquired anatomic problems resulting in muscular weakness, such as
25 but not limited to, paraplegia, quadriplegia, diaphragmatic paralysis and the like, suffer the same
   fate. Other subjects, such as those suffering from excess mucous production due to conditions
   such as, but not limited to, asthma and status asthmaticus, those suffering from impaired
   immunity due to conditions such as, but not limited to, immunoglobulin deficiency, SCID, hyper
   IgE syndrome, and similar conditions, those suffering from anatomic respiratory abnormalities
30 impairing mucus clearance,
                                                     1

   and those suffering from recurrent pneumonia for unclear causes and those
   suffering   from   oropharnygeal abnormalities,      suffer   from atelectasis  and/or
   pneumonia due to excess mucus production that overwhelms the capacity of the
   mucociliary clearance apparatus to transport it effectively. These disorders due to
 5 or resulting in suboptimal mucous clearance and/or excess mucous production are a
   serious   recurrent problem     causing considerable morbidity and are also a
   contributing cause to mortality. Thus even in diseases where mucociliary clearance
   is normal, enhancement of mucociliary clearance to supernormal levels is beneficial
   to combat particular diseases.
10         The art is lacking      compounds     and treatment methods to augment
   mucociliary clearance and/or airway epithelial cell function. The art is particularly
   lacking compounds and treatment methods to enhance mucociliary clearance and/or
   airway epithelial cell function in subjects that do not have a congenital or genetic
   defect in the cellular mucociliary        clearance   apparatus and/or an acquired
15 abnormality in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus. Such compounds and
   treatment methods would offer substantial benefits to those subjects by treating
   conditions arising from suboptimal mucous clearance and/or excess mucous
   production and similar conditions.
           The present disclosure provides a solution to the problems encountered in
20 the art by providing compounds and treatment methods to enhance mucociliary
   clearance and/or airway epithelial cell function to overcome suboptimal mucous
   clearance and/or excess mucous production.         In addition, the present disclosure
   provides a solution to the problems encountered in the art by providing compounds
    and treatment methods to induce supra-normnal mnucociliary clearance to enhance
25  mucociliary   clearance  and/or    airway   epithelial  cell   function to overcome
    suboptimal mucous clearance and/or excess mucous production. Furthermore, the
    present disclosure provides the foregoing benefits in a subject wherein the subject is
    free from a congenital or genetic defect in the cellular mucociliary clearance
    apparatus and/or an acquired abnormality in the cellular mucociliary clearance
30  apparatus. In one embodiment, the suboptimal mucous clearance and/or increased
    mucous production is due to or associated with neuromuscular diseases, anatomic
                                           2

   respiratory abnormalities, acquired anatomic problems resulting in muscular
   weakness, anatomic weakness, asthma and status asthmaticus, relative susceptibility
   to respiratory infection (such as due to impaired immunity), and/or excess mucous
   production.
 5 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   FIG. I shows the CFTR potentiator ivacaftor augments wild-type CFTR activity.
   FIG. IA shows CFBE41.o- cells with and without complementary expression of
   wild type CFTR were grown at air-liquid interface, then mounted in Ussing
   chambers and stimulated with ivacaftor (VX-770; 10 pM) or vehicle control
10 following amiloride (100 vM) and forskolin (100 nM) in the setting of a Cl
   secretory gradient. CFBE41o- cells complemented by stable expression of WT
   CFTR (by a lentivirus promoter) are shown in comparison to CFBE410- cells
   without WT CFTR complementation (parental cells). *P < 0.05, **P < 0.005. n       =
   5/condition.
15 FIG. 11B shows representative Ise tracings of cells were sequentially exposed to
   forskolin (100 nM) and ivacaftor (VX-770; 10 pM) or vehicle control, followed by
   CFTR Inh-172 (10 pM) in the setting of amiloride (100 PM).
   FIG. 2 shows the CFTR potentiator ivacaftor augments ASL depth and increases
   mucociliary clearance,
20 FIG. 2A shows representative Z-scan confocal images derived from the surface of
   HBE cells following exposure to vehicle control or ivacaftor (VX-770; 10 pM) to
   the basolateral compartment for 24 h prior to assay. White scale bars designate 10
   pmi,
   FIG. 2B shows summary data from experiments shown in FIG. 2A. **P < 0,005, n
25  =   10/condition, Dotted line indicates ASL depth of a panel of CF IBE cells using
   the exact same method.
   FIG, 2C shows mucociliary transport rates derived from HBE cells. ivacaftor (VX
   770; 10 pM) or vehicle control was added to basolateral compartment of
   monolayers co-stimulated with the cAMP agonist VIP (30 nM) immediately after
30 the time = 0 h measurement. **:P            < 0.001 vs. vehicle control., n = 10
   particles/condition.
                                            3

   FIG. 21) shows representative SD-OCT images of fully-differentiated HBE cells
   were exposed to CSE (2%) or vehicle (media with 2% DMSO) apically and VX
   770 (10 pM) or vehicle (0.1% DMSO) basolaterally for 24 hrs. ASL depth is shown
   as red bar. White scale bar = 10 pnm.
 5 FIG. 3 shows the CFTR potentiator ivacaftor augments wild-type CFTR activity.
   FIG. 3A shows representative Ise tracing of bronchus derived from a normal human
   subject following dissection of the mucosal layer that was then mounted in an
   Using chamber under voltage clamp conditions and bathed in symmetric Ringer's
   solution. Serial addition of amiloride (100 pM), forskolin (100 nM), and ivacaftor
10 (VX-770; 10 pM) or vehicle control is shown, followed by addition of ATP (10
   pM), and CFTR hih-172 (10 pM x 2) as control additions.
   FIG. 3B shows summary data derived from experiments shown in FIG. 3A. The
   change in Ise following addition of ivacaftor (VX-770) or vehicle control is shown.
   *P < 0.05,n :: 19, 24 samples/condition,
15 FIG. 4 shows the effects of CFTR activators on airway epithelial function in human
   bronchial epithelial cells by pOCT. Control HBE cells containing a defective CFTR
   (designated control, CF) and HBE cells containing a WT-CFTR (designated control
   and VX-770, wild-type) received vehicle alone (control; 0.2% DMSO) or ivacaftor
   (10 p.M). Panels A-D show ASL depth (A), PCL depth (B), cilia beat frequency
20 (C), and mucociliary transport (MCT) rate (D) as quantified from pOCT images.
   FIG. 5 shows the effects of CFTR activators on airway epithelial function in human
   bronchial epithelial cells by pOCT. Panel A shows representative pOCT images of
   fully-differentiated HBE cells were exposed to vehicle (control; mediawith 2%
   DMSO), CSE (2%), CSE (2%) and ivacaftor (10 pM) or ivacaftor alone (10 pM ;
25 0.1% DMSO). CSE was applied apically and ivacaftor basolaterally. Cells were
   exposed to each condition for 24 hrs, ASL depth is shown as a dark bar. White
   scale bar = 10 pm. Panels B-D show ASL depth (B), cilia beat frequency (C), and
   mucociliary transport (MCT) rate (D) as quantified from pOCT images. Data are
   derived from 5 measures per well, and 3 wells per condition.
30 FIG. 6 shows the effects of CFTR activators on airway epithelial function in human
   bronchial tissue by pOCT.        Panels A-C show ASL depth, CBF and MCT,
                                          4

   respectively.    Panels A-C show ASL depth, CBF and MCT, respectively, in
   response to ivacaftor treatment (10 pM),
   FIG, 7 shows the effects of CFTR activators on airway epithelial function in intact
   porcine trachea by POCT. Panels A and B show representative iOCT images for a
 5 CFTR -/- (panel A) and CFTR +/+ (panel B) animal.            Panels C-F, respectively,
   show ASL depth, PCL depth, CBF and MCI' measurements derived from pOCT
   images from CFTR -/- and CFTR +/-I animals. Panels G and Hl show the response
   of epithelial functional parameters, namely ASL depth and MCT in CFTR -/- and
   CFTR      -/-- animals in response to sequential pharmacologic intervention by
10 ivacaftor (10 pM), forskolin (100 nM) and acetylcholine (100 pM).
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            Mucociliary transport and the function of the airway surface is an area of
   active study of the human respiratory system. In healthy airways, a layer of cilia
   continuously transports airway mucus, a vital mechanism for defense against
15 particulate contamination and biological invaders.
            Defects in mucociliary clearance are known in the art.          One common
   example is cystic fibrosis (CF).    CF is caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis
   transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). The CFTR is an epithelial anion
   channel expressed predominantly in exocrine tissues. Mutations in the gene
20 encoding CFTR are the proximate cause of CF. In the lung, loss of CFT'R function
   results in airway surface liquid (ASL) depletion, thickened mucous, reduced
   mucociliary clearance, chronic bacterial infection, and excess inflammation. Over
   time,    pulmonary obstruction due to inspissated respiratory          secretions and
   bronchiectasis ensues, resulting in respiratory failure.
25          CF and other conditions affecting mucociliary clearance are caused by
    congenital defects in the mucociliary clearance apparatus, such as, but not limited
    to, the CFTR. Compounds are known in the art that increase the activity of CFTR
    in subjects with congenital defects in the CFTR.
            However, the present disclosure is based on the enhancement of mucociliary
30  clearance and/or airway epithelial cell function in a subject with suboptimal mucous
    clearance and/or excess mucous production and on the enhancement of mucociliary
                                            5

   clearance and/or airway epithelial cell function in a subject with suboptimal mucous
   clearance and/or excess mucous production in a subject wherein the subject is free
   from congenital or genetic defect in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus
   and/or acquired abnormality in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus. As a
 5 result, the function of the mucociliary clearance apparatus is improved.
            Increasing or enhancing the activity of the cellular mucociliary clearance
   apparatus has important clinical significance, even among individuals without
   congenital or genetic defect in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus and/or
   acquired abnormality in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.             One
10 important member of the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus is the CFTR. As
   discussed above, mutations in the CFTR can lead to suboptimal mucous clearance,
   In one embodiment, the present disclosure employs compounds that increase the
   activity and/or function of the CFTR in subjects without congenital or genetic
   defect and/or acquired abnormality in the CFTR to enhance mucociliary clearance
15 in a subject. In one embodiment, niucociliary clearance is enhanced to supernormal
   levels.    Recently, the CFTR potentiator ivacaftor (KalydecoTM, VX-770) was
   recently approved for use in CF patients with the G551D-CFTR gating mutation
   based on marked improvements in phase 2 and 3 trials (Ramsey 13W, et al., The
   New EnglandJournal of'Medicine 2011;365:1663-1672; Accurso FJ et al., N Ei
20 J Med 2010:363:1991-2003).         Ivacaftor robustly enhances anion secretion by
   potentiating cAMP mediated CTR channel gating (Van Goor, F. et al., Proc Natl
   AcadSci USA 2009;106:18825-18830) leading to increased airway fluid secretion.
            The present disclosure is based on enhancing mucociliary clearance and/or
   airway epithelial cell function in a subject by increasing the activity of a component
25 of the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus in a subject. In one embodiment,
   the component of the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus is the CFTR. In one
   embodiment, the subject free from congenital or genetic defects in the cellular
   mucociliary clearance apparatus. In another embodiment, the subject is free from
   an acquired abnormality in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus. In another
30 embodiment, the subject is free from congenital or genetic defects in the cellular
                                            6

   mucociliary clearance apparatus and an acquired abnormality in the cellular
   mucociliary clearance apparatus.
            In one embodiment, the suboptimal mucociliary clearance in a subject is due
   to or associated with a neuromuscular disease. Neuromuscular disease may be
 5 caused by or associated with congenital or acquired genetic conditions, such as, but
   not limited to, muscular dystrophy, spinal muscular atrophy, ALS,
             In another embodiment, the suboptimal mucociliary clearance in a subject
   is due to or associated with an acquired anatomic problem resulting in muscular
   weakness. Such acquired anatomic problems resulting in muscular weakness may
10 be caused by or associated with conditions, such as, but not limited to, paraplegia,
   quadriplegia, and di aphragmatic paralysis.
            In still another embodiment, the suboptimal mucociliary clearance in a
   subject is due to or associated with excess mucous production,           Such excess
   mucous production may be caused by or associated with conditions, such as, but not
15 limited to, asthma and asthmaticus.
            In still another embodiment, the mucociliary clearance in a subject is normal
   but the subject suffers increased prevalence of respiratory infections due to immune
   deficiency.     Risk of respiratory infection could be reduced by enhancement of
   mucociliary clearance.
20          In any of the foregoing embodiment, the subject is free from a congenital or
   genetic defect in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus and/or an acquired
   abnormality in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus. In one embodiment of
    the foregoing, mucociliary clearance is enhanced to supranormal levels. In one
   embodiment of the foregoing, an acquired abnormality in the cellular mucociliary
25 clearance apparatus may be due to envirot mental factors, such as, but not limited
   to, smoking or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
            Compounds useful in the methods disclosed herein include any known
    activators of the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus. In one embodiment, such
30  activators are CFTR activator compounds. In one embodiment, the CFTR activator
    is a CFTR potentiator. Known CFTR potentiators include, but are not limited to, are
                                             7

   anthracene-9-carboxylic    acid (9-Anthroic acid), phloxine B, benzimidazolone
   analogs        NS004          and       NS1619,       genistein,       7-n-Butyl-6-(4
   hydroxyphenyl)[5H]pyrrolo[2,3-b]pyrazine      (aloisine A), 2-2-(1 H-indol-3-yl)-N
   methylacetamido)-N-(4-i sopropylphenyl)-2-phenylacetamide             (PG01),       N
 5 cycloheptyl-6-(N-ethyl-N-phenylsulfamoyl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3
   carboxamide      (SF01     ),    sulfonamide    6-(N-ethyl-N-phenylsulfamoyl)-N-(2
   methoxybenzyl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide
   (SF03 ), capsaicin and curcumin.
           In one embodiment, the compound is a compound of the general formula I
10 below.
                 H
                       N                R2
                              H
                                                R3
   In this structure, R2 and R3 are each independently, H, OH or substituted or
   unsubstituted C1 -C7 alkyl chains and Ri is OH or H.
           As used herein, the term "alkyl", whether used alone or as part of a
15 substituent or linking group, includes straight hydrocarbon groups comprising from
   one to 4 carbon atoms. Thus the phrase includes straight chain alkyl groups such as
   methyl, ethyl, propyl and the like. The phrase also includes branched chain isomers
   of straight chain alkyl groups, including but not limited to, the following which are
   provided by way of example: -CH(CH 3)2, -C(CH3)3,
20 CH(CH)(CH 2CH3), -CH(CI2CI3)2, and others. The phrase also includes cyclic
   alkyl groups such as cyclopropyl and cyclobutyl.
           In one embodiment, each of R 2 and R3 is -C(CH)3 and R1 is OH.
           In a specific embodiment, the compound is ivacaftor (VX-770), and has the
   structure shown in IL
25
                                            8

                H                      CH 3
                N               H3 C      -H
                              H
                              N,
                                                  CNXH
                                                     3
                                       OH       C H                   13
           In one embodiment, the CFTR activator compound is a CFTR potentiator.
   In another embodiment, the CFT lR activator compound is a compound of the
   general formula L, in still another embodiment, the CFTR activator compound is
 5 ivacaftor (VX-770).
           In another embodiment the CFTR activator compound is roflumilast and
   other PDE analogues that activate CFTR through elevation of cAMP,
           In another embodiment, the CFTR activator is a flavonoid such as an
   isoflavone (e.g. genistein, quercetin, etc.)
10         In another embodiment, the CFTR activator is an agonist of cAMP or PKA,
           In another embodiment, the agent could activate other modulators of anion
   transport, such as calcium activated chloride channels.
   Methods of Treatment
           The present disclosure shows that activators of the cellular mucociliary
15 clearance apparatus, such as but not limited to, a CFTR activator, are effective in
   enhancing mucociliary clearance and/or airway epithelial cell function in a subject.
   Therefore, such compounds are effective in treating suboptinial mucociliary
   clearance in a subject. In one embodiment, such compounds are compounds of the
   general formula L The present disclosure further shows that compounds effective
20 in increasing activity and/or function of the CFTR are effective in enhancing
   mucociliary clearance and/or airway epithelial cell function in a subject, thereby
   increasing mucociliary clearance in the subject.        The foregoing benefits are
   achieved even in cases where the mucociliary apparatus is considered to function
   normally. In one embodiment, such compounds induce mucociliary clearance to
25 supernormal levels in a subject through enhancement of a component of the
   mucociliary clearance apparatus.
                                            9

            The present disclosure further shows that such compounds are effective in
   increasing a parameter of airway epithelial cells function. Relevant parameters of
   airway epithelial cell function include, but are not limited to, depth of airway
   surface liquid (ASL), depth of periciliary liquid (PC.:), ciliary beat frequency
 5 (C:BF) and rate of mucociliary transport (MCT).         In one embodiment, a single
   parameter     of airway epithelial cell function is increased.       In an alternate
   embodiment, two or more parameters of airway epithelial cell fimetion are
   increased. In an alternate embodiment, three or more parameters of airway
   epithelial cell function are increased.   In an alternate embodiment, all four more
10 parameters of airway epithelial cell function are increased.          In a particular
   embodiment, the rate of MCT is increased. In a particular embodiment, the depth of
   ASL is increased. In a particular embodiment, depth of the ASL and the rate of
   MCT are increased. In another particular embodiment, depth of the ASL, CBF and
   the rate of MC T are increased. In another particular embodiment, depth of the ASL,
15 depth of PCL and the rate of MCT are increased. In another particular embodiment,
   depth of the ASL, depth of PCL, CBF and the rate of MCT are increased,             In
   another particular embodiment, mucus viscosity is improved (i.e., decreased) as a
   result of increasing a parameter of airway epithelial cell function.       In certain
    embodiments. mucous viscosity is improved without a noticeable difference or
20  corresponding improvement in an airway epithelial cell parameter, such as depth of
   ASL, depth of PCL or CBF. Improvements in mucus viscosity may result from
    augnienting fluid and/or bicarbonate transfer via the CFTR or calcium activated
    chloride channels.
             As a result of increasing one or more parameters of airway epithelial cell
25  function, mucociliary clearance in the subject is enhanced,     In one embodiment,
    mucociliary clearance is enhanced to supernormal levels,      In one embodiment of
    each of the foregoing, the subject is free from congenital or genetic defect in the
    cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus. In one embodiment of the foregoing, the
    subject is free from a congenital or genetic defect in the CFTR. In one embodiment
30  of the foregoing, the subject is free from an acquired abnormality in the cellular
                                           10

   mucociliary clearance apparatus. In one embodiment of the foregoing, the subject is
   free from an acquired abnormality in the CFT R.
           In one embodiment, the present disclosure provides methods for treating
   suboptimal mucociliary clearance in a subject. Such method comprises the step of
 5 administering to the subject an amount of an activator compound capable of
   enhancing the activity of the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.      In one
   embodiment, such activator compound is a CFTR activator or a pharmacologically
   acceptable salt thereof,     In one embodiment, such administration enhances the
   activity and/or function of the CFTR.        In another embodiment, the activator
10 compound activates, directly or indirectly, other anion transport mechanisms, such
   as, but not limited to, calcium activated chloride channels. In another embodiment
   of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary clearance in a subject. In
   another embodiment of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary
   clearance in a subject to supernormal levels.    In still another embodiment of this
15 method, such administration increases a parameter of airway epithelial cell
   function. In one aspect of this embodiment, such parameter is depth of ASL, depth
   of PCL, CBF, rate of MCT or any combination of the foregoing. In another aspect
   such parameter is depth of ASL, rate of MCT or a combination of the foregoing.
           In another embodiment, the present disclosure provides methods for
20 increasing mucociliary clearance in a subject, Such method comprises the step of
   administering to the subject an amount of an activator compound capable of
   enhancing the activity of the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.      In one
   embodiment, such activator compound is a CFTR activator or a pharmacologically
   acceptable salt thereof,     In one embodiment, such administration enhances the
25 activity and/or function of the CFTR.        In another embodiment, the activator
   compound activates, directly or indirectly, other anion transport mechanisms, such
   as, but not limited to, calcium activated chloride channels. In another embodiment
   of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary clearance in a subject. In
   another embodiment of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary
30 clearance in a subject to supernormal levels. In still another embodiment of this
   method, such administration increases a parameter of airway epithelial cell
                                           11

   function, in one aspect of this embodiment, such parameter is depth of ASL, depth
   of PCL, CBF, rate of MCT or any combination of the foregoing, In another aspect
   such parameter is depth of ASL, rate of MCT or a combination of the foregoing.
           In another embodiment, the present disclosure provides methods for
 5 increasing the activity of the CFTR in a subject. Such method comprises the step of
   administering to the subject an amount of an activator compound capable of
   enhancing the activity of the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.         In one
   embodiment, such activator compound is a CFTR activator or a pharmacologically
   acceptable salt thereof.     In one embodiment, such administration enhances the
10 activity and/or function of the CFTR. In another embodiment of this method, such
   administration enhances mucociliary clearance in a subject. In another embodiment
   of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary clearance in a subject to
   supernormal    levels.     In   still another  embodiment    of this  method,     such
   administration increases a parameter of airway epithelial cell function.        In one
15 aspect of this embodiment, such parameter is depth of ASL, depth of PCL, CB3F,
   rate of MCT or any combination of the foregoing. In another aspect such parameter
   is depth of AS L, rate of MCT or a combination of the foregoing.
           In another embodiment, the present disclosure provides methods for
   improving mucus viscosity (i.e,, decreased mucus viscosity) in a subject.         Such
20 method comprises the step of administering to the subject an amount of an activator
   compound capable of enhancing the activity of the cellular mucociliary clearance
   apparatus, Methods for determining viscosity of mucus are known in the art and
   include   in   suit   fluorescence    after  photobleaching   and  particle   tracking
   microrheology. In one embodiment, such activator compound is a CFTR activator
25 or a pharmacologically       acceptable salt thereof.     In one embodiment, such
   administration enhances the activity and/or function of the CFTR,           In another
   embodiment, the activator compound activates, directly or indirectly, other anion
   transport mechanisms, such as, but not limited to, calcium activated chloride
   channels, In another embodiment of this method, such administration enhances
30 mucociliary clearance in a subject. In another embodiment of this method, such
   administration enhances mucociliary clearance in a subject to supernormal levels.
                                             12

   In one embodiment of this method, mucus viscosity is improved as a result of
   increasing a parameter of airway epithelial cell function, such as, but not limited to,
   depth of ASL, depth of PCL, CBF and rate of MCT. In one embodiment of this
   method, mucous viscosity is improved without              a noticeable   difference or
 5 corresponding improvement in an airway epitheliaI cell parameter, such as depth of
   ASL, depth of PCL or CBF. In such embodiment, improvements in mucus viscosity
   may result from augmenting fluid and/or bicarbonate transfer via the activation of
   the CFTR or calcium activated chloride channels.
           In another embodiment, the present disclosure provides methods for
10 enhancing a parameter of airway epithelial cell function in a subject. Such method
   comprises the step of administering to the subject an amount of an activator
   compound capable of enhancing the activity of the cellular mucociliary clearance
   apparatus. In one embodiment, such activator compound is a CFTR activator or a
   pharmacologically acceptable salt thereof, In one embodiment, such administration
15 enhances the activity and/or function of the CFTR. In another embodiment, the
   activator  compound     activates,  directly or indirectly,    other anion transport
   mechanisms, such as, but not limited to, calcium activated chloride channels. In
   another embodiment of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary
   clearance in a subject. In another embodiment of this method, such administration
20 enhances mucociliary clearance in a subject to supernormal levels. In one aspect of
   this embodiment, such parameter is depth of ASL, depth of PCL, CBF, rate of MCT
   or any combination of the foregoing. In another aspect such parameter is increasing
   the depth of ASL. In yet another aspect such parameter is increasing the rate of
   MCT. In still a further aspect., such parameter is increasing the depth of ASL and
25 increasing the rate of MCT. In still a further aspect, such parameter is increasing the
   depth of ASL, increasing the depth of PCL, increasing CBF, increasing the rate of
   MCT or a combination of the foregoing.
           In another embodiment, the present disclosure provides methods for
   increasing the rate of MCT in a subject.         Such method comprises the step of
30 administering to the subject an amount of an activator compound capable of
   enhancing the activity of the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus,          In one
                                           13

   embodiment, such activator compound is a CFTR activator or a pharmacologically
   acceptable salt thereof.    In one embodiment, such administration enhances the
   activity and/or function of the CFTR. In another embodiment, the activator
   compound activates, directly or indirectly, other anion transport mechanisms, such
 5 as, but not limited to. calcium activated chloride channels. In another embodiment
   of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary clearance in a subject. In
   another embodiment of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary
   clearance in a subject to supernormal levels. In still another embodiment of this
   method, such administration increases the rate of MCT as well as increases in
10 addition to another parameter of airway epithelial cell function.   In one aspect of
   this embodiment, such parameter is depth of ASL, depth of PCL, CBF or any
   combination of the foregoing. In another aspect such parameter is depth of ASL.
           In another embodiment, the present disclosure provides methods for
   increasing the depth of ASL in a subject.       Such method comprises the step of
15 administering to the subject an amount of an activator compound capable of
   enhancing the activity of the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.      In one
   embodiment, such activator compound is a CFTR activator or a pharmacologically
   acceptable salt thereof.    In one embodiment, such administration enhances the
   activity and/or function of the CFTR. In another embodiment, the activator
20 compound activates, directly or indirectly, other anion transport mechanisms, such
   as, but not limited to, calcium activated chloride channels. In another embodiment
   of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary clearance in a subject. In
   another embodiment of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary
   clearance in a subject to supernormal levels. In still another embodiment of this
25 method, such administration increases the depth of ASL as well as increases in
   addition to another parameter of airway epithelial cell function. In one aspect of
   this embodiment, such parameter is depth of PCL, CBF, rate of MCT or any
   combination of the foregoing. In another aspect such parameter is rate of MCT.
           In another embodiment, the present disclosure provides methods for
30 increasing the depth of PCL in a subject.      Such method comprises the step of
   administering to the subject an amount of an activator compound capable of
                                          14

   enhancing the activity of the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.     In one
   embodiment, such activator compound is a CFTR activator or a pharmacologically
   acceptable salt thereof.    In one embodiment, such administration enhances the
   activity and/or function of the CFIR. In another embodiment, the activator
 5 compound activates, directly or indirectly, other anion transport mechanisms, such
   as, but not limited to, calcium activated chloride channels. In another embodiment
   of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary clearance in a subject. In
   another embodiment of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary
   clearance in a subject to supernormal levels. In still another embodiment of this
10 method, such administration increases the depth of PCL as well as increases in
   addition to another parameter of airway epithelial cell function. In one aspect of
   this embodiment, such parameter is depth of ASL, CBF, rate of MCT or any
   combination of the foregoing. In another aspect such parameter is depth of ASL,
   rate of MCT or a combination of the foregoing.
15         In another embodiment, the present disclosure provides methods for
   increasing CBF in a subject. Such method comprises the step of administering to
   the subject an amount of an activator compound capable of enhancing the activity
   of the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus. In one embodiment, such activator
   compound is a CFTR activator or a pharmacologically acceptable salt thereof. In
20 one embodiment, such administration enhances the activity and/or function of the
   CFTIR. In another embodiment, the activator compound activates, directly or
   indirectly, other anion transport mechanisms, such as, but not limited to, calcium
   activated   chloride channels.    In another embodiment      of this method, such
   administration enhances mucociliary clearance in a subject. In another embodiment
25 of this method, such administration enhances mucociliary clearance in a subject to
   supernormal levels. In still another embodiment of this method, such administration
   increases CBF as well as increases in addition to another parameter of airway
   epithelial cell function. In one aspect of this embodiment, such parameter is depth
   of AS.L, depth of PCL, rate of MCT or any combination of the foregoing. In another
30 aspect such parameter is depth of ASL, rate of MCT or a combination of the
   foregoing.
                                           15

           In one aspect of the foregoing methods, the subject is free from congenital
   or genetic defects in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus, In another aspect
   of the foregoing methods, the subject is free from an acquired abnormality in the
   cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus. In still another aspect of the foregoing
 5 methods, the subject is free from congenital or genetic defects in the cellular
   mucociliary clearance apparatus and an acquired abnormality in the cellular
   mucociliary clearance apparatus. In still another aspect of the foregoing methods,
   the subject is free from a congenital or genetic defect in the CFTR. In still another
   aspect of the foregoing methods, the subject is free from an acquired abnormality in
10 the CFTR.
           In one aspect of the foregoing methods, suboptimal mucociliary clearance in
   a subject is due to or associated with a neuromuscular disease, Neuromuscular
   disease may be caused by or associated with congenital or acquired genetic
   conditions, such as, but not limited to, muscular dystrophy, spinal muscular
15 atrophy, ALS.
             In another aspect of the foregoing methods, the suboptimal mucociliary
   clearance in a subject is due to or associated with an acquired anatomic problem
   resulting in muscular weakness, Such acquired anatomic problems resulting in
   muscular weakness may be caused by or associated with conditions, such as, but
20 not limited to, paraplegia, quadriplegia, and diaphragmatic paralysis.
           In still another aspect of the foregoing methods, the mucociliary clearance in
   a subject is normal but suffers increased prevalence of respiratory infections due to
   immune deficiency.          Risk of respiratory    infection could   be reduced by
   augmentation of mucociliary clearance.
25         In yet another aspect of the foregoing methods, the suboptimal mucociliary
   clearance in a subject is due to or associated with excess mucous production. Such
   excess mucous production may be caused by or associated with conditions, such as,
   but not limited to, asthma and asthmaticus.
            In still a further aspect of the foregoing         methods, the suboptimal
30 mucociliary clearance in a subject is due to or associated with environmental
   factors, Such environmental factors include, but are not limited to, smoking.
                                             16

           In one aspect of the foregoing methods, the compound is a CFTR activator
   compound.      In another aspect of the foregoing methods, the CFTR activator is a
   CFTR potentiator. In still another aspect of the foregoing methods, the CFTR
   activator compound is a compound of the compounds of the general formula I In
 5 yet another aspect of the foregoing methods, the CFTR activator compound is
   ivacaftor (VX-770).       In another aspect of the foregoing methods, the CFTR
   activator is a cAMP elevating agonist, such as, but not limited to, roflumilast. In
   another aspect of the foregoing methods, the CFTR activator compound is a PDE
   analogue that activates CFTR through elevation of cAMP. In another aspect of the
10 foregoing methods,the CFTR activator is a flavonoid such as, but not limited to, an
   isoflavone.     Suitable isoflavones include, but are not limited to, genistein, and
   quercetin. In another aspect of the foregoing methods, the CFTR activator is an
   agonist of cAMP or PKA. In another aspect of the foregoing methods, the
   compound activates other anion transports, such as, but not limited to, calcium
15 activated chloride channels.
           In still another aspect of the foregoing methods, the compound may
   administered alone or as a part of a pharmaceutical composition as described
   herein.   A single compound of the present disclosure may be administered or
   multiple compounds of the present disclosure may be administered. In one aspect
20 of this embodiment, the compound is a compound of the general formula .
   Furthermore, in still another aspect of the foregoing methods, the compound
   administered is ivacaftor (VX-770),
           In still another aspect of the foregoing methods, the subject is determined to
   be in need of such treatment. In still another aspect of the foregoing methods, the
25 compound is administered in a therapeutically effective amount.
           In yet another aspect of the foregoing methods, the subject may be a
   mammal. In certain embodiments, the subject is a human.
           In still another aspect of the foregoing methods, the subjects treated can be
   further treated with one or more additional active agents.         The one or more
30 additional active agents and the compounds described herein or pharmaceutically
   acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof, can be administered together in a single
                                            17

   composition or in separate compositions in any order, including simultaneous
   administration, as well as temporally spaced on the order of up to several days
   apart. The methods can also include more than a single administration of the one or
   more additional     active agents and/or the compounds         described  herein   or
 5 pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof, The administration of the
   one   or more     additional  agents   and the compounds      described   herein   or
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof can be by the same or
   different routes and concurrently or sequentially.
           In still another aspect of the foregoing methods, the compounds of the
10 present disclosure are administered at a dose of 75-750 mg/day. The compounds of
   the present disclosure may be administered once per day, twice per day or more
   than twice per day. In one embodiment, the compound is ivacaftor (VX-770) and
   the compound is administered 1-2 times per day for a total dose of 300 mg/day.
   Pharmaceutical Compositions
15         Pharmaceutical compositions are provided that comprise an amount of a
   compound of the present disclosure.        In one embodiment, such pharmaceutical
   compositions contain a therapeutically effective amount of a compound.           In a
   particular embodiment, the compound is a compound of the general formula I, such
   as, but not limited to, ivacaftor (VX-770). In addition, other active agents may be
20 included in such pharmaceutical compositions. Additional active agents to be
   included may be selected based on the disease or condition to be treated.
           The pharmaceutical compositions disclosed may comprise one or more
   compound of the present disclosure, alone or in combination with additional active
   agents, in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.      Examples of
25 such carriers and methods of formulation may be found in Remington: The Science
   and Practice of Pharmacy (20h Ed., Lippincott, Williams & Wilkins, Daniel
   Limmer, editor).       Such pharmaceutical     compositions may be used in the
   manufacture of a medicament for use in the methods of treatment and prevention
   described herein. The compounds of the disclosure are useful in both free form and
30 in the form of pharmaceutically acceptable salts.
                                           18

           The pharmaceutically acceptable carriers described herein, including, but
   not limited to, vehicles, adjuvants, excipients, or diluents, are well-known to those
   who are skilled in the art. Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients are also well
   known to those who are skilled in the art. The choice of excipient will be
 5 determined in part by the particular compound(s), as well as by the particular
   method used to administer the composition. Accordingly, there is a wide variety of
   suitable formulations of the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention.
   The following methods and excipients are merely exemplary and are in no way
   limiting. Suitable carriers and excipients include solvents such as water, alcohol,
10 and propylene glycol, solid absorbants and diluents, surface active agents,
   suspending agent, tableting binders, lubricants, flavors, and coloring agents. The
   pharmaceutically acceptable carriers can include polymers and polymer matrices.
   Typically, the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is chemically inert to the active
   agents in the composition and has no detrimental side effects or toxicity under the
15 conditions of use.
           The compounds of the present disclosure and pharmaceutical compositions
   containing such compounds as described in the instant disclosure can be
   administered by any conventional method available for use in conjunction with
   pharmaceuticals, either as individual therapeutic agents or in combination with
20 additional therapeutic agents.
           In one embodiment,        the compounds     of the    present disclosure are
   administered in therapeutically effective amount, whether alone or as a part of a
   pharmaceutical composition. The therapeutically effective amount and the dosage
   administered will, of course, vary depending upon known factors, such as the
25 pharmacodynamic characteristics of the particular agent and its mode and route of
   administration, the age, health and weight of the recipient: the severity and stage of
   the disease state or condition; the kind of concurrent treatment; the frequency of
   treatment; and the effect desired.
           The total amount of the compound administered will also be determined by
30 the route, timing and frequency of administration as well as the existence, nature,
   and extent of any adverse side effects that might accompany the administration of
                                          19

   the compound and the desired physiological effect. It will be appreciated by one
   skilled in the art that various conditions or disease states, in particular chronic
   conditions or disease states, may require prolonged treatment involving multiple
   administrations,
 5         In these pharmaceutical compositions, the compound(s) of the present
   disclosure will ordinarily be present in an amount of about 0.5-95% weight based
   on the total weight of the composition. Multiple dosage forms may be administered
   as part of a single treatment.
           The active agent can be administered enterally in solid dosage forms, such
10 as capsules, tablets, and powders, or in liquid dosage forms, such as milk, elixirs,
   syrups and suspensions. It can also be administered parenterally, in sterile liquid
   dosage forms. The compound(s) of the present disclosure can also be administered
   intranasally (nose drops) or by inhalation via the pulmonary system, such as by
   propellant based metered dose inhalers or dry powders inhalation devices, Other
15 dosage forms are potentially possible such as administration transdermally, via
   patch mechanism or ointment.
           Formulations suitable for enteral or oral administration may be liquid
   solutions, such as a therapeutically effective amount of the compound(s) dissolved
   in diluents, such as milk, water, saline, buffered solutions, infant formula, other
20 suitable carriers, or combinations thereof. The compound(s) can then be mixed to
   the diluent just prior to administration. In an alternate embodiment, formulations
   suitable for enteral or oral administration may be capsules, sachets, tablets,
   lozenges, and troches, In each embodiment, the formulation may contain a
   predetermined amount of the compound(s) of the present disclosure, as solids or
25 granules, powders, suspensions and suitable emulsions. Liquid formulations may
   include diluents, such as water and alcohols, for example, ethanol, benzy alcohol,
   propylene glycol, glycerin, and the polyethylene alcohols, either with or without the
   addition of a pharmaceutically       acceptable surfactant, suspending      agent, or
   emulsifying agent. Capsule forms can be of the ordinary hard- or soft-shelled
30 gelatin type containing, for example, surfactants, lubricants, and inert fillers, such
   as lactose, sucrose, calcium phosphate, and corn starch. Tablet forms can include
                                          20

   one or more of the following: lactose, sucrose, muannitol, corn starch, potato starch,
   alginic acid, microcrystalline cellulose, acacia, gelatin, guar gum, colloidal silicon
   dioxide, croscarmellose sodium, tale, magnesium stearate, calcium stearate, zinc
   stearate, stearic acid, and other excipients, colorants, diluents, buffering agents,
 5 disintegrating agents, moistening agents, preservatives, flavoring agents, and
   pharmacologically compatible carriers.
           Lozenge forms can comprise the active ingredient in a flavor, usually
   sucrose and acacia or tragacanth, as well as pastilles comprising the active
   ingredient in an inert base, such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and acadia,
10 emulsions, and gels containing, in addition to the active ingredient, such carriers as
   are known in the art
           Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and
   non-aqueous, isotonic sterile injection solutions, which can contain anti-oxidants,
   buffers, bacteriostats, and solutes that render the formulation isotonic with the
15 blood of the patient, and aqueous and non-aqueous sterile suspensions that can
   include   suspending agents, solubilizers, thickening agents,          stabilizers, and
   preservatives. The compound(s) can be administered in a physiologically acceptable
   diluent in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, such as a sterile liquid or mixture
   of liquids, including water, saline, aqueous dextrose and related sugar solutions, an
20 alcohol, such as ethanol, isopropanol, or hexadecyl alcohol, glycols, such as
   propylene glycol or polyethylene glycol such as poly(ethyleneglycol) 400, glycerol
   ketals, such as 2,2 -diimethyl-1,3-dioxolane-4-methanol, ethers, an oil, a fatty acid, a
   fatty acid ester or glyceride, or an acetylated fatty acid glyceride with or without the
   addition of a pharmaceutically acceptable surfactant, such as a soap or a detergent,
25 suspending       agent,     such     as     pectin,     carbomers,     methylcellulose,
   hydroxypropylmethylcellulose, or carboxymethylcellulose, or emulsifying agents
   and other pharmaceutical adjuvants.
            Oils, w'hich can be used in parenteral formulations include petroleum,
   animal, vegetable, or synthetic oils. Specific examples of oils include peanut,
30 soybean, sesame, cottonseed, corn, olive, petrolatum, and mineral. Suitable fatty
   acids for use in parenteral formulations include oleic acid, stearic acid, and
                                            21

   isostearic acid. Ethyl oleate and isopropyl myristate are examples of suitable fatty
   acid esters. Suitable soaps for use in parenteral formulations include fatty alkali
   metal, ammonium, and triethanolamine salts, and suitable detergents include (a)
   cationic detergents such as, for example, dimethyldialkylammonium halides, and
 5 alkylpyridinium halides, (b) anionic detergents such as, for example, alkyl, aryl, and
   olefin   suifonates.   alkyl,  olefin,  ether,  and   monoglyceride      sulfates, and
   sulfosuccinates, (c) nonionic detergents such as, for example, fatty amine oxides,
   fatty acid alkanolamides, and polyoxyethylene polypropylene copolymers., (d)
   amphoteric detergents such as, for example, alkyl       -beta.-aminopropionates,and 2
10 alkylimidazoline quaternary ammonium salts, and (e) mixtures thereof.
           The parenteral formulations typically contain from about 0.5% to about 50%
   by weight of the compound(s) in solution. Suitable preservatives and buffers can be
   used in such formulations. In order to minimize or eliminate irritation at the site of
   injection, such compositions may contain one or more nonionic surfactants having a
15 hydrophile-lipophile balance (HILB) of from about 12 to about 17. The quantity of
   surfactant in such formulations ranges from about 5% to about 15% by weight.
    Suitable surfactants include polyethylene sorbitan fatty acid esters, such as sorbitan
   monooleate and the high molecular weight adducts of ethylene oxide with a
   hydrophobic base, formed by the condensation of propylene oxide with propylene
20 glycol.
            The compound(s) of the present disclosure can be formulated into aerosol
    formulations to be administered via nasal or pulmonary inhalation. These aerosol
    formulations can be placed into pressurized acceptable propellants, such as
    dichlorodifluoromethane, propane, and nitrogen. Such aerosol formulations may be
25  administered by metered dose inhalers.          They also may be formulated as
   pharmaceuticals for non-pressured preparations, such as in a nebulizer or an
    atomizer.
            The compound(s) of the present disclosure, alone or in combination with
    other suitable components, may be administered in an aqueous solution as a nasal
30  or pulmonary spray and may be dispensed in spray form by a variety of methods
    known to those skilled in the art. Systems for dispensing liquids as a nasal spray are
                                           22

   disclosed in U.S. Pat, No. 4,511,069. The formulations may be presented in multi
   dose containers, for example in the sealed dispensing system disclosed in U.S. Pat.
   No. 4,511,069. Additional aerosol delivery forms may include, e.g., compressed
   air-, jet-, ultrasonic-, and piezoelectric nebulizers, which deliver the active agent
 5 dissolved or suspended in a pharmaceutical solvent, e.g., water, ethanol, or a
   mixture thereof
            Nasal and pulmonary solutions of the present invention typically comprise
   the drug or drug to be delivered, optionally formulated with a surface-active agent,
   such as a nonionic surfactant (e.g., polysorbate-80), and one or more buffers. In
10 some embodiments of the present invention, the nasal spray solution further
   comprises a propellant. The pH of the nasal spray solution is optionally between
   about p.H 3.0 and 6.0, preferably 4.5.+-.0.5. Suitable buffers for use within these
   compositions are as described above or as otherwise known in the art. Other
   components may be added to enhance or maintain chemical stability, including
15 preservatives, surfactants, dispersants, or gases. Suitable preservatives include, but
   are not limited to, phenol, methyl paraben, paraben, m-cresol, thiomersal,
   chlorobutanol,     benzyialkonimum    chloride, and the like. Suitable surfactants
   include, but are not limited to, oleic acid, sorbitan trioleate, polysorbates, lecithin,
   phosphatidyl cholines, and various long chain diglycerides and phospholipids.
20 Suitable dispersants include, but are not limited to, ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid,
   and the like. Suitable gases include, but are not limited to, nitrogen, helium,
   chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), carbon dioxide, air, and
   the like.
            Within alternate embodiments, nasal and pulmonary formulations are
25 administered as dry powder formulations comprising the active agent in a dry,
   usually lyophilized, form of an appropriate particle size, or within an appropriate
   particle size range, for intranasal delivery. Minimum particle size appropriate for
   deposition within the nasal or pulmonary passages is often about 0.5 pim. mass
   median equivalent aerodynamic diameter (MMEAD), commonly about I pm
30 MMIEAD, and more typically about 2 pm MMEAD. Maximum particle size
   appropriate for deposition within the nasal passages is often about 10 p.mm MMEIAD,
                                            23

   commonly about 8 pm MMEAD, and more typically about 4 pm MMEAD.
   Intrarasally and pulmonaryly respirable powders within these size ranges can be
   produced by a variety of conventional techniques, such as jet milling, spray drying,
   solvent precipitation, supercritical fluid condensation, and the like. These dry
 5 powders of appropriate       MMEAD can be administered to a patient via a
   conventional dry powder inhaler (DPI), which relies on the patient's breath, upon
   pulmonary or nasal inhalation, to disperse the power into an aerosolized amount.
   Alternatively, the dry powder may be administered via air-assisted devices that use
   an external power source to disperse the powder into an aerosolized amount, e.g., a
10 piston pump,
           To formulate compositions for nasal or pulmonary delivery, the active agent
   can be combined with various pharmaceutically acceptable additives, as well as a
   base or carrier for dispersion of the active agent(s). Desired additives include, but
   are not limited to, pH control agents, such as arginine, sodium hydroxide, glycine,
15 hydrochloric acid, citric acid, etc. In addition, local anesthetics (e.g., benzyl
   alcohol), isotonizing agents (e.g,, sodium chloride, mannitol, sorbitol), adsorption
   inhibitors (e.g., Tween 80), solubility enhancing agents (e.g., cyclodextrins and
   derivatives thereof), stabilizers (e.g., serum albumin), and reducing agents (e.g.,
   glutathione) can be included, When the composition for nasal or pulmonary
20 delivery is a liquid, the tonicity of the formulation, as measured with reference to
   the tonicity of 0.9% (w/v) physiological saline solution taken as unity, is typically
   adjusted to a value at which no substantial, irreversible tissue damage will be
   induced in the nasal mucosa at the site of administration. Generally, the tonicity of
   the solution is adjusted to a value of about 1/3 to 3, more typically 1/2 to 2, and
25 most often 3/4 to 1.7.
           The compound(s) of the present disclosure may be dispersed in a base or
   vehicle, which may comprise a hydrophilic compound having a capacity to disperse
   the active agent and any desired additives, The base may be selected from a wide
   range   of suitable    carriers,  including  but not    limited  to,  copolymers   of
30 polycarboxylic acids or salts thereof, carboxylic anhydrides (e.g., maleic anhydride)
   with other monomers (e.g., methyl (meth)acrylate, acrylic acid, etc.), hydrophilic
                                           24

   vinyl polymers such as polyvinyl acetate, polyvinyl alcohol, polyvinylpyrrolidone,
   cellulose derivatives such as hydroxymethylcellulose, hydroxypropyleellulose, etc.,
   and natural polymers        such as chitosan, collagen, sodium      alginate, gelatin,
   hyaluronic acid, and nontoxic metal salts thereof. Often, a biodegradable polymer is
 5 selected as a base or carrier, for example, polylactic acid, poly(lactic acid-glycolic
   acid) copolymer, polyhydroxybutyric acid, poly(hydroxybutyric acid-glycolic acid)
   copolymer and mixtures thereof. Alternatively or additionally, synthetic fatty acid
   esters such as polyglycerin fatty acid esters, sucrose fatty acid esters, etc. can be
   employed as carriers. Hydrophilic polymers and other carriers can be used alone or
10 in combination, and enhanced structural integrity can be imparted to the carrier by
   partial crystallization, ionic bonding, crosslinking and the like. The carrier can be
   provided in a variety of forms, including, fluid or viscous solutions, gels, pastes.,
   powders, microspheres and films for direct application to the nasal mucosa.. The use
   of a selected carrier in this context may result in promotion of absorption of the
15 active agent.
            The compounds of the present disclosure may alternatively contain as
   pharmaceutically     acceptable   carriers substances  as required    to approximate
   physiological conditions, such as pH adjusting and buffering agents, tonicity
   adjusting agents, wetting agents and the like, for example, sodium acetate, sodium
20 lactate,   sodium     chloride,  potassium   chloride,  calcium    chloride,  sorbitan
   monolaurate, triethanolamine oleate, etc. For solid compositions, conventional
   nontoxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers can be used which include, for
   example, pharmaceutical grades of rnannitol, lactose, starch, magnesium stearate,
   sodium saccharin, talcum, magnesium carbonate, and the like.
25          Compositions of the present disclosure can also be formulated as a solution,
   microemulsion, or other ordered structure suitable for high concentration of active
   ingredients. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing, for
   example, water, ethanol, polyol (for example, glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid
   polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof. Proper fluidity for
30 solutions can be maintained, for example, by the use of a coating such as lecithin,
                                            25

   by the maintenance of a desired particle size in the case of dispersible formulations,
   and by the use of surfactants.
            In certain embodiments, compound(s) and compositions of the present
   disclosure are administered in a time-release formulation, for example in a
 5 composition which includes a slow release polymer. Such compositions can be
   prepared with carriers that will protect against rapid release, for example a
   controlled release vehicle such as a polymer, microencapsulated delivery system or
   bioadhesive gel. Prolonged delivery, in various compositions of the invention can
   be brought about by including in the composition agents that delay absorption, for
10 example, aluminum monosterate hydrogels and gelatin. When controlled release
   formulations is desired, controlled release binders suitable for use in accordance
   with the invention include any biocompatible controlled-release material which is
   inert to the active agent and which is capable of incorporating the biologically
   active agent, Numerous such materials are known in the art,           Formulations
15 suitable for topical administration include creams, emulsions, and gels containing,
   in addition to the active ingredient, such carriers as are known in the art.
            The compounds and compositions of the present disclosure can be presented
   in unit-dose or multi-dose sealed containers, such as ampules and vials, and can be
   stored in a freeze-dried (lyophilized) condition requiring only the addition of the
20 sterile liquid excipient, for example, water, for injections, immediately prior to use.
   Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions can be prepared from sterile
   powders, granules, and tablets. The requirements for effective pharmaceutically
   acceptable carriers for injectable compositions are well known to those of ordinary
   skill in the art. See Pharmaceutics and Pharmacy Practice, JB. Lippincott Co.,
25 Philadelphia,    Pa.,  Banker and Chalmers,       Eds., 238-250 (1982)       and ASHP
   Handbook on Injectable Drugs, Toissel, 4th ed,, 622-630 (1986).
            Additionally,   formulations   suitable for rectal administration may be
   presented as suppositories by mixing with a variety of bases such as emulsifying
   bases or water-soluble bases. Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may
30 be presented as pessaries, tampons, creams, gels, pastes, foams, or spray formulas
                                            26

   containing, in addition to the active ingredient, such carriers as are known in the art
   to be appropriate.
            One skilled in the art will appreciate that suitable methods of administering
   a compound of the present invention to an patient are available, and, although more
 5 than one route can be used to administer a particular compound, a particular route
   can provide a more immediate and more effective reaction than another route.
   Assa ys
            The present disclosure provides a method for identifying a compound
   effective for treating suboptimal mucociliary clearance and/or increasing airway
10 epithelial cell function in a subject. The present disclosure also provides a method
   for identifying a compound effective for increasing the activity of the CFTR in a
   subject.    The present disclosure provides a method for identifying a compound
   effective for increasing a parameter of airway epithelial cell function in a subject in
   a subject. In one aspect of this embodiment, such parameter is depth of ASL, depth
15 of PCL, CBF, rate of MCT or any combination of the foregoing. In another aspect
   such parameter is increasing the depth of ASL. In yet another aspect such parameter
   is increasing the rate of MCT, In still a further aspect, such parameter is increasing
   the depth of ASL and increasing the rate of MCT. In still a further aspect, such
   parameter is increasing the depth of ASL, increasing the depth of PCL, increasing
20 CBF, increasing the rate of MCT or a combination of the foregoing.
            In each of the foregoing, the subject is free of a congenital or genetic defect
   in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus and/or acquired abnormality in the
   cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus, including, but not limited to, the CFTR.
            Some embodiments of the assay comprise contacting a candidate agent with
25 a cellular system, such as those systems described herein; obtaining a measurement
   of a property selected from the group consisting of: chloride secretion from the cell,
   activity of the CFTR, rate of mucous clearance, ASL depth, PCL depth, the rate of
   CBF and/or rate of MCT: said measuring occurring after the candidate agent is
   contacted to the cell; comparing the measurement of the property to a baseline
30 value for the property; and identifying the candidate agent as a putative agent if the
                                            27

   measurement of the property is significantly greater than the baseline value of the
   property.
            In one embodiment, such a screening assay can be performed, for example,
   by determining in an appropriate model system (such as, but not limited to, those
 5 systems described herein),
            Such screening assay may be in vitro, in vivo or ex vivo and may be cell
   culture based (either with whole cells or lysates) or may be based on an animal
   model. In one embodiment, the assay utilizes a murine nasal septal epithelial cell or
   a human sinonasal epithelial cell. In some embodiments, the model system may be
10 a murine nasal septal epithelial cell from a C57 mouse. In further embodiments the
   model system may be the nasal cavity of a mouse, as described by Cormet-Boyaka
   et al, FASE]J 23:3743-3751 (2009). In another embodiment, this could by human
   bronchial epithelial cells.   In another embodiment, this could be human, porcine,
   rat, or murine intact trachea.
15         The expression of the chloride channel may be measured electrochemically,
   for example by measuring trans-layer anionic flux in an Ussing chamber.
           In one embodiment, the methods involve the identification of candidate or
   test compounds or agents (polypeptides, functional nucleic acids, carbohydrates,
   antibodies, small molecules or other molecules) which bind to the chloride channel.
20 Such compounds may then be further tested in appropriate systems (such as, but not
   limited to, the models systems described herein) to determine the activity of the
   identified compounds.
            Candidate compounds are identified using a variety of assays, such as, but
   not limited to, assays that employ cells which express the chloride channel (cell
25 based assays) or in assays with the isolated chloride channel (cell-free assays). The
   various assays can employ a variety of variants of the chloride channel (for
   example, full-length, a biologically active fragment, a mutant form of the
   polypeptide or a fusion protein which includes all or a portion of the desired
   polypeptide). Moreover, the chloride channel can be derived from any suitable
30 mammalian species (e. g., human, porcine, rat or murine).
                                           28

            If the chloride channel is CFTR, for example, it may be a CFTR from any
   species, or a known mutation of CFTR from any species.            The nucleotide and
   polypeptide sequences for such versions of CFTR are available to those skilled in
   the art on public databases, such as Uniprot (wwwuniprot.org) and Genflank.
 5          Suitable test compounds for use in the screening assays can be obtained
   from any suitable source, such as conventional compound libraries. The test
   compounds can also be obtained using any of the numerous approaches in
   combinatorial library methods known in the art, including: biological libraries,
   spatially addressable parallel solid phase or solution phase libraries, synthetic
10 library methods requiring deconvolution, the "one-bead one-compound" library
   method and synthetic library methods using affinity chromatography selection. The
   biological library approach is limited to peptide libraries, while the other four
   approaches are applicable to peptide, non-peptide oligomer or small molecule
   libraries of compounds. Examples of methods for the synthesis of molecular
15 libraries can be found in the art. Libraries of compounds may be presented in
   solution or on beads, bacteria, spores, plasmids or phage,
            A screening assay of the disclosure is particularly amenable to a high
   throughput format, thereby       providing a means to       screen, for example,    a
   combinatorial library of small organic molecules, peptides, nucleic acid molecules,
20 and the like.
   Kits
            The present disclosure also provides kits for use in the foregoing methods.
   In one embodiment, a kit includes a compound of the present disclosure and
   optionally: (i) one or more delivery systems for such compound; (ii) secondary
25 agents for use in the foregoing methods; and (iii) directions for using the kit (for
   example, instructions for administration to a subject).
            In one embodiment, the compound included in the kit is a CFTR activator.
   In one embodiment, the CFTR activator is a CFTR potentiator. Known CFTR
   activators and potentiators include, but are not limited to, are anthracene-9
30 carboxylic acid (9-Anthroic acid), phloxine B, benzimidazolone analogs NS004 and
   NS1619,       genistein,   7-n-Butyl-6-(4-hydroxyphenyl)[5 II]pyrrolo [2,3-bjpyrazine
                                           29

   (aloisine A),     2-(2-(1H-indol-3 -yl)-N-methvlacetamido)-N-(4-isopropylphenyl)-2
   phenylacetamide       (PGO),    N-cycloheptyl-6-(N-ethyl-N-phenylsulfamoyl)-4-oxo
   1,4-dihydroquinoline-3-carboxamide          (SF01),    sulfonamide      6-(N-ethyl-N
   phenylsulfamoyl)N-(2-methoxybenzyl)-4-oxo-1,4-dihydroquinoline-3
 5 carboxamide
   (SF03), capsaicin and curcumin.        In one embodiment, the CFTR activator is a
   compound of the formula I or 1.
           In one embodiment, the kit contains a label that indicates the contents of the
   kit are to be administered to a subject suffering from: (i) a neuromuscular disease
10 (such as, but not limited to, muscular dystrophy, spinal muscular atrophy, ALS); (ii)
   acquired anatomic problem resulting in muscular weakness (which may be
   associated with conditions, such as, but not limited to, paraplegia, quadriplegia, and
   diaphragmatic paralysis); (iii) increased prevalence of respiratory infections due to
   immune deficiency; (iv) excess mucous production (which may be associated with
15 conditions, such as, but not limited to, asthma and asthmaticus); or (v) adverse
   environmental factors (which may be associated with conditions, such as, but not
   limited to, smoking or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease).
   EXAMPLES
   Example I- CFTR activators increase the activity of WT-C,       R in CFBE41 o-cells
20          In this example, CFTR activators were examined for the ability to stimulate
   the anion channel activity of WT-CFTR. Recently the CFTR, potentiator ivacaftor
   was reported to significantly augment cAMP mediated ion transport activity of
   CFTR encoding the gating mutation G551D-CFTR, in vitro and in CF subjects
   harboring the G55 1D-CFTR defect. Ivacaftor improved measures of CFTR activity
25 and also enhanced pulmonary function in CF patients with G5511D-C FTR.
           The CFTR potentiator ivacaftor was chosen as an exemplary CFTR,
   activator.    The activity of ivacaftor was examined in WTJ-CFTR expressing cells.
   Ivacaftor induced robust increases in anion transport in CFBE41o-cells (a human
   normal bronchiolar epithelial cell line) complemented with stable WT-CFTR
30 expression; no activity was observed in parental cells without detectable CFTR
   expression, esiblishing specificity for WT-CFTR (FIG. 1A).
                                            30

   EXanle 2-        TRI'activators increase the activity of WT-CFTinR     ingglugL
   bronchial epithelial cells
           In primary non-CF human bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells, ivacaftor also
   augmented CFTR-dependent anion transport activity following pre-stinmulation with
 5 100 nI forskolin, a dose chosen to induce cAMP levels matching CSE-exposed
   cells, increasing (TR-dependent         short-circuit current (Isc) compared to that
   stimulated by forskolin alone (FIG. 1B)
   Example 3- CFTR activators ASL depth and MCT                 primaryhuman bronchial
   epithelial cells
10         Because CFTR regulates ASL depth, which in turn permits efficient
   mucociliary clearance, it follows that potentiation of WT-CFTR anion secretion by
   ivacaftor in bronchial epithelia should also increase ASL depth, resulting in
   augmented mucus transport compared to unstimulated (resting) conditions.
           In FIGS. 2A and B, the addition of ivacaftor (10 aM) enhanced ASL depth
15 in HBE monolayers (HBE         cells contain WT-CFTR), Moreover, mucus transport
   (MCT') is markedly increased above baseline in the presence of ivacaftor as
   compared to control, showing the highly responsive nature of the mucociliary
   clearance apparatus to alterations in the balance of anion transport and mucus
   production in healthy WT monolayers (FIG. 2C). The results shown in FIG, 2(C)
20 are further supported by reports that inhaled hypertonic saline augments MCT
   among healthy      individuals.   These changes are readily apparent by          tOCT
   monitoring and indicate robust enhancement of MCT in WT epithelia by ivacaftor
   (FIG. 2D).
   Example 4- CFTR activaJor              rease the actiiy of WT-CFT R in            ina
25 explanted human trachea
           Ivacaftor also potentiated CFTR-dependent current in normal explanted
   human trachea examined under voltage clamp conditions (FIGS. 3A and B),
    Ex,ampl   5- C fTR act-,ivators                          transport in Pr; mary -Ihuman,
   brochiNal epithelial cells as evaluated usinggtCT
30         As discussed above, relevant metrics for evaluation of the mucociliary
   apparatus include the airway surface liquid (ASL) depth, the thickness of the thin
                                            31

   layer of liquid surrounding the cilia known as the periciliary liquid (PCL) depth, the
   ciliary beat frequency (CBF), and the velocity of mucociliary transport (MCT).
   LIOCT imaging allows the direct and simultaneous measurements of ASL, PC.L,
   MCT, ciliary stroke pattern and CBF without exogenous labeling or direct contact,
 5 providing a new tool to interrogate the functional microanatomy of respiratory
   epithelia with unequaled resolution.
             The effect of CFTR activators was evaluated using FOCT imaging in HBE
   cells (Fig. 4), The epithelial monolayer and the cilia can be visualized with a
   resolution comparable to medium power histology. Mucus and the PCL layer that
10 together comprise the airway surface liquid (ASL) layer can also be clearly
   visualized. As shown in FIG. 4, from top to bottom, the air has no pLOCT signal,
   while the mucus layer appears heterogeneous with high jsOCT signal intensity. The
   PCL gel has a low pOCT signal intensity compared with the rmucus and monolayer
   and includes ciliary structures. The air-liquid interface, mucus-PCL interface, and
15 apical cell surface are clearly defined so that ASL and PCL heights can be directly
   measured with submicrometer resolution. In addition to the different layers, cilia
   tips can be readily detected by pOCT, as they are brighter than the surrounding
   PCL and mucus. The tips maintain contact with the deep surface of mucus blanket
   and lift the mucus nearby by a few hundred nanometers during the effective stroke.
20          The results in this example, illustrated in FIG. 4, confirm the results shown
   above that CFTR activators increase the activity of WT-CFTR.              In each of the
   panels in FIG. 4, control LBE cells containing a defective CFTR (designated
   control, CF) were used along with HIBE cells containing a WT-CFTR (designated
   control and VX-770, wild-type).           Control cells received vehicle alone (0.2%
25  DMSO); ivacaftor was used in all cases at 10 PiM. In panel A, ivacaftor increased
   ASL depth significantly above control in control wild-type and control CF HBE
    cells. PCL depth and CBF were not increased in a statistically significant manner
    by ivacaftor addition in comparison to control wild-type but was increased as
    compared to control CF HBE cells (panels B and C). In terms of PCL depth, the
30  PCL only extends approximately 7 microns (corresponding to the depth of the full
    length cilia); further increases are difficult to detect. For CBF, the rate of CBF may
                                             32

   not be rate limiting in all conditions. For example, if the cilia were beating against
   thick mucus (caused for example by mucus overproduction or the inability to clear
   mucus normally), the CBF would be slower.               Ilowever, in this assays the
   determination of CBF is made versus a normal control making meaning an increase
 5 in CBF may not be detected in all cases. Importantly, overall MCT was increased
   significantly in ivacaftor treated cells as compared to control wild-type and control
   CF cells.
            FIG. 5 shows similar results using HBE cells containing WT-CFTR and
   further shows the ability of CFTR activators to increase CFTR activity in the
10 presence of environmental insults (in this example, cigarette smoke extract, CSE).
   Data in FIG. 5 are derived from 5 measurements per well, with three wells per
   condition. In FIG. 5, all cells contained WT-CFTR; control cells received DMSO
   vehicle (2.2% DMSO), CSE indicates cells received 2% CSE extract administered
   apically: CSE indicates cells received 2% CSE extract administered apically and 10
15  hM ivacaftor administered basolaterally; VX-770 indicates cells received 10 pM
   ivacaftor administered basolateraily. All data were derived from pOCT images as
   described herein.
             Panel A shows pOCT images for each condition; ASL depth is indicated by
   the dark bar (white bar is for scale and equals 10 microns).       Panels B, C and 1)
20  show ASL depth, CBF and MCT, respectively, for the 4 conditions, As shown in
   panel B,       BE cells exposed to CSE has decreased ASL depth as compared to
   control cells; addition of ivacaftor significantly increased ASL depth. Furthermore,
    addition of ivacaftor alone also significantly increased ASL depth as compared to
    control. Similar trends were seen with CBF (panel C). MCT is shown in panel D.
25  The addition of CSE decreased MCT to almost undetectable levels as compared to
    control cells; again, addition of ivacaftor increased MCT to that seen in the control
    cells. Addition of ivacaftor alone also significantly increased MCT as compared to
    control.
       xape6- CF'I'R ctvtsinesenccliv                         ansotnh m         bchia
30  tissue as evaluated using uOCT
                                            33

            To further investigate the role of C FIR activators in modulating airway
   epithelial cell function, CFTR activators were studied in combination with human
   bronchial tissue from a failed healthy donor, Human bronchial tissue was obtained
   and maintained as described herein. Control experiments were performed with the
 5 human bronchial tissue being exposed to DMSO control only (02%) and compared
   to ivacaftor treatment, 'The results are shown in FIG. 6. Panels A-C show ASL
   depth, CBF and MCT, respectively. As illustrated in FIG. 6. panel A., ivacaftor (10
   ptM) treatment significantly increased ASL depth, In control cells, ASL depth was
   approximately      10   microns;   ivacaftor   treatment  increased  ASL-,  depth  to
10 approximately 30 microns.         Likewise CBF frequency was also significantly
   increased in the presence of ivacaftor (10 piM) (FIG. 6, panel B). Finally, MCT was
   also significantly increased after ivacaftor treatment (10 psM) (form a control value
   of less than 0.01 mm/min to almost 0,04 mm/min).
    example 77 CFIat           trieang                    transport a orcine trcheias
15 evaluated using     OCT
            To further investigate the role of CFTR activators in modulating airway
   epithelial cell function, CUTR activators were studied in combination with porcine
   trachea. In this example, porcine trachea from animals having a mutated CFTR
   (CFTR (-/~) and from animals having a WT-CFTR (CFTR -/+) were evaluated for
20 ASL depth, PCL depth, CBF and MCT. The results are shown in FIG. 7.
            Panels A and B show representative FiOCT images for a CFTR -/- (panel A)
   and CFTR -+/+ (panel B) animal; ASL depth is indicated by the dark bar with the
   light bar representing a scale bar of 10 microns. Panels C-F, respectively, show
    ASL depth, PCL depth, CBF and MCT measurements derived from tOCT images
25 from CFTR -/- and CFTR +/+ animals. As can be seen, ASL and PCL depth was
    significantly decreased in the CFTR      -/- animals as compared to the CFTR +/+
   animals. Furthermore, CBF frequency and MCT were also significantly decreased
    in the CFTR     -/- animals as compared to the CFTR +/+ animals.
            Panels G and 1- show the response of epithelial functional parameters,
30  namely ASL depth, CBF and MCT in CFTR -- and CFTR +/+ animals in response
   to sequential pharmacologic intervention by ivacaftor (10 pM), forskolin (100 nM)
                                            34

   and acetylcholine (100 uM); in this experiment, acetylcholine served as a positive
   control to induce glandular extrusion in CF tissue), In these experiments, agonists
   were added to the bath solution and all experiments were conducted under
   physiological conditions (373 C and 100% humidity). As can be seen in panel G,
 5 no response to ivacaftor or forskolin treatment in terms of ASL depth, CBF or ICT
   was observed; a positive response to acetylcholine was observed in this tissue as
   expected. In contrast to panel G, ASL depth, CBF and MCT were all increased in
   response to ivacaftor treatment in CFTR +/+ animals, consistent with the results
   described above for human tissue,
10 Materials and Methods
   Procurementand Growth of PrinaryA irway Epithelial Cells
           Use of human cells and tissues was approved by the UAB Institutional
   Review Board. Primary human bronchial epithelial (HBE) cells were derived from
   lung explants after written informed consent was obtained from CF and non-CF
15 subjects with confirmed CFTR genetics by methods described previously. Briefly,
   tissues were debrided immediately after surgical resection, washed twice in
   Minimum Essential Media (MEM) with 0.5 mg/ml DTT (Sigma-Aldrich, St. Louis,
   MO) and 25 U/ml DNAse I (Roche, Basel, Switzerland), and then placed in
   dissociation media containing MEM, 2.5 U/ml DNAse 1, 100 pg/mi ceftazidime, 80
20 pg/ml tobranycin, 1.25 pg/ml amphotericin B, and 4.4 U/ml pronase (Sigma
   Aldrich) for 24-36 h at 4 'C. Loosened airway epithelial cells were then expanded
   in growth media containing BEGM (LONZA, Basel, Switzerland) supplemented
   with an additional    10 nM all trans-retinoic acid (Sigma-Aldrich) that was
   exchanged every 24 h. Following expansion, first or second passage cells were
25 seeded on permeable supports for studies.
           Once 80-90% confluent, cells were seeded on Snapwell 1.13 cm2 perineable
   supports (1 x 106 cells/filter; Bayer, Pittsburgh, PN) or Costar 0.4   m permeable
   supports (5 x 105 cells/filter; Bethesda, MD) after coating with NIH 3T3 fibroblast
   conditioned media, and grown in differentiating media containing DMEM/F12
30 (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, California), 2% Ultroser-G (Pall, New York, NY), 2 % Fetal
   Clone II (Hyclone, Logan, UT), 2.5 pig/ml Insulin (Sigma-Aldrich), 0.25 % bovine
                                           35

   brain extract     (LONZA),    20 nM      hydrocortisone    (Sigma-Aldrich), 500 nM
   Triodothyronine (Sigma-Aldrich), 2.5 pg/ml transferrin (Invitrogen), 250 nM
   ethanolamine (Sigma-Aldrich),       1.5 pM epinephrine (Sigma-Aldrich), 250 nM
   phosphoetheanolamine (Sigma-Aldrich), and 10 nM all trans-retinoic acid until
   terminally differentiated, as previously described (1, 2).
   Procurement and Growth ofNormnal Piglet Trachea
            Normal piglet tracheas were obtained from Exemplar Genetics (Sioux
   Center, Iowa). Tissue were dissected from one-day-old piglets and shipped on wet
   ice in DMEM. A modified protocol            based on airway tissue handling and
10 preparation methods developed by Ballard et al. (Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol
   Physiol 298: L270-276, 2010) was employed. Tracheas were immersed in 80 mL
   Ringer bicarbonate solution (KRB) baths at room temperature and slowly warmed
   to 37'C. After four hours of pretreatment, the tracheas were removed from the
   KR3. Accessible mucus and liquid were aspirated from the airway lumens and the
15 tracheal ends were cannulated so that the serosal surface was bathed in KRB [29]
   without contacting the mucosal surface, as previously described (Ballard et al., Am
   J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol 298: L270-276, 2010; Martens, et aL, Am .J
   Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol 301: L236--246, 2011). Tracheas were allowed to
   equilibrate in KRB bubbled with 95% 02 and 5% C02 at 370 C and the luminal side
20 exposed to conditioned air at 100% humidity for 2 hours prior to mOCT imaging
    (Sleigh et al., Comp Biochem Physiol A Comp Physiol 94: 359-364, 1989).
   Procurementand Growth of2Normal Human Trachea
            Samples of human trachea tissue were obtained from normal donor explant
    oruans not selected for lung transplantation. Lung, mainstem bronchi, and trachea
25 were resected en-bloc, transferred on wet ice, and large airways excised. Airway
    tissues were then immersed in ice cold DMEM following resection for transfer,
   then allowed to equilibrate to room temperature prior to mOCT imaging.
   Micro Optical Coherence Tomography (pOCT) Studies
            The pOCT system is a spectral-domain OCT implementation with several
30  improvements to standard OCT that yield high resolution in both lateral and axial
    directions. The general layout and axial resolution characterization have been
                                           36

   described (Liu et al., PLOSOne, 8(1), E54473- 2013). A super-continuum source
   (Fianium SC450) provides the high-bandwidth, short coherence length light
   necessary for high axial resolution (1.3 mm). A typical OCT system includes an
   interferometer with the reference and sample arms intersecting at a beamsplitter.
 5 The beamsplitter is replaced in pOCT with a 45 degree rod mirror, which apodizes
   the sample beam by introducing a circular obscuration in the center to achieve a
   balance of good lateral resolution (2 pm) and long depth of focus (0.2 mm). Custom
   software is employed to control the galvanometer scanning motors while acquiring
   spectral data from the line camera. The systern operates with user-configurable line
10 and frame rates and customizable scan geometry; typical settings are 32 or 40
   frames per second, 512 A-lines per frame in a linear scan, and 0.5 mm by 0.5 mm
   (X by Z) for a cross-sectional image. The effective thickness of each cross-section
   is equal to the ptOCT beam spot size (2 pim).
            pOCT imaging was performed on various cells cultures with illumination
15 incident on the apical side of the cells. The axis of the imaging optics is typically
   placed within 10 degrees of normal to the cell plane to minimize errors in geometric
   measurements. ASL and PCL were measured directly from the thicknesses of the
   visible layers in the image with a correction applied for the index of refraction in
   the liquid (n= 1.33). ASL and PCL were evaluated at 5 equally distributed regions
20 of the image. CBF and MCT were determined from a time series of images. CBF
   was measured by finding the frequency of peak amplitude in the temporal Fourier
   transform of the regions exhibiting oscillatory behavior. Up to 10 regions of ciliary
    activity per image sequence were assessed for CBF. MCT was computed by
    measuring the displacement of 5 to 10 visible inclusions in the mucus through time.
25  All image analysis was performed with ImageJ and Matlab. Analysis for various
    tissue explants was performed in a similar manner.
     VTolage c/amp studies in Ussing chambers
            Short-circuit current (Ise) was measured under voltage clamp conditions
    using MC8 voltage clamps and P2300 Ussing chambers (Physiologic Instruments,
30  San Diego, CA) as previously described (2). Monolayers were initially bathed on
    both sides with identical Ringer's solutions containing (in mM) 115 NaCl, 25
                                          37

   NaHC0) 2.4 KH2PO4, 1.24 K 2HPO 4 , 1.2 CaCl 2 , 1.2 MgCl 2 , 10 D-glucose (pH 7.4)
   Bath solutions were vigorously stirred and gassed with 95%02:5% C02, Short
   circuit current measurements were obtained using an epithelial voltage clamp
   (Physiologic Instruments). A one-second three-mV pulse was imposed every 10
 5 seconds to monitor resistance calculated using Ohm's law. Where indicated, the
   mucosal bathing solution was changed to a low Cl-solution containing 12 NaCl and
   115 Na+ gluconate, and all other components as above. Amiloride (100 psM) was
   added to block residual Na+ current, followed by the agonists forskolin, ivacaftor,
   and ATP as indicated (minimum five-min observation at each concentration).
10 CFTRInh-172 (10 iM) was added to the nmucosal bathing solution at the end of
   experiments to block CFTR-dependent Ise. All chambers were maintained at 37 'C,
   and agonist stimulation was initiated within 15 min of placement into the chambers.
   Mucus TransportStudies
            HBE cells were washed with sterile PBS twice 1-2 days prior to addition of
15 PEG beads. Fifty (50) p of Diamine polyethylene glycol (PEG) coated fluorescent
   beads (1 pm, Molecular Probes, Eugene, OR, 1:500 dilution in PBS) were added to
   the apical surface by using a microsprayer aerosolizer (Penn-Century incModel IA
    1B, Wyndmoor, PA). Following 24 h incubation, baseline images were obtained
   and then test compounds added to the basolateral compartment. Mucociliary
20 transport (MCT) images were captured by time-lapse fluorescence imaging at four
   regions of interest per well located 1 mm from the periphery of the well and at each
   quadrant using an inverted epifluorescence microscope (Nikon Diaphot, Melvin,
   NY; 488 nm excitation/519 nm emission). Linear transport rates were computed
   using Metamoph 7,0 by analyzing 10-1 5 particles per region (7).
25 Airwvay Surlbce Liquid (ASL) Depth Measurement by Confocal Microscopv
            The apical surfaces of BE cells were washed three times and then test
   compounds added to the basolateral compartment 24 h prior to labeling. Cells were
    stained with CMFDA (100 pM) in the cell culture medium for 1 hr. Texas red dye
    (25 pl at 2 mg/ml in Fc70) was added apically and cells allowed to equilibrate 2 h at
30  37 'C. Transwell membranes were placed in sterile glass bottom dish coated with
    MEM, and imaged with a Carl Zeiss (Peabody, MA) confocal microscope using
                                          38

   20X (numerical aperture 0.88, working distance 0.55nm) air objective lens. Cells
   were visualized with DIC optics to evaluate cell morphology before initiating
   fluorescence microscopy. Subsequently, Zscan confocal fluorescent microscopy
   images were acquired from the top of the ASL through the top of the cell surface.
 5 XZ scans were analyzed using Zen2008 software at four ROI per well each located
   1 mm from the filter periphery and at each quadrant; 5 estimates of ASL depth were
   taken equally dispersed across each ROI (7, 9).
   Statistics
            Descriptive statistics (mean, SD, and SEM) were compared using Student's
10 t-test or ANOVA, as appropriate. Post-hoc tests for multiple comparisons following
   ANOVA were calculated using Fisher's least significant difference, All statistical
   tests were two-sided and were performed at a 5% significance level (i.e., a = 0.05)
   using GraphPad Prism (La Jolla, CA). Error bars designate SEM unless indicated
   otherwise. Correlation analysis was performed using SPSS (IBM, Armonk, NY).
15
                                           39

   CLAIMS
   What is claimed:
      1. A method for increasing mucociliary clearance in a subject the method
          comprising the step of administering to the subject an activator of the cystic
 5        fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CF1'R), wherein the subject
          is free from congenital or genetic defect in the cellular mucociliary
          clearance apparatus,
     2. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is free from congenital or
          genetic defect in the CFTR.
10   3.    The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is free an acquired abnormality
          in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus,
     4. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is free an acquired abnormality
          in the CFTR.
      5. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is free from congenital or
15        genetic defect in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus and an
          acquired abnormality in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.
     6. The method of claim 1, wherein the activator of the CFTR is a compound of
          the formula:
                        H
                              N               R2
                                     H
                                     N
                          I          HI
                                                      R3
20        wherein:
          R 1 is =0, OH or H; and
           R.2 and R 3 are each independently, H, OH or substituted or unsubstituted
          C,-C7 alkyl.
      7. The method of claim 1, wherein the activator of the CFTR is a compound of
25        the formula
                                          40

                     H
                     N.             H3C       CHs3
                                  H,
                                  N
                              0'  0                   XH3
                                          OH      CH
   8. The method of claim 1, wherein said treatment increases a parameter of
       airway epithelial cell function.
   9. The method of claim 8, wherein such parameter is depth of (ASL), depth of
 5     periciliary liquid (PCL), ciliary beat frequency (CBF), rate of mucociliary
       transport (MCT) or any combination of the foregoing.
   10. The method of claim 8, wherein such parameter is depth of ASL, rate of
       MCT or a combination of the foregoing.
   11. The method of claim 10, wherein the subject is free from congenital or
10     genetic defect in the CFTR
   12. The method of claim 10, wherein the subject is free an acquired abnormality
       in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus,
   13. The method of claim 1, wherein said administering increases the activity of
       the CFTR.
15 14. A method for treating suboptimal mucociliary clearance in a subject the
       method comprising the step of administering to the subject an activator of
       the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), wherein
       the subject is free from congenital or genetic defect in the cellular
       mucociliary clearance apparatus
20 15. The method of claim 14, wherein the subject is free from congenital or
       genetic defect in the CFTR.
   16. The method of claim 14, wherein the subject is free an acquired
       abnormality in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.
   17. The method of claim 14, wherein the subject is free an acquired abnormality
25     in the CFTR.
                                       41

   18. The method of claim 14, wherein the subject is free from congenital or
       genetic defect in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus and an
       acquired abnormality in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus,
   19. The method of claim 14, wherein the activator of the CFTR is a compound
 5     of the formula:
                     H
                     N
                                  H
                     O        O        N
                                                     R3,
       wherein:
       R is=O, OH or H; and
        R2 and R3 are each independently, H. OH or substituted or unsubstituted
10     CI-C7 alkyl.
   20, The method of claim 14, wherein the activator of the CFTR is a compound
       of the formula
                     H                      H
                                  H
                                  NI
                              0                          CH3
   21. The method of claim 14, wherein said treatment increases a parameter of
15     airway epithelial cell function,
   22. The method of claim 21, wherein such parameter is depth of (ASL), depth
       of periciliary liquid (PCL), ciliary beat frequency (CBF), rate of mucociliary
       transport (MCT) or any combination of the foregoing.
   23. The method of claim 21, wherein such parameter is depth of ASL, rate of
20     MCT or a combination of the foregoing.
                                       42

      24. The method of claim 23, wherein the subject is free from congenital or
          genetic defect in the CFTR
      25. The method of claim 23, wherein the subject is free an acquired abnormality
          in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.
 5    26. The method of claim 14. wherein said treatment increases the activity of the
          CFTR.
      27. A method for enhancing a parameter of airway epithelial cell function in a
          subject the method comprising the step of administering to the subject an
          activator of' the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance         regulator
10        (CFTR), wherein the subject is free from congenital or genetic defect in the
          cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.
      28. The method of claim 27, wherein the subject is free from congenital or
          genetic defect in the CFTR.
      29. The method of claim 27, wherein the subject is free an acquired
15        abnormality in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.
      30. The method of claim 27, wherein the subject is free an acquired abnormality
          in the CFT R.
      31. The method of claim 27, wherein the subject is free from congenital or
          genetic defect in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus and an
20        acquired abnormality in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.
      32. The method of claim 27, wherein the activator of the CFTR is a compound
          of the formula:
                         H
                              N               R2
                                     H
                                OO'R3
          wherein:
   25     R1s,       OH1- or H; anid
                                          43

        R2  and R3 are each independently, H, OH or substituted or unsubstituited
       CI-C7 alkyl.
   33. The method of claim 27, wherein the activator of the CFTR is a compound
       of the formula
                     H                    CH3
                     N             H3 C       CH
                                  H
                                                        CH3
                                          OH      CH,
   34. The method of claim 27, wherein such parameter is depth of airway surface
       liquid (ASL), depth of periciliary liquid (PCL), ciliary beat frequency
       (CBF), rate of mcociliary transport (MCT) or any combination of the
       foregoing.
10 35. The method of claim 27, wherein such parameter is depth of ASL rate of
       MCT or a combination of the foregoing.
   36. The method of claim 27, wherein said administering increases the rate of
       MCT.
   37. The method of claim 27, wherein said administering increases the depth of
15     ASL,
   38. The method of claim 27, wherein said administering increases the depth of
       PCL.
   39. The method of claim 27, wherein said administering increases CBF.
   40. The method of claim 35, wherein the subject is free from congenital or
20     genetic defect in the CFTR
   41 The method of claim 35, wherein the subject is free an acquired abnormality
       in the cellular mucociliary clearance apparatus.
   42. The method of claim 27, wherein said administering increases the activity of
       the CFTR.
                                       44

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
