                                          ABSTRACT
There is provided a process for making a composition suitable for topical application
comprising the steps of: a)heating at least one fruit and/or vegetable pulp to up to a
temperature in the range of about 400C to 100'C; b) mixing between 1 and 40% w/w of a
mild base with the heated fruit and/or vegetable pulp. There is also provided a fruit and/or
vegetable derived composition suitable for topical application prepared by the above
process. There is further provided a fruit and/or vegetable derived composition comprising at
least one fruit and/or vegetable-derived pulp and a mild base, said composition having a pH
in the range of about 7.5 to about 9.5.

       WO 2004/008887                                                           PCT/AU2003/000931
                    FRUIT AND/OR VEGETABLE DERIVED COMPOSITION
                                                 Technical Field
                  The present invention relates to a composition derived from fruit and/or vegetables
           and which is suitable for topical application. In particular the present invention relates to
     s     a fruit and/or vegetable derived composition suitable for topical application to the skin to
           treat and prevent dermatological disorders and to provide relief for muscular and joint
           pain. The present invention also relates to a process for preparing a fruit and/or vegetable
           derived composition suitable for at least the treatment and prophylaxis of dermatological
           and cosmetic disorders.
   10                                   Background of the Invention
                 In a large number of cases, topical products such as soaps, cosmetics and
          pharmaceuticals contain chemicals or other ingredients such as preservatives,
                                                                                                solvents
          and fragrances, which may produce irritation including various inflammation
                                                                                             symptoms
          or signs when applied to the skin. The present invention is directed
                                                                                            in part to
  is      compositions and methods for inhibiting the irritation associated with such
                                                                                                 topical
          products. The frequency and nature of skin irritation induced by such topical products
          can range from mild to severe and includes such symptoms as itching, stinging,
                                                                                               redness,
         burning and swelling. The symptoms may be severe in people who have
                                                                                        sensitive skin.
         Whatever is the cause of such irritation, many products are presented as 'hypoallergenic'
 20      with minimal irritant potential, yet do not achieve reduced irritancy due
                                                                                              to their
         formulation or constituent ingredients.
                Further, the skin is subject to stress and deterioration through dermatological
        disorders, environmental effects and exposure as well as through the ageing
                                                                                        process.
                Skin cells are generally more exposed to environmentally-generated injuries
                                                                                                   than
25      internal body cells. Of particular concern are cancer-causing chemicals
                                                                                     and free-oxygen
        radicals.
                Topical application and/or oral ingestion of Vitamins A (p-carotene, CAS
                                                                                            7235-40
       7), C (ascorbic acid, CAS 50-81-7) and E (a-tocopherol, CAS 59=02-9),
                                                                                     has been shown
       to provide protection against these chemicals, including free radicals.
                                                                                   Citric acid, malic
30     acid and tartaric acid are the prominent acids in fruits and to some
                                                                                 degree vegetables.
       They are usually referred to as alpha-beta-hydroxy acids. Other similar
                                                                                      ingredients are
       alpha hydroxy acids like glycolic acid or lactic acid.
               The exfoliating effects of such acids depend very much on the concentration
                                                                                                of the
       acids and the pH. Therefore, it can be said that the more acidic
                                                                                and the higher the

                                                    2
    concentration, the stronger the effect. However this is also associated with an increase in
    side effects. At higher concentrations applied over longer periods, the skin reacts;
    becoming red, swollen, sensitive and blisters may form. Rashes and itching may occur.
    Exposure to the sunlight will exacerbate such reactions.
  5          Since 1989 the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has received more than
     100 reports of adverse reactions in people using alpha hydroxy acid products. Based on
    past experience with complaints the FDA extrapolates from these 100 complaints that
    there have been approximately 10,000 adverse reactions. Products containing alpha
    hydroxy acids will be either regulated as cosmetics, or drugs or both depending on their
 10 intended use. In particular, pharmaceutical effects after penetration of the skin barrier,
    like increasing cell-turnover rate and decreasing thickness of the outer skin are of concern
    to the FDA. These effects depend on the acidity, the concentration of the acids, and the
    cosmetic carrier.
             Further, many fruit-based products topically applied to the skin have a pH in the
 15 acidic range and can cause irritation to the skin.
             There therefore exists a need for a topically applied fruit and/or vegetable derived
    composition and process for preparing the same which minimises or prevents irritation of
    the skin caused by topical application but which is still efficacious in treating
    dermatological disorders and cosmetic applications.
20                                      Object of the Invention
             The present invention attempts to overcome at least in part some of the
    aforementioned disadvantages by providing in certain embodiments a new fruit and/or
    vegetable derived composition which can be safely applied without resulting irritation
    and process for preparing the same.
25           It is the object of the present invention to overcome or substantially ameliorate in
    at least some embodiments at least one of the above disadvantages by provision of an
    efficacious composition derived from natural ingredients which reduces or minimises
    skin irritation while treating and/or preventing dermatological and cosmetic disorders.
                                       Summary of the Invention
30          In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
    process for making a composition comprising the steps of:
            a) heating a fruit and/or vegetable pulp to up to a temperature in the range of
    about 40 C tol00 C ; and

    WO 2004/008887                                                         PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                     -3
            b)    mixing between 1 and 40% w/w of a mild base with the heated fruit and/or
     vegetable pulp.
            In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
      composition prepared by the process of the first aspect of the present invention defined
 s    above.
            In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
      composition which is suitable for topical application comprising at least one fruit- and/or
      vegetable-derived pulp and a mild base, said composition having a pH in the range of
      about 7.5 to 9.5.
to          In accordance with a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
      method of treating or preventing dermatological and epidermal disorders comprising the
      topical application of an effective amount of a composition of the second or third aspects
      of the present invention as defined above to a mammal in need of such treatment or
      prophylaxis.
15          In accordance with a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
      method of treating pain associated with arthritis, gout and other muscular and joint related
      aches and pains comprising the topical application of an effective amount of a
      composition of the second or third aspects of the present invention defined above to a
      mammal in need of such treatment.
20          In accordance with a sixth aspect of the present invention there is provided a
      process for making a composition suitable for topical application comprising the steps of:
            a)     heating at least one fruit and/or vegetable pulp to up to a temperature in the
      range of about 40"C to 1000C;
            b)     mixing between 1 and 40% w/w of a mild base with the heated fruit and/or
25    vegetable pulp; and
            c)     filtering the mixture to obtain the composition.
            In accordance with a seventh aspect of the present invention there is provided a
      process for making a composition suitable for topical application comprising the steps of:
            a)    heating at least one fruit and/or vegetable pulp to up to a temperature in the
30    range of about 40*C to 100*C;
            b)    mixing between I and 40% w/w of a mild base with the heated fruit and/or
      vegetable pulp;
            c)    beating the resulting mixture;
            d)     freezing the beaten mixture;
 3s         e)     thawing and then filtering the mixture to obtain the composition.

   WO 2004/008887                                                           P'CT/AU2003/000931
                                                    -4
                               Detailed Description of the Invention
           Dermatological disorders such as psoriasis, eczema, acne, wrinkles, sagging, aged
     and dry skin as well as damaged and sensitive skin can be treated by topical application of
     a composition including at least one fruit- and/or vegetable-derived pulp and a mild base
 5   on an affected area of skin.
           The pulp may be derived from an inner fleshy part of the fruit or vegetable, or
     alternatively, from a mixture of the skin and an outer fleshy part of the fruit or vegetable.
     In some cases, and depending on the type of fruit or vegetable, the whole fruit or
     vegetable may be pulped. In other cases, and again depending on the type of fruit or
to   vegetable, just the skin of the fruit or vegetable may be pulped.
           Particularly in respect of fresh fruit, in order to ensure consistent quality, vitamin C
     concentration can be measured to indicate the quality of the fruit and therefore of the raw
     material to be pulped.
           Typically, the fruit or vegetable may be selected from a group including peaches,
is   pawpaw, mango, lime, mandarin, grapes, rockmelon, oranges, passionfruit, lemon, plums,
     pineapple, pear, apple, tomato, avocado, potato, capsicum, pumpkin, carrots, lettuce,
     cucumber, cabbage and beetroot, apricots, melons including watermelon and rockmelon,
     grapefruit, berries including strawberries, blueberries, mulberries and raspberries, and
     bananas.
20         Typically, the fruit or vegetable can be fresh, frozen, tinned or bottled.         Most
     typically, the fruit or vegetable is fresh and raw. The tinned or bottled fruit is typically
     solely natural without any preservatives being present.
           Typically, the fruit or vegetable has the skin removed prior to pulping. It is also
     typical that the fruit and/or vegetable skin can be pulped separately.          For example,
25   pawpaw flesh can be pulped separately and utilised in the process of the present
     invention, and pawpaw skin can also be pulped separately. It is also typical that mango
     flesh can be pulped separately to mango skin. Typically, lime skin is pulped separately to
     lime flesh and it is also typical that mandarin skin is pulped separately to mandarin flesh.
           More typically, fruit is utilised, particularly fruit which is slightly acidic such as
30   mandarin, tomato, oranges, pawpaw and lime.
           Most typically, the fruit which is used is selected from the group consisting of
     pawpaw, tomato and peaches.

    WO 2004/008887                                                            PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                    -5
             In order to maximise activity of the composition of the present invention, a small
      amount of lime flesh can be added to the fruit or vegetable at the time of pulping. This is
      preferred where solely vegetables, for example, pumpkin, are being pulped.
             In one embodiment a mixture of different fruits can be pulped together.            For
  s   example, pawpaw flesh and mango flesh have been jointly pulped together.
      Alternatively, a mixture of different fruits and vegetables can be pulped together. For
      example, pawpaw flesh and tomato flesh have been pulped together and pawpaw flesh
      and peach and tomato flesh have also been pulped together. Also typically, a mixture of
      different vegetables can be pulped together.       For example, a mixture of beetroot and
 to   potato flesh has been pulped together. Alternatively, different fruits and vegetables are
      pulped separately. It is preferred that each separate fruit or vegetable is pulped separately
      ie solely mango flesh is pulped or solely tomato flesh is pulped and these separate pulps
      are typically added together prior to the initial heating step. More typically, the separate
      pulps are processed separately according to the present invention, namely heated and the
 15   mild base is added and the resulting compositions are added together either as raw
      product or together in a formulation.       It is also typical that the separate pulps are
      processed and maintained and utilised separately.
             As an example of separate pulpings, pawpaw is pulped and processed according to
      the present invention separately to mango and also separately to peach and the resulting
20    pawpaw derived, mango derived and peach derived extracts can be either formulated
      together in a final cream or lotion to enhance the beneficial properties of each of these
      compositions when used separately.
            It is also very typical that the active filtrates resulting from the processing of
      separate individual fruit or vegetable pulps are mixed after filtering.
25          As used herein the phrase "fruit and/or vegetable pulp" means that the fruit and/or
      vegetable flesh has been macerated to a pulp in the form of a viscous liquid or pureed or
      otherwise processed to result in a pulp. Typically a food processor or hand mixer or other
      mechanical apparatus is used to pulp the fruit and/or vegetable flesh. As stated above in
      some instances, a mixture of fruit flesh and skin and/or vegetable flesh and skin is
30   processed to a pulp in the form of a viscous liquid. Where a fruit or vegetable is used
      which contains a stone or "pip", the stone or pip is removed prior to pulping.
            The composition of the present invention may be prepared by first pulping the
      selected fruit and/or vegetable to a viscous liquid pulp, then heating the fruit and/or
      vegetable pulp to a temperature above about 404C, typically to a temperature in the range
35    of about 40*C to about 80*C, more typically to a temperature in the range of about 45*C

   WO 2004/008887                                                          PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                  -6
    to 75*C. Even more typically, the pulp is heated to a temperature in the range of about
    500 C to 70 0 C, more typically to a temperature in the range of about 50*C to 60'C. Most
    typically, the pulp is heated to a temperature of about 550 C.
           Typically the pulp may be heated by any means such as a microwave, or an electric
 s  or gas stove, or by use of a double boiler in a stove. Typically, the pulp is stirred during
    the heating process and the temperature of the pulp periodically taken until about 55*C is
    reached.
           To the heated pulp is then added a mild base in an amount of between 1 and 40%
    w/w of the pulp. Typically, the base is a mild base. The term "mild base" as used herein
10  is understood to define a base having a pKa of less than about 11. Typically, the mild
                                                          2 , CN~, NH 3 , HS~, HCO), CH 3CO 2 ~,
    base is selected from the group consisting of C0     3
    NO, F-, H 2P0 4 , SO4', NO, Cl~, Bf, F, HS0 4 and C10-. More typically, the mild base
    is a water-soluble alkali metal salt of a base selected from the above list. Even more
    typically, the mild base a water-soluble alkali metal bicarbonate or carbonate salt, in
is  particular sodium bicarbonate, sodium carbonate, potassium bicarbonate, and potassium
    carbonate. Most typically, the mild base is sodium bicarbonate.
           Typically, the mild base is added to the pulp with vigorous stirring or agitation, It is
    typical that the heated pulp is removed from the heat source during the addition of the
    mild base with stirring.
20         Typically the amount of base which is added is between about 1 and 40% w/w of
    the pulp. More typically, the amount of base which is added is in the order of about 1 to
     35% w/w, and even more typically about I to 30% w/w. Also more typically, the amount
    of mild base which is added is in the order of between about 1 to 25% w/w, and even
    more typically 1 to 20% w/w. More typically, the amount of mild base which is added is
25   in the order of about 2 to 15% w/w, in particular 3 to 14% w/w or 4 to 13% w/w. Most
     typically, the amount of mild base which is added is in the order of between about 5 to
     10% w/w, most typically 10% w/w. Accordingly, for example, 30 grams of sodium
    bicarbonate will be added to 300 grams of fruit pulp as a 10% w/w.
           Typically, the mild base is added with agitation to the pulped fruit and/or vegetable
30  until effervescence ceases. Following this step, it is typical that the resulting mixture is
     thoroughly mixed, more typically beaten until the texture is that of a flowing cream.
     Typically this beating/mixing step takes about 10 to 80 seconds, more typically about 20
     to 60 seconds, even more typically about 20 to 40 seconds.        The beating is typically
     undertaken to aerate the mixture and improve the consistency of the final product. This
35   beating/mixing step is preferred to be performed after the effervescence following

   W U 20U4/U~fN55/                                                           I I/A U ZUUJ/IUUUJJ i
      addition of the mild base ceases. The resulting beaten mixture has the consistency of
     smooth, flowing, fairly viscous liquid as it is essentially a thick fruit whip. If the mixture
      following addition of the base is not mixed, once the effervescence following addition of
     the base ceases, the mixture is very much like a type of fruit cappuccino with froth
 5   remaining on the top of the mixing bowl. As it is typical that the mixture is then beaten,
     the consistency is smooth and even throughout with no froth.
            In the case of the composition formed from the inner flesh or the outer flesh and
      skin of the mango, however, there is no requirement to filter the composition before it is
      applied to the skin.
to          It is typical that after the fruit and/or vegetable pulp is beaten to a smooth cream
     that the mixture is then frozen. Typically, following freezing, the frozen mixture is then
     thawed. If the freezing step is omitted, then the composition can become of gel-like
     consistency. Typically, the thawed mixture or the mixture obtained after the addition of
     the mild base (which is not frozen), is filtered. Typically, the filtration of the thawed
is   frozen mixture, or of the mixture obtained following addition of the base, is by way of
     allowing the mixture to filter through calico or other similar fabric for 12 to 24 hours.
     Other filtration methods/devices can also typically be utilised. As stated above, it is not
     essential that the mixture be frozen or filtered and therefore it is also typical that the
     mixture obtained after addition of the mild base is an active composition which can be
20   utilised in the methods of the present invention, It is, however, preferred that the mixture
     be frozen, thawed then filtered.          Typically, the thawing occurs simply at room
     temperature. The filtrate derived is an active composition. It can then be used directly as
     the active composition in accordance with the methods of the present invention or
     otherwise formulated as outlined below.         If formulated as outlined below, it is then
25   utilised in the same methods as the present invention set out below.
            Typically, if the mixture post the addition of the base and once the effervescence
     has ceased is beaten, frozen, thawed then filtered, the filtrate is a liquid which may be
     translucent or somewhat transparent and is generally coloured the same colour as the flesh
     of the original fruit and/or vegetable pulp. Typically, when the frothy mixture resulting
30   after the effervescence following addition of the mild base has ceased, is beaten then
     filtered, the filtrate may become of gel-like consistency within several hours.
            Typically, the resulting active filtrate composition has a pH in the range of about
     7.5 to about 9.5. More typically, the pH of the resulting filtrate composition is in the
     range of about 7.9 to 9.2. More typically, the pH of the active filtrate composition is
35   between about 8.2 and 9.5.        For example, pulped mango flesh which is processed in

   WO 2004/008887                                                          PCT/AU2003/000931
     accordance with the first aspect of the present invention which is then frozen, thawed and
     filtered has a resulting active filtrate which pH is about 9.         The pH of the active
     composition resulting after the processing of pawpaw is about 9.2. It is also typical that
     the frothy, cappuccino-like fruit whip mixture resulting after the addition of the mild base
 s   and effervescence has ceased has a pH in the range of about 7.5 to about 9.5.                For
     example, post pulping, peach flesh pulp has a pH of about 4, however the pH of the peach
     composition following addition of 10%w/w NaHCO 3, is about 8.5. The pH is measured
     typically by a pH meter throughout the manufacturing process.
            The amount of mild base which is to be added can be calculated according to the
i0   acidity of each batch of fruit and/or vegetable pulp and the end pH in the range of about
     7.5 to about 9.5 that is desired.
            Typically, preservative can be added to the resulting filtrate composition in order to
     ensure its longevity. Such preservatives can include conventional natural preservatives,
     typically grapefruit seed extract.
IS          The composition of the present invention, in neat form, may be directly topically
     applied to an area of skin in need of treatment. Typically, the resulting active filtrate
     composition is applied directly as the filtrate without dilution, or alternatively, the filtrate
     can be slightly diluted with water before being applied topically. Alternatively, the active
     composition resulting after the addition of the base and cessation of frothing, which has
20   not been frozen, thawed and filtered, ie the thick, viscous "fruit whip"-like composition
     can also be applied directly to the skin or diluted and then applied. Alternatively, the
     compositions of the present invention (which are defined to include the active filtrate
     composition as well as the active composition resulting after addition of a mild base to
     pulp) can be formulated and topically applied as a soap, gel, cream, lotion, ointment or
25   the like by the addition of pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients. Preferred
     carriers include deionised water, vegetable or mineral oils, white petrolatum, branched
     chain fats or oils, animal fats and high molecular weight alcohol. Emulsifiers, stabilisers
     and antioxidants may also be included as well as colouring agents and essential oils to
     impart fragrance.
30          It is typical that the compositions of the present invention can be formulated as a
     lotion or tonic, where they are either applied directly, or diluted with water and then
     applied. The compositions can also be formulated as creams or ointments.               In such
     formulations the active composition may be added in an amount of 10% to 60% w/w of
     base moisturiser cream and mixed in with the base cream. For example, sorbolene cream
35   or other moisturisers can have compositions of the present invention added to them in an

   WO 2004/008887                                                          PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                  -9
     amount of 10% to 60% w/w. Alternatively, macadamia oil, jojoba oil, almond oil or other
    nut and seed oils may be have the active composition of the present invention added to
     them in an amount of 10% to 60% w/w.
            Creams, lotions, tonics and other formulations can be prepared using one or more
 5   actives. For example, base moisturiser can be taken and 5% w/w of composition "A"
     from Example I and 5% w/w of composition from "M" (from Example 3) can be added
     to the moisturiser. It is also typical that two or three or even more active compositions
     can be added to a single formulation, or can be mixed together directly without the need
     for excipients or carriers.
10          Other topical products in which the compositions of the present invention can be
     formulated include skin care products such as creams, gels, pastes, emulsions, salves,
     exfoliants, cleansers, toners, sprays, masques and peels, sunscreens, lipbalms, lipsticks,
     depilatories, facial and body soaps and the like.
            Suitable topical vehicles for use with the formulations of the present invention are
is   well known in the cosmetic and pharmaceutical areas and include water, lipid bases
     materials including oils and fats, soaps, surfactants, emollients, skin conditioning agents
     and emulsifying agents. Examples of these vehicles are described Martindale-The Extra
     Pharmacopoeia (Pharmaceutical Press). Clearly, the choice of a suitable vehicle depends
     on the mode of delivery of the formulation.          The active composition is generally
20   incorporated    in the dermatologically/cosmetically       acceptable  vehicle/carrier in a
     conventional manner well known in the cosmetic and pharmaceutical arts.
            Topical application of an efficacious amount of the fruit- and/or vegetable-derived
     product of the present invention to an area of skin in need of treatment affords fast and
     effective relief from the symptoms of various dermatological disorders including
25   psoriasis, eczema, dry skin, wrinkles, and acne, The area of treated skin takes on an
     improved skin tone and appears smoother and more taut.             Dry and flaking skin is
     exfoliated from the surface of the skin, and inflamed and reddened skin is soothed.
            Typically, a composition of the present invention is topically applied to an animal,
     preferably a human, for the treatment or prophylaxis of all epidermal disorders including
30   psoriasis, eczema, insect bites, general epidermal irritation and redness including rosacea
     and itchiness, alopecia, circulatory disorders affecting the epidermis, sunburn, windburn
     and first, second and third degree bums, healing of sores, wounds and skin infections,
     skin cancers including sunspots, skin melanomas, and also alleviates some gum diseases
     and mouth ulcers and other gum and mouth dermatological disorders. Also typically, the
35   composition of the present invention can be topically applied to arthritic joints to alleviate

   WO 2004/008887                                                           PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                  - 10
    pain and swelling associated with all forms of arthritis as well as general joint and muscle
    aches and pains. Also typically, the composition of the present invention is applied as a
    general pain reliever. It can also be typically applied to prevent sunburn.
           It is also typical that the composition of the present invention is applied to the
 5  treatment of gout. Typically, a composition derived from peach flesh pulp is best used to
    treat eczema, and it is also typical that a composition derived from mango pulp can be
    used. It is also typical that composition derived from pulped potato flesh can be used a
    skin whitener. Typically a composition being a mixture of active compositions derived
    from pawpaw flesh (A) and peach flesh (M) can be used to reduce swelling and to
to  minimise pain associated with rheumatoid arthritis and gout and to improve blood
    circulation.
           Also typically, the composition of the present invention can be topically applied,
    particularly to the face and hands and neck to achieve an enhanced cosmetic benefit.
    More typically, the composition of the present invention can be applied topically to the
is  epidermis as an exfoliant, as an effective astringent or antibacterial, as well as an
    excellent skin cleanser and freshener. Typically, it reduces wrinkles and reduces effects
    of ageing on the epidermis. A general improvement in clarity, skin texture and
     appearance is observed after application of a composition of the present invention.
           Typically, one or more pure compositions of the present invention is topically
20  applied to the area of skin in need of treatment, allowed to penetrate the skin for a period
    of up to typically 30 to 90 minutes, more typically 60 minutes and then the composition is
    removed from the skin by rinsing with water. If more than one composition is being
     applied the first coat is allowed to dry before the next coat is applied. For example it is
    typical that a lotion comprising pure liquid active filtrate A is applied first to the face, this
25   is then allowed to dry before a coat of pure liquid E is applied. Alternatively 2 coats of
     each can be applied. The dried coats are washed off after about one hour. This can be
    repeated typically once every two-three days, or even every day depending on the
     disorder being treated and the sensitivity of the skin.
           Also typically, a formulation containing a composition of the present invention,
30   such as a cream, oil or ointment is simply topically applied to the appropriate area and
     allowed to remain.
           Accordingly, it is typical that the topical compositions of the present invention can
     be in the form of a 'wash-off product such as a masque or lotion or gel, or can be
     formulated as a product to be left on such as a cream or ointment.

    WO 2004/008887                                                           PCT/AU2003/000931
            While not wishing to be bound by theory, it is noted that the addition of a mild base
     under raised temperature conditions, chemically reacts with the acids (eg citric acid,
     tartaric acid, malic acid) and other components in the pulped fruit and/or vegetable
     material to form a number of chemical products including salts, The mild base is acting
  5  as a buffer agent to increase the pH (ie reduce the acidity) of the product.
            The present inventive method of extraction from the fruit and/or vegetable pulp
     provides a new and useful composition.
            The pulped fruit and/or vegetable material will typically contain carbohydrates
     (sugars) particularly glucose, fructose, maltose and sucrose.
 10         The pulped material will also contain some nitrogen-containing substances such as
     proteins (amino acids), amides, amine nitrates depending on the source of the pulp.
     Vegetables contain between about 1-5.5% while in fruit nitrogen-containing substances
     are <1%. The proteins in the pulped mixture may be destroyed when the heating occurs
     above 50*C.        The heating step in the present process may therefore destroy
 i5  microorganisms and may to some extent affect the activity of proteins present
     (particularly enzymes). This heating step therefore improves the storage stability of the
     pulped material and will determine which components remain in the active composition.
     Enzyme activity in the active composition is not expected to be totally deactivated by the
     process, however some enzymes may be more affected than others depending on their
20   susceptibility to changes in pH and temperature.
            Pulped fruit material will contain alpha-beta hydroxy acids such as citric acid, malic
     acid and tartaric acid as mentioned above. Alpha hydroxy acids may also be present in
     the fruit/vegetable pulp. Malic acid, citric acid and tartaric acid are not toxic and at pH of
     the present invention should not cause skin or ocular irritability.
25          As the pH of the pulped material is low it is anticipated that no microorganisms
     (which could affect the fruit or vegetable material eg by fermentation) are present. In any
     event, heating of the pulped material before addition of a base minimises the likelihood of
     viable microorganisms being retained when the pH is increased. Conditions of processing
     are however, kept as clear and sterile as possible to minimise the presence of
30   microorganisms /bacteria,
            The present invention will now be further described with reference to the following
     examples.
            Modifications, changes and variations as would be apparent to a skilled addressee
     are deemed to be within the scope of the present invention-particularly with regard to
35   specific exemplary components and to the specific ranges of the components.

     WO 2004/008887                                                         PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                    - 12
                                                EXAMPLES
                                               Example 1(A)
              1.    Take normal fresh pawpaw, not unripened or over-ripe.
                    (a)    Remove skin and outer layer of hard flesh.
   5                (b)    Remove seeds.
             2.     Take 300 gin of pawpaw flesh and place in Pyrex bowl.
             3.     Pulp pawpaw flesh with a hand-mixer.
             4.     Place pulped pawpaw flesh into the top pan of a stainless steel double-boiler.
             5.     Fill the bottom pan of the double-boiler with water to about two-thirds full.
 10          6.     Place bottom pan of the double-boiler on stove or hot plate and bring to the
       boil.
             7.     Place the top pan containing the pulped pawpaw flesh on top of the bottom
      pan.
             8.     Continue heating the bottom pan whilst manually stirring the pulped pawpaw
 is   flesh in the top pan using a wooden spoon until the temperature of the pulped pawpaw
      flesh reaches about 550 Celsius.
             9.    Pre-heat 1-litre Pyrex bowl to about 550 Celsius.
             10.   Transfer heated pulped pawpaw flesh to heated Pyrex bowl.
             I.    Add 30 gin of sodium bicarbonate (as purchased in a supermarket) to heated
20    pulped pawpaw flesh.
             12.   Stir heated pulped pawpaw flesh vigorously with a wooden spoon until
      effervescence ceases.
             13.   Beat heated pulped pawpaw flesh vigorously using an electric mixer until
      texture is that of a smooth cream. This takes 20 to 40 seconds.
25           14.   Pour the heated pulped pawpaw flesh into a container.
             15.   Put lid on container.  .
             16.   Place container in deep-freeze.
             17.   After the contents of the container have frozen remove container from deep
      freeze and allow to thaw.
30           18.   Allow thawed liquor to filter through calico for 12 to 24 hours and collect in
      Pyrex bowl.
             19.   The collected liquor (filtrate) is the active raw composition demonstrating
      efficacy and producing the beneficial effects.

   WO 2004/008887                                                          PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                 - 13
                                  Formulation of Raw Product
           1     Use raw product as a lotion or tonic.
           2.    Add raw product to a base lotion such as sorbolene or other moisturiser to
    produce a viscous lotion.
 5         3.   Add raw product to a natural oil such as macadamia that has been heated and
    then allowed to cool to 45* Celsius thereby creating a cream.
           4.   Add raw product to a mixture of lye and oils used in making soap before
    saponification takes place thereby making a soap.
                                         Beneficial effects
10         1.    General skin care.
                a)    Excellent exfoliant
                b)    Extremely effective astringent
                c)    Excellent skin cleanser and freshener
                d)    Gives skin a healthy look and feel
is              e)    Removes wrinkles
                f)    Generally makes the skin on face look and feel fresher, tighter and
    younger
           2.   Heals cuts and wounds.
           3.   Relieves a large variety of skin afflictions, including skin cancers.
20         4.   Takes the sting out of insect bites.
           5.   In some cases, restores hair growth.
           6.   Relieves sores in gums and alleviates some gum diseases.
           7.   Can be combined with other products prepared according to the process of the
    present invention and will demonstrate synergistic effects in respect of those products. It
25  has been noted that with most of the other compositions of the present invention, the
    resulting composition of Example 1(A) enhances the effectiveness of those other
    compositions.
                              Notes in respect of Example 1(A)
           1.   The heating step can be effected in a microwave rather than a double-boiler.
30         2.   The optimum temperature is 55*C and the preferred temperature range is 50*C
    to 60*C. Product with beneficial properties can be created if the temperature is between
    40*C and 100*C.
           3.   The proportion of sodium bicarbonate can be varied from 1%to 40% of the
    pulped flesh by weight. The lower proportion of sodium bicarbonate is more suitable for

   WO 2004/008887                                                           PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                    - 14
     persons with extremely sensitive skin. As the proportion of sodium bicarbonate increases
     the raw product becomes progressively more likely to bum the skin.
            4.    The pH of the final product when the weight of sodium bicarbonate is 10% of
     the weight of the pulped pawpaw flesh is approximately 8.
 5          5.    The freezing step may be omitted, but in some cases, the product formed from
     adding sodium bicarbonate to the heated pulped flesh becomes gel-like and the filtration
     of the liquor is more difficult.
                                              Example 2(H)
            1.    Take normal fresh tomato, not unripened or over-ripe.
1o2.              Take 300 gm of tomato and place in Pyrex bowl.
            3.    Pulp tomato with a hand-mixer.
            4.    Place pulped tomato into the top pan of a stainless steel double-boiler.
            5.    Fill the bottom pan of the double-boiler with water to about two-thirds full.
            6.    Place bottom pan of the double-boiler on stove or hot plate and bring to the
is   boil.
            7.    Place the top pan containing the pulped tomato on top of the bottom pan.
            8.    Continue heating the bottom pan whilst manually stirring the pulped tomato in
     the top pan using a wooden spoon until the temperature of the pulped tomato reaches
     about 550 Celsius.
20          9.    Pre-heat 1-litre Pyrex bowl to about 55* Celsius.
            10.   Transfer heated pulped tomato to heated Pyrex bowl.
            11,   Add 30 gm of sodium bicarbonate (as purchased in a supermarket) to heated
     pulped tomato.
            12.   Stir heated pulped tomato           vigorously  with a wooden spoon        until
25   effervescence ceases.
            13,   Beat heated pulped tomato vigorously using an electric mixer until texture is
     that of a smooth cream. This takes about 20 to 40 seconds.
            14.   Strain the product of the heated tomato pulp and the sodium bicarbonate using
     a stainless steel trainer with apertures of 0.8 mm. collecting the liquor in a Pyrex bowl.
30          15.   The collected liquor (filtrate) is the active raw composition demonstrating
     efficacy and producing the beneficial effects.
                                    Formulation of Raw Product
            1.    Use raw product as a lotion or tonic.

    WO 2004/008887                                                          PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                   - 15
             2.    Add raw product to a base lotion such as sorbolene or other moisturiser to
      produce a viscous lotion.
             3.    Add raw product to a natural oil such as macadamia that has been heated and
      then allowed to cool to 45*C thereby creating a cream.
  s         4.     Add raw product to a mixture of lye and oils used in making soap before
      saponification takes place thereby making a soap.
                                           Beneficial effects
             1.    General skin care.
            2.    Alleviates a number of skin afflictions.
 to         3.    Effectively treats most types of psoriasis.
            4.    Takes the itch out of irritated skin.
            5.    Takes the sting out of insect bites.
            6.    Can be combined with other products of the process of the present invention
     to demonstrate a synergistic beneficial effect.
 IS                                               Notes
             1.   The heating step can be effected in a microwave rather than a double-boiler.
            2.    The optimum temperature is 55*C and the preferred temperature range is 50*C
     to 60*C. Product with beneficial properties can be created if the temperature is between
     40*C and 100*C.
20          3.    The proportion of sodium bicarbonate can be varied from 1% to 40% of the
     pulped flesh by weight. The lower proportion of sodium bicarbonate is more suitable for
     persons with extremely sensitive skin. As the proportion of sodium bicarbonate increases
     the raw product becomes progressively more likely to burn the skin.
            4.    The pH of the final product when the weight of sodium bicarbonate is 10% of
25   the weight of the pulped tomato flesh is approximately 8.
                                             Example 3(M)
            1.    Take normal fresh peaches, not unripened or over-ripe.
                  a)     Skin peaches.
                  b)     Remove stones.
30          2.    Take 300 gm of peach flesh and place in Pyrex bowl.
            3.    Pulp peach flesh with a hand-mixer.
            4.    Place pulped peach flesh into the top pan of a stainless steel double-boiler.
            5.    Fill the bottom pan of the double-boiler with water to about two-thirds full.

   WO 2004/008887                                                        PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                 - 16
           6.    Place bottom pan of the double-boiler on stove or hot plate and bring to the
    boil.
           7.    Place the top pan containing the pulped peach flesh on top of the bottom pan.
           8.    Continue heating the bottom pan whilst manually stirring the pulped peach
 5  flesh in the top pan using a wooden spoon until the temperature of the pulped peach flesh
    reaches about 55*C.
           9.    Pre-heat 1-litre Pyrex bowl to about 55*C.
           10.   Transfer heated pulped peach flesh to heated Pyrex bowl.
           11.   Add 30 gm of sodium bicarbonate (as purchased in a supermarket) to heated
io  pulped peach flesh,
            12.  Stir heated pulped peach flesh vigorously with a wooden spoon until
    effervescence ceases.
           13.   Beat heated pulped peach flesh vigorously using an electric mixer until
    texture is that of a smooth cream. This takes about 20 to 40 seconds.
15         14.   Pour the heated pulped pawpaw flesh into a container.
           15.   Put lid on container.
           16.   Place container in deep-freeze.
           17.   After the contents of the container have frozen remove container from
    deepfreeze and allow to thaw.
20         18.   Allow thawed liquor to filter through calico for 12 to 24 hours and collect in
    Pyrex bowl.
           19.   The collected liquor (filtrate) is the active raw composition demonstrating
     efficacy and producing the beneficial effects.
                                   Formulation of Raw Product
25         1.    Use raw product as a lotion or tonic.
           2.    Add raw product to a base lotion such as sorbolene or other moisturiser to
    produce a viscous lotion.
           3.    Add raw product to a natural oil such as macadamia that has been heated and
    then allowed to cool to 45"C thereby creating a cream.
30         4.    Add raw product to a mixture of lye and oils used in making soap before
     saponification takes place thereby making a soap.
                                         Beneficial effects
           1.    General skin care,
           2.    Heals bums that have already developed.

    WO 2004/008887                                                          PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                  - 17
            3.    Prevents burns from developing after the skin has been "burnt".
            4.    Gives instant relief from sunburn.
            5.    Prevents sunburn if applied before going out in the sun.
            6.    Alleviates the affects on the skin of eczema and many types of psoriasis.
  s         7.    Alleviates acne.
            8.    Heals sores and wounds.
            9.    Relieves many types of pain.
            10.   This product can be combined with other products prepared according to the
     process of the present invention to demonstrate enhanced beneficial effects.
 1o         In combination with the product of Example 1, the raw product created from the
     inner flesh of pawpaw, the following effects have been noted:
            1.    Gangrenous flesh can be restored to normal healthy skin and flesh.
            2.    Bum prevention and healing, including relief from the pain associated with
     the burn, is enhanced.
 is         3.    Most types of swelling are reduced, in some cases instantaneously.
            4.    In the case of treatment of gout and arthritis and other muscular and joint pain
     and aches, the swelling and pain was reduced almost instantaneously.
            5.    Blood circulation is improved.
                                                 Notes
20          1.    Tinned peaches can be used in place of natural peaches. The entire contents
     of the can, including the liquor is used.
                                            General Notes
            1.    The heating step can be effected in a microwave rather than a double-boiler.
            2.    The optimum temperature is 55*C and the preferred temperature range is 50*C
25   to 60*C. Product with beneficial properties can be created if the temperature is between
     40*C and 100*C.
            3.    The proportion of sodium bicarbonate can be varied from 1%to 40% of the
     pulped peach flesh by weight. The lower proportion of sodium bicarbonate is more
     suitable for persons with extremely sensitive skin.          As the proportion of sodium
30   bicarbonate increases the raw product becomes progressively more likely to burn the skin.
           4.     The pH of the final product when the weight of sodium bicarbonate is 10% of
     the weight of the pulped peach flesh is approximately 8.5-8.7.

      WO 2004/008887                                                         PCT/AJ2003/000931
                                                     - 18
                5.    The freezing step may be omitted, but in some cases, the product formed from
         adding sodium bicarbonate to the heated pulped flesh becomes gel-like and the filtration
         of the liquor is more difficult.
                                                  Example 4
    5          The firm flesh of a tomato is pulped and heated to a temperature of 55*C. To the
        heated pulp is added sodium bicarbonate in an amount of about 10% w/w of the total
        composition. The mixture is thoroughly combined, then frozen. The frozen mixture is
        thawed, re-pulped and filtered to afford a filtrate.
               The inner flesh of a pawpaw, the outer flesh and skin of the pawpaw, and the inner
   1o   flesh of a mango, are each treated as described above, except that the composition derived
        from the inner flesh of the mango is not filtered.
               About 50g of the filtrate resulting from the pulped tomato, and about 30g each of
       the filtrates resulting from the inner flesh of the pawpaw, the outer flesh and skin of the
       pawpaw, and the inner flesh of the mango are combined and mixed thoroughly.
  is           The combined filtrates are applied to an area of skin afflicted with psoriasis. The
       combined filtrates are allowed to dry on the skin for a period of about 30 minutes and
       then rinsed from the treated skin with water.
               The treatment is repeated after 24 hours.
              The symptoms of psoriasis on the treated skin are completely relieved, and there has
 20    been no reappearance of the symptoms or the disease.
                                                 Example 5
              Pawpaw skin is processed exactly according to Example 1 to produce composition
       B.
                                                Example 6
25            Mango flesh is processed exactly according to Example 1 to produce composition
       C.
                                                Example 7
              Mango skin is processed exactly according to Example 1 to produce composition D.
                                                Example 8
30            Lime flesh is processed exactly according to Example 1 to produce composition E.
                                                Example 9
              Lime skin is processed exactly according to Example 1 to produce composition E'.

       WO 2004/008887                                                         PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                      - 19
                                                  Example 10
                 Mandarin flesh is processed exactly according to Example I to produce
          composition F.
                                                  Example 11
     s           Grapes are processed exactly according to Example 1 to produce composition G.
                                                  Example 12
                 Pineapple is processed exactly according to Example 1 to produce composition .
                                                  Example 13
                 Avocado flesh is processed exactly according to Example 1to produce composition
   o      J.
                                                 Example 14
                 Apples are processed exactly according to Example 1 to produce composition K.
                                                 Example 15
                 Watermelon flesh is processed exactly according to Example I to produce
  is     composition L.
                                                 Example 16
                Grapefruit flesh is processed exactly according to Example 1 to produce
         composition N.
                                                 Example 17
 20             Apricot flesh is processed exactly according to Example I to produce composition
         O.
                                                Example 18
                                              Skin Complaints
                The patient, who is a retired 68 year old Australian male, has no skin complaints.
25      He has suffered from rheumatoid arthritis in his hands and knees for about 12 years.
                                    Previous medication and results
               The patient was diagnosed with a rheumatoid factor through blood tests when he
        went to see his doctor after beginning to experience pain and stiffness in his wrists
                                                                                                 and
        knees. The patient began suffering from the disease at about the same time that his wife
30      contracted Ross River fever and then PMR.
               It was explained to the patient by his doctor that the cause of the rheumatoid
        arthritis is that the immune system begins to go haywire, and that
                                                                            the joints are attacked,
        causing the pain and stiffness that he was experiencing. His doctor explained that there

      WO 2004/008887                                                           PCT/AU12003/000931
                                                     - 20
         was no cure, and that the most that he could expect was medication that would control the
         pain.
                The patient was prescribed Voltaren tablets as an anti-inflammatory. Until recently,
         he has taken two Voltaren tablets each day for the last 12 years or so, For the last five
    5    years, The patient has also taken the drug Methotrexate on a weekly basis as a painkiller.
         However, Methotrexate can have dangerous side effects, and the patient needs to have a
         monthly blood test to ensure that the use of the drug is not causing any damage to his
         liver or kidneys.
                Some time after commencing using Voltaren tablets, the patient also began using
  to     Voltaren cream, which is available OTC, when the pain was intense. It was his doctor
         who recommended the Voltaren cream; however, his doctor also recommended that the
        patient not become too reliant on the Voltaren cream because of its expense ($27 for a
        small tube) and the amount that needed to be applied. The patient found that the Voltaren
        cream gave him effective relief from the pain, and this relief would last for some hours.
  15    The patient estimates that on average he would use Voltaren cream 3 or 4 times per week.
               On one occasion, his doctor recommended another cream called Naprosene. The
        patient found this had no beneficial effect at all, but in fact caused an adverse affect. He
        experienced what he calls "water blisters" on the areas where he applied the Naprosene.
                                            Products supplied
 20            The patient was provided with a cream containing the product produced by
        Example 1.
                                                  Results
               The patient has found that the cream supplied is far more effective than the Voltaren
        cream. On the first occasion that the patient used the cream prepared according to the
25     present invention, he was experiencing acute pain in both hands and one of his knees.
       The patient smothered the cream prepared according to the present invention on both
       hands and rubbed it into the finger joints during the evening, and applied some more
       cream before going to bed. The pain had completely disappeared in his right hand and
       was only very slight in his left hand when he awoke the next morning, and the swelling
30     and stiffness were significantly reduced.
              The patient has had to give up golf because of his rheumatoid arthritis, but still
       plays bowls regularly even though he knows that this will cause his wrists and knees to
       become more painful. The patient knew from experience that the best way of controlling
       the resultant pain was to use the Voltaren cream after a morning playing bowls, and the

     WO 2004/008887                                                           PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                    -21
       subsequent swim and shower that is part of his routine, He would smear the Voltaren
       cream on his wrists and knees after the shower and then again at night before going to
       bed. If he did not do this he knew that he would experience an increase in the pain during
       the course of the day and would wake up with very painful and stiff wrists and knees the
   5   next morning. By following this program with the Voltaren cream, the patient found that
       the pain that he would otherwise have experienced was reduced considerably, but there
       was still an ache.
              Since having first tried the cream according to the present invention, the patient
       now follows the same program but using the cream rather than Voltaren cream. The
  10   patient has found that he experiences no pain or ache at all after playing bowls by
       following this program with the cream containing the active composition A prepared
       according to Example 1 of the present invention.
              The patient also now applies the cream when his fingers, wrist or knees swell up.
       The cream works more quickly than the Voltaren cream. Moreover, the relief is greater
  IS   and longer lasting. He has reduced the Voltaren tablets that he takes from two to one per
      day, and no longer uses the Voltaren cream.
                                    Comments and Observations
             The patient was very sceptical as to the benefits of using the cream containing
      active composition A prepared according to Example 1 of the present invention.
 20          He tried the cream after his wife suggested he do so. The patient is now a firm
      believer that the cream prepared according to the process of the present invention is far
      superior to the Voltaren cream that he had previously been using.
             In the patient's words, the cream relieves the symptoms of the rheumatoid arthritis,
      more quickly than the medication that he had been using, and the effect lasts longer. He
25    says also that the cream is easier to apply.
             The patient has further reduced his intake of Voltaren tablets from two to one per
      day and has reduced his intake of Methotrexate tablets by 50%.
                                             Example 19A
                                            Skin Complaint
30          The patient is a retired 68 year old Australian female.         The patient's skin was
      wrinkly and her eyelids had drooped to the extent that she could not see properly. The
      patient is a smoker and she has spent a great deal of her life in the sun.

   WO 2004/008887                                                         PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                 - 22
                                Previous medication and results
           The patient never used any skin-care products when she was a young woman.
     When she was young the patient's skin was oily, but as she became older she found that
     her skin tended to become dry. As a result she began to use a moisturiser, purchasing
 5   whatever brand she found in her local supermarket.
                                         Products Supplied
           The patient has been treated by applying the composition prepared according to
     Example 1. The composition of Example 1 has been applied to the patient's face, in one
     or more coats, retained for 30 to 60 minutes and then removed by washing. This has been
1o   applied approximately once every two days. She has also applied Compositions E and M
     (prepared according to Examples 8 and 3 respectively) in accordance with the above steps
     for applying A. She has also applied layers of each different composition A, E and M
     (waiting for drying of each layer before applying the next) and then removing after about
     30 minutes.
is                                             Results
           The patient has found that the products prepared according to the present invention
     have reduced the dryness of her skin and returned her skin to what she considers a
     "normal" condition.
           Her wrinkles have smoothed out considerably, especially around her eyes, and she
20   no longer has any problems with her sight as her eyelids no longer droop.         The skin
     around her neck, face and chest has tightened with the result that she looks and feels
     much younger
                                 Comments and Observations
           The patient used to call herself the "frilled neck lizard". However, since using the
25   products prepared in accordance with the process of the present invention, her husband
     and friends have noticed that she is looking much younger. As a result of her improved
     appearance her confidence has soared.
                                           Example 19B
                                            The disease
30         The 68 year old retired Australian female who is the subject of the previous
     Example 19A, has also suffered from PMR or poly-myalga-rheumatica for approximately
     14 years. It affects her whole body, causing her body to be generally aching but in
     particular she experiences pain in her neck, shoulders, hands, knees and ankles. The pain
     became so severe that she had to give up playing golf six years ago.

     WO 2004/008887                                                         PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                    - 23
               Shortly before the patient was diagnosed with PMR she had contracted Ross River
       fever.
                                   Previous medication and results
              For the first six months after she was diagnosed as suffering from PMR the patient
   s   was on prescribed anti-inflammatory drugs. However, these caused stomach pains and
       she was rushed to hospital one night suffering from severe stomach pains. As a result she
       was taken off anti-inflammatory drugs.
              The patient was subsequently prescribed Panamax, a stronger form of Panadol, but
       this was not effective to relieve her pain.
  10          None of the doctors who have examined the patient have ever suggested that she
       use a cream. However, about five years ago, the patient started using Voltaren cream,
      which her husband was using for relief of pain caused by his rheumatoid arthritis. The
       first occasion that she used Voltaren cream was while she was on a trip and was in quite
       severe pain. She went into a chemist's and purchased the Voltaren cream.
 is           Since then the patient regularly used Voltaren cream to relieve the pain in her neck,
      shoulders, hands, knees and ankles. She would apply the Voltaren cream in the morning
      after waking up if the pain was unbearable. The Voltaren cream gave her relief after
       about 20 minutes and would generally last all day.
              Towards the end of 2001, the patient was prescribed a drug called CELEBREX as a
20    painkiller. This drug proved to be effective and did not cause the same side-effects as the
      anti-inflammatory drugs she had used when she was first diagnosed with PMR. Since
      taking CELEBREX the patient is now able to play nine rounds of golf, although she
      experiences quite severe pain the next day.
              At the beginning of 2003, the patient was taken off CELEBREX because of the
25    adverse effect on the medication she was taking following a heart attack. She had been
      prescribed a different heart tablet, but that seemed to cause even more problems. At the
      beginning of February, the patient was put back on CELEBREX. Her doctor is currently
      evaluating the results of the various changes in the medication prescribed since she
      commenced using CELEBREX.
30            The CELEBREX was effective as a painkiller, such that the patient did not need to
      use the Voltaren cream as frequently as she had before, but only when the pain became
      unbearable which was not often.

    WO 2004/008887                                                         PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                   -24
                                           Products Supplied
             The patient started using the cream containing composition A prepared according to
      Example 1 above, in the second half of January of 2003 when the pain was becoming
      severe.
  5                                               Results
             The patient used the cream containing composition A prepared according to the
      process of Example I once per day when she got up in the morning and has found it
      effective in controlling the pain in her neck, shoulders, hands, knees and ankles.
                                               Example 20
 10                                         Skin Complaints
             The patient is a 65 year old retired Australian male who has suffered from psoriasis
      for approximately 18 years. For the first 3 years only his scalp was affected, but from
      1988 the patient began to suffer psoriasis mainly on his hands and arms but at times on
      his face as well, and occasionally on his legs. Generally, when it flares, the psoriasis
 IS   starts between the fingers and spread up his hands and arms. A large red "birthmark"
      appeared on the right-hand side of his face, becoming a permanent feature although it
      varied in colour depending on whether he was suffering from the manifestation of
      psoriasis on his hands and arms or not. The psoriasis flares when he is exposed to heat,
      dirt and dust and especially when he is doing manual work outdoors. The patient has also
20    observed that his condition is exacerbated when he is stressed. In addition, it tends to get
      worse when he goes from a cool to a warmer climate. The skin on his arms is particularly
      affected and has the appearance of having been scalded when the psoriasis flares.
             The only began to suffer from psoriasis when he was a prison officer. He found this
     job particularly stressful; he did not regard the various hazardous incidents in which he
25    was involved during his previous navy career, including a number of incidents in which
      his life was at risk both during active service and whilst performing other duties as a
      diver, as being stressful. The psoriasis would invariably break out during the summer or
     when he was on leave. The patient believes that he was more stressed when he was on
     leave from his job as a prison officer than when he was on duty.
30           The patient's greatest problem is the itchiness when the psoriasis flares, causing
     him to want to scratch and rub. When the itchy area is rubbed or scratched, the area
     becomes more itchy and little pustules appear on the skin in the form of individual circles,
     collectively forming larger circles. The surface of the pustular area become raised. If the

    WO 2004/008887                                                          PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                    - 25
      pustules are broken by scratching a clear white fluid is exuded, which the patient has been
       told by various doctors is lymph. The pustular areas spread rapidly and erratically.
             Before he was first treated by products prepared according to the process of the
      present invention, the itchiness used to drive the patient crazy.       At night, the patient
  5   would put socks over both hands to stop himself from scratching. The patient believes
      that it is the itchiness and the resultant scratching and rubbing that causes the psoriasis to
      spread.
             On one occasion about 8 years ago, an outbreak on his right hand put the patient out
      of action for 3 months due to the dressing that had been put on by a doctor rubbing the
 10   skin while he worked. He had been told not to use his hand until it had healed, but he had
      not waited for this to happen. As a result his hand became septic.
             Before he was first treated by products prepared according to the process of the
      present invention towards the end of 2001, the patient had a pronounced red "birthmark"
      on the right-hand side of his face. This blemish had appeared approximately 10 years
 is   previously, and it became progressively larger over the years. By the time he was first
      treated it covered almost 80% of the upper right-hand side of his face.
                                   Previous medication and results
             The patient's daughter has suffered from psoriasis since the age of 7, some 10 years
     before the patient himself was first afflicted or displayed any of the symptoms associated
20   with the disease. The patient's daughter suffered seriously as a young girl, as a result of
     which the patient became very familiar with the disease, the various treatments and the
      fact that there was little that conventional medicine or treatments could do to effectively
     control or alleviate the skin condition resulting from psoriasis. Indeed, in the patient's
     words, conventional treatment and products "did nothing" for the patient's daughter at all.
25           During the period when he only suffered from psoriasis of the scalp, the patient
     would wash his hair with a number of different bitumen-based shampoos recommended
     by the various doctors whom he saw. During the first few years when he began to suffer
     from psoriasis of the hands and arms, the patient visited many doctors who recognised his
     condition as being psoriasis. However, none of them could be more specific as to the
30   type of psoriasis and were unable to provide or recommend an effective treatment.
     During the period that he has suffered from psoriasis, the patient has used various
     products, none of which provided effective relief or any degree of control, and he had
     simply learnt to live with his condition by the time that he was first treated with products
     prepared according to the process of the present invention.

     WO 2004/008887                                                         PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                     -26
              Generally, the patient would use several OTC or prescription products at the same
       time. However, when the psoriasis was really firing neither, or both if used together, had
       any noticeable effect. The only effective relief when the psoriasis was really firing was
       obtained by immersing his hands and forearms in a bucket of iced water.
   5                                  Previous Medication Results
              The lotions and creams containing products prepared according to the process of the
       present invention are the only products that have given effective relief from the itchiness
       and spreading of the pustules when there has been a psoriatic flare up.
                                           Products supplied
  1o          The patient was initially provided with lotions containing products prepared
       according to Examples 1 and 2 respectively then from February 2002 with various
       creams, which the patient generally applies whenever the psoriasis flares. The standard
       psoriasis cream supplied to the patient contains 60% H and 40% B with sweet almond oil
       and beeswax.
 is          During the course of 2002, the patient was treated by applying different products
       prepared according to the process of the present invention, the strengths of those products
       being varied.
                                                  Results
             The patient's psoriasis generally flares up very quickly without warning, generally
20    between the fingers. The itchiness builds up very quickly, and the skin becomes red and
      angry, and pustules form and spread. When an outbreak occurs, the patient applies the
      lotion to the affected area.
             The effects of the application lotion are noticeable almost immediately. The
      itchiness immediately vanishes and the redness and inflammation is significantly reduced
25    (at least by half) within 10 minutes.     If the patient is working when the psoriasis first
      flares, after the itchiness has subsided, that is within a couple of minutes of applying the
      lotion, the patient will apply the cream. This appears to the patient to act as an "adhesive
      carrier" retaining the active ingredients in the cream within and on the surface of the skin.
             When no lotion is available, the patient will use the cream, which he keeps
30    refrigerated. The current creams provided don't go off, due to the addition of a
      preservative.    Even so, the patient keeps the cream in the fridge as the application of
      cream, when no lotion is available, gives relief more quickly if cold. When cream is used
      in place of lotion the itchiness does not disappear immediately but only after I or 2
      minutes.

     WO 2004/008887                                                           PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                      - 27
               If the patient is not working he now does not apply any cream immediately until the
        area dries. If he does not apply the cream at all, the skin eventually becomes itchy again,
        although it is not nearly as powerful as the initial itch when the psoriasis first fires.
               The patient has also found that outbreaks tend to be less often and less severe. This
   5    is because he often applies the cream when he is working to inhibit a flare up. When
        psoriasis does flare up this is only because he has not been using the cream. The reason
        the patient doesn't use the cream continuously is due solely to him running out of it from
        time to time.
               Before starting to use lotions and creams containing products prepared according to
 10    Examples 2 and 3 of the present invention, the patient's skin was initially red and rough
       on those parts of his arms where he had frequent outbreaks of psoriasis and resembled a
       healed bum. Since using the products of the present invention the skin has become much
       softer, both in the areas that were rough and red and those that were "normal".
               The patient also applies the lotion to minor cuts and abrasions and has found that it
 is    has an antiseptic effect.
                                      Comments and Observations
               The patient was originally very sceptical. However, when it was suggested to him
       that he could treat and remove the ugly red lump on the right side of his face that had only
       appeared when he first suffered from psoriasis, he had totally rejected the possibility that
20     lotions containing products prepared according to the present invention would have any
       effect.
              During the first treatment, the "birthmark" broke up into five distinctive areas.
       Eventually after weekly treatment over 5 months, during which different strengths and
       combinations of the products prepared according to the process of the present invention
25    were applied, the "birthmark" almost completely disappeared. Since then, when the
      psoriasis does fire the "birthmark" again becomes noticeable, but one application of the
      cream results in it disappearing within a few hours.
             The patient had the first treatment for psoriasis on his hands and arms, which had
      just flared up that day, within a couple of weeks of the first treatment on his face. There
30    was noticeable relief after the first treatment.

    WO 2004/008887                                                         PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                 -28
                                             Example 21
                                           Skin Complaints
            The patient's skin was showing the normal signs of old age.                Before the
      commencement of treatment, her face was very wrinkly and her cheeks had drooped to
  5   quite a large extent.
            The patient also suffered from the long term effects of a previous car accident
     which had resulted in a lack of blood circulation in her legs and feet which had made
     walking difficult and painful and had also caused splitting and bleeding of her heels.
                                 Previous medication and results
 10         The patient has not worn makeup for many years.
            The only cream the patient applied was Vitamin E.
                                         Products supplied
            Since September 2002 the patient applied a lotion containing active Composition A
     (prepared according to Example 1) every second night before going to bed.
 is         The patient has also been using a cream containing active composition "A" on her
     feet, applying it every second night.
                                               Results
            The skin on the patient's face has tightened and the wrinkles have noticeably
     reduced.
20          The patient's heels have recovered significantly and no longer split and bleed.
            The soap has also helped her skin leaving it feeling fresh and clean and reducing the
     lines on her face.
                                            Example 22
                                         Skin Complaints
25          The patient is a 71 year old female whose skin was showing signs of ageing and
     blackheads and pimples were a problem. Throughout her life she had spent a lot of time
     in the sun and she had not cared or paid much attention to her skin.
                                Previous medication and results
            The patient had not used anything specific in the past. She had used Pond's cream
30   quite often. None of these products had any effect in reducing or preventing the aging of
     her skin.

     WO 2004/008887                                                          PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                      - 29
                                             Products supplied
        The patient has received a facial on a weekly basis involving the application of one coat
        of composition A (undiluted), allowing coat A to dry and applying another coat of A,
        allowing that second coat to dry and applying two coats of composition C (undiluted) and
   5    two coats of composition E (undiluted)-allowing each coat to dry before application of the
        next coat. Then after about 30-60 minutes, washing all coats off with warm water.
       Alternatively, the patient received a facial comprising one coat of each of A, C and E
        (directly applied as undiluted).
                                                   Results
  to          The first results that the patient noticed were the deep ruts near her eyes began to
       flatten out. The general condition of her skin improved and blackheads and pimples were
       less of a problem.
              The deep "bag on a bag" under her right eye also disappeared.
              The finnness and texture of her skin has improved and the wrinkles in her cheeks
 is    have flattened out significantly and left her skin glowing and feeling fresh.
                                                Example 23
                                             Skin Complaints
              The patient is a 39 year old female who had thought that she had any skin problems
       and thought that her skin, though sensitive, was in good condition.
 20           The patient had however suffered discomfort from her feet that regularly swell up
       and cause her pain.
              She also has varicose veins on her legs and has had sores on her back.
                                           Products supplied
             The patient started having a weekly facial in October of 2002. The facial involved
25    the application of layers of compositions A, C and E as set out in Example 22, or
      alternatively one layer of A, then after drying one layer of undiluted composition M or C.
             The patient was also provided with a cream containing active composition M
      60%w/w (produced according to Example 3).
                                                  Results
30             The facials have resulted in cleaner skin and has reduced the lines in her face. The
      fine lines have disappeared and the heavier ones have become less obvious.
               The cream has had a similar beneficial effect to other lotions containing
      compositions of the present invention. The patient now applies M before applying weak

      WO 2004/008887                                                          PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                     - 30
         solutions of the other lotions containing compositions of the present invention, and
         experiences no discomfort in treating her face.
                 The facials have given the patient's face a lift and eradicated the bags under her
         eyes. These effects could be seen from the first application.
    5            A scar near her left eye that was very deep has almost disappeared.
                 The patient has further applied the facial lotions to the varicose veins on her legs
         and they have become less obvious after only 3 weeks.
                                      Comments and Observations
               The patient finds that the treatments tend to last for at least three days before she
  10     wants another facial.
               Another change that the patient has noticed since using soap containing an active
        composition of the present invention with her family is that they have been less
        susceptible to sunburn.
                                                Example 24
  is                                          Skin Complaints
               The patient is a 45 year old female who suffered severe scarring on her face as a
        result of a car accident around 10 to 12 years ago.
               The skin on both sides of her neck was discoloured (purple and white in patches)
        and rough with the texture of sandpaper.
 20           The patient's left cheek drooped so badly that it looked as though she had suffered
        from a stroke and she was unable to smile.
              The patient was developing wrinkles and a double chin.
              The patient also suffers from pain in the top of her right leg as a result of the
        accident.
25                                 Previous medication and results
              Since recovering from the accident, the patient had not used any particular
       cosmetics recently except for sorbolene for her face.
              The patient had used codeine to provide relief from her back pain
                                            Products supplied
30            The patient has been having weekly facials using a composition of the present
       invention since 3 September 2001. These comprised the application of at least one coat
       of undiluted composition C to her face, leaving 30-90 minutes and then removing by
       washing in warn water.

    WO 2004/008887                                                         PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                   -31
            The patient has also been using a cream containing compositions A and C (in a ratio
      of 9:1) prepared according to Examples I and 6, with beeswax and sweet almond oil,
      which she applies to the top of her leg when pain occurs.
             Since September 2002, apart from sorbolene, the patient has only been using
  s   lotions, creams and soaps containing compositions of the present invention.
                                                 Results
            The scars on the patient's face, neck and throat have reduced significantly. The
      scars on her face and neck have become so subtle that you need to look to see them, and
      even the scars on her throat that had been very obvious previously are now barely visible.
 10         Her left cheek and the side of her mouth that were drooping have tightened and are
     now "back where they should be". Her face no longer looks as though she has had a
     stroke and her skin has become firm and her wrinkles are significantly reduced. These
     changes became noticeable after only 2 facials,         Her skin has gone from having a
     sandpaper texture to feeling smooth, and her colouring has returned to normal.
 IS         The condition of her skin since she has been having the facials and using soap has
     improved. It has become softer and pimples and blackheads have become very rare.
            The patient applies the cream to her upper leg and lower back when the pain arises.
     It has an immediate effect at lessening the pain, and by the following day the pain will
     have gone. She only needs to use the cream once for the pain to be relieved in her back
20   and leg.
                                   Comments and Observations
            In the past the patient tended to hide away from the world and basically she led a
     reclusive existence. Now, she no longer feels as though the scarring and the condition of
     her skin and face defines her as a person and she has started to live a more "social" life
25   again. She is now feeling much more confident and able to face the world.
                                             Example 25
            All of the fingertips on the patient's right hand were accidentally burnt by caustic
     solution whilst the patient was cleaning the walls in the kitchen of his cafe.
            The patient took no immediate treatment other than to run cold water from the tap
30   over his fingers. He continued working for approximately an hour before going home.
     When he arrived home, the patient ran water from a tap over his fingers and then dipped
     his fingers in a lotion which comprised a mixture of active compositions A and M

    WO 2004/008887                                                            PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                   - 32
       (prepared according to Examples 1 and 3 respectively-the active filtrates of each being
       mixed together in a 9:1 ratio).
             The middle finger was the most severely burnt - there were two reddish "blood"
      blisters and a "split", where the skin had broken like a cut for 3 to 4 mm. The other
  s    fingers did not blister but were very red and painful, and tender.
             On immersing his fingertips in the lotion the patient experienced immediate relief,
      with the burning sensation virtually disappearing altogether.
             After a few hours the fingers started stinging again, and the patient applied a cream
      containing A and M which relieved the burning sensation within a couple of minutes.
 10   Over the course of the next couple of days, the patient applied the cream a number of
      times to relieve the sting as it gradually came back.
             By Wednesday 8 January all of fingertips were completely healed. The split on the
      middle finger had left a visible scar which disappeared after about 2 weeks, even though
      the finger was burnt again during that period.
 is          Saturday 11 January 2003
             The patient burnt his right index finger in boiling oil (at approx 180'C) in his caf6 at
      about 7 o'clock in the evening. The pain was a lot more severe than that caused by the
     caustic burn a few days earlier.
             The patient applied the cream containing a mixture of A and M immediately after
20   he burnt his finger. The cream did not relieve the pain. The patient then applied the
     lotion comprising a mixture of undiluted A and M in a ratio of 9:1. When the patient got
     home at about 9 o'clock, the finger was irritating but not painful. The patient had a big
     raised white blister, with a build-up of fluid underneath. He applied some of the cream.
            On the morning of the next day, the blister was very flat and soft, with no build-up
25   of fluid under the blister. There was no pain or irritation. The patient applied some of the
     cream and then went to work. He did not apply any lotion or cream during the rest of the
     day.
            By the next morning (i.e. after 36 hours) the blister had gone and the skin colour
     had returned to normal. There was no sign of the burn at all.
30          Tuesday 14 January 2003
            In the afternoon, the patient deliberately burnt the index and middle fingers of his
     right hand, by dipping them into a vat of boiling oil at a measured temperature of 162*C,
     filming the event and the subsequent treatment on video,

     WO 2004/008887                                                            PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                       - 33
               The result was two painful fingers. After about 10 mins, the patient dipped his
        fingers in the lotion containing active compositions A and M in a ratio of 9:1, which was
        at room temperature (measured at 30'C) for 60 seconds.               The patient experienced
        immediate relief However, on removing the fingers from the container holding the lotion
   5    the pain came back, so the patient put his fingers back into the same lotion. When he
        took the fingers out again the pain had diminished considerably.
               During the evening the patient dipped his fingers in the lotion once and applied a
       cream also containing active compositions A and M in a ratio of 9:1 several times. His
        fingers were still painful two hours later and there was some blistering of the skin. Both
  10    fingers were slightly swollen with a build-up of fluid under the skin. By night time, the
       pain had gone altogether, and the blistering had not increased.
               By about 5 o'clock the next morning, the patient's fingers weren't painful or even
       tender, and the degree of blistering had not changed.
              The patient applied the cream several times during the day. At no time did he
 is    experience any pain or irritation.
              By the afternoon the skin on the burnt areas of the finger had become hard, In the
       evening the white colouration began to recede.
              When he awoke the next morning the white skin had almost disappeared.
              By midday the blister on the patient's index finger had disappeared and the finger
 20    was almost back to normal. The white colouration of the middle finger was split into two
       areas.
              By 3 o'clock, 48 hours after he had burnt his fingers, the patient's index finger was
       back to nonnal, and there was sign that it had been burnt. The white colouration of the
       middle finger was almost completely gone.
25                                                Example 26
                                              Skin Complaints
              The patient, a 35 year old female, has suffered from psoriasis since the age of 7.
      The most recent severe psoriasis outbreak has been on her scalp.
                                   Previous medication and results
30            After the patient was first afflicted with psoriasis, she devoted an enormous amount
      of time and energy to finding a cure, without success.
              The products that the patient has used include cortisone creams, tar-based creams
      and shampoos and other steroid creams. These products have not inhibited or prevented
      renewed outbreak of psoriasis although they have enabled the patient to control it.

     WO 2004/008887                                                          PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                     - 34
                                     Products supplied and Results
               The patient has used a lotion which is pure composition H with grapefruit seed
        extract preservative and also psoriasis soap containing composition H prepared according
        to Example 2 present in 10%w/w. Since she has most recently had problems with her
   s    scalp, she has been using the soap, as it is easier to use than the oil. She has been using
        the soap once a week and when she has an outbreak to control the psoriasis. The itch and
        scale disappears in a more efficient manner than has been the case previously with other
       products.
                                     Comments and Observations
 10           The patient is both impressed and happy with the products of the invention since
       they have been better at controlling her psoriasis than other products.
              She is particularly pleased that the products are completely natural as this gives her
       greater peace of mind.
                                                Example 27
 15                                          Skin complaints
              The patient, a 60 year old male has suffered from mild psoriasis, which he believes
       is stress-related, for over 30 years. He experiences the symptoms three or four time a
       year, on his scalp and the back of his neck, and occasionally minor symptoms on his legs.
                                   Previous medication and results
20            The patient has used prescribed ointments and creams and lotions which have been
      recommended by his doctor as giving relief.
              The patient found that these products gave him little relief.
                                           Products supplied
             The patient was provided with psoriasis soap containing composition H prepared
25    according to Example 2 present in 10%w/w, and with psoriasis lotion which is pure
      composition H with grapefruit seed extract preservative.
                                                 Results
             The patient has found that the soap itself controls the symptoms, and does not need
      to use the lotion, He has found that the frequency and intensity of the symptoms has
30    diminished.
                                               Example 28
             The patient presented with his left foot having the fourth toe as gangrenous, the
      doctor having determined that amputation would be required. The patient was treated by

     WO 2004/008887                                                         PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                   -35
        topical application of a lotion prepared containing 50% each of undiluted active filtrate
        composition A and active filtrate composition M of the present invention every morning.
        The lotion was applied to the affected area, allowed to dry and washed off after about 60
        minutes. This topical application continued for two weeks. The patient then applied a
   s    cream containing A and M in a ratio of 1: 1 once a day, which remained on the skin
        generally overnight.
              Within 2 weeks the gangrenous flesh had disappeared and healthy flesh was
        appearing. Good blood flow was restored to the toe. The patient has retained his toe and
       it appears and functions as fully normal.
  10                                           Example 29
              The female patient presented with very poor and lifeless skin, bloodshot eyes and
       was treated with a composition derived from a mixture of peach flesh, grapefruit flesh and
       apricot flesh pulp to which 10% w/w sodium bicarbonate had been added. The mixture
       had then been frozen, thawed and filtered and the resulting active filtrate composition was
 15    applied to the patient's skin. The composition was applied directly to the skin of the face
       and neck for 60 minutes and then removed by washing with warm water. This was
       repeated once every two days and within one the patient's skin was of excellent clarity,
       had exfoliated and blood circulation was excellent.
 20                                            Example 30
              1.   Take normal fresh pawpaw, not unripened or over-ripe.
                   (a)    Remove skin and outer layer of hard flesh.
                   (b)    Remove seeds.
              2.   Take 300 g of pawpaw flesh and place in Pyrex bowl.
25            3.   Pulp pawpaw flesh with a hand-mixer.
              4.   Place pulped pawpaw flesh into the top pan of a stainless steel double-boiler.
              5.   Fill the bottom pan of the double-boiler with water to about two-thirds full.
              6.   Place bottom pan of the double-boiler on stove or hot plate and bring to the
      boil.
30           7.    Place the top pan containing the pulped pawpaw flesh on top of the bottom
      pan.
             8.    Continue heating the bottom pan whilst manually stirring the pulped pawpaw
      flesh in the top pan using a wooden spoon until the temperature of the pulped pawpaw
      flesh reaches about 55* Celsius.

    WO 2004/008887                                                          PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                   - 36
             9.    Pre-heat 1-litre Pyrex bowl to about 550 Celsius.
              10.  Transfer heated pulped pawpaw flesh to heated Pyrex bowl.
              11.  Add 30 gm of sodium carbonate to heated pulped pawpaw flesh.
              12.  Stir heated pulped pawpaw flesh vigorously with a wooden spoon until
  s   effervescence ceases.
              13.  Beat heated pulped pawpaw flesh vigorously using an electric mixer until
      texture is that of a smooth cream. This takes 20 to 40 seconds.
             14.   Pour the heated pulped pawpaw flesh into a container.
             15.   Put lid on container.
 10          16.   Place container in deep-freeze.
             17.   After the contents of the container have frozen remove container from deep
      freeze.
             18.   Allow liquor to filter through calico for 12 to 24 hours and collect in Pyrex
     bowl.
 15          19.   The collected liquor (filtrate) is the active raw composition demonstrating
      efficacy and producing the beneficial effects.
            The resulting active composition can be formulated as set out in respect of Example
      1 and has the same beneficial effects as set out in items 1 to 7 of Example 1.
                                                  Notes
20           1.    The heating step can be effected in a microwave rather than a double-boiler.
            2.     The optimum temperature is 55*C and the preferred temperature range is 50 0 C
     to 60"C. Product with beneficial properties can be created if the temperature is between
     40*C and 100*C.
            3.    The proportion of sodium carbonate can be varied from 1% to 40% of the
25   pulped flesh by weight. The lower proportion of sodium carbonate is more suitable for
     persons with extremely sensitive skin. As the proportion of sodium carbonate increases
     the raw product becomes progressively more likely to burn the skin.
            4.    The pH of the final product when the weight of sodium carbonate is 10% of
     the weight of the pulped pawpaw flesh is approximately 8.
30          5.    The freezing step may be omitted, but in some cases, the product formed from
     adding sodium carbonate to the heated pulped flesh becomes gel-like and the filtration of
     the liquor is more difficult.
                                             Example 31
            1.    Take potatoes and peel them to remove skin.

     WO 2004/008887                                                           PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                    - 37
                2.  Take 300 gin of potato and place in Pyrex bowl.
                3.  Pulp potato with a hand-mixer.
               4.   Place pulped potato into the top pan of a stainless steel double-boiler.
               5.   Fill the bottom pan of the double-boiler with water to about two-thirds full.
   5           6.   Place bottom pan of the double-boiler on stove or hot plate and bring to the
        boil.
               7.   Place the top pan containing the pulped potato flesh on top of the bottom pan.
               8.   Continue heating the bottom pan whilst manually stirring the pulped potato in
        the top pan using a wooden spoon until the temperature of the pulped potato reaches
  1o    about 554 Celsius.
               9.   Pre-heat 1-litre Pyrex bowl to about 550 Celsius.
               10.  Transfer heated pulped potato to heated Pyrex bowl.
               11. Add 30 gin of sodium bicarbonate (as purchased in a supermarket) to heated
       pulped potato flesh.
 1s            12. Stir heated pulped potato vigorously with a wooden spoon until effervescence
       ceases.
               13. Beat heated pulped potato vigorously using an electric mixer until texture is
       that of a smooth cream. This takes 20 to 40 seconds.
              14.  Pour the heated pulped potato into a container.
 20           15.  Put lid on container.
              16.  Place container in deep-freeze.
              17.  After the contents of the container have frozen remove container from deep
       freeze.
              18.  Allow liquor to filter through calico for 12 to 24 hours and collect in Pyrex
25    bowl.
              19.  The collected liquor (filtrate) is the active raw composition demonstrating
      efficacy and producing the beneficial effects.
              The resulting active composition from the pulped potato can be formulated
      according to suggestions 1 to 4 in respect of Example 1 above. Further the beneficial
30    effects of the composition resulting from the pulped potato are the same as set out in
      items 1 to 7 for Example 1. Further, the beneficial effect of skin whitening has been
      observed in respect of composition resulting from processing potato according to this
      example.

    WO 2004/008887                                                       PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                  -38
                                                 Notes
             1.    The heating step can be effected in a microwave rather than a double-boiler.
             2.    The optimum temperature is 55"C and the preferred temperature range is 50*C
      to 60*C. Product with beneficial properties can be created if the temperature is between
  s   40'C and 100"C.
             3.    The proportion of sodium bicarbonate can be varied from 1% to 40% of the
      pulped flesh by weight. The lower proportion of sodium bicarbonate is more suitable for
      persons with extremely sensitive skin. As the proportion of sodium bicarbonate increases
      the raw product becomes progressively more likely to bum the skin.
 10          4.    The pH of the final product when the weight of sodium bicarbonate is 10% of
      the weight of the pulped potato flesh is approximately 8.
             5.    The freezing step may be omitted, but in some cases, the product formed from
      adding sodium bicarbonate to the heated pulped flesh becomes gel-like and the filtration
      of the liquor is more difficult.
 15                                          Example 32
                                             Formulation
             1.   Take 100 g of macadamia oil or emu oil or any other nut or seed or animal oil.
            2.    Add 18% w/w (18 g) natural beeswax.
            3.    Add 5% w/w (5 g) glycerin.
20          4.    Add 10% w/w (10 g) cocoa butter.
            5.    Add the solid cocoa butter and beeswax and glycerin to the oil, heat slowly
      and gently with mixing until all solids have melted, Cool the heated liquid to about 45*C
      and add 60% w/w (60 g) of active composition prepared according to any one of
      Examples I to 5 above.
25          6.    Mix continuously to a smooth cream-like consistency.
                                                 Note
            The amount of active added will depend upon which disorder or indication the
      cream is intended to be used. For example, if it is intended to create an eczema cream,
      then about 10% to 20% w/w of the active is added.
30                                           Example 33
            1.    Take a moisturising cream such as sorbolene in an amount of about 250 g.
            2.    Add in active prepared according to the present invention in an amount of
     between about 5% to 60% w/w.

                                                                        rt. lftL UzUJUUUY31
                                              -39
                                              Note
         The active can be added in the final filtrate, or in the form of the fruit whip-like
  mixture resulting after addition of the mild base and ceasing of effervescence.
                                          Example 34
s        1.   Standard saponification process is carried out, heating a mixture of oil and lye
  (NaOH).
        2.    As the temperature decreases, an active composition of the present invention
  is added in an amount of 10%w/w of the saponification mixture. This addition occurs at
  about 35-36oC, prior to the actual tracing which starts at about 32 0 C.

      WO 2004/008887                                                          PCT/AU2003/000931
                                                      -40
                Claims:
                 1.  A process for making a fruit and/or vegetable derived composition comprising
         the steps of:
                a)   heating a fruit and/or vegetable pulp up to a temperature in the range of about
    s    40 *C to 1OO0 C; and
                b)   mixing between about I and 40% w/w of a mild base with the heated fruit
         and/or vegetable pulp.
                2.   The process as claimed in claim 1 further including the step of
                c)   filtering the resulting composition.
  10            3.   The process as claimed in claim 2 further including the step of freezing and
         thawing the composition prior to filtering.
               4.    The process as claimed in claim 1 further including the step of beating the
         mixture following addition of the mild base.
               5.    The process as claimed in claim I wherein the mild base is added such that
  is    the resulting composition has a pH in the range of about 7.5 to about 9.5.
               6.    A fruit and/or vegetable derived composition prepared according to the
        process of any one of claims I to 5.
               7.    A fruit and/or vegetable derived composition comprising at least one fruit
        and/or vegetable-derived pulp and a mild base, said composition having a pH in the range
 20     of about 7.5 to about 9,5.
               8.    Use of an effective amount of a composition as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7
        for the preparation of a topical medicament for the treatment or prophylaxis of
       dermatological disorders in a mammal.
              9.    Use of an effective amount of a composition as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7
25     for the preparation of a topical medicament for the treatment of pain associated with
       arthritis, gout and other muscular and joint related aches and pain in a mammal.
               10. A method of treating or preventing dermatological and epidermal disorders
       comprising the topical application of an effective amount of a composition as claimed in
       claim 6 or claim 7 to a mammal in need thereof.
30            11.   A method of treating pain associated with arthritis, gout and other muscular
       and joint related aches and pains comprising the topical application of an effective
       amount of a composition as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7 to a mammal in need thereof.

