                                      Abstract
A method of determining the condition of a turf sporting area, the method
comprising: obtaining an reflectance image of the turf sporting area in a selected
wavelength band within the electromagnetic spectrum, wherein the wavelength
band is selected to identify variations in stress levels of turf in the turf sporting
area; and mapping the condition of the turf sporting area by applying
predetermined visual indicia to different reflectance intensities within the
selected wavelength band in the reflectance image to provide a visual indication
of the condition of the area of turf.
Figure 1

                               1/2
                        /
                    /
                /                        K
            /
       /                                      K
   /1
                                                N. /
                   II                  I
                      /
                                  2-             /
//     N        /           /            'N
           \/~
      r~"fl~ r~ NA:".n*  .fl~'L, C r        r
                                              /      N
                   ~L~%              *l~
                      (3
                  24~
                ~p5.

                                              -1
                 A METHOD OF DETERMINING THE CONDITION OF
                                  A TURF SPORTING AREA
 5 TECHNICAL FIELD
           A method of determining a condition of a turf sporting area is disclosed.
   Although the method is disclosed in the context of cricket pitches, it will be appreciated
   that the method has much broader application, for example, to turf race courses for
   horse racing, greens on a golf course and grass tennis courts, where the condition of the
10 turf sporting area can affect strategies employed in the sporting event and can affect the
   outcome of the sporting event.
   BACKGROUND ART
           There are many sports that are played on grass and horse racing, cricket, tennis
15 and golf are just a few. In some of those sports, the condition of the grass covering and
   the underlying soil can have a bearing on the outcome of the sport. In cricket, for
   example, the condition of a pitch will affect the way a ball interacts with the pitch.
           Furthermore, the condition of a cricket pitch is generally uneven due to
20 differences between high traffic wear areas and low wear areas and due to differences in
   sub-surface moisture and levels of grass coverage and density which may result in
   localized patches healthier turf compared to other patches that have less available sub
   surface moisture. These differences affect the way players, particular bowlers, play
   cricket because they will aim for areas of the pitch that are likely to produce a particular
25 behaviour of the ball in an effort to dismiss batsmen.
           Knowing the condition of the pitch is important, therefore, to playing a game of
   cricket because it may influence the outcome of the sporting event. However, the only
   method currently available to players to assess the condition of a cricket pitch is a
30 visual inspection combined with general knowledge of pitches. While this is the best
   way to determine stress levels in grass or turf, i.e. to simply allow a game of cricket or
   tennis, golf or horse racing to occur and then wait for the grass to show stress levels by

                                                 -2
   yellowing or dying, the problems with this approach are that (a) the visual inspection
   does not properly indicate the health of the turf, (b) the general knowledge is based on
   experience and (c) this process takes days to indicate the condition of the turf.
 5          While experience can be built up over time, elite cricket players travel around
   the world and therefore have less experience of foreign pitches than the pitches in their
   home country. They are, therefore, at some disadvantage when playing on those foreign
   pitches.
10          In regard to (c), there is a need to provide more immediate feedback about the
   condition of the turf, such as on the day of a sporting event, so that the participants can
   benefit from the determination. That is the determination will be factored into
   developing strategy for the sporting event and, therefore, can impact the outcome of the
   sporting event.
15
            Similar considerations apply with golf greens and turf horse racing courses
   where differences in drainage on account of undulations in the turf area will result in
   localized areas that have different turf conditions to other localized areas.
20          Furthermore, as with cricket pitches, wear on the turf caused by traffic may also
   affect the conditions of the turf. For example, stressed areas of turf on a horse racing
   course may indicate firmer ground that provides a better footing for horses than does
   softer ground. The softer ground is likely to have higher moisture levels than the firmer
   ground and, therefore, is likely to have healthier, i.e. low stress, turf.
25
            One condition that has been used to assess a turf sporting area is turf
   penetration. This involves forcing an instrument into the turf and measuring the force
   required to achieve the penetration. Differences in the penetration force indicate
   difference in the firmness of the underlying soil. Accordingly, the penetration condition
30 has been used in cricket and horse racing as a factor in decision-making around
   optimizing performance and strategizing. One problem, however, is that the penetration
   test is highly localized, meaning that the same condition is assumed to apply to the

                                                 -3
   entire cricket pitch or to a large section of a horse racing course but it may not in fact be
   representative of the entire pitch or the section of the race course. Another problem is
   that penetration testing is destructive. As a consequence, cricket pitch curators have
   banned the practice.
 5
            There is a need, therefore, for an alternative method of determining a condition
   of a turf sporting area. Advantageously, the condition provides information that is not
   available via a visual inspection of the turf sporting area. It is desirable for the method
   to be non-destructive to the turf sporting area.
10
            The above references to the background art do not constitute an admission that
   the art forms a part of the common general knowledge of a person of ordinary skill in
   the art. The above references are also not intended to limit the application of the
   apparatus and method as disclosed herein.
15
   SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
            There is disclosed a method of determining the condition of a turf sporting area,
   the method comprising:
20 (a)      obtaining an reflectance image of the turf sporting area in a selected wavelength
            band within the electromagnetic spectrum, wherein the wavelength band is
            selected to identify variations in stress levels of turf in the turf sporting area; and
   (b)      mapping the condition of the turf sporting area by applying predetermined visual
25          indicia to different reflectance intensities within the selected wavelength band in
            the image to provide a visual indication of the condition of the area of turf.
            The term "turf sporting area" as used throughout the description and claims is
   taken to include turf race courses for horse racing, greens on a golf course, grass tennis
30 courts and cricket pitches.

                                                -4
            The method is based on analysing the visible and near-infrared light reflected by
   turf. Healthy turf absorbs most of the visible light that hits it, and reflects a large
   portion of the near-infrared light. Unhealthy or sparse turf reflects more visible light
   and less near-infrared light. The amount of chlorophyll (absorbing visible light) in the
 5 grass is indicative of the stress level of the grass in that stressed grass' chlorophyll will
   reflect less near infrared light. While the amount of reflectance from the grass can be
   determined to some extent by visual inspection, it is less apparent visually in
   moderately and highly stressed grass. This means that the method can identify turf as
   being stressed well before it is apparent to the naked eye due to the reliance on near
10 infra-red light reflection as part of the assessment. The applicant, therefore, selected
   near-infrared analysis as basis for assessing the grass stress because of subtle levels of
   reflectance from the grass. It follows that near-infrared reflectance imaging provides a
   considerably improved method of determining turf conditions compared to current
   methods.
15
           With this in mind, it will be appreciated that determining turf stress levels by
   reflectance imagery is a considerably more scientific approach to determining the
   condition of a turf sporting area than other methods, such as visual inspection and
   general knowledge, because the stress is caused by nutrient and/or water deficiency and
20 animal (including human) or vehicular traffic. Furthermore, the disclosed method is
   non-destructive and, in comparison to penetration testing, provides an assessment of
   the condition across the entirety of the turf sporting area that is assessed. It is
   anticipated that the determination of the turf condition will be used as a factor in
   developing strategy for a sporting event and, therefore, can impact the outcome of the
25 sporting event.
            Optionally, the selected wavelength band is within the visible and near-infrared
   band of the electromagnetic spectrum. The selected wavelength band may be in range
   of 400 nm to 1100 nm, optionally in the range of 550 nm to 11 00nm and further
30 optionally in the range of 625 nm to 900nm.

                                                -5
            The reflectance image may be adjusted to account for differences in ambient
   radiance at the time the image is obtained, so as to substantially normalise the effect of
   ambient radiance, thereby enabling the condition of the turf sporting area to be
   compared at different times.
 5
            The image may be adjusted by reference to images of a calibration target or may
   be adjusted by a light meter device taken at the same time as the reflectance image is
   obtained.
10          Calibrating the reflectance image to account for sunny conditions or overcast
   conditions means that reflectance images can be used for comparison against other
   images taken in other radiance conditions. This is particularly important for test match
   cricket which extends over up to five days. The weather conditions over that time are
   likely to vary, so a method that can determine the pitch conditions over that time in a
15 way that allows it to be compared over the course of the test match is important.
            The reflectance image may be obtained in the selected band by an infra-red
   camera that is fitted with a lens filter that enhances contrast in the selected band. The
   reflectance image may be obtained in the selected band by an infra-red camera that is
20 fitted with a lens filter that removes infra-red radiation which has a wavelength that
   falls outside a wavelength range of the selected band.
            Obtaining the reflectance image may involve combining two or more images of
   the turf sporting area to arrive at the reflectance image. The two or more images may be
25 images of respective portions of the turf sporting area.
            The predetermined visual indicia may be a range of colours and wherein each
   colour may be allocated to a set range of reflectance intensities.
30          The method may further include adjusting the condition map to provide a
   substantially continuous transition between areas of the map which represent
   significantly different conditions.

                                                  -6
              While the predetermined visual indicia may be selected to reduce significant
      step changes in the mapped pitch condition (and thereby be more representative of the
      actual continuous transition between different areas with different stress levels),
      pixilation can still occur to an extent on account of starting with a relatively small
 5 reflectance image and enlarging it. Adjusting the condition map seeks to reduce the
      pixilation and thereby provide a map that is more representative of the actual stress
      levels.
              The step of adjusting the map may comprise blurring the image. Blurring of the
10    map may comprise applying software filters to the map.
              In one embodiment, the map may be loaded into television broadcast software
      for display in a television broadcast.
15            In this embodiment, the broadcast may include overlaying additional images on
      the map and the additional images may comprise aspects of a sporting event. In one
      embodiment, the sporting event is cricket and the aspects of the sporting event may
      comprise ball-tracking images, ball bounce cluster images or distance markings.
20    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
              Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the
      apparatus and method as set forth in the Summary, a specific embodiment will now be
      described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in
      which:
25            Figure 1 shows side elevation of an embodiment for obtaining a reflectance
      image in accordance with the disclosed method;
              Figure 2 is a flow chart of an embodiment of the disclosed method; and
30            Figure 3 is an example of a condition map produced by the embodiment of the
      disclosed method as shown in Figure 2

                                                    -7
    DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENT
             An embodiment of the disclosed method is described below in the context of
    cricket pitches, but it will be appreciated that the method is not limited in application to
    cricket pitches and applies more broadly to other turf sporting areas.
  5
             The condition of a cricket pitch has a significant impact on a game of cricket
    because it determines how the ball bounces off the pitch. This includes whether spin or
    seam bowling is likely to be effective on the pitch by the ball gripping the pitch at the
    time it bounces and changing direction as a result of spin or seam imparted upon the
10  ball. The condition of the pitch will, however, vary from place to place on the pitch
    depending upon preparation of the pitch and upon wear of the pitch during the game. In
    terms of preparation of the pitch, some areas of the pitch may have more underlying soil
    moisture and hence will wear better as a grass covering on the pitch will be sustained by
    the moisture for a longer period of time than grass growing over drier areas of the pitch.
15  Similarly, high wear areas of the pitch will have the grass covering worn away faster
    than other areas or even completely worn away to reveal the underlying dirt. The
    condition of those wear areas of the pitch will vary throughout the course of the game.
             According to this embodiment, the method determines the condition of a cricket
20  pitch and represents it visually. Broadly speaking, the method involves obtaining an
    reflectance image of the pitch in a relatively narrow wavelength band that is selected to
    identify variations in the stress level of turf on the pitch and then converting the image
    into a visual indication of the condition of the pitch by assigning visual markers to
    different reflectance intensities within the selected wavelength band.
25
             More specifically, and referring to Figures 1 and 2, the method includes
    preparing a near infra-red camera of any type that is currently available and applying a
    lens filter that is selected to filter out all light except light in a narrow wavelength band
    in the visible and near infra-red parts of the electromagnetic spectrum. The camera and
30  lens according to this embodiment are survey camera with a near-infrared (NIR) lens
    filter to capture reflected NIR light. Specifically, the camera and lens capture reflected
    light having a wavelength in the band from 550 nm to 1100 nm.

                                                 -8
             The method is outlined in further detail in Figure 2. Specifically, the first step
    (step 20 in Figure 2) involves calibrating the camera to account for different reflectance
    levels as a result of differences in ambient radiance. In other words, the camera will
 5  record different reflectance intensities for low light conditions (such as in overcast
    conditions) and in high light conditions (such as direct sunlight on the pitch 2). So as to
    make images taken during low light conditions and during high light conditions
    comparable to one another, calibration of the camera involves capturing images of a
    calibration target or utilising a light meter device. The reflectance levels from the
10  calibration target or light meter device are then be used to normalise reflectance levels
    in images under different light conditions, thereby making the different images
    comparable.
             Once the images of the calibration target or light meter device have been
15 obtained, the camera is then used to acquire images (step 25 in Figure 2) of the pitch 2
    by flying the drone at an elevation above the pitch 2 to capture either a single image of
    the entire pitch or to capture respective portions of the pitch 2 in a series of images.
             As shown in Figure 1, the images are acquired by attaching the camera to a
20  drone 10 or 10' (unmanned aerial vehicle) which is flown at a selected height above
    the level of the pitch. The maximum height for the survey camera is 18 metres. In
    another embodiment, the drone 10 is flown at a height of between 10 metres to 20
    metres above the ground. The drone 10 can reach its predetermined height and land
    between 30 seconds to 2 minutes to enable fast image acquisition and subsequent
    generation of the condition map. For a larger sporting field for a different turf based
    sport, the drone 10 can be flown at a height of 60 metres to 120 metres at a speed of
    9 metres per second. At fast flying speeds, a camera or image sensor for the drone 10
    can be configured with a frame rate of higher than 24 frames per second, for
    example, 48 frames per second to capture more images for processing. For the drone
    10 flown at a relatively high height, an image of the entire pitch can be captured in a
    single shot as shown in Figure 1. However, an alternative approach is to fly the
    drone 10' at a lower elevation such that sections of the pitch 2 are captured in a series
    of images at potentially higher image resolutions and then these images are collated

                                           -9
to form a single image of the entire pitch 2.
        Once all the images have been obtained, the drone 10 to 10' is landed and
images from the camera are uploaded into a computer.
        In the event that multiple images of respective sections of the pitch 2 are
obtained, the next step (step 30 in Figure 2) is to collate the images by aligning the
respective images together in image manipulation software, such as Adobe software, to
produce a single image of the entire pitch. To assist with this process,

                                            -10
markers may be placed on the ground along the length of the pitch such that the
collation of the images involves aligning the marker in one image to overlap the marker
in an adjacent image.
In a different embodiment, physical markers are not required to be placed on the
ground to assist with the image stitching process. Computer vision software is
configured to recognise existing objects in an image to determine scale, orientation and
skew. For example, the wickets on the cricket pitch are at a predetermined distance
apart (20.12 metres) in a direct line from each other. The computer vision software
detects the wickets using an object recognition algorithm (computation of Haar-like
features) in the image and determines real object dimensions by calculating the pixel
distance between the wickets in the image to the known real life distance of 20.12
metres. Image skew compensation caused by any image distortion is performed by
aligning the wickets detected in the image to conform to a straight line opposite each
other.
         The next step for both the single image of the entire pitch and the collated single
image of the entire pitch is to map the data by applying indicators of pitch conditions to
the reflectance data in the images. This step (step 35 in Figure 2) involves assigning
selected colours to narrow bands of reflectance intensity within the image. For the
purposes of showing pitch conditions, zero or low reflectance is indicated by a dark
colour and high reflectance is indicated by a vibrant green colour. Reflectance between
them is typically indicated by increasingly lighter of shades from the dark colour,
passing through the yellow colours and graduating into green towards the higher levels
of reflectance. In this way, the reflectance images are converted into a colour image
which is representative of grass health on account of green normally being associated
with healthy grass. The resulting image maps the condition of the pitch 2 by providing a
visual indication of the pitch condition.
         The resulting image may, however, be rather pixelated on account of the image
capturing techniques. The pixelation will indicate that the condition of the pitch may
abruptly change from one pixel to the next given that a given pixel may be 6 mm x 6
mm in area with the colour applied to that pixel being an indication of the average

                                            - 11
condition over the entire area of the pixel. Given that the condition change from one
area of the pitch 2 to another area of the pitch 2 will change continuously, the pixelated
image is not a completely accurate indication of the pitch condition.
        To account for the pixelation, the image is blurred in a program such as Adobe
software (as part of step 40 in Figure 2) by applying a Gaussian blur and posterising the
image. This step reduces the sharp contrast between adjacent pixels indicating very
different pitch conditions.
        The next step (step 45 in Figure 2) involves loading the image into television
broadcast software, to prepare the image for software broadcast.

                                               - 12
   This may involve animating aspects of the image such as providing a fly over of the
   pitch 2 and may alternatively involve zooming in on specific areas of the pitch.
           An optional additional step (step 50 in Figure 2) may involve applying
 5 additional imagery in the broadcast software to the image of the pitch as a way of
   explaining aspects of the cricket game in relation to how bowlers are interacting with
   the pitch. For example, the broadcast software may be used to overlay images of ball
   tracking data or the locations of balls bouncing on the pitch to indicate where bowlers
   are aiming. This will typically demonstrate that bowlers are targeting areas of the pitch
10 having certain conditions that are considered to improve their prospects in succeeding
   in the game. The application of the additional imagery is known to producers of
   television broadcast images. Similarly, animating the image in the broadcast software,
   as per step 45 in Figure 2, is also known to producers of broadcast imagery.
15         In the claims which follow, and in the preceding description, except where the
   context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
   "comprise" and variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are used in an inclusive
   sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence
   or addition of further features in various embodiments of the apparatus and method as
20 disclosed herein.
           In addition, the foregoing describes only some embodiments of the invention(s),
   and alterations, modifications, additions and/or changes can be made thereto without
   departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments, the embodiments
25 being illustrative and not restrictive.
           Furthermore, invention(s) have been described in connection with what are
   presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments, it is to be
   understood that the invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments, but on
30 the contrary, is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements
   included within the spirit and scope of the invention(s). Also, the various embodiments
   described above may be implemented in conjunction with other embodiments, for

                                       - 13
example, aspects of one embodiment may be combined with aspects of another
embodiment to realize yet other embodiments.

                                                - 14
    CLAIMS
    1. A method of determining the condition of a turf sporting area, the method
       comprising:
  5
           (a)    obtaining an reflectance image of the turf sporting area in a selected
                  wavelength band within the electromagnetic spectrum, wherein the
                  wavelength band is selected to identify variations in stress levels of turf in
                  the turf sporting area; and
10
           (b)    mapping the condition of the turf sporting area by applying predetermined
                  visual indicia to different reflectance intensities within the selected
                  wavelength band in the reflectance image to provide a visual indication of
                  the condition of the area of turf.
15
    2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reflectance image is adjusted to account for
       differences in ambient radiance at the time the reflectance image is obtained, so as
       to substantially normalise the effect of ambient radiance, thereby enabling the
       condition of the turf sporting area to be compared at different times.
20
    3. The method of claim 2, wherein the images are adjusted by reference to images of a
       calibration target taken at the same time as the reflectance image is obtained.
    4. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the reflectance image is obtained
25     in the selected band by a near infra-red camera that is fitted with a lens filter that
       enhances contrast in the selected band.
    5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the reflectance image may be
       obtained in the selected band by a near infra-red camera that is fitted with a lens
30     filter that removes radiation which has a wavelength that falls outside a wavelength
       range of the selected band.

                                             - 15
   6.  The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein obtaining the reflectance
       image involves combining two or more images of the turf sporting area to arrive at
       the infra-red reflectance image.
 5 7.  The method of claim 6, wherein the two or more images are images of respective
       portions of the turf sporting area.
   8.  The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the predetermined visual
       indicia is a range of colours and each colour is allocated to a set range of
10     reflectance intensities.
   9.  The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the method further
       includes adjusting the condition map to provide a substantially continuous
       transition between areas of the map which represent significantly different
15     conditions.
   10. The method of claim 9, wherein the step of adjusting the map comprises blurring
       the image by applying software filters to the map.
20 11. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the map is loaded into
       television broadcast software for display in a television broadcast.
   12. The method of claim 11, wherein the television broadcast software overlays
       additional images on the map and the additional images comprise aspects of a
25     sporting event.
   13. The method of claim 12, wherein the sporting event is cricket and the aspects of
       the sporting event comprise one or more of ball-tracking images, ball bounce
       cluster or ball bounce heat-map images or distance markings.
30
   14. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the selected wavelength
       band is within the visible and near-infrared band of the electromagnetic spectrum.

                                          -16
  15. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the selected wavelength
      band is in range of 550 nm to 1100 nm.
5 16. The method of any one of the claims I to 14, wherein the selected wavelength band
      is in range of 625 nm to 900 nm.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       1/2

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 3                          2/2

