AMUSEMENT RIDE
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
This invention relates to a swing-based amusement ride.
BACKGROUND
Large scale swing-type amusement rides are known in the art. Various versions of such
rides are referred to in US patents 5,267,906 and 5,527,223 to Kitchen and Bird.
The Kitchen and Bird patents generally disclose the winch-back of a swing carrier to an
elevated tower from which the carrier is released to swing in a curved trajectory on a
swing line suspended from a support structure. A similar arrangement is disclosed in
Australian patents 65965/98 and 75360/96 to Fairmile Pty Ltd. Because the Kitchen and
Bird and Fairmile Pty Ltd carriers are swung solely under the influence of gravity, the
swing carrier must be winched-back to a significant release height to obtain a suitable
maximum swing height. Because of the arcuate nature of the swinging movement of the
carrier after it is released, that also requires the swing carrier to be winched-back over a
substantial horizontal distance, to obtain the desired release height.
The winch-back process has the advantage of enhancing rider anticipation as the rider
and carrier are relatively slowly elevated to the release height. The process, however,
may also be relatively time consuming in the context of the overall ride experience. This
reduces the potential throughput of the ride and thereby the return on investment for the
ride operator. In addition, these systems require the construction or availability of a
launch tower or other structure which is additional to the support structure and is
positioned a significant distance from the support structure.
What is required but not found in the prior art is an alternative means of elevating the
swing carrier to the desired maximum swing height that is less time consuming and does
not require the construction or availability of an additional launch structure.
In addition, in order to provide the public with a meaningful choice of ride experiences, it
would be desirable to provide for a high-speed launch arrangement whereby the swing
carrier can be launched from at or near ground level at high velocity to rapidly attain the
desired maximum swing height. The rapid acceleration of the swing carrier in lieu of the
relatively slow winch-back process will add to the desired excitement and thrill of the ride
for some riders.
In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated

                                               - 2
otherwise, reference to such external documents or such sources of information is not to
be construed as an admission that such documents or such sources of information, in any
jurisdiction, are prior art or form part of the common general knowledge in the art.
It is an object of at least preferred embodiments of the present invention to provide a
launched swing amusement ride that achieves one or more of the above outcomes,
and/or to at least provide the public with a useful alternative.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
In accordance with an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a launched
swing amusement ride comprising: a carrier for carrying a rider, wherein the carrier is
suspended to swing from a support by at least one elongate suspension member and is
arranged to swing in more than one direction along an arcuate path, the arcuate path
having a lowest point; a launch mechanism located outside of the arcuate path; and a
tether that is arranged to releasably couple the carrier to the launch mechanism to
accelerate the carrier in a first direction through a portion of the arcuate path between an
engagement position and a release position, and to decouple the carrier from the launch
system at the release position to propel the carrier on an upward trajectory on the
arcuate path.
In an embodiment, the tether is releasably coupled to the carrier.
In an embodiment, the tether is connected to a tether arresting member arranged to
restrict the movement of the tether following its release from the carrier. In an
embodiment, the tether arresting member comprises a flexible member.
In an embodiment, a tether retraction device is operatively connected to the launch
mechanism and is arranged to retract the tether when it is released from the carrier.
In an embodiment, the tether is releasably coupled to the launch mechanism. In an
embodiment, a tether retraction device is operatively connected to the carrier and is
arranged to retract the tether when it is released from the launch mechanism.
In an embodiment, a first end of the tether is coupled to the carrier, a second end of the
tether is coupled to the launch mechanism, and an intermediate portion of the tether is
arranged to be decoupled. In an embodiment, a first tether retraction device is
operatively connected to the carrier and a second tether retraction device is operatively
connected to the launch mechanism, wherein the first and second tether retraction
devices are arranged to retract respective portions of the tether when the intermediate
portion of the tether is decoupled.

                                             - 3
In an embodiment, the tether comprises a flexible member. In an alternative
embodiment, the tether comprises a rigid member.
In an embodiment, the launch mechanism comprises a driven, elongate member
extending between pulleys, wherein the elongate member is releasably coupled to the
carrier by the tether and is positioned beneath and/or to a side of the arcuate path. In an
embodiment, the launch mechanism further comprises an energy source that is
operatively connected to the elongate member to drive the elongate member. In an
embodiment, the launch mechanism comprises a flywheel adapted to store energy, the
energy source to rotate the flywheel, and a first selective energy transfer mechanism
operatively connected to the flywheel, wherein the first selective energy transfer
mechanism is operable to transfer energy from the flywheel to the elongate member to
accelerate the carrier along the portion of the arcuate path. In alternative embodiments,
the energy source could be any other suitable energy source, such as a linear induction
motor or mechanical motor for example. In an embodiment, activation of the first
selective energy transfer mechanism results in rotation of at least one of the pulleys, to
accelerate the carrier along the portion of the arcuate path.
In an embodiment, the first selective energy transfer mechanism comprises a mechanical
clutch, an epicyclic gearbox, or a hydraulic motor.
In an embodiment, the ride further comprises a pull-back winch that is releasably
coupled to the carrier. In an embodiment, the pull-back winch is arranged to pull the
carrier in a second direction along the arcuate path to a start position that is higher than
the lowest point of the arcuate path. In an embodiment, the start position is the same as
the engagement position. In another embodiment, the start position is higher than the
engagement position.
In an embodiment, the pull-back winch is driven independently of the energy source. In
an alternative embodiment, the pull-back winch is operatively connected to one of the
pulleys to enable the pull-back winch to be selectively driven by the energy source. In an
embodiment, the pull-back winch is operatively connected to the flywheel via a reversing
gearbox.
In an embodiment, the amusement ride further comprises a push-back mechanism that
is releasably coupled to the carrier, wherein the push-back mechanism is arranged to
push the carrier in a second direction along the arcuate path to a start position that is
higher than the lowest point of the arcuate path. In an embodiment, the start position is
the same as the engagement position.

                                              -4
In an embodiment, the tether is rigid and forms part of the push-back mechanism to
push the carrier in the second direction along the arcuate path to the start position. In an
alternative embodiment, the push back mechanism may comprise a push-back member
that is separate from the tether and independently driven, the push-back member
arranged to push the carrier in the second direction along the arcuate path to the start
position.
In an embodiment, the launch mechanism is located beneath the lowest point of the
arcuate path. Additionally or alternatively, the launch mechanism may be located to the
side of the lowest point of the arcuate path.
In an embodiment, the launch mechanism is located substantially at ground level.
In an embodiment, the launch mechanism is arranged to begin accelerating the carrier
when the carrier is positioned at the engagement position along the arcuate path. In an
embodiment, the engagement position is at an angle of between about 150 and about
450 in a second direction relative to the lowest point of the arcuate path. In an
embodiment, the engagement position is at an angle of about 300 in the second direction
relative to the lowest point of the arcuate path.
In an embodiment, the release position is at an angle of between about 150 and about
450 in the first direction relative to the lowest point of the arcuate path. In an
embodiment, the release position is at an angle of about 300 in the first direction relative
to the lowest point of the arcuate path.
In an embodiment, the carrier is arranged to reach a maximum height when the direction
of travel of the carrier changes from the first direction to a second direction, after being
launched from the launch mechanism. In an embodiment, the maximum height is about
40m above the launch mechanism. In an embodiment, the maximum height is greater
than about 40m, and may be significantly greater than about 40m, such as about 50m,
60m, or higher.
In an embodiment, the maximum height is reached when the carrier is at an angle of
about 1000 in the first direction relative to the lowest point of the arcuate path.
In an embodiment, the elongate suspension member comprises a cable or a plurality of
cables. In an embodiment, the cable(s) is/are about 30m long.
In an alternative embodiment, the elongate suspension member could be a rigid elongate
member or a plurality of rigid elongate members that is/are pivotally connected to the
structure.

                                              - 5
In an embodiment, the carrier is suspended from a single support tower. In an
alternative embodiment, the carrier is suspended between two adjacent support towers,
one on either lateral side of the arcuate path and the carrier.
In an embodiment, the support comprises one or more elongate support members,
wherein the elongate suspension member(s) hang from the elongate support member(s).
In an embodiment, the elongate support member(s) comprise one or more member(s)
that extend(s) generally transversely to a longitudinal direction of the elongate
suspension member(s).
In an embodiment, the carrier is arranged to support one rider. In an alternative
embodiment, the carrier is arranged to support a plurality of riders.
In an embodiment, the carrier comprises one or more rider support(s), and the rider
support(s) is/are configured to rotate relative to the elongate suspension member(s) at
or near an end of each swing arc so that rider(s) supported by the rider support(s) face
forward throughout at least a major part of each swing arc.
In an embodiment, the carrier is steerable after the initial launch by the launch
mechanism. In an embodiment, the carrier is provided with a controllable rudder or
similar steering device to enable the rider(s) to control the direction of swinging of the
carrier after the initial launch by the launch system. In an embodiment, the rudder is
controllable by a steering input device such as a rider-operable control stick or other
controller. Additionally, or alternatively, the carrier may be provided with a rider
operable power source such as a propeller for example, to enable the rider to control the
magnitude of swinging after the initial launch by the launch system.
The term 'comprising' as used in this specification and claims means 'consisting at least
in part of'. When interpreting statements in this specification and claims which include
the term 'comprising', other features besides the features prefaced by this term in each
statement can also be present. Related terms such as 'comprise' and 'comprised' are to
be interpreted in a similar manner.
It is intended that reference to a range of numbers disclosed herein (for example, 1 to
10) also incorporates reference to all rational numbers within that range (for example, 1,
1.1, 2, 3, 3.9, 4, 5, 6, 6.5, 7, 8, 9 and 10) and also any range of rational numbers within
that range (for example, 2 to 8, 1.5 to 5.5 and 3.1 to 4.7) and, therefore, all sub-ranges
of all ranges expressly disclosed herein are hereby expressly disclosed. These are only
examples of what is specifically intended and all possible combinations of numerical

                                             -6
values between the lowest value and the highest value enumerated are to be considered
to be expressly stated in this application in a similar manner.
This invention may also be said broadly to consist in the parts, elements and features
referred to or indicated in the specification of the application, individually or collectively,
and any or all combinations of any two or more said parts, elements or features.
To those skilled in the art to which the invention relates, many changes in construction
and widely differing embodiments and applications of the invention will suggest
themselves without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended
claims. The disclosures and the descriptions herein are purely illustrative and are not
intended to be in any sense limiting. Where specific integers are mentioned herein which
have known equivalents in the art to which this invention relates, such known
equivalents are deemed to be incorporated herein as if individually set forth.
As used herein the term '(s)' following a noun means the plural and/or singular form of
that noun.
As used herein the term 'and/or' means 'and' or 'or', or where the context allows both.
The invention consists in the foregoing and also envisages constructions of which the
following gives examples only.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
The present invention will now be described by way of example only and with reference
to the accompanying drawings in which:
Figure 1 is a perspective view of an exemplary embodiment launched swing amusement
ride, showing the carrier in a pull-back/start position;
Figure 2 is a view similar to figure 1, showing a dynamic overview of the ride;
Figure 3 is a side view of an exemplary embodiment launch system when the carrier is in
the pull-back/start position, where broken lines represent discontinuation of the launch
member which is not shown at full length;
Figure 4 is a view similar to figure 3 when the carrier is being accelerated, where broken
lines represent discontinuation of the launch member which is not shown at full length;
Figure 5 is a view similar to figures 3 and 4 when the carrier is being released from the
launch system, where broken lines represent discontinuation of the launch member which
is not shown at full length;
Figure 6A is a perspective view of an exemplary carrier of the ride;
Figure 6B is a perspective view of the carrier of figure 6a when the carrier is being
accelerated by the launch mechanism;

Figure 7A is a front left side perspective view of an alternative exemplary carrier with
rotatable rider supports;
Figure 7B is an overhead plan view of the carrier of figure 7A; and
Figure 7C is a schematic overhead plan of the carrier of figure 7A showing exemplary
rotation directions of the rider supports;
Figure 8 is a perspective view of an exemplary loading platform of the ride, with the
platform in a raised position;
Figure 9 is a side view of an alternative exemplary embodiment launch system when the
carrier is in the push-back/start position, where broken lines represent discontinuation of
the launch member which is not shown at full length;
Figure 10 is a view similar to figure 9 when the carrier is being accelerated, where
broken lines represent discontinuation of the launch member which is not shown at full
length;
Figure 11 is a view similar to figures 8 and 9 when the carrier is being released from the
launch system, where broken lines represent discontinuation of the launch member which
is not shown at full length.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
With reference to Figure 1, an exemplary embodiment of the launched swing amusement
ride is shown. The amusement ride comprises a carrier 100 for carrying at least one
rider, a launch mechanism 200, and a tether 300. The carrier 100 is suspended to swing
from a support 400.
The carrier 100 is releasably coupled to the launch mechanism 200 via the tether 300,
such that the carrier 100 is accelerated by the launch mechanism 200 to a release point
3 (figure 2) where the tether 300 decouples from the carrier 100, thereby launching the
carrier 100 on an upward trajectory in a first direction 150 along an arcuate path AP.
After the highest point 4 of the arcuate path AP is reached at the end of the first swing
arc, the carrier swings back in an opposite second direction 160 along the arcuate path.
The carrier continues to swing back and forth in swing arcs along the first direction 150
and the second direction 160 until the carrier comes to a stop at the lowest position of
the arcuate path.
In an embodiment, the carrier 100 can swing back and forth about a pivot along a
substantially two-dimensional arcuate path AP in the first and second directions, with a
pendulum-like swinging motion.
In an alternative embodiment, the carrier 100 can swing substantially freely about a
pivot in three dimensions, i.e. along a partially spherical path. The carrier 100 may
comprise controls to allow a rider to change the direction of the swinging arc such that

                                             -8
the carrier 100 follows a partially spherical path, for example. The carrier controls may
comprise a propeller and a rudder.
The swinging movement of the carrier 100 is substantially solely along one or more
arcuate paths.
Carrier
Figures 6A and 6B show an exemplary embodiment of the carrier 100 arranged to
support three riders. The carrier 100 comprises rider supports in the form of seats 101, a
frame 103, a tether hook 105 and a carrier attachment 107.
In an alternative embodiment, the carrier 100 may be arranged to support one rider. In
further alternative embodiments, the carrier 100 may be arranged to support a plurality
of riders, for example, two, four, five or more riders.
The seats 101 are of known type and comprise harnesses of a known type (not
illustrated). The seats 101 are fixed to the frame 103. In alternative embodiments, the
seats 101 may be rotatable relative to the frame 103. The carrier will be made of
materials that are suitably weather resistant; for example, a galvanised steel frame and
vinyl seats.
The tether hook 105 is located at the bottom of the frame 103. The tether hook 105 is
arranged to releasably engage with the tether 300. The tether hook 105 is arranged such
that the open end of the hook is directed towards the back of the carrier 100 to provide
passive releasable engagement with the tether 300. In alternative embodiments, the
tether hook 105 may comprise an actively controlled hook to releasably engage with the
tether 300.
The carrier attachment 107 is located at the top of the frame 103. The carrier attachment
107 is coupled to the suspension attachment 109. The carrier attachment 107 is
rotatable relative to the suspension attachment 109. In alternative embodiments, the
carrier attachment 107 may be fixed relative to the suspension attachment 109.
In the configuration shown, the carrier is configured to support the rider(s) in a forward
facing upright seated orientation. In alternative configurations, the carrier may be
configured to support the rider(s) in other orientations, such as forward- or rearward
facing prone orientations, either upwardly- or downwardly- facing for example.
Figures 7A to 7C show an alternative exemplary embodiment carrier 100' for supporting
a plurality of riders that can be used in the amusement ride. Unless described below, the
features, functionality, and alternatives are the same as for the carrier 100 of figures 6A

                                              -9
and 6B, and like reference numerals are used to indicate like parts, with the addition of a
prime (').
In this embodiment, the carrier 100' comprises four rider supports in the form of seats
101', a frame comprising an upper frame member 103a' and a lower frame member
103b', a tether hook 105, and carrier attachments 107a', 107b'. The carrier 100' is
suspended to swing from the support 400 by elongate suspension members 413a', 413b'
423a', 426b', in a similar manner described below for carrier 100 under the Support
heading. In the embodiment shown, the carrier 100' is suspended by two left side
elongate suspension members 423a', 423b' and two right side elongate suspension
members 413a', 413b' to inhibit rotation of the upper frame member 103a' relative to
the elongate suspension members.
Each seat 101' is rotatably coupled to the upper and lower frame members 103a', 103b'
by upper and lower rotation couplings 104a', 104b'. One of the upper and lower rotation
couplings may comprise a motor, such as a hydraulic or electric motor, to drive rotation
of the seat 101' relative to the frame members 103a', 103b', and thereby relative to the
suspension members 413a', 413b', 423a', 423b', about a respective axis SA that extends
through the upper and lower rotation couplings 104a', 104b'. The other of the upper and
lower rotation couplings may comprise a bearing, or may comprise a corresponding
motor that is synchronised with the other motor so the rotational drive is provided to
both the top and the bottom of each seat.
The rider support seats 101' are configured to rotate relative to the upper and lower
frame members 103a', 103b' and thereby relative to the elongate suspension
member(s), at or near an end of each swing arc, so that rider(s) supported by the rider
support(s) face forward throughout at least a major part of each swing arc, and
advantageously throughout substantially the entirety of each swing arc. For example,
with reference to figure 2, the riders may face forward (towards the right of the page) in
the first swing direction until the carrier 100' reaches or is close to point 4. An
accelerometer or other sensor coupled to the carrier 100 could determine when point 4
has been reached, and a controller that is in communication with the
accelerometer/sensor will actuate the motors to cause the seats 100' to rotate through
180 degrees, so the riders then face forward (towards the left of the page) during the
swing in the second direction. This will repeat at or near the top of that reverse swing so
that the riders face forward (towards the right side of the page) during the swing in the
first direction, and so on. The process may repeat until the carrier 100' stops swinging.
The seats 101' could change direction before, at, or after the change in swing direction.

                                            - 10
As shown in figure 7C, the two outer rider supports 100' will be configured so that they
only rotate outwardly, so prevent the legs of those two riders from contacting each other
and interfering with the rotation of the seats.
Power may be supplied to the motors via the elongate suspension members so that a
separate power source does not need to be carried by the carrier 100'. The seat
mechanisms may incorporate end stops to limit rotation of the seats. The direction of
rotation of the seats will automatically reverse for each operation, based on sensors that
determine the current seat position. Alternatively, the front and rear rider supports may
rotate in one direction only, each time rotation occurs.
Although the rider support rotation feature is described with reference to a carrier 100'
that has four rider support seats 101', the rider support rotation feature could
alternatively be implemented in a carrier having any suitable number of rider supports,
such as 1, 2, 3, 4, or more rider supports. It could also be implemented in a carrier
having rider support(s) that support rider(s) in different positions (e.g. prone positions)
and/or different directions.
As another example, rather than having independent rotation of each rider support 101',
the overall carrier 100, 101' may be configured to rotate relative to the suspension
member(s). For example, a motor could be provided between the carrier attachment 107
and the suspension attachment 109 in the carrier 100 of figure 6A, to cause the entire
carrier to rotate at or near the end of each swing arc.
Support
The carrier 100 is suspended to swing from a support 400. In the form shown, the
support comprises a support structure 400. The carrier 100 is arranged to swing from the
support structure 400 in more than one direction along an arcuate path AP, the arcuate
path having a lowest point in which the carrier is positioned closest to the elongate
member 201 of the launch mechanism.
Figure 1 shows an exemplary embodiment wherein the carrier 100 is suspended between
two adjacent vertically-extending upright support towers 410, 420, one positioned on
either lateral side of the arcuate path AP and the carrier 100. In an alternative
embodiment, the carrier 100 is suspended from a single support tower. For example, the
single support tower may comprise a single vertically-extending upright support tower
and a cantilevered extension from the top of the support tower, with the carrier
suspended to swing from the cantilevered extension by one or more elongate suspension
members.

                                             - 11
In another alternative embodiment, the support may comprise one or more elongate
support members such as cable(s), rope(s), or line(s) for example, and the carrier 100 is
suspended to swing from the elongate support member(s) by one or more elongate
suspension members 413, 423 that hang from the elongate support member(s). The
elongate support member(s) may comprise one or member(s) that extend(s) generally
transversely to a longitudinal direction of the elongate suspension member(s). The
elongate support member(s) may be suspended between support towers or may be
suspended across a natural feature such as a gully.
The support towers 410, 420 comprise cable pivots 411, 421 located at or adjacent the
highest point of the towers. One elongate suspension member 413, 423 is shown on each
side of the carrier 100. Alternatively, two or more elongate suspension members may
extend from each cable pivot 411, 421 to the carrier 100. Elongate suspension members
413, 423 are rotatably engaged with the cable pivots 411, 421. The elongate suspension
members 413, 423 are made from flexible members such as steel cable or another
suitable weather resistant material. The elongate suspension members 413, 423
comprise a cable or a plurality of cables. In an alternative embodiment the elongate
suspension members may be rigid members.
The elongate suspension members 413, 423 are about 30m long. In alternative
embodiments the elongate suspension members may be longer or shorter, for example
10m, 20m or 40m long.
The distal ends of the elongate suspension members 413, 423 are coupled to the
suspension attachment 109. The suspension attachment 109 connects the swing cables
413, 423 with the carrier 100 via the carrier attachment 107.
The carrier 100 swings about the pivots at the upper ends of the elongate suspension
members.
Launch mechanism
Figure 2 shows the four sequential stages of launching the carrier 100:
    1. Pull-back/start position
    2.  Acceleration
    3.  Release
    4. Swing.
Figures 3-5 show detail of stages 1-3 respectively.

                                            - 12
The launch mechanism 200 is located outside of the arcuate path AP of the carrier. In the
form shown, the launch mechanism is positioned substantially at ground level, and may
be at least partially buried in the ground. Alternatively, the launch mechanism may be
positioned above ground level. The launch mechanism may be positioned beneath the
arcuate path AP, to the side of the arcuate path AP, or both beneath and to the side of
the arcuate path AP.
Referring to figures 3-5, the launch mechanism 200 comprises a driven, elongate
member 201 such as a launch cable, conveyor, or belt. The launch member could be any
suitable material such as steel or ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene. The launch
member 201 extends between two pulleys 203, 205. The pulley 205 is rotatably
supported by suitable bearings 226, 227. The pulley 203 is rotatably supported by similar
suitable bearings (not shown).
The launch member 201 is releasably coupled to the carrier 100 by the tether 300 and is
positioned beneath and/or to a side of the arcuate path. An energy source 211 is
operatively connected to the launch member 201 to drive the launch member 201. The
energy source 211 is controlled by motor controller 212.The launch mechanism is
independent of the carrier 100 and independent of the elongate suspension members(s)
413, 423.
The launch mechanism 200 comprises a flywheel 213 adapted to store energy and an
energy source 211 to rotate the flywheel 213. The energy source 211 may be an internal
combustion motor, diesel generator, electric motor, linear induction motor 7 or any other
suitable energy source. In the form shown, the energy source 211 is coupled to gearbox
215 via gearbox shaft 221. The gearbox is coupled to the flywheel 213 via the flywheel
shaft 223. Thus, the energy source 211 drives the flywheel 213. In an alternative
embodiment, the energy source 211 drives the flywheel 213 via a rotatable member such
as a tyre drive.
The flywheel shaft 223 is rotatably supported by bearings 225, 226, and 227.
A first selective energy transfer mechanism 217 is operatively connected to the flywheel
213. The first selective energy transfer mechanism 217 is operable to transfer energy
from the flywheel 213 to the launch member 201 to accelerate the carrier 100 along the
portion of the arcuate path.
The first selective energy transfer mechanism 217 is rotatably supported by bearings
225, 226.

                                             - 13
Activation of the first selective energy transfer mechanism 217 results in rotation of at
least one of the pulleys 203, 205, to accelerate the carrier 100 along a portion of the
arcuate path AP.
In the form shown in figures 3-5, first selective energy transfer mechanism 217
comprises a mechanical clutch. The clutch 217 is a hydraulically actuated fluid clutch.
When hydraulic fluid is pressurised, the clutch will be engaged such that torque is
transmitted from the flywheel to the respective carrier, via the clutch.
In alternative embodiments, the first selective energy transfer mechanism may comprise
an epicyclic gearbox or a hydraulic motor.
A linear induction motor or other suitable motor could be used instead of the flywheel
and energy source arrangement.
Pull-back winch
A pull-back winch 250 is releasably coupled to the carrier 100. The pull-back winch is
positioned at a rear region of the launch mechanism 200, and may be mounted on a
vertically extending upstand to position the pull-back winch higher than the launch
mechanism. The pull-back winch 250 is arranged to pull the carrier 100 in the second
direction 160 along the arcuate path to a pull-back/start position 1 that is higher than the
lowest point of the arcuate path AP.
The pull-back winch 250 comprises pull-back winch cable 251. Pull-back winch cable 251
is releasably coupled to carrier 100.
In an alternative embodiment, the pull-back winch cable 251 can replace the tether
arresting member 311. In such an embodiment, the winch cable 251 may be connected
to the tether 300. The tether hook 105 may comprise an actively controlled hook to
releasably engage with the tether 300. The pull-back winch may be driven independently
of the launch mechanism, such as via its own motor for example. Alternatively, the pull
back winch could be selectively driven by the flywheel 213, via a second selective energy
transfer mechanism and reversing gearbox. The second selective energy transfer
mechanism may comprise a mechanical clutch, an epicyclic gearbox, or a hydraulic
motor.
Tether
The tether 300 is arranged to releasably couple the carrier 100 to the launch mechanism
200 to accelerate the carrier 100 in a first direction through a portion of the arcuate path
between an engagement position and a release position 3, and to decouple the carrier

                                             - 14
100 from the launch system 200 at the release position to propel the carrier 100 on an
upward trajectory on the arcuate path.
The tether 300 may be any suitable length, such as 8m for example. In other
embodiments, the tether may be 5m, 10m, 15m, or any other suitable length.
A first end 301 of the tether 300 is coupled to the carrier 100. A second end 302 of the
tether 300 is coupled to the launch mechanism 200. The first end 301 and second end
302 are connected by an intermediate member 303 via launch bogie 231. Launch bogie
231 is slideably engaged with launch rail 233.
The tether 300 shown in figures 3-5 is releasably coupled to the carrier 100. In an
alternative embodiment, the tether 300 is releasably coupled to the launch mechanism
200. In a further alternative embodiment, the intermediate portion 303 of the tether is
arranged to be decoupled. For example, about half of the intermediate portion 303 may
remain connected to the carrier via the first end 301 following decoupling. The remaining
part of the intermediate portion 303 may remain connected to the launch mechanism
200 via the second end 302 following decoupling.
In the embodiment shown in figures 3-5, the tether 300 comprises a rigid member. In
alternative embodiments, the tether 300 comprises a flexible member. The tether can be
made from any suitable weather resistant and strong material, such as steel for example.
Alternatively, where the tether comprises a flexible member, it may be made from a
strong, lightweight material such as ultra-high-molecular-weight polyethylene rope for
example.
The tether is connected to a tether arresting member 311 arranged to restrict the
movement of the tether following its release from the carrier 100. In the embodiment
shown in figures 3-5, the tether arresting member 311 comprises a flexible member,
such as a flexible cable.
An end of the tether arresting member 311 is fastened to a fixed anchor 313. The fixed
anchor is stationary relative to the ground. An opposite end of tether arresting member
311 is fastened to the tether 300, at or adjacent the first end 301 of the tether 300.
An embodiment where the tether 300 comprises a flexible member may comprise a
tether retraction device (not illustrated). The tether retraction device may be operatively
connected to the launch mechanism 200. The tether retraction device may be arranged
to retract the tether 300 when it is released from the carrier 100.

                                            - 15
In an alternative embodiment, the tether retraction device may be operatively connected
to the carrier 100. The tether retraction device may be arranged to retract the tether 300
when it is released from the launch mechanism 200.
In a further alternative embodiment, a first tether retraction device (not illustrated) may
be operatively connected to the carrier 100 and a second tether retraction device (not
illustrated) may be operatively connected to the launch mechanism 200. The first and
second tether retraction devices are arranged to retract respective portions of the tether
when the intermediate portion 303 of the tether 300 is decoupled.
Operation/method of use
Loading
Pull-back winch cable 251 and tether 300 are connected to the carrier 100. This may be
accomplished before or after the rider or riders enter the carrier 100.
The rider or riders board the carrier 100 via the loading platform 500. The platform 500
will initially be lowered down to ground level to enable the riders to enter the platform
500. The platform 500 is then raised to the position shown in figure 7 to enable the
riders to enter the carrier 100. The carrier 100 is at the lowest point of the arcuate path
AP when the riders enter the carrier 100. The rider or riders are secured into their seats
using harnesses (not shown).
A ride operator will be present on the platform to ensure that the riders are secured in
the carrier 100 and to attach the pull-back winch cable 251 and the tether 300 to the
carrier.
After the rider or riders have entered the carrier 100, the platform 500 is moved down
and to the side of the arcuate path AP of the ride via hydraulically actuated arms 500,
502. A ride operator may control the ride from the platform 500.
An alternative type of loading platform 500 could be used, such as a scissor lift or a
rollaway platform for example.
Pull-back
After or at the same time as the platform 500 is moved away from the arcuate path AP,
the pull-back winch 250 winds in the pull-back winch cable 251 in the second direction
160 to raise the carrier 100 to the rearward pull-back/start position 1, also shown in
figure 3.
Acceleration

                                             - 16
Acceleration begins with the release of the pull-back winch 250 at the start position.
Either at the same time or slightly after, the launch bogie 231 is activated by engaging
the first selective energy transfer mechanism 217 with the spinning flywheel 213.
Figure 4 shows the launch mechanism during the acceleration phase. The launch
mechanism 200 is arranged to begin accelerating the carrier 200 when the carrier 200 is
positioned at the engagement position along the arcuate path.
The pull-back/start position shown in figures 2 and 3 may be the same as the
engagement position. The launch mechanism 200 begins to accelerate the carrier 100 at
the same time as the pull-back winch cable 251 is released.
In an alternative embodiment, the pull-back/start position may be higher than the
engagement position. In this embodiment, the carrier could be pulled back to the
maximum (vertical) extent of the tether. When the pull-back winch cable 251 is released,
the carrier 100 initially accelerates under the influence of gravity for a short period of
time along a portion of the arcuate path before the launch mechanism 200 begins to
accelerate the carrier. The period of time could be any suitable time depending on the
required speed of the launch bogie, such as about one second or any other suitable time.
After release, the tether 300 may be slack until the launch bogie 231 'catches up' with
the carrier 100 and the launch mechanism accelerates the carrier 100. This may provide
a smoother launch experience with less jarring for the riders.
The engagement position is at an angle of between about 150 and about 450 in the
second direction 160 relative to the lowest point of the arcuate path.
In the embodiment shown in figures 2 and 3, the engagement position is at an angle of
about 300 in the second direction 160 relative to the lowest point of the arcuate path.
Release
The launch bogie 231 pulls the carrier 100 via the tether 300 to the release position
where the tether 300 decouples from the carrier 100 as a result of the fixed length tether
arresting member 311 stopping movement of the tether and pulling the tether from the
suitably angled hook on the carrier, to allow the carrier 100 to swing on the arcuate path
AP to a maximum height. The carrier 100 will be travelling at maximum velocity at the
point of release.
Position 3 in figure 2 and figure 5 show the release position of the carrier where the
tether 300 decouples from the carrier 100. The release position is at an angle of between
about 150 and about 450 in the first direction 150 relative to the lowest point of the
arcuate path AP.

                                               - 17
In the embodiment shown in figure 5, the release position is at an angle of about 300 in
the first direction 150 relative to the lowest point of the arcuate path AP.
After the carrier has been released, the launch bogie 231 is brought to a stop via a
braking means on the launch rail 233 or the pulley 205 (not shown). Alternatively the
bogie may be brought to a stop by means of tension on the tether 300 from the
extended tether arresting member 311. The launch bogie 231 is then winched back to
the start position by reversing the rotational direction of the pulleys 203, 205.
The tether 300 is contained by the tether arresting member 311 and is retrieved by the
operator for the following launch.
Swing
The carrier will decelerate from the release point 3 to zero speed at the top point 4 of the
swing. The carrier 100 is arranged to reach a maximum height when the direction of
travel of the carrier 100 changes from the first direction 150 to the second direction 160,
during the initial swing after being launched from the launch mechanism 200.
In the embodiment shown in the figures, the maximum height (position 4 of figure 2) is
about 40m above the launch mechanism 200. In alternative embodiments, the maximum
height may be more or less than 40m above the launch mechanism 200, for example
about 10m, 20m, 30m, 50m or 60m above the launch mechanism 200.
In the embodiment shown in the figures, the maximum height is reached when the
carrier 100 is at an angle of about 1000 in the first direction 150 relative to the lowest
point of the arcuate path. In alternative embodiments the maximum height is reached
when the carrier 100 is at a different angle, such as an angle of about 30*, 40*, 50*,
60*, 70*, 80*, 90*, 1000 or 1200 in the first direction 150 relative to the lowest point of
the arcuate path.
After the highest point 4 of the arcuate path AP is reached, the carrier swings back in a
second direction 160 along the arcuate path. Where the highest point 4 is above the
horizontal plane, the carrier will initially fall substantially vertically inside the arcuate path
for a brief period until it meets the arcuate path. The carrier continues to swing back and
forth along the first direction 150 and the second direction 160 until the carrier comes to
a stop at the lowest position of the arcuate path. If a carrier 100' with the rotation
feature is used, the rider support 101' of the carrier will rotate at or near the end of each
swing arc to reverse the facing directions of the riders.
After the carrier 100 has completed a number of swings along the arcuate path AP, a
carrier brake (not shown) may be used to attenuate the swinging motion and bring the

                                             - 18
carrier 100 to a stop. The carrier brake may comprise an arresting cable that can be
selectively raised above the launch rail to a height required to catch the hook under the
carrier. Alternatively, a selective damping means may be provided on the elongate
suspension members to attenuate the swinging motion.
The next riders enter the loading platform 500 either while the carrier 100 is swinging or
after it has come to a stop. Once the carrier 100 has come to a stop, the platform 500
will then be raised to the position shown in figure 7 to enable the riders to exit the carrier
100 and for the next riders to enter the carrier 100. The initial riders are released from
their seats and the next riders are secured in their seats. The platform 500 then lowers
the initial riders to the ground and the ride procedure is repeated.
Table 1 outlines specifications relating to one exemplary embodiment of the ride. It will
be appreciated that the specifications will change for differing embodiments.
Table 1: Specifications of exemplary embodiment
Length of elongate suspension members 413, 423                             30 m
Length of tether 300                                                       8 m
Angle of carrier 100 at pull-back/start position 1                         30
Angle of carrier 100 at lowest point of arcuate path                       00
Angle of carrier 100 at release position 3                                 -300
Mass of carrier 100                                                        600 kg
Mass of elongate suspension members 413, 423                               0 kg
Mass of tether 300                                                         0 kg
Mass of launch member 201                                                  6.771 kg
Height at highest point of the arcuate path 4                              40 m
Angle between tether 300 and suspension members 413, 423 at
                                                                           1200
start position 1
Total length of launch mechanism 200                                       45 m
Length of acceleration phase                                               30 m
Bogie 231 braking distance                                                 7.5 m
Height of carrier 100 above launch mechanism 200                           2.9 m
Distance between bogie 231 position at start position 1 and bogie          18.452 m
231 position when carrier 100 is at lowest point of arcuate path
The following assumptions were made:
The elongate suspension members 413, 423 and the tether 300 were assumed to be
massless for simplified calculations.

                                             - 19
The mass of the launch member 201 was estimated based on 10 mm diameter ultra
high-molecular-weight polyethylene rope with mass of 6.1 kg / 100 m and break strength
of 105.4 kN.
Table 2 outlines calculated properties relating to one exemplary embodiment of the ride
based on the specifications outlined in table 1.
Table 2: Calculated values for exemplary embodiment.
Energy potential of carrier 100 at highest point 4 of arcuate path         235,440 J
Velocity of carrier 100 at lowest point of arcuate path when swinging
                                                                           28.0 m/s
back from highest point 4
Velocity of carrier 100 at release position 3                              26.6 m/s
Time to accelerate from start position 1 to release position 3             2.25 s
Velocity of bogie 231 at release position 3                                26.6 m/s
Acceleration of bogie 231 between start position 1 and release             11.8 m/s 2
position 3 (assuming linear acceleration)
Energy required to accelerate carrier 100 from rest                        211,783 J
The embodiments described herein provide configurations to elevate the swing carrier to
the desired maximum swing height that are less time consuming than the prior art and
do not require the construction or availability of an additional launch structure. It can be
seen from the drawings and description that the embodiments described herein only
require the carrier 100 to be moved back to a small height, while still enabling the carrier
to be swung to a significant maximum swing height after release from the launch system.
The launch arrangement is a high-speed arrangement whereby the swing carrier can be
launched from at or near ground level at high velocity to rapidly attain the desired
maximum swing height.
A further advantage of the embodiments described herein is that the launch mechanism
is independent of the carrier and the elongate suspension members, making the ride
inherently safe. If the launch mechanism failed, the rider(s) would remain safely
suspended in the carrier. After the initial launch by the launch system, the launch system
is disconnected from the carrier (due to the tether being decoupled), and does not
influence the swinging motion of the carrier.
Preferred embodiments of the invention have been described by way of example only and
modifications may be made thereto without departing from the scope of the invention.

                                              - 20
For example, in the embodiments described herein, the carrier 100 is initially moved in
the second direction 160 to the pull-back/start position. Rather than using a pull-back
winch, the launch system may be reversible to initially move the carrier rearwards in the
second direction before launching the carrier in the first direction. Figures 9 to 11 show
such a configuration including a push-back mechanism comprising the rigid tether 300'
which can be used to both push the carrier 100, 100' rearwards in the second direction to
a start position (figure 8) and to accelerate (figure 9) and launch (figure 10) the 100
carrier in the first direction. Unless described below, the features, functionality, and
alternatives are the same as for the embodiments described above, and like reference
numerals are used to indicate like parts, with the addition of a prime ('). It should be
noted that in the push-back mechanism shown in figures 9 to 11 could be used with
either carrier 100 or carrier 100', and so both reference numbers are shown.
In this embodiment, a first end 301' of the rigid tether 300' is arranged to releasably
couple to two parts of the carrier 100, 100'; a push-back engagement surface 102'
(figure 9) and the tether hook 105'. The second end 302' of the tether 300' is articulated
to the launch bogie 231'. A position actuator 304' is provided between the launch bogie
231' and the tether 300'. In the form shown, the position actuator comprises a ram. The
position actuator 304' enables the tether 300' to move from a relatively large angle
(relative to the launch bogie 231') in the pushback position of figure 9, to a relatively
small angle in the lowest carrier position of figure 10, to a relatively large angle in the
release position of figure 11. The position actuator 304' limits the maximum angle of the
tether 300' relative to the launch bogie 231' so that the carrier 300' can detach from the
tether 300' at the launch point. The position actuator may be biased toward its extended
length, or may be controlled throughout the pushback and launch procedure.
In the form shown, the pushback engagement surface 102' on the carrier 100, 100'
comprises a step or shoulder that engages with the first end 301' of the tether. The
pushback engagement surface could be any other suitable form. The first end 301' of the
tether may comprise a cross member that is engageable with the pushback engagement
surface 102' and with the engagement hook 105'.
In this configuration, once the riders have entered the carrier 100, 100', the launch
mechanism is driven rearwardly so that the first end 301' of the tether pushes the carrier
back to the start position shown in figure 9. The launch mechanism is then driven
forward rapidly so that the first end 301' of the tether slides along the underside of the
carrier and engages the tether hook 105', to accelerate the carrier through the lowest
swing position (figure 10) to be released at the release position (figure 11). The launch
bogie 231' may remain at the position shown in figure 11, or further towards the pulley
205' until the carrier 100, 100' has stopped swinging.

                                              - 21
In an alternative embodiment, the push back mechanism may comprise a push-back
member that is separate from the tether 300' and independently driven, the push-back
member arranged to push the carrier in the second direction along the arcuate path to
the start position.
In an alternative configuration, the engagement position of the launch system may be at
the lowest point of the arcuate path AP, and the carrier 100 may be launched from the
position shown in figure 7 once the platform 500 is lowered, without initially pulling or
pushing back the carrier to the start position. However, pulling or pushing the carrier
back to the start position 1 is preferred, as that will enable the carrier to be swung to a
greater maximum height, and may provide a smoother launch experience for the rider(s)
if the carrier is initially released from the pull/push-back/start position before being
engaged and launched by the launch system.
As another example, the carrier 100 is described as swinging back and forward along the
arcuate path AP after the carrier 100 has been launched. In an alternative configuration,
the carrier 100 may be steerable after the initial launch by the launch mechanism 200.
For example, the carrier may be provided with a controllable rudder or similar steering
device to enable the rider(s) to control the direction of swinging of the carrier after the
initial launch by the launch system 200. The rudder may, for example, be a tail rudder,
and may be controlled by a steering input device such as a rider-operable control stick or
other controller. By changing direction of the carrier, the direction of the arcuate path AP
relative to the ground will change, effectively forming a plurality of arcuate paths along
which the carrier can swing back and forth. Such a configuration may be particularly
suited to a carrier that is suspended from a cantilevered support structure or from
elongate support member(s) that is/are suspended, such as across a natural feature such
as a gully for example. Additionally, or alternatively, the carrier 100 may be provided
with a rider-operable power source such as a propeller for example, to enable the rider to
control the magnitude of swinging after the initial launch by the launch system 200.

                                              - 22
CLAIMS
 1. A launched swing amusement ride comprising:
    a carrier for carrying a rider, wherein the carrier is suspended to swing from a
    support by at least one elongate suspension member and is arranged to swing in
    more than one direction along an arcuate path, the arcuate path having a lowest
    point;
    a launch mechanism located outside of the arcuate path; and
    a tether that is arranged to releasably couple the carrier to the launch mechanism to
    accelerate the carrier in a first direction through a portion of the arcuate path
    between an engagement position and a release position, and to decouple the carrier
    from the launch system at the release position to propel the carrier on an upward
    trajectory on the arcuate path.
 2. The amusement ride according to claim 1, wherein the tether is releasably coupled to
    the carrier.
 3. The amusement ride according to claim 2, wherein the tether is connected to a
    tether arresting member arranged to restrict the movement of the tether following
    its release from the carrier.
4. The amusement ride according to claim 3, wherein the tether arresting member
    comprises a flexible member.
 5. The amusement ride according to claim 2, wherein a tether retraction device is
    operatively connected to the launch mechanism and is arranged to retract the tether
    when it is released from the carrier.
 6. The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the launch
    mechanism comprises a driven, elongate member extending between pulleys,
    wherein the elongate member is releasably coupled to the carrier by the tether and
    is positioned beneath and/or to a side of the arcuate path.
 7. The amusement ride according to claim 6, further comprising an energy source that
    is operatively connected to the elongate member to drive the elongate member.
8. The amusement ride according to claim 7, wherein the launch mechanism comprises
    a flywheel adapted to store energy, the energy source to rotate the flywheel, and a
    first selective energy transfer mechanism operatively connected to the flywheel,
    wherein the first selective energy transfer mechanism is operable to transfer energy

                                             - 23
    from the flywheel to the elongate member to accelerate the carrier along the portion
    of the arcuate path.
9. The amusement ride according to claim 8, wherein activation of the first selective
    energy transfer mechanism results in rotation of at least one of the pulleys, to
    accelerate the carrier along the portion of the arcuate path.
10. The amusement ride according to claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the first selective
    energy transfer mechanism comprises a mechanical clutch, an epicyclic gearbox, or a
     hydraulic motor.
11. The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 10, further comprising a
     pull-back winch that is releasably coupled to the carrier.
12. The amusement ride according to claim 11, wherein the pull-back winch is arranged
    to pull the carrier in a second direction along the arcuate path to a start position that
    is higher than the lowest point of the arcuate path.
13. The amusement ride according to claim 12, wherein the start position is the same as
    the engagement position.
14. The amusement ride according to claim 12, wherein the start position is higher than
    the engagement position.
15. The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 10, further comprising a
     push-back mechanism that is releasably coupled to the carrier, wherein the push
     back mechanism is arranged to push the carrier in a second direction along the
    arcuate path to a start position that is higher than the lowest point of the arcuate
     path.
16. The amusement ride according to claim 15, wherein the start position is the same as
    the engagement position.
17. The amusement ride according to claim 15 or 16, wherein the tether is rigid and
    forms part of the push-back mechanism to push the carrier in the second direction
    along the arcuate path to the start position.
18. The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the launch
     mechanism is located beneath the lowest point of the arcuate path and/or wherein
    the launch mechanism is located to the side of the lowest point of the arcuate path.
19. The amusement ride according to any of claims 1 to 18, wherein the launch
     mechanism is located substantially at ground level.

                                            - 24
20. The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 19, wherein the launch
    mechanism is arranged to begin accelerating the carrier when the carrier is
    positioned at the engagement position along the arcuate path.
21.The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 20, wherein the
    engagement position is at an angle of between about 150 and about 450 in a second
    direction relative to the lowest point of the arcuate path.
22. The amusement ride according to claim 21, wherein the engagement position is at an
    angle of about 300 in a second direction relative to the lowest point of the arcuate
    path.
23.The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein the release
    position is at an angle of between about 150 and about 450 in the first direction
    relative to the lowest point of the arcuate path.
24. The amusement ride according to claim 23, wherein the release position is at an
    angle of about 300 in the first direction relative to the lowest point of the arcuate
    path.
25.The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 24, wherein the carrier is
    arranged to reach a maximum height when the direction of travel of the carrier
    changes from the first direction to a second direction, after being launched from the
    launch mechanism.
26. The amusement ride according to claim 25, wherein the maximum height is reached
    when the carrier is at an angle of about 1000 in the first direction relative to the
    lowest point of the arcuate path.
27. The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 26, wherein the elongate
    suspension member comprises a cable or a plurality of cables.
28. The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 27, wherein the carrier is
    suspended from a single support tower.
29. The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 28, wherein the carrier is
    suspended between two adjacent support towers, one on either lateral side of the
    arcuate path and the carrier.
30. The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 29, wherein the support
    comprises one or more elongate support members, wherein the elongate suspension
    member(s) hang from the elongate support member(s).

                                            - 25
31. The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 30, wherein the carrier is
    arranged to support one rider.
32.The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 31, wherein the carrier is
    arranged to support a plurality of riders.
33.The amusement ride according to claim 31 or 32, wherein the carrier comprises one
    or more rider support(s), and wherein the rider support(s) is/are configured to rotate
    relative to the elongate suspension member(s) at or near an end of each swing arc
    so that rider(s) supported by the rider support(s) face forward throughout at least a
    major part of each swing arc.
34.The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 32, wherein the carrier is
    steerable after the initial launch by the launch mechanism.
35.The amusement ride according to any one of claims 1 to 34, wherein the carrier is
    provided with a rider-operable power source, to enable the rider to control the
    magnitude of swinging after the initial launch by the launch system.

                              <U+2736> <U+2734>     <U+2736><U+2725>
                                                                                     <U+271D>
        <U+271D>
                                                                                       <U+271D>
          <U+271D>
                                                                                   <U+2737>
      <U+2739>
                                    <U+271D>
                                <U+2737>
                                  <U+2739>
                  <U+2738>
                    <U+2737>
<U+271E>
                                                                                         <U+271D>
                      <U+2739>
  <U+2737>
                                                                                           <U+271D>
    <U+2739>
                                             <U+271D>
                                                                                             <U+273A>
                                         <U+271E>
                                           <U+2739>
                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                         <U+271E>
                                                             <U+271E>
            <U+271E>
                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                               <U+2738>
              <U+271E>
                <U+2739>
                        <U+2738>
                          <U+271E>
                            <U+2739>
                                                 <U+271D>
                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                               <U+271D>
                                               <U+271E>
                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                             <U+2738>
                                                                                               <U+2706>
                                                     <U+271E>
                                                         <U+273A>
                                                                                               <U+260E>
                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                                               <U+2704>
                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                     <U+273A>
                                                                 <U+2737>
                                                                                               <U+2702>
                                                                                               <U+2701>
                                                                                               <U+274B>

                  <U+2737> <U+2734> <U+2736><U+2725>
  <U+271D>
    <U+271D>
                <U+2746>
<U+271E>
            <U+2701> <U+2739>
                                                     <U+2736>
                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                     <U+2737>
                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                 <U+271D>
                           <U+271D>
                                                                                   <U+271D>
                             <U+273A>
                                                                               <U+271E>
                         <U+271E>
                                                                       <U+2701> <U+2738>
                                                                           <U+2701> <U+2737>
                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                     <U+271D>
                                           <U+2738>
                                                                                                     <U+273A>
                                                                 <U+271E>
                                             <U+271E>
        <U+271D>
                                               <U+2738>
          <U+271D>
      <U+2739>
                                     <U+271E>
                                       <U+271E>
                                         <U+2738>
                                 <U+271D>
                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                       <U+274B>
                                   <U+271D>
                                                   <U+271E>
                               <U+271E>
                                                                                             <U+271D>
                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                       <U+260E>
                                                             <U+271D>
                                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                       <U+2704>
                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                                       <U+2702>
                                                                                                       <U+2701>
                                                                                                       <U+274B>

                                                  <U+2725>           <U+2734> <U+2736>                 <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2737>
                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2737>
                                                                <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2737>
                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2737>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2737>
                                                      <U+2738>                                                                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                                            <U+2738>
                                                                                                              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                            <U+273A>
                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2737>
                                            <U+271E>
                                              <U+271E>
                                                <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                        <U+2737>
                                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                        <U+2737>
                                                                            <U+2737>
                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                              <U+2738>
                                      <U+2738>
                                          <U+271D>
                                        <U+2738>
                <U+271D>
                  <U+271D>
                                                                                          <U+271E>
              <U+271E>
                                                                                            <U+2738>
                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                    <U+2737>
                                    <U+271D>
                                                            <U+271D>
                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                        <U+2738>
                            <U+273A>
                              <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2701>
<U+2738>
                          <U+271E>
  <U+2737>
                                                                                                <U+2738>
    <U+2739>
                                                                                                    <U+271D>
      <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+274B>
                                                                                                  <U+2737>
        <U+2738>
          <U+271E>
            <U+2739>
                    <U+271E>
                                                                        <U+271D>
                        <U+273A>
                                                                          <U+273A>
                      <U+2737>
                                                                      <U+2737>

                                            <U+2739>      <U+2734>       <U+2736>           <U+2725>
                                                                                                                                 <U+273A>
                                                                                             <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                   <U+271D>
                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                                                         <U+2737>
                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                             <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                 <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2737>
                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                 <U+2738>
                                                                     <U+2738>
                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                     <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                                                                                                       <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2737>
                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                     <U+2737>
                            <U+271E>
                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                             <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                                                         <U+271E>
                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                     <U+271E>
                                                                             <U+2737>
                                                             <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                       <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2737>
                <U+271D>
                                                                                     <U+2737>
                  <U+271D>
                                                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                 <U+2737>
              <U+271E>
                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+2737>
                                             <U+2738>
                                                 <U+271D>
                                               <U+2738>
                                <U+271E>
                                    <U+271D>
                                        <U+271D>
                      <U+273A>
                                  <U+2738>
                                          <U+271D>
                        <U+271D>
                                                                               <U+2738>
                                      <U+2738>
                    <U+271E>
                                                                                 <U+2738>
                                                                                   <U+2737>
<U+2738>
  <U+2737>
    <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+274B>
      <U+2739>
        <U+2738>
          <U+271E>
            <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                             <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                             <U+2704>
                                                     <U+271E>
                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                             <U+2702>
                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                 <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                             <U+2701>
                                                                                                             <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                             <U+274B>
                                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                                                           <U+271D>
                                                                                                         <U+2737>

                                                  <U+273A> <U+2734>       <U+2736>           <U+2725>
                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2737>
                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                    <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                            <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                    <U+2737>
                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+273A>
                                                                                                                        <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+2737>
                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                          <U+271D>
                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                  <U+2737>                                   <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2738>
                <U+271D>                                                               <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                  <U+271D>                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2737>
                                                                                    <U+2737>
              <U+271E>
                                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                            <U+2737>
                                            <U+2738>
                            <U+273A>
                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                            <U+271E>
                              <U+271D>
<U+2738>
                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                          <U+271E>
  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                <U+2737>
    <U+2739>
      <U+2739>
        <U+2738>
          <U+271E>
            <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                        <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                    <U+271E>
                        <U+271D>
                      <U+2738>
                                                            <U+271E>
                                <U+271E>
                                                                <U+271D>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                              <U+2737>
                                    <U+2738>
                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                            <U+2738>
                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+260E>
                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2704>
                                                                                                                  <U+271D>
                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2738>
                                                        <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                                        <U+2738>
                                                                                                            <U+271D>
                                                                                                          <U+2737>

              <U+273B> <U+2734> <U+2736><U+2725>
                      <U+2739><U+2720><U+271F>
    <U+2739><U+271E><U+271F>
     <U+271E><U+2736><U+2721>
        <U+271E><U+2736><U+261B>           <U+271E><U+2736><U+271F>
<U+271E><U+2736><U+2736>                       <U+271E><U+2736><U+271E>
          <U+271F><U+2736><U+271E>        <U+271E><U+2736><U+261E>
                 <U+271F><U+2736><U+2736>
          <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D>

                <U+273C> <U+2734> <U+2736><U+2725>
    <U+2739><U+271E><U+271F>            <U+2739><U+2720><U+271F>
                        <U+271E><U+2736><U+2736>
                    <U+271E><U+2736><U+261E>
        <U+271F><U+2736><U+271E>
                             <U+271F><U+2736><U+2736>
         <U+2720><U+2720><U+271F>
                   <U+271F><U+2736><U+271F>
                                 <U+271F><U+2736><U+2720>
                                     <U+2720><U+271F><U+271E>
<U+2720><U+2736><U+2736>           <U+2720><U+2736><U+271E>
                            <U+2720><U+2736><U+261B>
             <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+274B>

                         <U+273D> <U+2734> <U+2736><U+2725>
               <U+2739><U+271E><U+271F>  <U+2701>
                                                        <U+2739><U+2720><U+271F>  <U+2701>
              <U+2739><U+271E><U+271F>  <U+2739>
                                                       <U+2739><U+2720><U+271F>  <U+2739>
<U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+271D>              <U+271E><U+2736><U+271F> <U+2739>
                                                <U+271E><U+2736><U+261B>  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+271E><U+2736><U+2736>
          <U+274B>
                                                               <U+2736>
                   <U+271E><U+2736><U+261B>  <U+2739>                            <U+271E><U+2736><U+2739>  <U+2739>
                   <U+271E><U+2736><U+271E> <U+2736>
                                                 <U+271E><U+2736><U+271E>  <U+2736>
                                               <U+271E><U+2736><U+271F><U+2701><U+2736>
                                               <U+271E><U+2736><U+2739> <U+2701><U+2736>
              <U+271E><U+2736><U+2736><U+2736>
   <U+2739><U+271E><U+271F><U+2701>
                                    <U+271E><U+2736><U+271F><U+2739>
                                         <U+271E><U+2736><U+271E> <U+2736>       <U+2739><U+2720><U+271F>   <U+2701>
                                        <U+271E><U+2736><U+261E><U+2736>
        <U+271E><U+2736><U+271E> <U+2736>
                                         <U+271E><U+2736><U+271E> <U+2736>
       <U+2739><U+271E><U+271F>                                       <U+2739><U+2720><U+271F>    <U+2739>
                                  <U+271E><U+2736><U+271E>
          <U+2739>
                                     <U+2736>
                  <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>        <U+274B> <U+274B>

           <U+273E> <U+2734> <U+2736><U+2725>
                <U+2759>     <U+271E><U+2736><U+2736> <U+2736>
<U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+274B>
      <U+274B>
         <U+2759>          <U+2759>
                  <U+2759>

                                    <U+2736><U+2736> <U+2734> <U+2736><U+2725>
    <U+271D>
<U+2737>
  <U+2739>
                                                    <U+271D>
                                                      <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2737>
                                            <U+271D>
                                              <U+271D>
                                                <U+273A>
            <U+2738>
              <U+2737>
                <U+2739>
      <U+2738>
        <U+271E>
          <U+2739>
                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                  <U+273A>
                                                        <U+271E>
                                                          <U+271D>
                                                            <U+273A>
                                  <U+271D>
                              <U+271E>
                                <U+2739>
                                                                      <U+274B>
                  <U+271E>
                      <U+273A>
                    <U+2737>
                                                                    <U+260E>
                                                                    <U+2704>
                                                                    <U+2702>
                                                                    <U+2701>
                          <U+271D>
                            <U+273A>
                        <U+2737>
                                                                    <U+274B>

                                                                                          <U+2736><U+2736> <U+2734> <U+2736><U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2738>
                                                                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                      <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                            <U+2738>
                                                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                            <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                        <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                            <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                        <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                    <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                        <U+2738>
                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                <U+2737>
                                                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                    <U+2737>
                                                                                                            <U+2737>
                                <U+2738>
                                  <U+271D>
                                    <U+271D>
                          <U+271E>
                            <U+2739>
                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                  <U+2737>
                                        <U+271D>
              <U+2738>
                                                                                        <U+271D>
                              <U+271E>
<U+2738>
                                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                                      <U+2738>
  <U+2737>
                                                                  <U+2738>
    <U+2739>
                                                                        <U+271D>
      <U+2739>
                <U+2738>
                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                    <U+2738>
        <U+2738>
                                                      <U+273A>
          <U+271E>
                                                        <U+271D>
            <U+2739>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                        <U+2738>
                                                                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                                                                      <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274B>
                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+260E>
                                                                            <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2704>
                                                            <U+2738>
                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                              <U+271D>
                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                <U+271D>
                                          <U+271E>
                      <U+2738>                                                                                                         <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2738>
                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                            <U+2737>
                  <U+2737>
                                            <U+2738>
                        <U+271D>
                    <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+274B>

                                                                          <U+2736>       <U+2737>         <U+2734> <U+2736><U+2725>
                                                                                                           <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2738>
                                                                                                             <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2737>
                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                                         <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                     <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                             <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2736> <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                             <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+273A>                                             <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                        <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                                     <U+2737>
                          <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                         <U+271E>
                            <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                      <U+2738>
                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2737>
                                                                  <U+2737>
                    <U+2739>
                                                                        <U+271D>
                              <U+271D>
                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                      <U+2738>
                                <U+271D>
                                                  <U+2738>
                      <U+271E>
                                                        <U+271D>
                                                    <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+271E>
                                    <U+2738>
                                                                                                                     <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2737>
                                      <U+273A>
                                                                                                                 <U+2737>
              <U+2738>
                                                                                        <U+2738>
                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
<U+2738>
                                                                                    <U+2739>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
  <U+2737>
                                                                                          <U+271D>
    <U+2739>
      <U+2739>
                                                                                      <U+2738>
                <U+2738>
        <U+2738>
          <U+271E>
                                                                            <U+2738>
            <U+2739>
                                                                              <U+271D>
                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                              <U+2738>
                                                          <U+271E>
                                                                <U+271D>
                                                            <U+2738>
                                              <U+2738>
                                          <U+2737>
                                                <U+271D>
                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+274B>
                                                                                                                             <U+2738>
                                                                                                                         <U+2738>
                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                           <U+2737>

                                                                          <U+2736>               <U+2725> <U+2734> <U+2736><U+2725>
                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2737>
                                                                                                                     <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                     <U+273A>
                                                                                                                 <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                       <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                 <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                         <U+2736>
                                                                                                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                               <U+2738>
                        <U+2738>
                                                                                  <U+2737>                                                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                         <U+2737>
                          <U+271D>
                                                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                               <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                            <U+271D>
                                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                             <U+2737>
                  <U+271E>
                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                           <U+2737>
                    <U+2739>
                                                                <U+271D>
                              <U+271D>
                                                            <U+2738>
                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                                                         <U+2738>
                      <U+271E>
              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                    <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                     <U+2738>
<U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+271E>
                                      <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                       <U+273A>
  <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2737>
                                        <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                 <U+271E>
    <U+2739>
                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
      <U+2739>
                <U+2738>
        <U+2738>
          <U+271E>
                                                                                                                                                                                     <U+2738>
            <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                         <U+271E>
                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                           <U+271E>
                                                                          <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                                                             <U+2737>
                                                                                <U+271D>
                                                                            <U+2738>
                                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                   <U+2738>
                                                                    <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                       <U+2738>
                                                  <U+271E>
                                                                                                     <U+2737>
                                                                      <U+271D>
                                                                                                                                                                               <U+2737>
                                                        <U+271D>
                                                                        <U+271D>
                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+271E>
                                                    <U+2738>
                                                                  <U+2738>
                                          <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                   <U+2737>
                                                <U+271D>
                                                                                                             <U+2738>
                                            <U+271E>
                                                                                                         <U+2737>
                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                           <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                 <U+274B>
                                                                                                                             <U+2738>
                                                                                                                         <U+2738>
                                                                                                                               <U+271D>
                                                                                                                           <U+2737>

