ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to methods for use in the selective disruption of lipid-rich cells
by controlled cooling. The present invention further relates to a device for use in carrying out
the methods for selective disruption of lipid-rich cells by controlled cooling.

                                                      1
                                       TITLE OF THE INVENTION
    METHODS AND DEVICES FOR SELECTIVE DISRUPTION OF FATTY
    TISSUE BY CONTROLLED COOLING
    RELATED            APPLICATIONS/PATENTS                    &     INCORPORATION               BY
  5 REFERNCE
    This application claims priority to U. S. Application Serial Number 60/365,662, filed on
    March 15, 2002, the contents of which are herein expressly incorporated by reference.
    Each of the applications and patents cited in this text, as well as each document or reference
    cited in each of the applications and patents (including during the prosecution of each issued
 .0 patent;"application cited documents"), and each of the PCT and foreign applications or
    patents corresponding to and/or claiming priority from any of these applications and patents,
    and each of the documents cited or referenced in each of the application cited documents, are
    hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference. More generally, documents or references
    are cited in this text, either in a Reference List before the claims, or in the text itself; and,
 .5 each of these documents or references ("herein-cited references"), as well as each document
    or reference cited in each of the herein-cited references (including any manufacturer's
    specifications, instructions, etc. ), is hereby expressly incorporated herein by reference. That
    the document, reference, patent application, or patent cited in this text is not repeated in this
    text is merely for reasons for conciseness.
 .0 The discussion of the background to the invention and reference to cited material in the
    present specification is intended to facilitate an understanding of the present invention only.
    It should not be understood as a concession, acknowledgement or admission that the material
    was part of the common general knowledge of the person skilled in the art in any jurisdiction
    as at the priority date of the invention.
25  Throughout the specification and claims, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
    "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to imply
    the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of any other integer
    or group of integers.
    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
30  The present invention relates to methods for use in the selective disruption of lipid-rich cells
    by controlled cooling. The present invention further relates to a device for use in carrying out
    the methods for selective disruption of lipid-rich cells by controlled cooling. Other aspects of
    the invention are described in or are obvious from the following disclosure (and within the
    ambit of the invention).

                                                       2
       BACKGROUND
                The subcutaneous fatty tissue of newborns is unusually sensitive to the cold. In
       newborns, the intracellular lipid content of the subcutaneous fat cells, or "adipocytes,"
       comprises increased ratios of highly saturated triglycerides. Even moderately cold
   5  temperatures can adversely affect cells having a highly saturated lipid content,
      rendering newborn subcutaneous fatty tissue vulnerable to adipocyte necrosis following
      exposure to the cold. Hypothermia of subcutaneous fatty tissue can result in associated
      inflammation of the dermis and/or epidermis. For example, disorders of cold
      panniculitis in newborns are known to produce painful skin lesions.
 10             As newborns mature, the ratio of saturated to unsaturated fatty acids among
      intracellular triglycerides of adipocytes gradually decreases. Having a higher content of
      unsaturated fatty acids is more protective against the cold, and the occurrence of cold
      panniculitis in infants gradually subsides. For detailed reviews on the subject of cold
      panniculitis, see Epstein et al. (1970) New England J. of Med. 282(17):966-67; Duncan
 15   et al. (1966) Arch. Derm. 94:722-724; Kellum et al. (1968) Arch. Derm. 97:372-380;
     Moschella, Samuel L. and Hurley, Harry J. (1985) Diseases of the Coriun and
      Subcutaneous Tissue. In Dermatology (W.B. Saunders Company): 169 -1181; John C
     Maize (1998) Panniculitis In Cutaneous Pathology (Churchill Livingstone): 327-344;
     Bondei, Edward E. and Lazarus, Gerald S. (1993) Disorders of Subcutaneous Fat (Cold
20   Panniculitis). In Dermatology in General Medicine (McGraw-Hill, Inc.): 1333-1334
               In adults, the intracellular lipid content varies among cell types. Dermal and
     epidermal cells, for instance, are relatively low in unsaturated fatty acids compared to
     the underlying adipocytes that form the subcutaneous fatty tissue. For a detailed review
     of the composition of fatty tissue in mammals, see Renold, Albert E. and Cahill, Jr.,
25   George F. (1965) Adipose Tissue. In Handbook of Physiology (American Physiology
     Society): 170-176. As a result, the different cell types, e.g., lipid-rich and non-lipid-rich
     cells, have varying degrees of susceptibility to the cold. In general, non-lipid-rich cells
     can withstand colder temperatures than lipid-rich cells.
              It would be highly desirable to selectively and non-invasively damage
30   adipocytes of the subcutaneous fatty tissue without causing injury to the surrounding
     dermal and epidermal tissue. Both health and cosmetic benefits are known to result

                                                  3
   from reduction of fatty tissue, however, current methods, such as liposuction, involve
   invasive procedures with potentially life threatening risks (e.g., excessive bleeding,
   pain, septic shock, infection and swelling).
            Current methods for non-invasive removal of subcutaneous fatty tissue include
 5 the use of radiant energy and cooling solutions. U.S. Patent No.s 5,143,063, 5,507,790
   and 5,769,879 describe methods for using radiant energy to reduce subcutaneous fatty
   tissue, however, the applied energy levels are difficult to control and often there is
   collateral damage to the dermis and/or epidermis. Cooling solutions proposed by WO
   00/44346 do not stabilize skin surface temperatures and therefore, also fail to
10 adequately protect against collateral damage to the dermis and/or epidermis.
            A previous study conducted in Guinea Pigs described the removal of
   subcutaneous fatty tissue by cryo-damage. Burge, S. and Dawber, R. (1990)
   Cryobiology 27:153463. However this result was achieved using relatively aggressive
   cooling modalities (e.g., liquid nitrogen), which induced epidermal damage. Ideally,
15 removal of subcutaneous fatty tissue by cooling would not cause associated damage to
   the epidermis.
            Temperature controlled methods and devices for selectively damaging lipid-rich
   cells (e.g., adipocytes comprising the subcutaneous fatty tissue) without causing injury
   to non lipid-rich cells (e.g., dermis and/or epidermis) were heretofore unknown.
20
   SUMMARY
            It has now been shown that adipose tissue comprising lipid-rich cells can be
   selectively disrupted without causing injury to the surrounding non lipid-rich tissue
   (e.g., dermal and epidermal tissue) by controlling the temperature and/or pressure
25 applied to the respective tissues.
            In one aspect, the invention relates to a cooling method for selective disruption
   of lipid-rich cells in a non-infant human subject comprising applying a cooling element
   proximal to the subject's skin to create a temperature gradient within a local region
    sufficient to selectively disrupt and thereby reduce the lipid-rich cells of said region,
30 and, concurrently therewith maintain the subject's skin at a temperature wherein non
   lipid-rich cells proximate to the cooling element are not disrupted.

                                                  4
           In one embodiment, the invention relates to a method for treating a region of a
   subject's body to achieve a desired reduction in subcutaneous adipose tissue,
   comprising a) applying a cooling element proximal to the subject's skin in the region
   where subcutaneous adipose tissue reduction is desired to create a temperature gradient
 5 within said region sufficient to selectively disrupt lipid-rich cells therein, and,
   simultaneously therewith maintain the subject's skin at a temperature wherein non lipid
   rich cells proximate to the cooling element are not disrupted; b) repeating the
   application of the cooling element to the subject's skin of step (a) a plurality of times
   until the desired reduction in subcutaneous adipose tissue has been achieved.
10          In another aspect, the invention relates to a device for selectively disrupting
   lipid-rich cells in a non-infant human subject by cooling comprising: means for creating
   a temperature gradient within a local region of the subject's skin to selectively disrupt
   and thereby reduce lipid-rich cells of the region, while, concurrently therewith,
   maintaining the subject's skin at a temperature whereby non lipid-rich cells are not
15 disrupted.
            In one embodiment, the invention relates to an apparatus for locally reducing
   lipid-rich cells, comprising a treatment device operable to receive a cooling agent; a
   cooling agent source connected to the treatment device for supplying said cooling agent;
   a control unit coupled to the treatment device and the cooling agent source for
20  controlling a cooling temperature of said cooling agent, wherein said treatment device
   exposes target tissue to said cooling agent, which selectively induces damage to lipid
   rich cells at said target tissue.
            In another embodiment, the invention further relates to an apparatus for locally
    reducing lipid-rich cells, comprising a means for setting a cooling agent to a
25 predetermined temperature; and a means for applying said cooling agent to target tissue,
    whereby the cooling agent selectively induces damage to lipid-rich cells at said target
   tissue.
            In this disclosure, "comprises," "comprising," "containing" and "having" and the
    like can have the meaning ascribed to them in U.S. Patent law and can mean"
30  includes," "including," and the like; "consisting essentially of" or "consists essentially"
    likewise has the meaning ascribed in U.S. Patent law and the term is open-ended,

                                                    5
     allowing for the presence of more than that which is recited so long as basic or novel
     characteristics of that which is recited is not changed by the presence of more than that
     which is recited, but excludes prior art embodiments.
              These and other objects and embodiments are described in or are obvious from
  5  and within the scope of the invention, from the following Detailed Description.
     DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
     Figure 1A illustrates a treatment system.
     Figure 1B depicts a diagram illustrating a configuration of control unit.
 10  Figure 1C depicts a diagram showing cooling/heating element.
     Figure 1D illustrates a flat cooling treatment system with a probe controller.
     Figure 2A illustrates a treatment system for cooling lipid-rich cells within a skin fold.
     Figure 2B illustrates a treatment system for cooling lipid-rich cells within a skin fold
     with a probe controller.
 15  Figure 3A illustrates a treatment system that includes a suction unit.
     Figure 4 illustrates a treatment system that is combined with suction system to provide
    treatment of an isolated area.
     Figure 5A, B illustrate a treatment system which can enclose circumferentially a target
    tissue mass.
20  Figure 6 depicts an image of the skin surface showing indentation after 17 days at some
    areas matching cold exposure sites.
    Figure 7 depicts histology of the subcutaneous adipose tissue 17 days after cold
    exposure (Pig II, Site E). Figure 7A shows the low magnification view and Figure 7B
    shows the high magnification view.
25  Figure 8A, B depicts Site C; 8 C, D depicts Site E; and 8 E, F depicts Site F; each of
    which show histology of the subcutaneous adipose tissue 17 days after cold exposure
    (Pig II, Site C, E and F).
    Figure 9 depicts an image of the device used to administer cooling to Pig III.
    Figure 10 A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, and J depicts temperature plots of the exposure sites
30  1, 2, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 18 of Pig II in various tissue depths.
    Figure 11 depicts an ultrasound image of test Site 11, 3.5 months after exposure.

                                                  6
   Figure 12A, B depicts histology of test Site 8, 6 days after exposure. Figure 12C, D
   depicts histology of test Site 9 (control).
   Figure 13A, B, C, D, and E depicts macroscopic sections through the center of test Sites
   1, 3, 11, 12 and 18, 3.5 months after exposure.
 5
   DETAILED DES CRIPTION
           The present invention relates to a method for locally reducing adipose tissue
   comprising applying a cooling element to a subject at a temperature sufficient to
   selectively disrupt lipid-rich cells, wherein the temperature does not produce unwanted
10 effects in non lipid-rich cells. Preferably, the cooling element is coupled to or contains
   a cooling agent.
            In one aspect, the invention relates to a cooling method for selective disruption
   of lipid-rich cells in a non-infant human subject comprising applying a cooling element
   proximal to the subject's skin to create a temperature gradient within a local region
15 sufficient to selectively disrupt and thereby reduce the lipid-rich cells of said region,
   and, concurrently therewith maintain the subject's skin at a temperature wherein non
   lipid-rich cells proximate to the cooling element are not disrupted.
            In one embodiment, the invention relates to a method for treating a region of a
   subject's body to achieve a desired reduction in subcutaneous adipose tissue,
20 comprising a) applying a cooling element proximal to the subject's skin in the region
   where subcutaneous adipose tissue reduction is desired to create a temperature gradient
   within said region sufficient to selectively disrupt lipid-rich cells therein, and,
    simultaneously therewith maintain the subject's skin at a temperature wherein non lipid
   rich cells proximate to the cooling element are not disrupted; b) repeating the
25  application of the cooling element to the subject's skin of step (a) a plurality of times
   until the desired reduction in subcutaneous adipose tissue has been achieved.
             Cooling elements of the present invention can contain cooling agents in the form
    of a solid, liquid or gas. Solid cooling agents can comprise, for example thermal
    conductive materials, such as metals, metal plates, glasses, gels and ice or ice slurries.
30  Liquid cooling agents can comprise, for example, saline, glycerol, alcohol, or
    water/alcohol mixtures. Where the cooling element includes a circulating cooling

                                                 7
   agent, preferably the temperature of the cooling agent is constant. Salts can be
   combined with liquid mixtures to obtain desired temperatures. Gasses can include, for
   example, cold air or liquid nitrogen.
           In one embodiment, cooling elements can be applied such that direct contact is
 5 made with a subject, via either the agent or the element. In another embodiment, direct
   contact is made via the agent alone. In yet another embodiment, no direct contact is
   made via either the agent or the element; cooling is a carried out by proximal
   positioning of the cooling element and/or agent.
           Preferably, the temperature of the cooling agent is less than about 37*C, but not
10 less than -196*C (i.e, the temperature of liquid nitrogen).
           Preferably, the temperature range of the administered cooling element is
   between about 40*C and -15*C, even more preferably between 4*C and -10*C if the
   cooling agent is a liquid or a solid. Generally, the cooling element is preferably
   maintained at an average temperature of between about -15*C and about 35*C, 30*C,
15 25*C, 20 0 C, 15*C, 10*C, or 5*C; about -10*C and about 35*C, 30C, 25 0 C, 20*C,
    15*C, 10*C, or 5*C; about -15*C and about 200C, 15*C, 10*C, or 5*C.
            The cooling element and/or agent can be applied for up to two hours.
   Preferably, the cooling element is applied for between 1 to 30 minutes. The cooling
   element can be applied for at least one hundred milliseconds (e.g., shorter durations are
20 envisioned, for instance, with sprays). For example, liquid nitrogen can be applied in
   very short intervals (e.g., about 1 second), repeatedly (e.g., about 10-100 times) and
   between applications, a temperature that does not cause epidermal damage is
   maintained (e.g., about 0*C to -1 0*C, depending on the length of exposure). In a gentle
    cooling regime, for example, the liquid nitrogen can be sprayed from a distance (e.g.,
25  from about 10 to 30 cm) wherein some portion of the liquid nitrogen droplets evaporate
    during the spraying and/or mix with ambient air.
            Cooling elements and/or agents of the present invention are applied, for
    example, to the skin surface through either direct or indirect contact. A subject's skin
    comprises the epidermis, dermis or a combination thereof. The cooling element and/or
30  agent is a non-toxic cooling agent when applied directly to the skin surface.

                                                    8
             The cooling element and/or agent can be applied more than once, for example,
    in repetitious cycles. The cooling agent can be applied in a pulsed or continuous
    manner. The cooling element and/or agent can be applied by all conventional methods
    known in the art, including topical application by spray if in liquid form, gas or
 5  particulate solid material. Preferably, application is by external means, however,
    cooling elements and/or agents of the present invention can also be applied
    subcutaneously by injection or other conventional means. For example, the cooling
    agent can be applied directly to the subcutaneous tissue and then either removed after
    contact or left in the subcutaneous tissue to achieve thermal equilibration and therefore
10   cooling of the lipid-rich tissue (e.g., subcutaneous injection of a liquid cooling agent or
     of small cooling particles, such as pellets or microbeads).
              Preferably, methods of the present invention are non-invasive (e.g., superficial,
     laparoscopic or topical procedures not requiring invasive surgical techniques).
              The cooling element and/or agent can be applied to one defined area or multiple
15   areas. Spatial distribution of the cooling element and/or agent can be controlled as
     needed. Generally, the dimension of the surface area (e.g., where the cooling agent is in
     contact with the skin) should be at least three times the depth of subcutaneous fatty
     tissue that is targeted for cooling. Preferably, the minimum diameter of the surface area
     is at least 1 cm 2 . Even more preferably, the diameter of the surface area is between 3 to
20   20 cm2 . Determination of the optimal surface area will require routine variation of
      several parameters. For example, larger surface areas, such as those over 3500 cm 2 ,
      can be cooled according to the methods of the present invention if hypothermia is
     prevented by additional means. Hypothermia can be prevented by compensating for the
      heat transfer away from the body at other sites (e.g., applying warm water at one or
25    more additional sites). Multiple cooling elements and/or agents can be employed, for
                                                                                2
      example, in contacting larger surface areas (e.g., greater than 3500 cm ).
              The cooling element and/or agent can follow the contour of the area to which it
      is applied. For example, a flexible apparatus can be used to follow the contour of the
      surface area where cooling is applied. The apparatus can also modify the shape of the
 30   contacted surface such that the surface is contoured around or within the cooling agent
      or the apparatus containing the cooling agent upon contact. The cooling element and/or

                                                    9
   agent can contact more than one surface at once, for example, when the surface is
   folded and contacted on either side by the cooling element and/or agent. Preferably, a
   skin fold is contacted on both sides by the cooling element and/or agent to increase the
   efficiency of cooling.
 5          Preferably, the solid cooling element and/or agent is shaped to enhance
   thermodynamic heat exchange ("thermal exchange") at the contacted surface (e.g., skin
   surface). In order to enhance conduction, a liquid can be used at the interface between
   the solid cooling agent and the contacted surface.
             Where necessary, application of the cooling element and/or agent can be
10 coupled with use of a pain management agent, such as an anesthetic or analgesic
   (cooling alone has analgesic properties, thus use of additional pain management agents
   is optional). Local anesthetics, for example, can be topically applied at the point of
   contact either before, after or during application of the cooling agent. Where necessary,
    systemic administration of the anesthetic can be provided through conventional
15 methods, such as injection or oral administration. The temperature of the cooling agent
    can be changed during the treatment, for example, so that the cooling rate is decreased
    in order to provide a treatment causing less discomfort. In addition, methods of the
    present invention can be performed in combination with other fat reduction procedures
   known in the art, such as liposuction.
20           Preferably, lipid-rich cells of the present invention are adipocytes within
    subcutaneous fatty tissue or cellulite. Thus, lipid-rich cells comprising the
    subcutaneous adipose tissue are targeted for disruption by methods of the present
    invention. In addition, it is within the ambit of the invention to target disruption of
    lipid-rich cells comprising adventicia surrounding organs or other internal anatomical
25  structures.
             The intracellular lipids of adipocytes are confined within the paraplasmatic
    vacuole. There are univacular and plurivacular adipocytes within the subcutaneous
    fatty tissue. Most are univacular, and greater than about 100um in diameter. This size
    can increase dramatically in obese subjects due to an increase in intracellular lipid
30  content.

                                                   10
            Preferably, lipid-rich cells of the present invention have a total intracellular lipid
   content of between 20-99 %. Preferably, lipid-rich cells of the present invention have
   an intracellular lipid content comprised of about 20- 50% saturated triglycerides, and
   even more preferably about 30-40% saturated triglycerides. Intracellular triglycerides
 5 include, but are not limited to, saturated fatty acids e.g., myristic, palmitic and stearic
   acid; monounsaturated fatty acids, e.g., palmitoleic and oleic acid; and polyunsaturated
   fatty acids e.g., linoleic and linolenic acid.
            Preferably, lipid-rich cells of the present invention are located within
   subcutaneous adipose tissue. The saturated fatty acid composition of subcutaneous
10 adipose tissue varies at different anatomical positions in the human body. For example,
   human subcutaneous adipose tissue in the abdomen can have the following composition
   of saturated fatty acids: myristic (2.6 %), palmitic (23.8 %), palmitoleic (4.9%), stearic
   (6.5%), oleic (45.6%), linoleic (15.4 %) and linolenic acid (0.6%). The subcutaneous
   adipose tissue of the abdominal area can comprise about 35% saturated fatty acids.
15 This is comparatively higher than the buttock area, which can comprise about 32%
    saturated fatty acids. At room temperature, saturated fatty acids of the abdominal area
    are in a semisolid state as a result of the higher fatty acid content. The buttock area is
    not similarly affected. Malcom G. et al., (1989) Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 50(2):288-91. One
    skilled in the art can modify temperature ranges or application times as necessary to
20  account for anatomical differences in the response to cooling methods of the present
    invention.
             Preferably, non lipid-rich cells of the present invention have a total intracellular
    lipid content of less than 20%, and/or are not disrupted by cooling methods of the
    present invention. Preferably, non lipid-rich cells of the present invention include cells
25  having an intracellular lipid content comprising less than about 20% highly saturated
    triglycerides, even more preferably less than about 7-10% highly saturated triglycerides.
    Non lipid-rich cells include, but are not limited to, those surrounding the subcutaneous
    fatty tissue, such as cells of the vasculature, peripheral nervous system, epidermis (e.g.,
    melanocytes) and dermis (e.g., fibrocytes).

                                                    11
            Damage to the dermis and/or epidermis that is avoided by the methods of the
   present invention can involve, for example, inflammation, irritation, swelling, formation
   of lesions and hyper or hypopigmentation of melanocytes.
            Without being bound by theory, it is believed that selective disruption of lipid
 5 rich cells results from localized crystalization of highly saturated fatty acids upon
   cooling at temperatures that do not induce crystalization of highly saturated fatty acids
   in non lipid-rich cells. The crystals rupture the bilayer membrane of lipid-rich cells,
   causing necrosis. Thus, damage of non lipid-rich cells, such as dermal cells, is avoided
   at temperatures that induce crystal formation in lipid-rich cells. It is also believed that
lo cooling induces lipolysis (e.g., metabolism) of lipid-rich cells, further enhancing the
   reduction in subcutaneous adipose tissue. Lipolysis may be enhanced by local cold
   exposure inducing stimulation of the symapthetic nervous system.
            In one embodiment, the temperature of the lipid-rich cells is not less than about
    10*C. Preferably, the temperature of the lipid-rich cells is between -10*C and 37*C.
15 More preferably, the temperature of the lipid-rich cells is between -4*C and 20'C. Even
   more preferably, the temperature of the lipid-rich cells is between -2*C and 15*C.
   Preferably, the lipid-rich cells are cooled to less than 37*C, for up to two hours.
   Generally, the lipid-rich cells are preferably maintained at an average temperature of
   between about -10*C and about 37*C, 35, 30*C, 25*C, 20*C, 15*C, 10*C, or 4'C; about
20 -4 0 C and about 350 C, 30 0 C, 25 0 C, 20 0 C, 150 C, 10*C, or 4 0C; about -2 0 C and about 35,
   30 0 C, 25 0 C, 20 0 C, 150 C, 100 C, or 50C.
            In yet another embodiment the temperature range of the lipid-rich cells
   oscillates between 37 0 C and -10 0C. Methods of pulse cooling followed by brief periods
   of warming can be used to minimize collateral damage to non lipid-rich cells. More
25 preferably, the temperature range of the lipid-rich cells oscillates between -80 C and
   33 0 C. Even more preferably, the temperature range of the lipid-rich cells oscillates
   between -20 C and 150 C. The temporal profile of the cooling of the skin can be
   performed in one continuous cooling act or in multiple cooling cycles or actually a
   combination of cooling with active heating cycles.

                                                12
            Cooling methods of the present invention advantageously eliminate unwanted
   effects in the epidermis. In one embodiment, the temperature of the epidermis is not
   less than about -15*C. Preferably, the temperature of the epidermis is between about
    10*C and 35*C. More preferably, the temperature of the epidermis is between about
 5 5*C and 100 C. Even more preferably, the temperature of the epidermis is between
   about -5*C and 5*C.
            Cooling methods of the present invention advantageously eliminate unwanted
   effects in the dermis. In one embodiment, the temperature of the dermis is not less than
   about -15*C. Preferably, the temperature of the dermis is between about -10*C and
10 20*C. More preferably, the temperature of the dermis is between about -8*C and 15*C.
   Even more preferably, the temperature of the dermis is between about -5*C and 10*C.
   In a preferred embodiment, the lipid-rich cells are cooled to about -5*C to 5*C for up to
   two hours and the dermal and epidermal cells maintain an average temperature of about
   0*C. In a most preferred embodiment, the lipid-rich cells are cooled to about -5 to
15  15*C for times ranging from about a minute, up to about two hours.
            Methods of the present invention can be applied in short intervals (e.g., 1
   minute, 5 minute, 15 minute, 30 minute and 60 minute time intervals) or long intervals
   (e.g., 12 hour and 24 hour time intervals). Preferably intervals are between 5 and 20
   minutes. Heat can optionally be applied between intervals of cooling.
20         Feedback mechanisms can be employed to monitor and control temperatures in
   the skin (i.e., dermis, epidermis or a combination thereof) subcutaneous adipose tissue.
   A feedback mechanism can monitor the temperature of a subject's skin to ensure that
   the temperature therein in does not fall below a predetermined minimum temperature,
   for example, about -1 0C to about 30*C. A non-invasive device can be externally
25 applied to measure surface temperature at the point of contact and/or the surrounding
   region. An invasive device, such as a thermocouple, can be used to measure internal
   temperatures.
            Feedback mechanisms can include all known in the art to. monitor temperature
   and/or crystal formation. Crystal formation can be measured, for example by

                                                     13
    ultrasound imaging and acoustical, optical, and mechanical measurements. Mechanical
    measurements can include, for example, measurements of tensile strength.
             In one embodiment, a multilayer model can be employed to estimate
    temperature profiles over time and within different depths. Temperature profiles are
 5  designed to produce a temperature gradient within the tissue, having a lower
    temperature at the surface. In a preferred embodiment, temperature profiles are
    designed to minimize blood flow during cooling. Feedback mechanisms comprising,
    for example, thermocouples, ultrasound (e.g., to detect phase changes of the
    subcutaneous adipose tissue) or shock wave propagation (e.g., propagation of a shock
10  wave is altered if a phase transition occurs) can be employed to achieve optimal
    temperature gradients.
              Substantial cooling of the subcutaneous adipose layer, for example to a target
    temperature between about -5*C and 15*C, by cooling at the skin surface has several
     requirements. Heat extracted from the skin surface establishes a temperature gradient
15   within the skin, which in turn cools first the epidermis, dermis, and finally subcutaneous
     adipose layers. Dermal blood flow brings heat from the body core to the dermis.
     Dermal blood flow can therefore severely limit cooling of the deep dermis and
     subcutaneous adipose. Therefore, it is strongly preferred to temporarily limit or
     eliminate cutaneous blood flow, for example by locally applying a pressure to the skin
20   greater than the systolic blood pressure, while cooling as a treatment to achieve
     reduction in subcutaneous adipose. A general requirement is that the time of cooling at
     the skin surface must be long enough to allow heat to flow from the dermis and
     subcutaneous adipose layers in order to achieve the desired temperature for treatment of
     the same. When the subcutaneous adipose is cooled to a temperature below that for
25    crystallization of its lipids, the latent heat of freezing for these lipids must also be
      removed, by diffusion. The skin surface cooling temperature and cooling time can be
      adjusted to control depth of treatment, for example the anatomical depth to which
      subcutaneous adipose is affected. Heat diffusion is a passive process, and the body core
      temperature is nearly always close to 37*C. Therefore, another general requirement is
 30   that the skin surface temperature during cooling, must be lower than the desired target

                                                  14
   (e.g., adipocytes) temperature for treatment of the region, for at least part of the time
   during which cooling is performed.
            When cooling a diameter of skin greater than about 2 cm, and with no blood
   flow, one-dimensional heat diffusion offers a good approximation for estimating
 5 temperature profiles in skin over time during cooling. Heat diffusion is governed by the
   general diffusion equation, ST/St =     622T/Sz 2, where T (z,t) is the temperature in skin as
   a function of depth z and time t, and x is the thermal diffusivity, which is approximately
   1.3 x 10 3 cm 2s-1 for skin tissue. Solutions and approximate solutions to the heat
   diffusion equation have been made for planar geometry of a semi-infinite slab,
10 approximating the situation for skin. When the surface of the skin (z = 0) is held at a
   given lower temperature, a useful approximation is that heat flow from a depth z
   requires a time of approximately t ~ 2 to achieve a temperature difference 2of the
   initial difference, where t is in seconds and z is in millimeters. Thus, z2 can be
   considered an approximate value for a thermal time constant. For example, if the initial
15 skin temperature is 30 C, and ice at 0 C is placed firmly against the skin surface, it
   requires about 1 second for the temperature at a depth of 1 millimeter, to reach about 15
   C. The subcutaneous fat layer typically begins at about z ~ 3 mm, and extends for
   millimeters up to many centimeters thick. The thermal time constant for heat transfer
   from the top of the subcutaneous adipose layer, is therefore about 10 seconds. To
20 achieve substantial cooling of subcutaneous adipose, at least several and preferably
   greater than 10 thermal time constants of cooling time are required. Therefore, cooling
   must be maintained for about 30-100 seconds at the skin surface, and in the absence of
   dermal blood flow, for the temperature of the topmost portion of subcutaneous adipose
   to approach that of the cooled skin surface. The latent heat of crystallization for lipids,
25 mentioned above, must also be removed when the fat temperature drops below that for
    crystallization. Therefore in general, cooling times over 1 minute are desired, and
    cooling times greater than about 1 minute can be used to adjust the depth of adipocytes
    affected, for times up to more than an hour.
            Accordingly, in yet another embodiment, the dermis is cooled at a rate sufficient
30 to induce vasoconstriction. Blood circulation within the dermis stabilizes the

                                                  15
   temperature of the dermis close to body temperature. In order to cool subcutaneous
   adipose tissue to temperatures below body temperature, blood flow can be minimized.
   Fast cooling of the epidermal surface can achieve reflectory vasoconstriction that limits
   blood circulation in an appropriate way.
 5         In yet another embodiment, a vasoconstrictive drug is administered to induce
   vasoconstriction. Vasoconstrictive drugs, for example, can be topically applied at the
   point of contact either before, after or during application of the cooling agent. Where
   necessary, systemic administration of the vasoconstrictive drug can be provided through
   conventional methods, such as injection or oral administration. The vasoconstrictive
10 drug can be any known in the art. Preferably, the vasoconstrictive drug is EMLA cream
   or epinephrine.
           In yet another embodiment, pressure is applied to a surface, either at the point of
   contact with the cooling agent or in proximity thereto, such that lateral blood flow is
   limited. Pressure can be applied, for example, to a skin surface by compressing the skin
15 surface into a skin fold comprising single or multiple folds. Pressure can also be by
   applying a vaccum either at the point of contact with the cooling agent or in proximity
   thereto.
            Without being bound by theory, it is believed that the rate of formation of
   crystals in lipid-rich cells can be altered by the application of pressure during the
20 cooling process. Sudden crystalization, rather than a slow accumulation of crystals,
   would cause greater damage to the lipid-rich cells. It is also believed that the
   application of pressure can force the movement of the crystals within the lipid-rich
   cells, enhancing the damage to the bilayer membrane. Furthermore, different
   compartments of the subcutaneous adipose tissue have different viscosities. In general,
25 the viscositiy is enhanced at colder tempertures (e.g., those particulary close to the point
   of phase change). Because the phase change for lipid-rich cells occurs at higher
   temperatures than non lipid-rich cells, non-uniform tension lines form within the
   subcutaneous adipose tissue upon the application of pressure. It is believed that
   pronounced damage occurs within these tension lines.
30   -      In yet another aspect, the temperature of the dermis and/or epidermis oscillates
   between 35"C and -15*C. More preferably, the temperature of the dermis and/or

                                                  16
   epidermis oscillates between -1 0*C and 10*C. Even more preferably, the temperature
   of the dermis and/or epidermis oscillates between -8*C and 8*C. Oscillating
   temperatures at the skin surface can provide intermittent warming to counteract
   potential side effects of the cooling process (e.g., crystal formation in the dermal or
 5 epidermal cells).
           In yet another aspect, application of the cooling agent is coupled with the
   application of electric or acoustic fields, either constant or oscillating in time, localized
   in the dermis and/or epidermis to reduce or eliminate crystal formation therein.
           Figure 1A illustrates a treatment system 100 for cooling a target area in
10 accordance with an embodiment of the invention. As shown in Figure 1A, treatment
   system 100 may include a control unit 105 and a treatment unit 107, which may include
   a cooling/heating element 110 and a treatment interface 115.
           Control unit 105 may include a power supply, for example, control unit may be
   coupled to a power source, for supplying power to treatment unit 107. Control unit 105
15 can also include a computing device having control hardware and/or software for
   controlling, based on inputted properties and/or parameters, cooling/heating element
    110 and treatment interface 115. Treatment interface 115 can include a detector 120.
           Figure 1B is a diagram illustrating a configuration of control unit 105 in
   accordance with an embodiment of the invention. As shown in Figure 1B, control unit
20  105 can comprise a computing device 125, which can be a general purpose computer
   (such as a PC), workstation, mainframe computer system, and so forth. Computing
   device 125 can include a processor device (or central processing unit "CPU") 130, a
   memory device 135, a storage device 140, a user interface 145, a system bus 150, and a
    communication interface 155. CPU 130 can be any type of processing device for
25  carrying out instructions, processing data, and so forth. Memory device 135 can be any
   type of memory device including any one or more of random access memory ("RAM"),
   read-only memory ("ROM"), Flash memory, Electrically Erasable Programmable Read
    Only Memory ("EEPROM"), and so forth. Storage device 140 can be any data storage
    device for reading/writing from/to any removable and/or integrated optical, magnetic,
30  and/or optical-magneto storage medium, and the like (e.g., a hard disk, a compact disc-

                                                17
   read-only memory "CD-ROM", CD-ReWritable "CD-RW", Digital Versatile Disc
   ROM "DVD-ROM", DVD-RW, and so forth). Storage device 140 can also include a
   controller/interface (not shown) for connecting to system bus 150. Thus, memory
   device 135 and storage device 140 are suitable for storing data as well as instructions
 5 for programmed processes for execution on CPU 130. User interface 145 may include a
   touch screen, control panel, keyboard, keypad, display or any other type of interface,
   which can be connected to system bus 150 through a corresponding input/output device
   interface/adapter (not shown), Communication interface 155 may be adapted to
   communicate with any type of external device, including treatment unit 107.
10 Communication interface 155 may further be adapted to communicate with any system
   or network (not shown), such as one or more computing devices on a local area network
   ("LAN"), wide area network ("WAN"), the internet, and so forth. Interface 155 may be
   connected directly to system bus 150, or can be connected through a suitable interface
    (not shown). Control unit 105 can, thus, provide for executing processes, by itself
15  and/or in cooperation with one or more additional devices, that may include algorithms
   for controlling treatment unit 107 in accordance with the present invention. Control
    unit 105 may be programmed or instructed to perform these processes according to any
    communication protocol, programming language on any platform. Thus, the processes
   may be embodied in data as well as instructions stored in memory device 135 and/or
20  storage device 140 or received at interface 155 and/or user interface 145 for execution
    on CPU 130.
            Referring back to Figure 1A, treatment unit 107 may be a handheld device, an
    automated apparatus, and the like. Cooling/heating element 110 can include any type of
    cooling/heating component, such as a thermoelectric cooler and the like.
25          Figure 1 C is a diagram showing cooling/heating element 110 in accordance with
    an embodiment with the present invention. As shown in Figure 1C, cooling/heating
    element 110 can include a network of passages where a cooling/heating fluid flows
   through. The passages may be formed by any heat conducting tubing and the like. The
    cooling/heating fluid can be directed into element 110 through an input 175 and
30  expelled through an output 180. The cooling/heating fluid may be any fluid having a
    controlled temperature, such as cooled air/gas or liquid. For example, a saltwater or

                                                   18
   acetone bath that is cooled using ice or frozen carbon dioxide may be used as a source
   of cooled liquid pumped through element 110. A circulating system may, thus, be
   formed where fluid expelled at output 180 is re-cooled at the fluid source and re
   directed into input 175. The temperature of the fluid source and/or element 110, which
 5 may include the rate at which cooling fluid is pumped through element 110, can be
   monitored and controlled by control unit 105. Thus, the temperature of cooling/heating
   element 110 can be controlled or programmed using control unit 105. As further shown
   in Figure 1C, there can.be a temperature difference, AT, between regions of element
    110. For example, heat from the target tissue may be transferred to the cooling fluid
10 during treatment causing fluid near output 180 to have a higher temperature than the
   cooling fluid near input 175. Such AT may be reduced by reducing the size of element
    110. In accordance with an-embodiment of the invention, the configuration of the
   passages in element 110 and the corresponding application of element 110 to target
   tissue can account for any difference in temperature needed for treating various tissue
15 targets. For example, the region of element 110 near exit 180 can be applied to
   treatment areas requiring a higher treatment temperature, and so forth. The passages of
    element 110 can, thus, be configured in accordance with the size, shape, formation, and
    so forth, of target tissue that require the various treatment temperatures.
    Cooling/heating fluid can also be pumped through element 110 in a pulsing manner.
20          Referring back to Figure 1A, treatment interface 115 can be any type of
    interface between cooling/heating element 110 and the epidermis 160 for effecting
   treatment onto the epidermis 160, dermis 165 and fat cells 170. For example, treatment
   interface 115 may include a cooling (conductive) plate, a cooling fluid-filled vessel, a
    free-forming membrane (for a complementary interface with an uneven epidermis), a
25  convex cooling element (for example, as shown in Figure 3), and the like. Preferably,
   treatment interface 115 comprises a heat conducting material that complements the
    epidermis 160 for maximum heat transfer between cooling/heating element 110 and the
    epidermis 160, dermis 165 and/or fat cells 170. For example, treatment interface 115
    can be a fluid-filled vessel or a membrane so that the change in pressure from cooling
30  element 110 caused by a pulsing flow of cooling fluid may be transferred to the target
    tissue. Furthermore, treatment interface 115 may simply be a chamber where

                                                  19
   cooling/heating fluid may be applied directly to the target tissue (epidermis 160, dermis
   and fat cells 170), for example by using a spraying device and the like.
             Detector 120 can be a temperature monitor, for example, a thermocouple, a
   thermistor, and the like. Detector 120 may include any thermocouple type, including
 5 Types T, E, J, K, G, C, D, R, S, B, for monitoring tissue cooling. Detector 120 may
   also include a thermistor, which can comprise thermally-sensitive resistors whose
   resistances change with a change in temperature. The use of thermistors may be
   particularly advantageous because of their sensitivity. In accordance with an
    embodiment of the invention, a thermistor with a large negative temperature coefficient
10  of resistance ("NTC") can be used. Preferably, a thermistor used for detector 120 may
    have a working temperature range inclusive of about -1 5*C to 40*C. Furthermore,
    detector 120 can include a thermistor with active elements of polymers or ceramics. A
    ceramic thermistor may be most preferable as these can have the most reproducible
    temperature measurements. A thermistor used for detector 120 can be encapsulated in a
15  protective material such as glass. Of course, various other temperature-monitoring
    devices can also be used as dictated by the size, geometry, and temperature resolution
    desired. Detector 120 can also comprise an electrode which can be used to measure the
    electrical resistance of the skin surface area. Ice formation within superficial skin
    structures like the epidermis or dermis causes an increased electrical resistance. This
20  effect can be used to monitor ice formation within the dermis. Detector 120 can further
    consist of a combination of several measurement methods.
             Detector 120 can, thus, extract, inter alia, temperature information from the
    epidermis 160, dermis 165 and/or fat cells 170 as feedback to control unit 105. The
    detected temperature information can be analyzed by control unit 105 based on inputted
25  properties and/or parameters. For example, the temperature of fat cells 170 may be
     determined by calculation based on the temperature of the epidermis 160 detected by
     detector 120. Thus, treatment system 100 may non-invasively measure the temperature
     of fat cells 170. This information may then be used by control unit 105 for continuous
     feedback control of treatment unit 107, for example, by adjusting the
30   energy/temperature of cooling/heating'element 110 and treatment interface 115, thus
     maintaining optimal treatment temperature of target fat cells 170 while leaving

                                                 20
   surrounding epidermis 160 and dermis 165 intact. As described above, the
   cooling/heating element 110 can provide adjustable temperatures in the range of about
   10*C up to 42*C. An automated temperature measurement and control sequence can be
   repeated to maintain such temperature ranges until a procedure is complete.
 5         It is noted that adipose tissue reduction by cooling lipid-rich cells may be even
   more effective when tissue cooling is accompanied by physical manipulation, for
   example, massaging, of the target tissue. In accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention, treatment unit 107 can include a tissue massaging device, such as a
   vibrating device and the like. Alternative a piezoelectric transducer can be used within
10 treatment unit 107 -1order to provide mechanical oscillation or movement of the cooling
   /heating element 107 (or better treatment unit?). Detector 120 can include feedback
   devices for detecting changes in skin viscosity to monitor the effectiveness of treatment
   and/or to prevent any damage to surrounding tissue. For example, a vibration detecting
   device can be used to detect any change in the resonant frequency of the target tissue (or
15 surrounding tissue), which can indicate a change in tissue viscosity, being mechanically
   moved or vibrated by a vibrating device contained in treatment unit 107.
           To further ensure that the epidermis 160 and/or the dermis 165 is not damaged
   by cooling treatment, an optical detector/feedback device can be used to monitor the
   change of optical properties of the epidermis (enhanced scattering if ice formations
20 occur); an electrical feedback device can be used to monitor the change of electric
   impedance of the epidermis caused by ice formation in the epidermis; and/or an
   ultrasound feedback device may be used for monitoring ice formation (actually to
   avoid) in the skin. Any such device may include signaling control unit 105 to stop or
   adjust treatment to prevent skin damage.
25         In accordance with an embodiment of the invention, treatment system 100 may
   include a number of configurations and instruments. Algorithms that are designed for
   different types of procedures, configurations and/or instruments may be included for
   control unit 105.
           As shown in Figure 1D, treatment system 100 may include a probe controller
30  175 and a probe 180 for minimal invasive temperature measurement of fat cells 170.
   Advantageously, probe 180 may be capable of measuring a more accurate temperature

                                                 21
   of fat cells 170, thereby improving the control of treatment unit 107 and the
   effectiveness of treatment.
            It is noted that treatment system 100 may be controlled remotely. For example,
   the link between control unit 105 and treatment unit 107 may be a remote link (wired or
 5 wireless) providing control unit 105 remote control over cooling/heating element 110,
   treatment interface 115, probe controller 175, and probe 180.
            While the above exemplary treatment system 100 is illustrative of the basic
   components of a system suitable for use with the present invention, the architecture
   shown should not be considered limiting since many variations of the hardware
10 configuration are possible without departing from the present invention.
            Figure 2A illustrates a treatment system 200 for cooling fat cells 170 by folding
   the target tissue in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. As shown in
   Figure 2A, treatment system 200 may include corresponding control units 105 and
   treatment units 107 on two sides coupled to a compression unit 205. Compression unit
15 205 may be adapted to pull treatment units 107 together, thereby folding (or "pinching")
   target tissue (epidermis 160, dermis 165 and fat cells 170) up between treatment units
    107. The treatment interface 115 of the respective treatment units 107 on either side of
   the target tissue may thus cool fat cells 170 from multiple sides with greater
   effectiveness, as described above. Detectors 120 can be included to measure and
20 monitor the temperature of the target tissue. As shown in Figure 2A, control units 105
   may be connected to form an integrated system. In accordance with an embodiment of
   the present invention, the various components of system 200 may be controlled using
   any number of control unit(s).
            As described before, physical manipulation of target tissue may improve the
25 effectiveness of cooling treatment. In accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention, compression unit 205 may vary the force with which treatment units 107 are
   pulled together around the target tissue (epidermis 160, dermis 165 and fat cells 170).
   For example, compression unit 205 can apply a pulsing force for alternately tightening
   and loosening the fold (or "pinch") of the target tissue. Resistance to the tightening can
30 further be monitored for detecting any changes in the characteristics (for example, the

                                                   22
   viscosity) of the target tissue, and thus ensuring the effectiveness and safety of the
   treatment.
            Figure 2B illustrates system 200 with a probe 180 similar to that of system 100
   shown in Figure 1C for minimal invasive temperature measurement of fat cells 170. As
 5 described above, probe 180 may be capable of measuring a more accurate temperature
   of fat cells 170, thereby improving the control of treatment unit 107 and the
   effectiveness of treatment.
            Figures 3A and 3B are diagrams showing a treatment system 300 in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in Figure 3A, system 300 may
10  include a suction unit 305, and treatment unit 107 may include treatment interface 115
    having a curved surface, which for example forms a dome, for forming and containing a
    chamber 310 above the epidermis 160. As shown in Figure 3B, suction unit 305 may be
    activated to draw the air from chamber 310 such that target tissue (epidermis 160,
    dermis 165 and fat cells 170) is pulled up into contact with treatment interface 115.
15  Advantageously, treatment interface 115 may surround target fat cells 170 for more
    effective cooling. Treatment interface 115 can consist of a solid stiff or flexible
    material, which is in contact with the skin or a thermal coupling agent between the skin
    surface and the treatment unit. The surface of the interface 115 can also have multiple
    openings connected to suction unit 305. The skin is partially entered into these muliple
20   openings, which can increase the total surface area of the epidermis 160 in thermal
     contact to the treatment interface (e.g., stretching of the skin). Stretching of the skin
     decreases the thickness of the epidermis and dermis, facilitating cooling of the fat 170.
     A number of detector(s) 120 and/or probe(s) 180 can be included in treatment system
     300 for monitoring tissue temperature during treatment, as described above with
25   reference to Figures 1A, 1C, 2A and 2B, detailed description of which will not be
     repeated here.
             Figure 4 illustrates a treatment system 400 in accordance with an embodiment of
     the invention. As shown in Figure 4, suction unit 305 can be connected to a ring
     opening around treatment interface 115 so that, when activated, a suction seal 410 is
30   formed with the epidermis 160 around treatment interface 115. As a result, treatment
     can be effected at treatment interface 115 to an isolated target tissue area.

                                                23
   Advantageously, the subject or body part may be immersed in a warming bath and the
   treatment at interface 115 can be unaffected. Consequently, treatment area can be
   increased while a surrounding warming environment can prevent general hypothermia.
            Figures 5A and 5B are diagrams showing a treatment system 500 in accordance
 5 with an embodiment of the present invention. As shown in Figures 5A and 5B,
   treatment system 500 may form a band (or cylinder) around a target tissue mass 515.
   Treatment system 500 may comprise any flexible or rigid material. Cooling/heating
   fluid can be pumped through treatment system 500 via input 175 and output 180, as
   shown in Figure 5B. Cooling/heating element 110 can be formed by an internal vessel
10 or a network of passages, such as tubing and the like. Heat transfer with target tissue
   mass 515 can be effected via treatment interface 115, which can include any heat
   conducting material. Treatment system 500 can further include a fastening mechanism
    510, such as a hook and loop fastener and the like, for fastening and wrapping around
   tissue mass 515. Furthermore, treatment interface 115 can include a flexible material
15 such that the pressure of cooling fluid pumped through treatment system 500 can be
   transferred to the target tissue 515. For example, with reference to Figure 5A, treatment
   system 500 can apply inward pressure to target tissue mass 515. Target tissue mass 515
   can be any section, body part or extremity of a subject. For example, target tissue mass
    515 can be an arm, the upper or lower leg, the waist, and so forth, of a subject. The
20 pressure and flow of the cooling fluid in system 500 can be controlled by control unit
    105 to an optimal treatment temperature and/or pressure. A tight fit around tissue mass
    515 and increased inward pressure can also allow for the subject to be immersed in a
   'warming bath. As described before, fluid flow can be a pulsing flow.
            The present invention is additionally described by way of the following
25 illustrative, non-limiting Examples, that provide a better understanding of the present
   invention and of its many advantages

                                                 24
   EXAMPLES
                                            Example 1
                Selective Damage to Fatty Tissue by Controlled Cooling In Vivo
           Methods of the present invention were carried out on a white, 6 months old,
 5 female, Hanford miniature pig ("Pig I") and a black, 6 months old, female Yucatan
   Miniature Pig ("Pig II"). The pigs were anesthetized using Telazol/Xylazine (4.4 mg/kg
   im + 2.2 mg/kg im). Inhalant anesthetics (Halothane or Isoflurane (1.5-3.0%) with
   Oxygen (3,0 L/min) was delivered by mask and filtered with an F-Air canister only if
   the injectable anesthetics did not provide enough somatic analgesia. Several test sites
10 were be marked with micro tattoos by applying India Ink to the corners of each test
    sites. After mapping of the test sites cold exposures were performed using a cooling
    device as described in Figure 1A. The area of the treatment interface was a flat area of
   the size of 2 x 4 cm 2 with a built-in temperature sensor. The interface was in thermal
    contact with a thermoelectric chiller, which was electronically regulated by a control
15  unit such that the temperature at the surface of the interface was kept constant to a pre
    set temperature. During the cold exposure the cooling device was applied to the skin
    with minor to moderate pressure that did not cause significant mechanical compression
    of blood flow. The cooling element was applied to the skin without any manipulation
    of the surface profile.
20          Various combinations of pre-set cooling interface temperatures and exposure
    times were tested. For some sites a thermo-conductive lotion was applied between the
    skin and the cooling interface. This thermoconductive lotion consisted mainly of
    glycerol. Pig I was observed for 61 days until excision biopsies from all test sites were
    procured and the pig was sacrified. From test Site C there was an additional punch
25  biopsy procured at day 2.
            The biopsies were processed for routine light microscopy and stained with
    Hematoxylin & Eosin. The indicated temperature is that of the applied cooling element.
    Table 1 depicts the parameters of the cooling application and the results obtained at
    various sites in Pig I:

                                25
                              Table 1
  Site  Temperature   Time    Lotion                 Results
A      -6 0C        1 minute    +     At 61 days:
                                      No epidermal damage.
                                      No dermal damage.
                                      No obvious indentation.
                                      No obvious histological alterations.
       -6 0 C       1 minute     -    At 61 days:
B                                     No epidermal damage.
                                      No dermal damage.
                                      No obvious indentation.
                                      No obvious histological alterations.
       -6 0C        5 minutes   +     At 61 days:
C                                     No epidermal damage.
                                      No dermal damage.
                                      Indentation due to loss of
                                      subcutaneous adipose tissue (1
                                      week to 61 days).
                                      Decreased average size of
                                      adipocytes at a depth of between
                                      about 3-6 mm.
                                      Obvious histological damage to the
                                      adipose tissue.
                                      At 2 days:
                                      Tissue inflammation and
                                      panniculitis .
        -3.5 "C     5 minutes    +    At 61 days:
D                                     No epidermal damage.
                                      No dermal damage.
                                      No obvious indentation.
                                      Borderline histological damage to
                                      the adipose tissue.
                                       Decreased average size of
                                       adipocytes.
E       Control                       Normal- no changes within the
                                       epidermis, dermis and subcutaneous
                                       adipose tissue.

                                                26
          Pig II was observed for 50 days until excision biopsies from all test sites were
  procured and the pig was sacrificed. From test Site E an additional biopsy was procured
  at day 17. The biopsies were processed for routine light microscopy and stained with
  Henatoxylin & Eosin as described above. The indicated temperature is that of the
5 applied cooling element. Table 2 depicts the parameters of the cooling application and
  the results obtained at various sites in Pig II:

                                 27
                               Table 2
  Site  Temperature    Time    Lotion                    Results
C      -6 0C        5 minutes          At 50 days:
                                       Pronounced indentation (2-3 mm) due to
                                       loss of subcutaneous adipose tissue.
                                       No epidermal damage.
                                       No dermal damage.
                                       No pigmentary changes, however,
                                       decreased size of adipocytes and
                                       histological damage to adipose tissue.
D      -8OC         5 minutes          At 50 days:
                                       Pronounced indentation (2-3 mm) due to
                                       loss of subcutaneous adipose tissue.
                                       No epidermal damage.
                                       No dermal damage.
                                       No pigmentary changes, however, there
                                       was damage to the adipocytes to a depth.
                                        of about 6 mm.
                                       Decreased size of adipocytes and
                                        histological damage to adipose tissue.
E       -9 OC       5 minutes           At 50 days:
                                        Pronounced indentation (2-3 mm) due to
                                        loss of subcutaneous adipose tissue.
                                        No epidermal damage.
                                        No dermal damage.
                                        No pigmentary changes, however, there
                                        was damage to the adipose cells to a
                                        depth of about 6 mm.
                                        Decreased size of adipocytes and
                                        histological damage to adipose tissue.
                                        At 17 days:
                                         Signs of panniculitis.
F       -22 0C       5 minutes     -    At 50 days:
                                         Pronounced epidermal damage with
                                        pronounced hypopigmentation.
                                         Scar formation with dermal contraction
                                         and complete ablation of the
                                         subcutaneous adipose tissue.

                                                 28
            Figure 6 depicts an image of the skin surface of test Sites D, E and F of Pig II,
   17 days after exposure. An indentation that matches the site of the cold exposure can be
   seen at 1, which mathches test Site D and 2, which matches test Site E. No abnormal
   epidermal changes can be seen at these test sites. At 3, which matches the test Site F,
 5 where aggressive cooling methods were applied, damage to the epidermis is pronounced
   (e.g., loss of pigmentation and a central crust formation).
            Figure 7 depicts histology of test Site E (Pig IT), 17 days after cold exposure at
   9 0C for 5 minutes, in samples taken from an area below the site of cold exposure.
   Figure 7A depicts a low power magnification (1,25x) and Figure 7B depicts a close up
10 with medium power maginification (5x) of the same specimen. The epidermis 701,
   dermis 702, subcutaneous adipose 703 and muscle layer 704 are shown. The histology
   reveals signs of lobular and septal panniculits within subcutaneous adipose 703, which
   is an inflammation of the adipose tissue. The average size of fat cells is decreased
   compared to the sample from the unexposed area. No evidence of tissue alterations is
15  seen in the epidermis, dermis or muscle layer.
            A decrease in subcutaneous adipose tissue was demonstrated by clinical
    observation of indentation within the skin surface at the precise site of cooling, as well
    as by histology (Hematoxylin & Eosin staining). Figure 8A, B, C, D, E, and F depicts
    histology 50 days after exposure with low power maginification of 2.5x (Figures 8A,
20  8C and 8E) and medium power maginification of 5x (Figures 8B, 8D and 8F) of test
    Site C (Figures 8A and 8B), test Site E (Figures 8C and 8D) and test Site F (Figures 8E
    and 8F). The epidermis 801 and dermis 802 is not damaged in test Sites C and E while
    the more aggressive cooling regime applied to test Site F resulted in damage to the
    epidermis and dermis (e.g., scar formation and inflammation can be seen). The
25  subcutaneous adipose 803 shows a decrease of adipocyte size and structural changes
    (e.g., apparent condensation of the fat cell layer with fibrous septae is included in the
    condensated fat layer). As a result of the aggressive cooling regime applied to test Site
    F, almost the entire layer was removed, leaving only some residual fat cell clusters.
    Thus, where an aggressive cooling regime is applied (test Site F) non- selective and
30  pronounced damage is observed in the epidermis and dermis.

                                                29
            Taken together, the results demonstrate that selective disruption of subcutaneous
   adipose tissue is achieved using cooling methods of the present invention without
   causing damage to the epidermis and dermis.
            Measurement of temperature during skin surface cooling at -7 0C applied with
 5 pressure sufficient to stop skin blood flow, was performed to illustrate the time- and
   depth- dependence of cooling, in a live pig. Thermocouples inserted at depths of 0, 2,
   4, and 8 millimeters were used to record temperature. Although the conditions of this
   experiment were not ideal (the skin cooler did not maintain strictly -7 0C at the surface),
   it is clear that cooling of the dermis (2 mm) and fat (4 mm, 8 mm) occurred generally as
10 expected (see for example, Figure 10).
                                             Example 2
                   Temperature profile Measurements at Various Tissue Depths
            This study was performed using a 6-months old female black, hairless Yucatan
   Minipig (Sinclair Research Center, Columbia, MO). The pig will was anesthetized
15 using Telazol/Xylazine (4.4 mg/kg im + 2.2 mg/kg im). Inhalant anesthetic (Halothane
   or Isoflurane (1.5-3.0%) with Oxygen (3.0 L/min) was delivered by mask and filtered
   with an F-Air canister only if the injectable anesthetic did not provide enough somatic
    analgesia. The test sites were marked with micro tattoos by applying India Ink to the
    corners of each test site and inserting hypodermic needles into such test site corners.
20 The cold exposure was performed with a convex round copper plate attached to a heat
    exchanger, which was chilled by a circulating cooling agent tempered to -7*C. The
    exposure time ranged between 600 to 1200s. Table 3 depicts the parameters of the
    cooling application and the results obtained at various sites in Pig III. The cold plate
    had three central openings of approximately 1mm in diameter through which
25  thermocouples were placed to monitor the temperature profile at different depth of the
    tissue during cold exposure. The cold exposure device, shown in Figure 9, was firmly
    held to the test site during cold exposure. Cold exposures were performed on two
    different experimental days, one week apart. On the first experimental day the
    thermocouples were occasionally displaced during the cold exposure leading to a
30   0.5mm variability of the thermocouple depth measurement. An additional set of
     exposures with thermocouples were performed on the second experimental day at well-

                                                30
   defined depths with minimal to no variability in the depth of the thermocouples. The
   location of the thermocouples on the first experimental day for test Sites 1,2,3,7,11
   and12 was at 2.5,4.5 and 10 mm depth (+/- 0.5mm). Test Sites 14,15,16 andl8 were
   treated on the second experimental day at a thermocouple depth of 2, 4 and 8 mm, with
 5 minimal to no displacement. A certain variability of the thermocouple depth may still
   be present due to tissue compression during the cold exposure exposure. A glycol
   containing solution was used to ensure good thermal contact at the skin surface. The
   pig was observed for 3 %2 months after treatment, until sacrificed and the tissue of the
   test sites harvested for analysis. Table 3 depicts the parameters of the cooling
10 application and the results obtained at various sites in Pig III:

                                               31
                                             Table 3
Site Temperature Exposure  Location  Tempma @     Tempm.i @  Tempmai @ Indentation    Relative
                     time               depth         depth     depth                decrease of
       (coolant                                                        3 m months    superficial
        agent)                                                                       fat layer @
                                                                                     3 % months
                                                                                         66%
1        -7 "C   5 minutes   Flank  0"C@2,5mm      7*C@5mm  24*C@10mm       +
2        -7 "C   5 minutes   Flank   -2"C@2.5mm        N/A  21*C@10mm       +
3       Control              Flank                                                        9%
7        -7 "C   10        Abdomen        -        7"C@5mm  19"C@10mm       +
                 minutes            3*C@2.5mm
9       Control            Abdomen
11       -7 "C   10         Buttock      N/A           N/A  12"C@10mm      ++      -     79%
                 minutes
12       -7 0C    10        Buttock        -           N/A  13"C@10mm       +            57%
                 minutes            4"C@2.5mm
 13      -7 OC    10        Buttock  -4*C@2mm          N/A   70C@10mm       +
                 minutes
 14      -7 "C   21         Buttock  -4"C@2mm      3"C@4mm    120C@8mm      +
                 minutes
 15       -7 "C   11        Buttock  4"C@2mm        1"C@4mm   12"C@8mm      +
                  minutes
 16       -7 "C   10        Buttock  -4C@2mm        0"C@4mm   14"C@8mm      ++
                  minutes
 18       -7 "C   15         Flank   -3 0C@2mm         N/A    l5"C@8mm      +             66%
                  minutes

                                                  32
                                                                                          0
             The test sites were exposed to the device, set to a coolant temperature of -7 C
   and exposed for 600 to 1200s. The dermis hardened immediately after the cold
   exposure, as determined by palpation, and became viscose as it returned to its normal
   temperature, approximately a minute after exposure. There was no epidermal damage
 5 or alteration evident by close-up examination with polarized magnifier lens minutes
   after exposure. There was no blister formation and Nikolsky-sign was negative. During
   the entire survival period there was no gross damage to the epidermis. No crusting,
   blister or pronounced pigmentary changes were observed. Some test sites exhibits a
   minor increase in epidermal pigmentation. This mild hyperpigmentation could be
10 removed after few months by gentle rubbing of the epidermis.
             The temperature measurements of the thermocouples depended on depth, body
    location, and the pressure with which cooling was applied. The temperature plots at
    different tissue depths during the cold exposure are shown in Figures 10 A-J for various
    test sites and are also summarized in Table 3. For some test sites, temperature
15  oscillations that might be related to a nearby blood vessel was observed. Some
    temperature plots were not considered due to movements or misplacement of the
    thermocouple (labeled 'error' in table 3). The temperature within the deep dermis or
    superficial fat layer is within the range of -2*C to -4*C. The temperature within 4-5
    mm depth is within the range of about 0*C to 7*C depending on variations in contact
20  pressure and anatomical area. This location demonstrated a high variability of the
    different temperature plots. The temperature within 8-10 mm depth, which corresponds
    to a depth within the subcutaneous fat layer had a temperature in the range of 7-24*C.
             Histology of a control (Site 9) and cold exposed site (Site 8) (-7*C, 600s) was
    procured 6 days post exposure and analyzed by a dermatopatholo gist. The following
25  was described at the control and the cold exposed site:
             The epidermis of both samples is normal and exhibits basket-woven stratum
     corneum with normal thickness, normal rete ridges as compared to the control.
     Within the cold exposed site there is a mild perivascular, lymphocytic infiltrate present.
     However no frank signs of vasculitis present in both samples.

                                                  33
            The subcutaneous fat of the control exhibit the normal morphology. The
   subcutaneous fat of the cold exposed site exhibits clear signs of lobular and septal
   panniculitis. Most of the adipocytes are surrounded by lymphocytic infiltrate with
   occational lipid containing macrophages. The thickness of the subcutaneous septae is
 5 increased. Mild vascular changes however no frank signs of vasculitis. Three and one
   half months after the cold exposure the pig was sacrificed and tissue at the exposure
   sites was harvested by full thickness excision, after 20 MHz ultrasound imaging was
   performed through selected test sites. The in-vivo ultrasound images clearly
   demonstrated loss of fatty tissue in the area of treatment by skin cooling vs. t1;e non
10 cold exposed surrounding tissue. An in-vivo ultrasound image 3 2 months after cold
   exposure is shown in Figure 11.
            The harvested tissue was cut macroscopically through the test sites and images
    were taken from the macroscopic tissue cross-sections. The macroscopic cross sections
    of Sites 1,3,11,12 and 18 are shown in Figure 13 A-E. A decrease of the thickness of the
15  subcutaneous fat layer was observed for all cold exposed sites vs. the non-cold exposed
    adjacent fat layer. The macroscopic cross sections matched well with the ultrasound
    images. Two different compartments within the subcutaneous fat could be identified, a
    superficial fat layer and a deep fat layer. Thickness of the superficial fat layer was
    dramatically reduced at sites of cold treatment, while the deep fat layer was not
20  significantly changed. The percentage of decrease of the superficial fat layer inside the
    test area vs. outside is listed for some test sites in Table 3. A change of the
    subcutaneous fat layer was observed for cold exposed Sites 1,11,12 and 18. The
    average decrease of thickness for the superficial fat layer within the evaluated test sites
    was 47%. For the unexposed control side, no significant decrease of thickness was
25  found in either fat layer.
             These examples confirm that it is possible in a pig model to achieve selective
    tissue damage of the subcutaneous adipose tissue by external cooling within a specific
    range of external cooling temperature and exposure time, without significant damage to
    the epidermis and dermis. Removal of subcutaneous fat was also demonstrated by an
30   obvious indentation at the treated skin surface, which matched exactly with the cooling
     exposure, and with the measurements of the fat layer in relation to the cold exposure

                                                  34
   site by ultrasound and macroscopic cross sections after sacrifice. Pronouced
   histological changes, which were selective to the subcutaneous adipose tissue were
   observed 6 days after cold exposure. Histologically a panniculitis with a decrease in fat
   cell size was observed. There was evidence that the response to the cold can vary for
 5 different sites and that the more superficial fat layer is more affected by tissue loss than
   the deeper fat layer. The results of Pig III however imply that there is enhanced fat
   removal at the superficial fat layer vs. the deeper layer. The explanation for this is a)
   the superficial fat layer is exposed to colder temperatures because of the gradient and/or
   b) the deeper fat layer in pigs may be less susceptible to selective cold damage.
10          Figure 9 depicts an image of the device for the cold exposure of Pig III. The
   cold copper plate 91 is brought in contact with the skin. The temperature profile within
   the skin during cold exposure is measured by thermocouples 92 inserted into the tissue
   in different depths. The device is spring loaded 93 to provide a pressure during the cold
   exposure.
15           Figures 10 depicts the temperature profile in various depths during the cold
    exposure of Pig III for different test Sites:1OA (Site 1), 1OB (Site 2), 1OC (Site 7), 1OD
    (Site 11), 10E (Site 12), 1OF (Site 13), 1OG (Site 14), 1OH (Site 15), 101 (Site 16) and
    10J (Site 18). The temperature in various depths is labeled with T3-E (surface), TO-B
    (2-2.5mm), Tl-C (4-5mm) and T2-D (8-10mm).
20           Figure 11 depicts an ultrasound image of test Site 11 taken 3    2 months after
    exposure. The section below 1105 is outside the cold exposed area the section below
    1106 is within the cold exposed area. The dermisl 102 can be clearly distinguished
    from the fat layer 1103 and the muscular layer 1104. Within the fat layer 1103 two
    distinct layers can be distinguished: the superficial fat layer 1103 a and the deep fat layer
25   11 03b. The ultrasound image matches well with the macroscopic cross section of the
    same tissue in Figure 13c.
             Figure 12 depicts histology of test Site 8 (Figure 12A and 12B) six days after
    cold exposure (-7"C, 600s) and test Site 9, which is an unexposed control (Figure 12C
    and 12D). The micro graphs show an image of low power magnification (1,25x) in
30  Figures 12A and 12C and a medium power magnification (5x) in Figure 12B and 12D.
    The images showing the epidermis 701, the dermis 702 and the subcutaneous fat 703.

                                                 35
   While the unexposed control exhibits normal tissue morphology, the cold-exposed
   tissue exhibits clear signs of panniculitis in the subcutaneous fat. Inflammatory cells
   have migrated into this area and the average fat cell size is decreased.
             Figures 13 A- E depict macroscopic sections through the center of different test
 5 Sites after the pig was sacrificed, 3 /2 months after cold exposure: 13A (Site 1), 13B
   (Site 3), Figure 13C (Site 11), Figure 13D (Site 12) and Figure 13E (Site 18). Each
   Figure exhibits a scale 1300, which has 1 cm units and 1mm subunits. The epidermis
    1301, the dermis 1302, the superficial fat layer 1303 and the deep fat layer 1304. For
   the unexposed control Figure 13B no change of thickness of different layers can be
10 seen. Figures 13A, 13C, 13D and 13E show the cross section of cold exposed areas,
   which is matched to the central 4-5 cm of tissue and non-cold exposed areas surround.
   A decrease of thickness within the superficial fat layer of the cold exposed areas vs. the
   non-cold exposed areas can be seen in all cold exposed samples. The change in % of
   thickness for each of the sample is listed in Table 3.
15           A number of embodiments of the invention have been described. Nevertheless,
    it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from
    the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, other embodiments are within the
    scope of the following claims.

                                              36
What is claimed is:
1.       A cooling method for selective disruption of lipid rich cells in a non-infant
human subject comprising:
         applying a cooling element proximal to the subject's skin to create a temperature
gradient within a local region sufficient to selectively disrupt and thereby reduce the
lipid rich cells of said region, and, concurrently therewith maintain the subject's skin at
a temperature wherein non lipid rich cells proximate to the cooling element are not
disrupted (define in spec).
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the lipid rich cells are adipocytes within
subcutaneous adipose tissue or cellulite.
 3.      The method of claim 1, wherein the cooling element contacts the subject's skin.
 4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
 less than or equal to about 370 C.
 5.       The method of claim 1, wherein the lipid rich cells are reduced in size.
 6.       The method of claim 1, wherein the lipid rich cells are reduced in number.
 7.       The method of claim 1, wherein the subject's skin comprises the epidemics,
 dermis or a combination thereof.
 8.       The method of claim 1, wherein the cooling element is applied to the subject's
 skin and includes a conductive cooling element.
 9.       The method of claim 8, wherein the cooling element is actively cooled.
  10.     The method of claim 9, wherein the cooling element includes a thermoelectric
  cooling element.
  11.     The method of claim 8, wherein the cooling element includes a cooling agent
  circulating through the cooling element.
  12.     The method of claim 1, wherein the cooling element includes a conductive
  cooling element.
  13.     The method of claim 12, wherein the conductive cooling element includes a
  circulating cooling agent that contacts the subject's skin.
  14.      The method of claim 1, wherein the cooling element includes an evaporative
  cooling element.

                                         37
15.    The method of claim 1, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an average
temperature between about -15 and 35*C.
16.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -15 and 30*C.
17.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -15 and 25*C.
18.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -15 and 20*C.
 19.   The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -15 and 15*C.
20.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -15 and 10*C.
21.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -15 and 5*C.
22.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 35*C.
23.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 30*C.
24.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 25*C.
25.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 20*C.
26.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 150 C.
27.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 10*C.
28.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 50 C.
29.    The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -5 and 200 C.

                                             38
 30.     The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
 average temperature between about -5 and 15*C.
 31.     The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
 average temperature between about -5 and 10*C.
 32.     The method of claim 15, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
 average temperature of between about -5 and 5*C.
 33.     The method of claim 1, wherein the temperature of the subject's skin is provided
 as feedback to ensure that the temperature therein is not cooled below a predetermined
 minimum temperature.
 34.     The method of claim 33, wherein the subject's skin comprises the epidermis,
 dermis or a combination thereof.
 35.     The method of claim 33, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
 about -100 C.
 36.     The method of claim 33, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
 about -5*C.
 37.     The method of claim 33, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
 about 0*C.
 38.    The method of claim 33, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
 about 5*C.
 39.    The method of claim 33, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
 about 10*C.
40.     The method of claim 33, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
about 15*C.
41.     The method of claim 33, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
about 20*C.
42.     The method of claim 33, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
about 30*C.
43.     The method of claim 33, wherein the feedback temperature is provided by a
temperature measuring mechanism located on or within the subject's skin.

                                             39
 44.      The method of claim 43, wherein the subject's skin comprises the epidermis,
 dermis or a combination thereof.
 45.      The method of claim 1, wherein the temperature of the subject's subcutaneous
 adipose tissue is provided as feedback to ensure that the temperature in the dermal
 tissue is not cooled below a predetermined minimum temperature.
 46.      The method of claim 33, wherein the feedback temperature is provided by a
 temperature measuring mechanism located on a cooling surface of the cooling element.
 47.      The method of claim 1, wherein in the cooling element has a skin contacting
 surface.
 48.     The method of claim 1, wherein in the cooling element has a flat surface.
 The method of claim 1, wherein in the cooling element has a contoured surface.
 49.     The method of claim 1, wherein the cooling element is applied to the subject's
 skin with a pressure that is approximately equal to or greater than the systolic blood
pressure in the subject's dermis so as to decrease the blood flow within the dermis.
 50.     The method of claim 1, wherein the cooling element is applied to the subject's
skin with a pressure that is approximately equal to or less than the systolic blood
pressure in the subject's dermis so as to decrease the blood flow within the dermis.
51.      The method of claim 1, wherein the cooling element is applied to the subject's
skin with pressure in an amount sufficient to decrease the blood flow within the dermis.
52.      The method of claim 1, wherein the cooling element is applied to a fold in the
subject's skin.
53.      The method of claim 52, wherein the fold in the subject's skin is pressured
between the cooling element and a second cooling element.
54.      The method of claim 1, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about -10 and 37 0 C.
55.      The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about -10 and 350 C.
56.     The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells'are cooled to a temperature
between about -10 and 30*C.

                                         40
57.    The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about -10 and 25*C.
58.    The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about -10 and 20 0 C.
59.    The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about -10 and 150 C.
60.    The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to- a temperature
between about -10 and 10*C.
61.    The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about -10 and 4 0 C.
62.    The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about -4 and 350 C.
 63.   The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about -4 and 300C.
 64.   The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
 between about -4 and 25 0 C.
 65.   The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
 between about -4 and 20 0 C.
 66.    The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
 between about -4 and 150C.
 67.    The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
 between about -4 and 10*C.
 68.    The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
 between about -4 and 40 C.
 69.    The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
 between about -2 and 350 C.
 70.    The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
 between about -2 and 300 C.
 71.    The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
 between about -2 and 25 0 C.

                                           41
72.     The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about -2 and 20*C.
73.     The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about -2 and 15*C.
74.     The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about -2 and 10*C.
75.     The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about -2 and 4*C.
76.     The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about 20 and 30*C.
77.      The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about 20 and 25*C.
78.      The method of claim 54, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a temperature
between about 25 and 30*C.
79.      The method of claim 1, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled for a time period
between about 10 seconds and 30 minutes.
 80.     The method of claim 1, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled for a time period
 between about 1 and 15 minutes.
 81.     The method of claim 80, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled for a time period
 between about 1 and 10 minutes.
 82.     The method of claim 80, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled for a time period
 between about 1 and 5 minutes.
 83.     The method of claim 1, wherein the disruption in lipid rich cells results from
 crystal formation therein.
 84.     The method of claim 83, further comprising obtaining feedback that crystals
 have formed in the lipid rich cells.
 85.     The method of claim 84, wherein the feedback that crystalsave formed is
 provided by at least one of the group consisting of ultrasound imaging, optical
 measurement, mechanical measurement and acoustical measurement.

                                              42
86.     The method of claim 85, wherein the mechanical measurement is of tensile
strength.
87.     The method of claim 84, wherein the feedback that crystals have formed is
provided by a temperature feedback mechanism disposed in lipid rich cells.
88.      The method of claim 1, wherein the disruption of lipid rich cells results from
metabolic changes therein.
89.      The method of claim 1, wherein a mechanical motion is provided to the lipid
rich cells prior to, simultaneous with, or following application of the cooling element.
90.      The method of claim 89, wherein the mechanical motion is provided by
vibration.
91.      The method of claim 89, wherein the mechanical motion comprises at least one
pulsation.
92.      The method of claim 89, wherein the mechanical motion is provided by
massage.
93.      The method of claim 1, further comprising applying a high-thermal-conductivity
material to the subject's skin before applying the cooling element thereto.
94.      The method of claim 1, wherein the method is applied to the subject a plurality
of times to achieve a desired reduction.
95.      The method of claim 94, wherein the plurality comprises 15 minute time
intervals.
 96.     The method of claim 94, wherein the plurality comprises 30 minute time
intervals.
 97.     The method of claim 94, wherein the plurality comprises 60 minute time
 intervals.
 98.     The method of claim 94, wherein the plurality comprises 12 hour time intervals.
 99.     The method of claim 94, wherein the plurality comprises 24 hour time intervals.
 100.    The method of claim 94, wherein the plurality comprises time intervals spanning
 several days.
 101.    The method of claim 94, wherein the plurality comprises time intervals spanning
 several weeks.

                                              43
102.     A method for treating a region of a subject's body to achieve a desired reduction
in subcutaneous adipose tissue, comprising:
         a) applying a cooling element proximal to the subject's skin in the region where
subcutaneous adipose tissue reduction is desired to create a temperature gradient within
said region sufficient to selectively disrupt lipid rich cells therein, and, simultaneously
therewith maintain the subject's skin at a temperature wherein non lipid rich cells
proximate to the cooling element are not disrupted;
         b) repeating the application of the cooling element to the subject's skin of step
(a) a plurality of times until the desired reduction in subcutaneous adipose tissue has
been achieved.
 103.    The method of claim 102, wherein the cooling element contacts the subject's
 skin.
 104.    The method of claim 102, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature less than or equal to about 30*C.
 105.     The method of claim 102, wherein the lipid rich cells are reduced in size.
  106.    The method of claim 102, wherein the lipid rich cells are reduced in number.
  107.    The method of claim 102, wherein the subject's skin comprises the epidermis,
 dermis or a combination thereof.
  108.    The method of claim 102, wherein the plurality comprises 15 minute time
 intervals.
  109.    The method of claim 102, wherein the plurality comprises 30 minute time
 intervals.
  110.    The method of claim 102, wherein the plurality comprises 60 minute time
  intervals.
  111.    The method of claim 102, wherein the plurality comprises 12 hour time
  intervals.
  112.    The method of claim 102, wherein the plurality comprises 24 hour time
  intervals.
   113.   The method of claim 102, wherein the plurality comprises time intervals
  spanning several days.

                                            44
114.    The method of claim 102, wherein the plurality comprises time intervals
spanning several weeks.
115.    The method of claim 102, wherein the cooling element applied to the subject's
skin includes a conductive cooling element.
116.    The method of claim 115, wherein the cooling element is actively cooled.
117.    The method of claim 116, wherein the cooling element includes a thermoelectric
cooling element.
118.    The method of claim 116, wherein the cooling element includes a cooling agent
circulating through the cooling element.
119.    The method of claim 102, wherein the cooling element includes a conductive
cooling element.
120.    The method of claim 119, wherein the conductive cooling element includes a
circulating cooling agent that contacts the subjects skin.
121.    The method of claim 102, wherein the cooling element includes an evaporative
cooling element.
 122.    The method of claim 102, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -15 and 35*C.
 123.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -15 and 3 0*C.
 124.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -15 and 25*C.
 125.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
 average temperature between about -15 and 20*C.
 126.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
 average temperature between about -15 and 15*C.
 127.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
 average temperature between about -15 and 10*C.
 128.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
 average temperature between about -15 and 5*C.

                                           45
129.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 35*C.
130.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 30*C.
131.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 25*C.
132.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 20*C.
133.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 15*C.
134.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 10*C.
135.    The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -10 and 5*C.
 136.   The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -5 and 20*C.
 137.   The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -5 and 15*C.
 138.   The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
average temperature between about -5 and 10*C.
 139.   The method of claim 122, wherein the cooling element is maintained at an
 average temperature of between about -5 and 5*C.
 140.   The method of claim 102, wherein the temperature of the subject's skin is
provided as feedback to ensure that the temperature therein is not cooled below a
predetermined minimum temperature.
 141.   The method of claim 140, wherein the subject's skin comprises the epidermis,
 dermis or a combination thereof.
 142.    The method of claim 140, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
 about -10 0 C.

                                             46
143.    The method of claim 140, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
about -50 C.
144.    The method of claim 140, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
about 0*C.
145.    The method of claim 140, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
about 50 C.
,146.   The method of claim 140, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
about 100 C.
147.    The method of claim 140, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
about 15 0C.
148.    The method of claim 140, wherein the predetermined minimum temperature is
about 20 0C.
 149.    The method of claim 140, wherein the feedback temperature is provided by a
temperature measuring mechanism located on or within the subject's skin.
 150.    The method of claim 149, wherein the subject's skin comprises the epidermis,
dermis or a combination thereof.
 151.    The method of claim 102, wherein the temperature of the subject's subcutaneous
adipose tissue is provided as feedback to ensure that the temperature in the dermal
tissue is not cooled below a predetermined minimum temperature.
 152.    The method of claim 151, wherein the feedback temperature is provided by a
temperature measuring mechanism located on a cooling surface of the cooling element.
 153.     The method of claim 102, wherein in the cooling element has a skin contacting
 surface.
 154.     The method of claim 102, wherein in the cooling element has a flat surface.
 The method of claim 102, wherein in the cooling element has a contoured surface.
 155.     The method of claim 102, wherein the cooling element is applied to the subject's
 skin with a pressure that is approximately equal to or greater than the systolic blood
 pressure in the subject's debris so as to decrease the blood flow within the dermis.

                                             47
156.    The method of claim 102, wherein the cooling element is applied to the subject's
skin with a pressure that is approximately equal to or less than the systolic blood
pressure in the subject's dermis so as to decrease the bloody flow within the dermis.
157.    The method of claim 102, wherein the cooling element is applied to the subject's
skin with pressure in an amount sufficient to decrease the blood flow within the dermis.
158.    The method of claim 102, wherein the cooling element is applied to a fold in the
subject's skin.
159.    The method of claim 158, wherein the fold in the subject's skin is pressured
between the cooling element and a second cooling element.
160.    The method of claim 102, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -10 and 37*C.
 161.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -10 and 35 0 C.
 162.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -10 and 30*C.
 163.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -10 and 25 0 C.
 164.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -10 and 20 0 C.
 165.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -10 and 150C.
 166.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature between about -10 and 1 0*C.
 167.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature between about -10 and 4 0 C.
  168.  The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature between about -4 and 35*C.
  169.  The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature between about -4 and 30 0 C.

                                          48
170.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -4 and 25*C.
171.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -4 and 20*C.
172.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -4 and 15*C.
 173.  The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -4 and 1 0*C.
 174.  The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -4 and 40 C.
 175.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -2 and 35*C.
 176.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
temperature between about -2 and 300 C.
 177.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature between about -2 and 25 0 C.
 178.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature between about -2 and 20 0 C.
 179.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature between about -2 and 150 C.
 180.   The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature between about -2 and 10*C.
  181.  The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature between about -2 and 40 C.
  182.  The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature between about 20 and 300C.
  183.  The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature between about 20 and 25 0 C.
  184.  The method of claim 161, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled to a
 temperature between about 25 and 300 C.

                                              49
185.     The method of claim 102, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled for a time
period between about 10 seconds and 30 minutes.
186.     The method of claim 185, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled for a time
period between about 1 and 5 minutes.
187.     The method of claim 185, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled for a time
period between about 1 and 15 minutes.
188.     The method of claim 185, wherein the lipid rich cells are cooled for a time
period between about 1 and 10 minutes.
189.     The method of claim 102, wherein the reduction in lipid rich cells results from
crystal formation therein.
190.     The method of claim 189, further comprising obtaining feedback that crystals
have formed in the lipid rich cells.
 191.    The method of claim 190, wherein the feedback that crystals have formed is
provided by at least one of the group consisting of ultrasound imaging, optical
measurement, mechanical measurement, and acoustical measurement.
 192.    The method of claim 191, wherein the mechanical measurement is of tensile
 strength.
 193.    The method of claim 190, wherein the feedback that crystals have formed is
 provided by a temperature feedback mechanism disposed in subcutaneous adipose
 tissue.
 194.    The method of claim 102, wherein a mechanical motion is provided to the lipid
 rich cells prior to, simultaneous with, or following application of the cooling element.
  195.    The method of claim 194, wherein the mechanical motion is provided by
 vibration.
  196.    The method of claim 194, wherein the mechanical motion comprises at least one
 pulsation.
  197.    The method of claim 194, wherein the mechanical motion is provided by
 massage.
  198.    The method of claim 102, further comprising applying a high-thermal
  conductivity material to the subject's skin before applying the cooling element thereto.

                                              50
 199.   The method of claim 102, wherein the disruption in lipid rich cells results from
metabolic changes therein.
200.    A device for selectively disrupting lipid rich cells in a non-infant human subject
by cooling comprising: means for creating a temperature gradient within a local region
of the subject's skin to selectively disrupt and thereby reduce lipid rich cells of the
region, while, concurrently therewith, maintaining the subject's skin at a temperature
whereby non lipid rich cells are not disrupted.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
