ABSTRACT
Functionalized biocompatible nanoparticles capable of penetrating through a mammalian
cell membrane and delivering intracellularly a plurality of bioactive molecules for
modulating a cellular function are disclosed herein. The functionalized biocompatible
nanoparticles comprise: a central nanoparticle ranging in size from about 5 to about 50 nm
and having a polymer coating thereon, a plurality of functional groups covalently attached
to the polymer coating, wherein the plurality of bioactive molecules are attached to the
plurality of the functional group and wherein the plurality of bioactive molecules include at
least a peptide and a protein, and wherein the peptide is capable of penetrating through the
mammalian cell membrane and entering into the cell, and wherein the protein is capable of
providing a new functionality within the cell. The protein may be a transcription factor
selected from the group consisting of Oct4, Sox2, Nanog, Lin28, cMyc, and Klf4.

                FUNCTIONALIZED NANOPARTICLES FOR INTRACELLULAR
                    DELIVERY OF BIOLOGICALLY ACTIVE MOLECULES
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
10001] The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent application
number 2012325723, which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/550,213,
filed on October 21, 2011, the entirety of which are incorporated by reference herein.
TECHNICAL FIELD
10002] The present invention relates generally to organic synthesis and nanobiotechnology,
and, more particularly,    to functionalized nanoparticles    for the delivery    of bioactive
molecules into cells for modulation of cellular function, as well as to methods related
thereto.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
10002a] The ability of cells to normally proliferate, migrate and differentiate to various cell
types is critical in embryogenesis and in the function of mature cells, including but not
limited to the cells of hematopoietic and/or cardiovascular systems in a variety of inherited
or acquired diseases. This functional ability of stem cells and/or more differentiated
specialized cell types is altered in various pathological conditions, but can be normalized
upon intracellular introduction of biologically active components. For example, abnormal
cellular functions   such as impaired survival      and/or  differentiation of bone     marrow
stem/progenitor cells into neutrophils are observed in patients with cyclic          or severe
congenital neutropenia who may suffer from severe life-threatening infections and may
evolve to develop acute myelogenous leukemia or other malignancies [Aprikyan et al.,
Impaired survival of bone marrow hematopoietic progenitor cells in cyclic neutropenia.
Blood, 97,    147 (2001); Goran Carlsson et al., Kostmann syndrome: severe congenital
neutropenia associated with defective expression of Bcl-2, constitutive mitochondrial release
of cytochrome C, and excessive apoptosis of myeloid progenitor cells. Blood, 103, 3355
(2004)]. Inherited or acquired disorders such as severe congenital neutropenia or Barth
syndrome are triggered by various gene mutations and are due to deficient production and
function   of patients'  blood and/or    cardiac  cells leading   to subsequent    neutropenia,
cardiomyopathy and/or heart failure
                                                1

WO 2013/059831                                                               PCT/US2012/061391
[Makaryan et al., The cellular and molecular mechanisms for neutropenia in Barth syndrome.
Eur J Haematol. 88:195-209 (2012)]. Severe congenital neutropenia disease phenotype can
be caused by different substitution, deletion, insertion or truncation mutations in the
neutrophil elastase gene., HAXI gene, or Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome Proteingene [Dale et al.,
Mutations in the gene encoding neutrophil elastase in congenital and cyclic neutropenia.
Blood. 96:2317-2322 (2000); Devriendt et al., Constitutively activating mutation in WASP
causes X-linked severe congenital neutropenia. Nat Genet. 27:313-7 (2001); Klein et al.,
HAX1 deficiency causes autosomal recessive severe congenital neutropenia (Kostmann
disease) Nat Genet. 39:86-92 (2007)].
[0003] Other inherited diseases like Barth syndrome, a multi-system stem cell disorder
induced by presumably loss-of-function mutations in the mitochondrial TAZ gene is
associated with neutropenia (reduced levels of blood neutrophils) that may cause recurring
severe and sometimes life-threatening fatal infections and/or cardiomyopathy that may lead
to heart failure that could be resolved by heart transplantation. In most of the cases, the
mutant gene products, implicated in pathogenesis and development of inherited or acquired
human diseases, affect distinct intracellular events, which lead to abnormal cellular functions
and the specific disease phenotype.
[0004] Treatment of these patients with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF)
induces conformational changes in the G-CSF receptor molecule located on the cell surface,
which subsequently triggers a chain of intracellular events that eventually restores the
production of neutrophils to near normal level and improves the quality of life of the patients
[Welte and Dale. Pathophysiology and treatment of severe chronic neutropenia. Ann.
Hematol. 72, 158 (1996)]. Nevertheless, patients treated with G-CSF may evolve to develop
leukemia [Aprikyan et al., Cellular and molecular abnormalities in severe congenital
neutropenia predisposing to leukemia. Exp Hematol. 31, 372 (2003); Philip Rosenberg et al.,
Neutrophil elastase mutations and risk of leukaemia in severe congenital neutropenia. Br J
Haematol. 140, 210 (2008); Peter Newburger et al., Cyclic Neutropenia and Severe
Congenital Neutropenia in Patients with a Shared ELANE Mutation and Paternal Haplotype:
Evidence for Phenotype Determination by Modifying Genes. Pediatr. Blood Cancer, 55, 314
(2010)], which is why novel alternative approaches are being explored.
[0005] The intracellular events can be more effectively affected and regulated upon
intracellular delivery of different biologically active molecules using distinctly functionalized
                                                 2

WO 2013/059831                                                               PCT/US2012/061391
nanoparticles.    These bioactive molecules may normalize the cellular function or may
eliminate the unwanted cells when needed. However, the cellular membrane serves as an
active barrier preserving the cascade of intracellular events from being affected by exogenous
stimuli.
[0006] Accordingly, there is a need in the art for new types of bioactive molecules that are
capable of penetrating cellular membranes and effectuating the intracellular events of interest.
The present invention fulfills these needs and provides for further related advantages.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007] The present invention in some embodiments is directed to functionalization methods
of linking proteins and/or peptides to biocompatible nanoparticles for modulating cellular
functions.   In some embodiments, the present invention is directed to the functionalized
biocompatible nanoparticles themselves.
[0008] In an embodiment, a functionalized biocompatible nanoparticle capable of penetrating
through a mammalian cell membrane and delivering intracellularly a plurality of bioactive
molecules for modulating a cellular function, comprises:       a central nanoparticle ranging in
size from 5 to 50 nm and having a polymer coating thereon, a plurality of functional groups
covalently attached to the polymer coating, wherein the plurality of bioactive molecules are
attached to the plurality of the functional groups, and wherein the plurality of bioactive
molecules include at least a peptide and a protein, and wherein the peptide is capable of
penetrating through the mammalian cell membrane and entering into the cell, and wherein the
protein is capable of providing a new functionality within the cell.
[0009] The central nanoparticle may comprise iron and be magnetic. The peptides of the
present invention may be attached to the protein (as opposed to being attached to the
nanoparticle). The peptides and proteins may each be attached to the nanoparticle by way of
one or more interposing linker molecules. The peptide may include five to nine basic amino
acids in some embodiments, whereas in other embodiments the peptide includes nine or more
basic amino acids.     The protein may be a transcription factor such as, for example, a
transcription factor selected from the group consisting of Oct4, Sox2, Nanog, Lin28, cMyc,
and Klf4.
[0010] In another aspect, the present invention is directed to a method of changing a cellular
functionality within a mammalian cell.        The novel method comprises administering an
                                                3

 WO 2013/059831                                                             PCT/US2012/061391
effective amount of functionalized biocompatible nanoparticles to the cell and changing the
cellular functionality within the cell. The changing of the cellular functionality may involve
a change in a physico-chemical property of the cell, a change in proliferative property of the
cell, a change in surviving ability of the cell, or a change in morphological phenotypical
property of the cell. The changing of the cellular functionality may involve an acquired
ability of the cell to make a new cell type including a stem cell or a more specialized cell
type.
 [0011] These and other aspects of the present invention will become more evident upon
reference to the following detailed description and attached drawings. It is to be understood,
however, that various changes, alterations, and substitutions may be made to the specific
embodiments disclosed herein without departing from their essential spirit and scope.
Finally, all of the various references cited herein are expressly incorporated herein by
reference.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0012] Figure 1 depicts a multi-step functionalization of nanoparticles scheme based on the
simultaneous attachment of peptide and protein molecules to a nanoparticle in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention.
 [0013] Figure 2A depicts a reaction of a nanoparticle containing amine groups with
equimolar ratios of long chain LCl-SPDP and lodoacetic acid nanoparticle in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention.
 [0014] Figure 2B depicts a reduction of the disulfide bond of PDP to provide a free SH group
nanoparticle in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
 [0015] Figure 2C depicts a reaction of long chain LCl-SMCC with the lysine groups of a
protein nanoparticle in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
 [0016] Figure 2D depicts a reaction of a multifunctional nanoparticle with the protein that
had been reacted with SMCC and contains a terminal reactive maleimide group nanoparticle
in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
 [0017] Figure 2E depicts a reaction of an amino group of a peptide with LC2-SMCC. The
reaction is then subsequently followed by a reaction with mercaptoethanol to convert the
terminal maleimide to an alcohol nanoparticle in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention.
                                               4

WO 2013/059831                                                             PCT/US2012/061391
[0018] Figure 2F depicts a reaction of a functional bead (and protein attached) with a
modified peptide to the free carboxyl group on the nanoparticle nanoparticle in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0019] Figure 3A depicts a reaction of a nanoparticle containing amine groups with LCl
SPDP nanoparticle in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0020] Figure 3B depicts a reduction of the disulfide bond of PDP to provide a free SH group
nanoparticle in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0021] Figure 3C depicts a reaction of long chain LC2-SMCC with the lysine groups of a
protein nanoparticle in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0022] Figure 3D depicts a reaction of a multifunctional nanoparticle with the protein that
had been reacted with SMCC and contains a terminal reactive maleimide group nanoparticle
in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
[0023] These and other aspects of the present invention will become more readily apparent to
those possessing ordinary skill in the art when reference is made to the following detailed
description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0024] In order to deliver biologically active molecules intracellularly, the inventors of the
present   invention present a universal device based on cell membrane-penetrating
nanoparticles with covalently linked biologically active molecules. To this end, the inventors
present herein a novel functionalization method that ensures a covalent linkage of proteins
and peptides to nanoparticles.    The modified cell-permeable nanoparticles of the present
invention provide a universal mechanism for intracellular delivery of biologically active
molecules for regulation and/or normalization of cellular function.
[0025] The ability of cells to normally proliferate, migrate and differentiate to various cell
types is critical in embryogenesis and in the function of mature cells, including but not
limited to the stem/progenitor and more differentiated cells of hematopoietic and
cardiovascular systems in a variety of inherited or acquired diseases. This functional ability
of stem cells and/or more differentiated specialized cell types is altered in various
pathological conditions due to aberrant alterations in intracellular events, but can be
normalized upon intracellular introduction of biologically active components. For example,
the impaired survival and differentiation of human bone marrow progenitor cells into
                                               5

WO 2013/059831                                                              PCT/US2012/061391
neutrophils that is observed in patients with cyclic or severe congenital neutropenia who
suffer from severe life-threatening infections and may evolve to develop leukemia, may be
normalized by cell membrane-penetrant small molecule inhibitor of neutrophil elastase,
which interferes with aberrant intracellular events and apparently restores the normal
phenotype. Nevertheless, such small molecules specific to target mutant products causing the
disease are rarely available which is why alternative efficient cell membrane-penetrant
devices are needed for intracellular delivery of biologically active molecules capable of
modulating cellular function.
[0026] The methods disclosed herein utilize biocompatible nanoparticles, including for
example, superparamagnetic iron oxide particles similar to those previously described in
scientific literature. This type of nanoparticles can be used in clinical settings for magnetic
resonance imaging of bone marrow cells, lymph nodes, spleen and liver [see, e.g., Shen et al.,
Monocrystalline iron oxide nanocompounds (MION); physicochemical properties. Magn.
Reson. Med., 29, 599 (1993); Harisinghani et. al., MR lymphangiography using ultrasmall
superparamagnetic iron oxide in patients with primary abdominal and pelvic malignancies.
Am. J. Roentgenol. 172, 1347 (1999)].     These magnetic iron oxide nanoparticles contain -5
nm nucleus coated with cross-linked dextran and having ~45 nm overall particle size.
Importantly, it has been demonstrated that these nanoparticles containing cross-linked cell
membrane-permeable Tat-derived peptide efficiently internalize into hematopoietic and
neural progenitor cells in quantities of up to 30 pg of superparamagnetic iron nanoparticles
per cell [Lewin et al., Tat peptide-derivatized magnetic nanoparticles allow in vivo tracking
and recovery of progenitor cells. Nat. Biotechnol. 18, 410 (2000)].            Furthermore, the
nanoparticle incorporation does not affect proliferative and differentiation characteristics of
bone marrow-derived CD34+ primitive progenitor cells or the cell viability [Maite Lewin et
al., Nat. Biotechnol. 18, 410 (2000)]. These nanoparticles can be used for in vivo tracking
the labeled cells.
[0027] The labeled cells retain their differentiation capabilities and can also be detected in
tissue samples using magnetic resonance imaging. Here we present novel nanoparticle-based
devices which are now functionalized to carry peptides and proteins that can serve as
excellent vehicles for intracellular delivery of biologically active molecules for cell
reprogramming solutions to target intracellular events and modulate cellular function and
properties.
                                                6

WO 2013/059831                                                            PCT/US2012/061391
[0028] General Description of Nanoparticle-Peptide/Protein Conjugates:
[0029] Nanoparticles based on iron or other material with biocompatible coating (e.g. dextran
polisaccharide) with X/Y functional groups, to which linkers of various lengths are attached,
which, in turn are covalently attached to proteins and/or peptides (or other small molecules)
through their X/Y functional groups.
[0030] Functional groups that may be used for crosslinking include:
[0031] -NH2 (e.g. , lysine, a-NH2),
[0032] -SH,
[0033] -COOH,
[0034] -NH-C(NH)(NH 2),
[0035] carbohydrate,
[0036] -hydroxyl (OH),
[0037] -attachment via photochemistry of an azido group on the linker.
[0038] Crosslinking reagents may include:
[0039] SMCC [succinimidyl 4-(N-maleimido-methyl) cyclohexane-1-carboxylate]              Also
available is Sulfo-SMCC, the Sulfosuccinimidylderivative for crosslinking amino and thiol
groups.
[0040] LC-SMCC (Long chain SMCC). Also Sulfo-LC-SMCC.
[0041] SPDP [N-Succinimidyl-3-(pypridyldithio)-proprionate]       Also Sulfo-SPDP.     Reacts
with amines and provides thiol groups.
[0042] LC-SPDP (Long chain SPDP). Also Sulfo-LC-SPDP.
[0043] EDC [1-Ethyl Hydrocholride-3-(3-Dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide] Reagent used
to link -COOH group with-NH2 group.
[0044] SM(PEG)n       where n=1,2,3,4..........24 glycol units.   Also the Sulfo-SM(PEG)n
derivative.
[0045] SPDP(PEG)n where n=1,2,3,4..........12 glycol units. Also the Sulfo-SPDP(PEG)n
derivative.
[0046] PEG molecule containing both carboxyl and amine groups.
[0047] PEG molecule containing both carboxyl and sulfhydryl groups.
[0048] Capping and blocking reagents include:
[0049] Citraconic Anhydride---specific for     NH
[0050] Ethyl Maleimide---specific for SH
                                                7

WO 2013/059831                                                              PCT/US2012/061391
[0051] Mercaptoethanol-specific for maliemide
[0052] In view of the foregoing, we have treated biocompatible nanoparticles to produce
functional amines on the surface, which in turn were used to chemically bind proteins and
short peptides.
[0053] In the case of attaching proteins, for example Green Fluorescent Protein or a
transcription factor, to superparamagnetic or alternative nanoparticles, the following protocol
can be used: Superparamagnetic beads containing amino functional groups on the exterior
can be commercially purchased from various manufacturers. They can range from 20-50 nm
in size and 10"-102 nanoparticles per ml with 10 or more amine groups per nanoparticle.
The nanoparticles are placed into the correct reaction buffer (0.1 M phosphate buffer, pH 7.2)
by use of an Amicon centrifugal filter unit (microcolumn) with a molecular cutoff of 10,000
dalton. Approximately 4 washes are generally required to ensure proper buffering system.
Nanoparticles are removed from the filter unit as recommended by manufacturer (inverting
column/filter device by spinning at low speed).
[0054] SMCC (from Thermo Fisher) was dissolved in dimethylformamide (DMF) obtained
from ACROS (sealed vial and anhydrous) at the 1 mg/ml concentration. Sample is sealed
and used almost immediately.
[0055] Ten (10) microliters of the solution are added to nanoparticles in 200 microliter
volume. This provides a large excess of SMCC to the available amine groups present, and
the reaction is allowed to proceed for one hour. Excess SM and DMF can be removed using
an Amicon centrifugal filter column with a cutoff of 3,000 daltons.         Five exchanges of
volume are generally required to ensure proper buffer exchange. It is important that excess of
SMCC be removed at this stage.
[0056] Any peptide based molecule, as an example commercially available                  Green
Fluorescent Protein (GFP) or purified recombinant GFP or other proteins are added to the
solution containing a certain amount of ethylene glycol for freezing at -30 OC.           To 3
micrograms of the protein in 14 microliters, 10 microliters of a freshly prepared DTT
(dithiothreitol, Cleland's reagent) solution in PBS are added with vigorous vortexing.
Because the proteins usually contain more than one cysteine, there is a tendency to crosslink
different GFP molecules. Therefore, the excess DTT reduces the dithiol linkage and frees
GFP.    Reaction is allowed to proceed for two hours at 4 0 C and then excess reagent is
removed by an Amicon centrifugal filter unit with a 3,000 MW cutoff.
                                               8

WO 2013/059831                                                              PCT/US2012/061391
[0057] The activated nanoparticles and the protein solutions are combined and allowed to
react for two hours, after which the unreacted protein is removed by an Amicon centrifugal
filter unit having an appropriate MW cutoff (in the example with GFP it is 50,000 dalton cut
off). Sample is stored at -80 0 C. Instead of using Amicon spin filter columns, small spin
columns containing solid size filtering components, such as Bio Rad P columns can also be
used. These are size exclusion columns. It should also be noted that SMCC also can be
purchased as a sulfo derivative (Sulfo-SMCC), making it more water soluble. DMSO may
also be substituted for DMF as the solvent carrier for the labeling reagent; again, it should be
anhydrous.
[0058] All the other crosslinking reagents can be applied in a similar fashion. SPDP is also
applied to the protein/applicable peptide in the same manner as SMCC. It is readily soluble
in DMF. The dithiol is severed by a reaction with DTT for an hour or more. After removal
of byproducts and unreacted material, it is purified by use of an Amicon centrifugal filter
column with 3,000 MW cutoff.
[0059] Another more direct and controlled means of labeling a nanoparticle with a peptide
and protein would be to use two different bifunctional coupling reagents.          The reaction
sequence is somewhat similar to that of Figure 1. lodoacetic acid is used to introduce a select
number of "carboxyl" groups on the nanoparticle surface.
[0060] The peptide containing the LC-SMCC is treated with aminomercaptoethanol.             This
creates a linkage through the sulfhydryl group and provides a free amino group. This amino
group is then coupled to the carboxyl group on the nanoparticle using EDC. EDC is known
as 1-ethyl-3[3-dimethylaminopropyl] carbodiimide hydrochloride.         This coupling step is
performed last in the reaction scheme.
[0061] Figure 1 shows the general description of the magnetic nanoparticles---protein/peptide
adducts. The magnetic nanoparticle is coated with a polysaccharide and then functionalized.
It can be purchased with amines on the surface. They can also be altered/morphed into any
other functional formats. The extender/connector physically binds the two units together.
[0062] Various functional groups may be used to chemically attach the nanoparticle to the
protein via crosslinking reactions. The variety of functional groups available does allow for
numerous proteins/peptides to be attached to the nanoparticle, one step at a time.
[0063] Similarly, various crosslinking reagents or reactive catalysts may be used to crosslink
nanoparticles with proteins/peptides via hetero-bifunctional reagents. It should also be noted
                                               9

WO 2013/059831                                                               PCT/US2012/061391
that these crosslinking reagents come in various lengths. For instance many contain the LC
notation, referring to extenders or "long chains". The pegylated compound is also available
in various lengths. In this way linkers of various lengths may be added to the nanoparticles
and provide differing attachment lengths for larger molecules, such as proteins and small
molecules, such as peptides.
[0064] Often time different proteins may contain the same functional groups, making it
difficult to label the nanoparticle with the various proteins. There are reagents which allow a
change in functional groups; hence, we can change the functional groups on proteins, thus
giving us the selectivity in a step wise fashion without interference from the other proteins.
This requires changing the functional groups on proteins.
[0065] Various reagents can be used to alter proteins so that different chemistries may be
used to attach proteins with like functional groups. For instance, a compound, such as SPDP,
can be used to convert and amine to a sulfhydryl, which is then receptive towards reaction
with a maleimide moiety.
[0066] When attaching proteins to the bead (nanoparticle) in a stepwise fashion, often
residual and active groups of proteins that were attached previously may interfere with the
coupling chemistries. Thus permanent or reversible capping reagents may be used to block
these active moieties from interference with reagents that are about to be used to attach a
second or third protein to the nanoparticle.
[0067] Numerous different capping compounds may be used to block the unreacted moiety.
They need to be used judiciously as the capping compounds may also interfere with protein
activity. Used most often when a second chemical attachment step is required and this
functional group may interfere.
[0068] To show that proteins can be attached to beads (nanoparticles) using the chemistries
noted above, we provided the synthesis of magnetic nanoparticles, which contained Green
Fluorescent protein derived from Jelly fish. LCC-SMCC was used in this synthesis scheme.
[0069] The N-hyhroxysuccinimide is chemically reacted with the free amine groups on the
nanoparticle in order to form a chemical bond. This provides a maleimide end group that can
react with GFP. It is known that GFP has two cysteines and the cysteines from various GFP
molecules may react to form disulfide bonds. To remove such interference, the molecule is
first reduced with Cleland's reagent.
                                                 10

WO 2013/059831                                                              PCT/US2012/061391
[0070] The protein is purified and then allowed to react with beads containing the LC
maleimide group. The reaction is allowed to proceed for 1 hour and reaction purified on
Amicon spin filter (50K cutoff).         Pictures were taken on the fluorescence electron
microscope.
[0071] Multiple types of functional groups can be created on a nanoparticle. This allows the
addition of three or more different proteins to be attached.
[0072] One first starts out with an amine on the surface.
[0073] Traut's reagent may be used to convert some of those amines to sulfhydryl.              In
addition iodoacetic acid may be used to convert some amines to carboxylic acid
[0074] For both proteins and peptides, the amines are converted to the functional groups with
different linker length as described in more detail below. This will serve as a generalized
group to attach proteins and peptides.
[0075] Figure 1 depicts schematic representation of nanoparticle functionalization and
binding of peptides and proteins to nanoparticle.
[0076] The syntheses and coating are performed as follows: NHS-LC-SPDP commercially
available through Thermo Fisher is a long chain extender with bifunctional coupling reagents
on either side, which are specific for amines and a disulfide that can be converted to a sulfide.
[0077] One end has an N-Hydroxysuccinimide ester, while the other end of the extender
contains a pyridyldithiol group. This dithiol group can be reduced to produce a sulfhydryl.
NHS-LC-SPDP is allowed to react with the nanoparticles and the reaction can be cleared
from unincorporated NHS-LC-SPD. The coupled nanoparticles are then reduced as shown in
Figure 1.
[0078] Production of Coupled Proteins:        The biologically active proteins purified using
affinity columns contain a free epsilon-amine group from carboxy-terminal lysine residue
added to facilitate binding to the nanoparticles. NHS-LC-SMCC is used as the bifunctional
coupling reagent.     The molecule has an LC1 chain extender.            One end has the N
Hydroxysuccinimide reagent specific for amines.         The other end contains the maleimide
group, very specific for sulfhydryl groups. Once the material is coupled to a protein and
separated from the reaction mixture, the maleimide coupled protein will be added to the
sulfhydryl containing nanoparticle. The resultant material s separated by gel filtration.
[0079] Peptide Coupling to Nanoparticle: In this case the peptide also contains a carboxy
terminal lysine that will serve as the base for the NHS ester-LC-maleimide coupling. The
                                                11

WO 2013/059831                                                                 PCT/US2012/061391
molecule has an LC2 chain extender. All procedures are similar to those describe above for
the protein.
[0080] During the optimization, the membrane-permeable peptide and the proteins will be
mixed at different ratios to achieve the maximum number of molecules coupled to
nanoparticle. Based on previously published studies, 3-4 molecules of surface-bound cell
penetrating peptide per nanoparticle are sufficient for efficient intracellular delivery of
superparamagnetic nanoparticles.
[0081] The use of LC2-extender arm provides an important means to increase the number of
bound peptide-based molecules. The use different concentration of NHS-LC-SPDP allows
increased number of anchored peptide and protein molecule to the surface of nanoparticles,
and therefore, more efficient penetration and consequently, more robust cell reprogramming
activity.
[0082] Attachment of Peptides and Proteins on One Nanoparticle:                     This may be
accomplished using the procedure shown in Figure 1. In this case, ratios of SMCC labeled
proteins and peptides are added to the beads and allowed to react.
[0083] Another more direct and controlled means of labeling a nanoparticle with a peptide
and protein would be to use two different bifunctional coupling reagents (Figures 2A-F). The
reaction sequence is somewhat similar to that of Figure 1 with some modifications described
below.
[0084] lodoacetic acid is used to introduce a select number of "carboxyl" groups on the
nanoparticle surface. This is performed at step I; see Figures 2A-F, steps (I-VII).
[0085] The peptide containing the NH-LC-SMCC is treated with aminoethanol. This creates
a linkage through the sulfhydryl group and provides a free amino group. This amino group is
then coupled to the carboxyl group on the nanoparticle using EDAC (EDC). EDAC is known
as 1-ethyl-3[3-dimethylaminopropyl] carbodiimide hydrochloride.             This coupling step is
performed last in the reaction scheme.
[0086] In another aspect, the present invention is also directed to a method of delivering
bioactive molecules attached to functionalized nanoparticles for modulation of intracellular
activity.    For example, human cells, fibroblasts or other cell types that are either
commercially available or obtained using standard or modified experimental procedures are
first plated under sterile conditions on a solid surface with or without a substrate to which the
cells adhere (feeder cells, gelatin, martigel, fibronectin, etc.). The plated cells are cultured for
                                                  12

WO 2013/059831                                                               PCT/US2012/061391
a time with a specific factor combination that allows cell division/proliferation or
maintenance of acceptable cell viability. Examples are serum and/or various growth factors,
which can later be withdrawn or refreshed and the cultures continued. The plated cells are
cultured in the presence of functionalized biocompatible cell-permeable nanoparticles with
bioactive molecules attached using various methods described herein in the presence or
absence of magnetic field. The use of a magnet in case of superparamagnetic nanoparticles
renders an important increase in the contact surface area between the cells and nanoparticles
and thereby reinforces further improved penetration of functionalized nanoparticles through
the cell membrane.      When necessary, the cell population is treated repeatedly with the
functionalized nanoparticles to deliver the bioactive molecules intracellularly.
[0087] The cells are suspended in culture medium, and non-incorporated nanoparticles are
removed by centrifugation or cell separation, leaving cells that are present as clusters. The
clustered cells are then resuspended and recultured in fresh medium for a suitable period.
The cells can be taken through multiple cycles of separating, resuspending, and reculturing,
until a consequent biological effect triggered by the specific bioactive molecules delivered
intracellularly is observed.
[0088] One use of the invention is the screening of a compound (or compounds) for an effect
on cell reprogramming. This involves combining the compound attached to the nanoparticle
using one or more of the methods in disclosed herein with a cell population of interest,
culturing for suitable period and then determining any modulatory effect resulting from the
compound(s).      This may include initiation of the cell reprogramming and generation of
pruripotent stem cells, differentiation or transdifferentiation of cells to more specialized or
different specialized cell types, examination of the cells for toxicity, metabolic change, or an
effect on contractile activity and other functions.
[0089] Another use of the invention is the formulation of specialized cells as a medicament
or in a delivery device intended for treatment of a human or animal body. This enables the
clinician to administer the cells in or around the damaged tissue (whether heart, muscle, liver,
etc.) either from the vasculature or directly into the muscle or organ wall, thereby allowing
the specialized cells to engraft, limit the damage, and participate in regrowth of the tissue's
musculature and restoration of specialized function.
                                                13

WO 2013/059831                                                               PCT/US2012/061391
[0090] A use of the present invention involves nanoparticles functionalized with other
proteins such as Oct4 and Sox2 transcription factors so as to ensure cell reprogramming and
generation of stem or more differentiated cell types with preservation of intact genome.
[0091] Another use of the present invention is the screening of a compound (or compounds)
for an effect on cell reprogramming. This involves combining the compound attached to the
nanoparticle using the methods disclosed herein with a cell population of interest, culturing
for suitable period and then determining any modulatory effect resulting from the
compound(s).     This may include initiation of the cell reprogramming and generation of
pluripotent stem cells, differentiation or transdifferentiation of cells to more specialized or
different specialized cell types, examination of the cells for toxicity, metabolic change, or an
effect on contractile activity and other functions.
[0092] Still another use of the present invention is the formulation of specialized cells as a
medicament or in a delivery device intended for treatment of a human or animal body. This
enables the clinician to administer the cells in or around the damaged tissue (whether heart,
muscle, liver, etc) either from the vasculature or directly into the muscle or organ wall,
thereby allowing the specialized cells to engraft, limit the damage, and participate in
regrowth of the tissue's musculature and restoration of specialized function.
[0093] As way of further illustration and not limitation, the following Examples disclose
other aspects of the present invention.
[0094]                                         EXAMPLES
[0095] Example 1
[0096] GFP was linked to the superparamagnetic particle using LC-SMM as the crosslinker
(attached to the amine groups of the beads) which was then coupled directly to the sulhydryl
groups on GFP.       LC-SMCC (from Thermo Fisher) was dissolved in dimethylformamide
(DMF) obtained from ACROS (sealed vial and anhydrous) at the 1 mg/ml concentration.
Sample was sealed and used almost immediately.
[0097] Ten (10) microliters of the solution was added to nanoparticles in 200 microliter
volume. This provided a large excess of SMCC to the available amine groups present, and
the reaction was allowed to proceed for one hour. Excess SMCC and DMF was removed
using an Amicon spin filter with a cutoff of 3,000 daltons. Five exchanges of volume were
                                                14

WO 2013/059831                                                              PCT/US2012/061391
required to ensure proper buffer exchange.        It was important that excess of SMCC be
removed at this stage.
[0098] Any peptide based molecule, as an example commercially available                 Green
Fluorescent Protein (GFP) or purified recombinant GFP or other proteins) were added to the
solution containing a certain amount of ethylene glycol for freezing at -30 OC.          To 3
micrograms of the protein in 14 microliters, 10 microlitters of a freshly prepared DTT
(dithiothreitol, Cleland's reagent) solution in PBS were added with vigorous vortexing.
Because the proteins usually contain more than one cysteine, there was a tendency to
crosslink different GFP molecules.     Therefore, the excess DTT reduced the dithiol linkage
and freed the GFP. Reaction was allowed to proceed for two hours at 4 0 C and then excess
reagent was removed by an Amicon centrifugal filter unit with a 3,000 MW cutoff.
[0099] The activated nanoparticles and the protein solutions were combined and allowed to
react for two hours, after which the unreacted protein was removed by an Amicon centrifugal
filter unit having an appropriate MW cutoff (in the example with GFP it is 50,000 dalton cut
off). Sample was stored at -80 OC. It should also be noted that a sulfo derivative of SMCC
(Sulfo-SMCC), which is more water soluble, can be used. DMSO may also be substituted for
DMF as the solvent carrier for the labeling reagent; again, it should be anhydrous.
[00100]          Example 2
[00101]          In this method the amino groups of lysine were used for the coupling reaction
to sulhydryl groups on the bead. Beads freshly equilibrated with 0.1 M phosphate buffer at
pH 7.2, were used in these studies. LC-SPDP at 1 mg/ml (in DMF) was freshly prepared. 10
microliters of SPDP solution was added to the bead suspension under vigorous vortexing and
allowed to react for one hour.       Subsequently, the unreacted material was removed by
centrifugation and the nanoparticles washed with phosphate buffer using an Amicon Spin
filter with a 10K cutoff. The disulfide bond of SPDP was broken using Clelands reagent; 1
mg was added to the solution and the reaction allowed to proceed for one hour. Byproducts
and unreacted Clelands reagent were removed via an Amicon spin filter with a 10K cutoff.
[00102]          While    the above   reaction  proceeded,     GFP was blocked      using N
ethylmaleimide. Excess ethylmaleimide was added to the GFP solution. Reaction proceeded
for one hour at room temperature and unwanted materials removed using an Amicon Spin
filter with a 3K cutoff. The GFP was then allowed to react with excess SMCC for one hour.
Subsequently, GFP was purified on a spin column and then reacted with PDP-nanoparticles.
                                               15

WO 2013/059831                                                               PCT/US2012/061391
Reaction proceeded for one hour and the final product purified using an Amicon spin filter
with a cutoff of 50K.
[00103]         Example 3
[00104]         Human     fibroblasts  commercially   available   or obtained using     standard
experimental procedures as described [Moretti et al., Mouse and human induced pluripotent
stem cells as a source for multipotent IslI cardiovascular progenitors. FASEB J. 24:700
(2010)] are plated at 150,000 cells density under sterile conditions on a solid surface with or
without preplated feeder cells at 150,000-200,000 density in six-well plates. The feeder cells
obtained either commercially or using standard laboratory procedures.       The plated cells are
cultured    for  some    time    with   a  specific  factor   combination     that  allows   cell
division/proliferation or maintenance of acceptable cell viability in serum-containing culture
medium, which can later be withdrawn or refreshed and the cultures continued under sterile
conditions in a humidified incubator with 5% CO 2 and ambient     02.
[00105]         The cells collected at the bottom of a conical tube or the plated cells are
treated with 50 microliters of suspension containing functionalized biocompatible cell
permeable nanoparticles with bioactive molecules attached using various methods disclosed
herein in the presence or absence of magnetic field.
[00106]         The use of magnetic field in case of superparamagnetic nanoparticles renders
an important increase in the contact surface area between the cells and nanoparticles and
thereby ensuring improved penetration of functionalized nanoparticles through the cell
membrane. Importantly, similar to poly(ethylene glycol) PEG-mediated protection of several
protein-based drugs (PEG-GCSF, Amgen, CA; PEG-Interferon, Schering-Plough/Merck, NJ)
to which PEG is attached, the nanoparticles used in conjunction with coupled peptides
increase the size of the polypeptide and masks the protein's surface, thereby reducing protein
degradation by proteolytic enzymes and resulting in a longer stability of the protein
molecules used. If necessary, the cell population is treated repeatedly with the functionalized
nanoparticles to deliver the bioactive molecules intracellularly.
[00107]         The   cells   are   suspended   in  culture   medium,    and    non-incorporated
nanoparticles are removed by centrifugation for 10 minutes at approximately 1200 x g,
leaving cells that are present as clusters in the pellet.         The clustered cells are then
resuspended, washed again using similar procedure and recultured in fresh medium for a
suitable period. The cells can be taken through multiple cycles of separating, resuspending,
                                               16

WO 2013/059831                                                              PCT/US2012/061391
and reculturing in a culture media until a consequent biological effect triggered by the
specific bioactive molecules delivered intracellularly is observed.
[00108]         In this specific example with green fluorescent protein, the cell-penetrant
nanoparticles deliver the protein inside the cells, which confers acquisition of novel green
fluorescence by the target cells. This newly acquired property allows subsequent sorting and
separation of the cells with intracellularly delivered protein to high degree of homogeneity
that can be further used for various applications.      Importantly, the use of cell-permeable
functionalized nanoparticles with attached protein devoid any integration into the cell
genome, thereby ensuring that every cell with novel (in this case fluorescent) property
maintains intact genome and preserves the integrity of cellular DNA.
[00109]         The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without
departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are
therefore to be considered illustrative rather than limiting of the invention described herein.
The scope of the invention is thus indicated by the appended claims rather than by the
foregoing description, and all changes that come within meaning and range of equivalency of
the claims are intended to be embraced herein.
                                               17

WO 2013/059831                                                                PCT/US2012/061391
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
         1.      A functionalized biocompatible nanoparticle capable of penetrating through a
mammalian cell membrane and delivering intracellularly a plurality of bioactive molecules
for modulating a cellular function, comprising:
         a central nanoparticle ranging in size from 5 to 50 nm and having a polymer coating
thereon,
         a plurality of functional groups covalently attached to the polymer coating, wherein
the plurality of bioactive molecules are attached to the plurality of functional groups, and
wherein the plurality of bioactive molecules include at least a peptide and a protein, and
wherein the peptide is capable of penetrating through the mammalian cell membrane and
entering into the cell, and wherein the protein is capable of providing a new functionality
within the cell.
        2.       The functionalized biocompatible nanoparticle of claim 1 wherein the
nanoparticle comprises iron.
         3.      The functionalized biocompatible nanoparticle of claim 2 wherein the peptide
is attached to the protein.
        4.       The functionalized biocompatible nanoparticle of claim 3 wherein the peptide
and the protein are each attached to the nanoparticle by way of one or more interposing linker
molecules.
                                                 18

WO 2013/059831                                                                PCT/US2012/061391
         5.      The functionalized biocompatible nanoparticle of claim 1 wherein the peptide
includes five to nine basic amino acids.
         6.      The functionalized biocompatible nanoparticle of claim 1 wherein the peptide
includes nine or more basic amino acids.
         7.      The functionalized biocompatible nanoparticle of claim 5 wherein the protein
is a transcription factor.
         8.      The functionalized biocompatible nanoparticle of claim 7 wherein the
transcription factor is selected from the group consisting of Oct4, Sox2, Nanog, Lin28, cMyc,
and Klf4.
         9.      A method of changing a cellular functionality within a mammalian cell,
comprising administering an effective amount of a functionalized biocompatible nanoparticle
of claim 1 to the cell and changing the cellular functionality within the cell.
         10.     The method of changing a cellular functionality within a mammalian cell
according to claim 9 wherein the changing of the cellular functionality involves a change in a
physico-chemical property of the cell.
         11.     The method of changing a cellular functionality within a mammalian cell
according to claim 9 wherein the changing of the cellular functionality involves a change in
proliferative property of the cell.
         12.     The method of changing a cellular functionality within a mammalian cell
according to claim 9 wherein the changing of the cellular functionality involves a change in
                                                19

WO 2013/059831                                                               PCT/US2012/061391
surviving ability of the cell.
         13.    The method of changing a cellular functionality within a mammalian cell
according to claim 9 wherein the changing of the cellular functionality involves a change in
morphological phenotypical property of the cell.
         14.    The method of changing a cellular functionality within a mammalian cell
according to claim 9 wherein the changing of the cellular functionality involves an acquired
ability of the cell to make a new cell type including a stem cell or a more specialized cell
type.
                                                20

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
