METHODS AND APPARATUS TO COMPENSATE IMPRESSION
DATA FOR MISATTRIBUTION AND/OR NON-COVERAGE BY A
DATABASE PROPRIETOR
                                         ABSTRACT
       Methods and apparatus to compensate impression data for misattribution and non
coverage by a database proprietor are disclosed. An example method includes obtaining a
count of media impressions occurring on a first type of computing device, a first portion of
the media impressions corresponding to persons for whom demographic information is
recognizable by a database proprietor and a second portion of the media impressions
corresponding to persons for whom demographic information is unavailable to the database
proprietor; and determining the demographic information for the second portion of the media
impressions based on a first probability that media corresponding to the media impressions is
accessed on the first type of computing device and based on a second probability that media
is access on a second type of device.

                                                   1
METHODS AND APPARATUS TO COMPENSATE IMPRESSION DATA
FOR MISATTRIBUTION AND/OR NON-COVERAGE BY A DATABASE
PROPRIETOR
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This patent is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014386191, a National Phase Entry of International Application No. PCT/US 2014/068623,
filed on 4 December 2014. International Patent Application No. PCT/US 2014/068623 claims
priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/952,726, filed March 13, 2014,
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/979,391, filed April 14, 2014, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/986,784, filed April 30, 2014, U.S. Provisional
Patent Application Serial No. 61/991,286, filed May 9, 2014, U.S. Provisional Patent
Application Serial No. 62/014,659, filed June 19, 2014, U.S. Provisional Patent Application
Serial No. 62/023,675, filed July 11, 2014, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
62/030,571, filed July 29, 2014. The entireties of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
61/952,726, U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/979,391, U.S. Provisional Patent
Application Serial No. 61/986,784, U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/991,286,
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/014,659, U.S. Provisional Patent Application
Serial No. 62/023,675, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/030,571 are
incorporated herein by reference. Australian Patent Application No. 2014386191 is also
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
[0002]       The present disclosure relates generally to monitoring media and, more particularly,
to methods and apparatus to compensate impression data for misattribution and/or non-coverage
by a database proprietor.
BACKGROUND
[0003]       Traditionally, audience measurement entities determine audience engagement levels
for media programming based on registered panel members. That is, an audience measurement
entity enrolls people who consent to being monitored into a panel. The audience measurement

                                               la
entity then monitors those panel members to determine media (e.g., television programs or radio
programs, movies, DVDs, advertisements, etc.) exposed to those panel members. In this manner,
the audience measurement entity can determine exposure measures for different media based on
the collected media measurement data.
[0004]       Techniques for monitoring user access to Internet resources such as web pages,
advertisements and/or other media have evolved significantly over the years. Some prior
systems perform such monitoring primarily through server logs. In

particular, entities serving media on the Internet can use such prior systems to log the
number of requests received for their media at their server.
                       BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0005]      FIG. 1 depicts an example system to collect impressions of media
presented at mobile devices and to collect user information from distributed database
proprietors for associating with the collected impressions.
[0006]      FIG. 2 is an example impression data compensator which may be
implemented in the example audience measurement server of FIG. 1 to compensate
impression data for inaccuracies related to misattribution and non-coverage arising
from impression collection techniques of a database proprietor.
[0007]      FIGS. 3A-3C collectively illustrate an example data flow that may be
performed by the example impression data compensator of FIG. 2 to compensate
impression data for inaccuracies related to misattribution and non-coverage arising
from impression collection techniques of a database proprietor.
[0008]      FIG. 4 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator of FIG. 2 to compensate impression data for inaccuracies related to
misattribution and non-coverage arising from impression collection techniques of a
database proprietor.
[0009]      FIG. 5 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator of FIG. 2 to calculate a misattribution correction matrix and/or a co
viewing matrix.
[0010]      FIG. 6 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator of FIG. 2 to determine probabilities of misattribution for pairs of
demographic groups.
[0011]      FIG. 7 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator of FIG. 2 to generate a misattribution correction matrix and/or a co
viewing matrix.
                                             -2-

[00121     FIG. 8 is a flow diagram of example machine readable instructions which
may be executed to implement the example impression data compensator of FIG. 2 to
generate a co-viewing matrix.
[0013]     FIG. 9 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator of FIG. 2 to generate an alpha factor associated with a media audience
not covered by a database proprietor.
[0014]     FIG. 10 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator of FIG. 2 to adjust impressions based on a misattribution correction
matrix.
[0015]     FIG. 11 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator of FIG. 2 to adjust impressions based on non-coverage factors
corresponding to impression collection techniques of a database proprietor.
[0016]     FIG. 12 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator of FIG. 2 to calculate a demographic profile (or non-coverage factors)
associated with a media audience not covered by a database proprietor.
[0017]     FIG. 13 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator of FIG. 2 to adjust impressions and/or unique audience based on non
coverage factors for a database proprietor.
[0018]     FIG. 14 illustrates an example system constructed in accordance with the
teachings of this disclosure to determine genre for collected media impression data.
[0019]     FIG. 15 illustrates an example of the genre predictor of FIG. 14 to
determine the genre for the collected media impression data.
[0020]     FIG. 16 illustrates an example of the data categorizer of FIG. 15 to
categorize the collected media impression data to be used by the genre analyzer of
FIG. 15 to predict genre.
[0021]     FIG. 17 illustrates an example chart depicting example day parts and
example day categories used by the genre predictor of FIGS. 14 and 15.
[0022]     FIG. 18 illustrates an example of the genre modeler of FIG. 14 which may
be used to construct a genre model.
                                           -3-

[0023]      FIG. 19 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions that may be executed to implement the example genre modeler of FIGS.
14 and 18 to construct a genre model.
[0024]      FIG. 20 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions that may be executed to implement the example genre predictor of FIGS.
14 and 15 to assign a genre to collected media impression data.
[0025]      FIG. 21 is an example processor platform that may be used to execute the
example instructions of FIGS. 4-13 to implement example apparatus and systems
disclosed herein.
[0026]      FIG. 22 is another example processor platform that may be used to execute
the example instructions of FIGS. 19 and/or 20 to implement example apparatus and
systems disclosed herein.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0027]      Techniques for monitoring user access to Internet resources such as web
pages, advertisements and/or other media have evolved significantly over the years.
At one point in the past, such monitoring was done primarily through server logs. In
particular, entities serving media on the Internet would log the number of requests
received for their media at their server. Basing Internet usage research on server logs
is problematic for several reasons. For example, server logs can be tampered with
either directly or via zombie programs which repeatedly request media from servers to
increase the server log counts corresponding to the requested media. Secondly,
media is sometimes retrieved once, cached locally and then repeatedly viewed from
the local cache without involving the server in the repeat viewings. Server logs cannot
track these views of cached media because reproducing locally cached media does
not require re-requesting the media from a server. Thus, server logs are susceptible
to both over-counting and under-counting errors.
[0028]      The inventions disclosed in Blumenau, US Patent 6,108,637, fundamentally
changed the way Internet monitoring is performed and overcame the limitations of the
server side log monitoring techniques described above. For example, Blumenau
disclosed a technique wherein Internet media to be tracked is tagged with beacon
instructions. In particular, monitoring instructions are associated with the Hypertext
Markup Language (HTML) of the media to be tracked. When a client requests the
media, both the media and the beacon instructions are downloaded to the client. The
                                             -4-

beacon instructions are, thus, executed whenever the media is accessed, be it from a
server or from a cache.
[0029]      The beacon instructions cause monitoring data reflecting information about
the access to the media to be sent from the client that downloaded the media to a
monitoring entity. Typically, the monitoring entity is an audience measurement entity
(AME) (e.g., any entity interested in measuring or tracking audience exposures to
advertisements, media, and/or any other media) that did not provide the media to the
client and who is a trusted third party for providing accurate usage statistics (e.g., The
Nielsen Company, LLC). Advantageously, because the beaconing instructions are
associated with the media and executed by the client browser whenever the media is
accessed, the monitoring information is provided to the AME irrespective of whether
the client is a panelist of the AME.
[0030]      It is useful, however, to link demographics and/or other user information to
the monitoring information. To address this issue, the AME establishes a panel of
users who have agreed to provide their demographic information and to have their
Internet browsing activities monitored. When an individual joins the panel, they
provide detailed information concerning their identity and demographics (e.g., gender,
race, income, home location, occupation, etc.) to the AME. The AME sets a cookie on
the panelist computer that enables the AME to identify the panelist whenever the
panelist accesses tagged media and, thus, sends monitoring information to the AME.
[0031]      Since most of the clients providing monitoring information from the tagged
pages are not panelists and, thus, are unknown to the AME, it is necessary to use
statistical methods to impute demographic information based on the data collected for
panelists to the larger population of users providing data for the tagged media.
However, panel sizes of AMEs remain small compared to the general population of
users. Thus, a problem is presented as to how to increase panel sizes while ensuring
the demographics data of the panel is accurate.
[0032]      There are many database proprietors operating on the Internet. These
database proprietors provide services (e.g., social networking services, email
services, media access services, etc.) to large numbers of subscribers. In exchange
for the provision of such services, the subscribers register with the proprietors. As part
of this registration, the subscribers provide detailed demographic information.
Examples of such database proprietors include social network providers such as
Facebook, Myspace, Twitter, etc. These database proprietors set cookies on the
                                              -5-

computers of their subscribers to enable the database proprietors to recognize
registered users when such registered users visit their websites.
[0033]      Examples disclosed herein can be used to determine media impressions,
advertisement impressions, media exposure, and/or advertisement exposure using
user information, which is distributed across different databases (e.g., different
website owners, service providers, etc.) on the Internet. Not only do example
methods, apparatus, and articles of manufacture disclosed herein enable more
accurate correlation of Internet media exposure to user information, but they also
effectively extend panel sizes and compositions beyond persons participating in the
panel of an audience measurement entity and/or a ratings entity to persons registered
in other Internet databases such as the databases of wireless service carriers, mobile
software/service providers, social medium sites (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, Google,
etc.), and/or any other Internet sites such as Yahoo!, MSN, Apple iTunes, Experian,
etc. This extension effectively leverages the media impression tracking capabilities of
the AME and the use of databases of non-AME entities such as social media and
other websites to create an enormous, demographically accurate panel that results in
accurate, reliable measurements of exposures to Internet media such as advertising
and/or programming. Examples of such media include web sites, images presented
on web sites, and/or streaming media accessible via a computing device (e.g.,
Amazon Video, Netflix, Hulu, etc.).
[0034]     Traditionally, AMEs (also referred to herein as "ratings entities") determine
demographic reach for advertising and media programming based on registered
panel members. That is, an AME enrolls people that consent to being monitored into
a panel. During enrollment, the AME receives demographic information from the
enrolling people so that subsequent correlations may be made between
advertisement/media exposure to those panelists and different demographic markets.
Unlike traditional techniques in which AMEs rely solely on their own panel member
data to collect demographics-based audience measurement, example methods,
apparatus, and/or articles of manufacture disclosed herein enable an AME to share
demographic information with other entities that operate based on user registration
models. As used herein, a user registration model is a model in which users subscribe
to services of those entities by creating an account and providing demographic
related information about themselves. Sharing of demographic information associated
with registered users of database proprietors enables an AME to extend or
                                            -6-

supplement their panel data with substantially reliable demographics information from
external sources (e.g., database proprietors), thus extending the coverage, accuracy,
and/or completeness of their demographics-based audience measurements. Such
access also enables the AME to monitor persons who would not otherwise have
joined an AME panel. Any entity having a database identifying demographics of a set
of individuals may cooperate with the AME. Such entities may be referred to as
"database proprietors" and include entities such as wireless service carriers, mobile
software/service providers, social medium sites (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, Google,
etc.), and/or any other Internet sites such as Yahoo!, MSN, Apple iTunes, Experian,
etc. that collect demographic data of users which may be in exchange for a service.
[0035]      Examples disclosed herein may be implemented by an AME (e.g., any
entity interested in measuring or tracking audience exposures to advertisements,
content, and/or any other media) in cooperation with any number of database
proprietors such as online web services providers to develop online media exposure
metrics. Such database proprietors/online web services providers may be wireless
service carriers, mobile software/service providers, social network sites (e.g.,
 Facebook, Twitter, MySpace, etc.), multi-service sites (e.g., Yahoo!, Google,
 Experian, etc.), online retailer sites (e.g., Amazon.com, Buy.com, etc.), and/or any
other web service(s) site that maintains user registration records.
[0036]      The use of demographic information from disparate data sources (e.g.,
high-quality demographic information from the panels of an audience measurement
entity and/or registered user data of web service providers) results in improved
reporting effectiveness of metrics for both online and offline advertising campaigns.
 Example techniques disclosed herein use online registration data to identify
demographics of users, and/or other user information, and use server impression
counts, and/or other techniques to track quantities of impressions attributable to those
users. Online web service providers such as wireless service carriers, mobile
software/service providers, social network sites (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, MySpace,
etc.), multi-service sites (e.g., Yahoo!, Google, Experian, etc.), online retailer sites
(e.g., Amazon.com, Buy.com, etc.), etc. (collectively and individually referred to herein
as online database proprietors) maintain detailed demographic information (e.g., age,
gender, geographic location, race, income level, education level, religion, etc.)
collected via user registration processes. An impression corresponds to a home or
 individual having been exposed to the corresponding media and/or advertisement.
                                                -7-

Thus, an impression represents a home or an individual having been exposed to an
advertisement or media or group of advertisements or media. In Internet advertising,
a quantity of impressions or impression count is the total number of times an
advertisement or advertisement campaign has been accessed by a web population
(e.g., including number of times accessed as decreased by, for example, pop-up
blockers and/or increased by, for example, retrieval from local cache memory).
[0037]      Examples disclosed herein adjust impression information obtained from
client device(s) and database proprietor(s) to increase accuracy of demographics
corresponding to the logged impressions. When using database proprietor data to
provide demographic information for impressions, the audience demographics and/or
impression information obtained from the client device(s) and the database
proprietor(s) can be biased due to errors including: 1) misattribution error resulting
from device sharing and/or 2) database proprietor non-coverage error. In some
situations these two different sources of bias appear to result in similar error factors,
but are actually distinct biases. Examples disclosed herein generate and apply
calibration factors to the audience data to correct for these errors.
[0038]      Misattribution error refers to the measurement bias that occurs when a first
person belonging to a first demographic group is believed to be the person associated
with a media impression on a device when, in fact, a second person belonging to a
second demographic group is the person for whom the media impression occurred. In
some examples of such a situation, a mobile device is shared between multiple
persons of a household. Initially, a first person in the household uses the mobile
device to access a web site associated with a database proprietor (e.g., via a web
browser of the mobile device, via an app installed on the mobile device, etc.) and the
database proprietor may recognize the first person as being associated with the
mobile device based on the access (e.g., a login event) by the first person.
Subsequently, the first person stops using the device but does not log out of the
database proprietor system on the device and/or the second person does not log in to
the database proprietor system to allow the database proprietor to recognize the
second person as a different user than the first person. Consequently, when the
second person begins using the same mobile device to access media, the database
proprietor continues to (in this case, incorrectly) recognize uses of the mobile device
(e.g., media impressions) as being associated with the first person. Therefore,
impressions that should be attributed to the second person and the second
                                              -8-

demographic group are incorrectly attributed to the first person and the first
demographic group. The effect of large-scale misattribution error may create
measurement bias error by incorrectly representing the demographic distribution of
media impressions across a large audience and, therefore, misrepresenting the
audience demographics of impressions collected for advertisements and/or other
media to which exposure is monitored by an audience measurement entity.
Example Technical Advantages of Disclosed Examples
[0039]      Prior techniques of correcting misattribution error include determining
adjustment factors by comparing A) demographic information collected for computing
sessions using panelist meter software installed at client computers with B)
demographic information determined using cookie-based impressions from a
database proprietor for the same computing sessions. Examples of such techniques
are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/756,493, filed January 31,
2013. The entirety of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/756,493 is incorporated by
reference herein. Examples disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Serial No.
13/756,493 rely on the panelist meter software locally-installed at client computers to
accurately identify panelists enrolled in a panel of an audience measurement entity.
Examples disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/756,493 also rely on
cookies or cookie-like data to determine the adjustment factors. Such techniques are
unsuitable for correcting for misattribution error on devices that do not have installed
panelist meter software and/or do not provide cookies useable as client device
identifiers, such as some mobile devices (e.g., iOS devices). In other words, the prior
techniques rely on locally-installed panelist meter software and cookies to generate
the misattribution adjustment factors. Without such locally-installed panelist meter
software and/or without such cookies, the prior techniques will not successfully
generate misattribution adjustment factors.
[0040]      In contrast to prior systems and methods, examples disclosed herein
generate misattribution factors using a misattribution correction matrix based on
responses to a survey conducted on randomly selected people and/or households,
and do not rely on cookies or use cookies to generate misattribution correction factors
and/or a misattribution correction matrix. As used herein, the term "database
proprietor registration status" as used with reference to a person refers to whether
that person is registered with one or more particular database proprietor(s). Prior
techniques that rely on locally-installed panelist metering software to collect database
                                             -9-

proprietor registration statuses (e.g., whether individual household members are
registered with a particular database proprietor) and to collect media access data by
household members may not be able to accurately correct impression information for
misattribution bias error and/or non-coverage bias error for impressions that occur on
device types that are not monitored by the panelist metering software. Examples
disclosed herein generate misattribution correction factors without relying on panelist
meter software being locally-installed at client computers to collect database
proprietor registration status data. Examples disclosed herein also generate
misattribution correction factors without relying on such locally-installed panelist meter
software to collect data about media accesses by household members. Thus,
examples disclosed herein determine misattribution correction factors for any device
type(s), including device types from which database proprietor registration status
data, database proprietor login data, and/or data about media accesses by household
members are not collected (and/or are not collectable) using locally-installed panelist
metering software. Such devices are referred to herein as "non-locally-metered
devices."
[0041]      In some such disclosed examples, panelist data is collected differently and
used differently than in prior techniques. In such examples, panelist data is employed
to adjust the misattribution correction factors to more accurately determine incidences
of persons in demographic groups living together. As used herein, the "incidence of
persons in demographic groups living together" refers to the relative frequency of
occurrences of people in a first demographic group living with people in a second
demographic group (e.g., the percentage of people in demographic group A who live
with someone in demographic group B). However, the aggregated audience
distributions corresponding to collected impressions are still generated without
reference to the panelist data. In examples disclosed herein, the panelist data is only
used to adjust generated aggregated audience distributions. The adjusted aggregated
audience distributions are used to generate and/or adjust the misattribution correction
factors. For example, panelist data that may be used to adjust for incidences of
persons in demographic groups living together may include respective numbers of
people in a first demographic group who live with a person in a second demographic
group (e.g., the same demographic group or a different demographic group than the
first demographic group). In some examples, the panelist data used to adjust for the
incidences of persons in demographic groups living together does not indicate
                                            -10-

whether a panelist is a registered user of a database proprietor (e.g., does not include
cookies) and does not include information indicating media accesses using computing
devices.
[0042]      Disclosed examples determine the probability of misattribution by
determining a probability that, when a person in a demographic group (i) is identified
by a database proprietor as a viewer of media, a person in a demographic group (j) is
an actual viewer of the media. In some examples, the probability of misattribution is
calculated by redistributing the audience and/or the impressions observed in
association with a household using a survey calibration data source. In such
examples, the survey calibration data source is used to aggregate and adjust the
redistributed audience and/or impressions for multiple households for oversampling
and/or undersampling by. In some such examples, the resulting probabilities are
normalized to reflect the probability of misattribution for each impression observed by
a database proprietor and associated with a demographic group.
[0043]      Other disclosed examples determine the probability of misattribution due to
device sharing as a combination of three separate probabilities: a) a probability of
living in the same home, b) a probability of having access to a mobile device (of any
type) in that home, and c) a probability of sharing the mobile device for a particular
content type. Examples disclosed herein apply the resulting probability of
misattribution to the impression data as a factor to compensate for errors in the
unique audience represented by the collected impression data. In some examples,
providing such error compensation involves constructing a misattribution correction
matrix to reflect the probabilities that an impression recognized by a database
proprietor as being associated with a first demographic group should, in fact, be
associated with a second demographic group.
[0044]      As used herein, non-coverage error is defined to refer to the measurement
bias that occurs due to the inability of the database proprietor to recognize (e.g.,
identify the demographics of) a portion of the audience using mobile devices to view
media. In some instances, when requests are sent from a mobile device to a
database proprietor, as in the examples disclosed above, the database proprietor is
not able to match the data in the request to a person. The inability of a database
proprietor to recognize a person associated with a given impression may occur due
to: 1) the person accessing the media giving rise to the impression has not provided
his or her information to the database proprietor (e.g., the person is not registered
                                             -11-

with the database proprietor (e.g., Facebook) such that there is no record of the
person at the database proprietor, the registration profile corresponding to the person
is incomplete, the registration profile corresponding to the person has been flagged as
suspect for possibly containing inaccurate information, etc.), 2) the person is
registered with the database proprietor, but does not access the database proprietor
using the specific mobile device on which the impression occurs (e.g., only accesses
the database proprietor from a computer and/or other mobile devices different than
the mobile device associated with the current request, and/or a user identifier for the
person is not available on the mobile device on which the impression occurs), and/or
3) the person is registered with the database proprietor and accesses (e.g., the
person has previously logged in to the database proprietor from the mobile device)
the database proprietor using the mobile device on which the impression occurs, but
takes other active or passive measures (e.g., blocks or deletes cookies) that prevent
the database proprietor from associating the mobile device with the person. In some
examples, a user identifier for a person is not available on a mobile device on which
an impression occurs because the mobile device and/or application/software on the
mobile device is not a cookie-based device and/or application.
[0045]      Examples disclosed herein generate device sharing matrices and/or non
coverage factors for different combinations of media categories and/or mobile device
types. Examples of media categories for which separate device sharing matrices
and/or non-coverage factors may be generated include advertising, children's
programming, comedy, drama, feature films, informational and/or news programming,
sports, variety (e.g., game shows, reality shows, talk shows), and/or other categories.
Examples of device types for which separate device sharing matrices and/or non
coverage factors may be generated include smartphones (e.g., Phones, Android OS
based smartphones, Blackberry smartphones, Windows Mobile-based smartphones,
etc.), tablet computers (e.g., Pads, Android OS-based tablet computers, etc.),
portable media players (e.g., iPods, etc.), and/or other device types. Such device
types may be cookie-based devices (e.g., devices that run cookie-based
applications/software) and/or non-cookie-based devices (e.g., devices such as Apple
iOS devices that run applications/software that do not employ cookies).
[0046]      Disclosed example methods and apparatus for compensating impression
information for misattribution and/or non-coverage error solve the technical problems
of accurately determining demographics associated with impressions of media that
                                            -12-

are delivered and monitored via a network such as the Internet. Media impressions
occur at computing devices, and data indicating the occurrences of media
impressions is collected using such computing devices. The calibration of such data
can include collecting, processing, and/or analyzing hundreds of thousands, millions,
or more impressions. As such, the calibration and/or correction of such a large
volume of data presents an enormous technical challenge. Disclosed examples may
be applied to a set of media impressions collected via computing devices to produce
accurate demographic information for huge volumes of media impressions (e.g.,
100,000 impressions per week) in an efficient and timely manner. This provides a
significant improvement in the technical field of audience measurement.
[0047]      Examples disclosed herein may be used with the Online Campaign Ratings
(OCR) systems developed by The Nielsen Company (US), LLC. The OCR systems
are efficient systems for collecting and analyzing large amounts of data. The OCR
system does not require panelist software to obtain the data to be processed. The
techniques disclosed herein enable the generation of adjustment factors without
requiring the introduction of panelist software. This reduces the amount of software
required and eliminates the need for end user computers. These are technical
advantages that reduce overhead and usage of computing resources. The techniques
disclosed herein also serve to efficiently calibrate the OCR automated system to
correct for misattribution errors that can arise in its operation. Thus, disclosed
techniques solve the technical problem of calibrating the OCR system to accurately
reflect real world conditions and, thus, calibration is achieved by eliminating the need
for panelist software distributed throughout the system.
[0048]      Disclosed example methods involve: receiving, at a first internet domain, a
first request from a first type of computing device. In the example methods, the first
request is indicative of access to media at the computing device. The example
methods further involve sending a request for demographic information corresponding
to requests received at the first internet domain from the first type of computing
device. The requests include the first request. The example methods further involve
obtaining a count of media impressions occurring on the first type of computing
device, a first portion of the media impressions corresponding to persons for whom
demographic information is recognizable by a database proprietor and a second
portion of the media impressions corresponding to persons for whom demographic
information is unavailable to the database proprietor; and determining the
                                            -13-

demographic information for the second portion of the media impressions based on a
first probability that media corresponding to the media impressions is accessed on the
first type of computing device and based on a second probability that media is
accessed on a second type of device.
[0049]      In some example methods, determining the demographic information
comprises multiplying a ratio of the first probability to the second probability by a
number of the media impressions attributed to a first demographic group. In some
example methods, the first probability is a probability that a person in the first
demographic group accesses media on the first type of computing device and the
second probability is a probability that the person in the first demographic group
accesses the media on the second type of computing device. Some example
methods further involve adjusting the media impressions to compensate for incorrect
attribution of a subset of the media impressions to second persons in a second
demographic group, the number of the media impressions attributed to the first
demographic group being determined from the subset of the media impressions that
are adjusted to compensate for the incorrect attribution.
[0050]      In some example methods, the first type of computing device comprises a
mobile device and the second type of device comprises a television. In some example
methods, the first type of computing device comprises at least one of a smartphone, a
tablet computer, or a portable media player. In some example methods, the first and
second probabilities correspond to a media category of the media. In some example
methods, the media category is at least one of comedy, drama, political, reality, or a
combination media category.
[0051]      Some example methods further involve adjusting the media impressions,
before determining the demographic information, for ones of the media impressions
being incorrectly attributed to persons not having caused the ones of the media
impressions. Some example methods further involve calculating the first and second
probabilities based on survey responses to a survey of people, calculating the first
probability comprising determining, from the survey responses, weights associated
with at least one of a demographic group, a media category, a type of computing
device, or a geographic region, the weights indicating respective probabilities of
accessing the media associated with the media impressions on a device type of
interest.
                                            -14-

[0052]       In some example methods, the survey is of at least one of a random panel
or a panel of audience members maintained by an audience measurement entity. In
some example methods, determining the demographic information for the portion of
the media impressions involves: determining proportions of the media impressions
attributable to different demographic groups corresponding to the persons and scaling
the proportions of the media impressions to the portion of the media impressions.
[0053]       Some example methods further involve providing instructions to a
publisher, where the instructions are to be provided by the publisher to the computing
device. When executed by the computing device, the instructions provided by the
publisher cause the computing device to send the first request. Some example
methods further involve conserving computer processing resources by not
communicating with individual online users about their online media access activities
and by not requesting survey responses from the online users to determine the first
probability that the media corresponding to the media impressions is accessed on the
first type of computing device or to determine the second probability that the media is
accessed on the second type of device. Some example methods further involve
conserving network communication bandwidth by not communicating with individual
online users about their online media access activities and by not requesting survey
responses from the online users to determine the first probability that the media
corresponding to the media impressions is accessed on the first type of computing
device or to determine the second probability that the media is accessed on the
second type of device.
[0054]       Disclosed example apparatus include an impression collector to receive, at
a first internet domain, a first request from a computing device and send a request for
demographic information corresponding to requests received at the first internet
domain from the first type of computing device, the requests including the first
request. In the disclosed example apparatus, the first request is indicative of access
to media at the computing device. The disclosed example apparatus also include
impression information collector to access a count of media impressions occurring on
a first type of computing device, a first portion of the media impressions
corresponding to persons for whom demographic information is recognizable by a
database proprietor and a second portion of the media impressions corresponding to
persons for whom demographic information is unavailable to the database proprietor.
The disclosed example apparatus also include a non-coverage corrector to determine
                                             -15-

the demographic information for the portion of the media impressions based on a first
probability that media corresponding to the media impressions is accessed on the first
type of computing device and based on a second probability that media is accessed
on a second type of device, at least one of the impression information collector or the
non-coverage corrector being implemented by a logic circuit.
[0055]      Some example apparatus further include a non-coverage calculator to
multiply a ratio of the first probability to the second probability by a number of the
media impressions attributed to a first demographic group. In some example
apparatus, the first probability is a probability that a person in the first demographic
group accesses media on the first type of computing device and the second
probability is a probability that the person in the first demographic group accesses the
media on the second type of computing device.
[0056]      Some example apparatus further include a misattribution corrector to adjust
the media impressions to compensate for incorrect attribution of a subset of the media
impressions to second persons in a second demographic group, the number of the
media impressions attributed to the first demographic group being determined from
the subset of the media impressions that are adjusted to compensate for the incorrect
attribution. In some example apparatus, the first type of computing device comprises
a mobile device and the second type of computing device comprises a television. In
some example apparatus, the first type of computing device comprises at least one of
a smartphone, a tablet computer, or a portable media player. In some example
apparatus, the non-coverage calculator is to calculate the first and second
probabilities based on survey responses to a survey of people, and the non-coverage
calculator is to calculate the first probability by determining, from the survey
responses, weights associated with at least one of a demographic group, a media
category, a type of computing device, or a geographic region, the weights indicating
respective probabilities of accessing the media associated with the media
impressions on a device type of interest.
[0057]      In some example apparatus, the survey is of at least one of a random panel
or a panel of audience members maintained by an audience measurement entity. In
some example apparatus, the first and second probabilities correspond to a media
category of the media. In some example apparatus, the media category is at least one
of comedy, drama, political, reality, or a combination media category. In some
example apparatus, the non-coverage corrector is to determine the demographic
                                               -16-

information for the portion of the media impressions by determining proportions of the
media impressions attributable to different demographic groups corresponding to the
persons and scaling the proportions of the media impressions to the portion of the
media impressions.
[0058]      Additional disclosed example methods involve receiving, at a first internet
domain, a first request from a first type of computing device and sending a request for
demographic information corresponding to requests received at the first internet
domain from the first type of computing device, the requests including the first
request. In the disclosed example methods, the first request is indicative of access to
media at the computing device. The disclosed example methods further involve
generating an aggregated audience distribution including a first audience distribution
of a first household aggregated with a second audience distribution of a second
household, the first audience distribution comprising a distribution of first household
members of the first household into demographic groups, based on a survey
response of the first household, of ones of the household members who are
registered with a database proprietor, the first audience distribution being based on
accesses to first media by the first household members; normalizing the aggregated
audience distribution to generate a misattribution correction matrix, the misattribution
correction matrix comprising a probability that an impression of the media is
attributable to a first demographic group when the database proprietor determines the
impression to correspond to a person in a second demographic group; and
compensating misattribution error in the impressions by re-assigning the impressions
from the second demographic group to the first demographic group using the
misattribution correction matrix.
[0059]      Some example methods further involve generating a correction index to
correct the aggregated audience distribution for at least one of oversampling or
undersampling associated with a survey calibration data source, the survey
calibration data source indicating the accesses to the media by the first household
members and registration statuses of the first household members with the database
proprietor. In some example methods, the correction index is based on a second
probability that a first person in the first demographic group lives with a second
person in the second demographic group. In some example methods, generating the
correction index comprises: determining, based on first survey calibration data, a first
quantity of first pairs of people representing ones of the first pairs of people including
                                              -17-

a first person in the first demographic group and a second person in the second
demographic group living together; determining, based on second survey calibration
data, a second quantity of second pairs of people representing ones of the second
pairs of people including a third person in the first demographic group and a fourth
person in the second demographic group living together, the second survey
calibration data having higher accuracy than the first survey calibration data; and
determining a ratio of the first quantity and the second quantity.
[0060]      In some example methods, the aggregated audience distribution describes,
for each first demographic group, a number of people in the second demographic
group who are to be attributed to that first demographic group, and normalizing the
aggregated audience distribution comprises scaling respective numbers of people in
the second demographic group such that a total of the number of people for the
second demographic group is a designated value. Some example methods further
involve determining a sharing pattern for the first household, the sharing pattern
indicative of ones of the first household members who access a media category and
other ones of the first household members who do not access the media category;
and determining a probability density function of device sharing probabilities for the
first household members in the first household based on the sharing pattern for the
media category, the probability density function indicative of respective probabilities
that the first household members access media in the media category, the first
audience distribution being based on the device sharing probabilities.
[0061]      Some example methods further involve aggregating the device sharing
probabilities for the first household members when the first household has two or
more registered ones of the first household members who are in a same second
demographic group. Some example methods further involve generating the first
audience distribution by distributing fractional numbers into the demographic groups,
the fractional numbers totaling a count of those ones of the first household members
who are registered with a database proprietor. In some example methods, generating
the first audience distribution does not use cookies. In some example methods,
generating the first audience distribution and generating the aggregated audience
distribution do not use metering software to collect registration statuses of household
members with the database proprietor or to collect media access data. In some
example methods, re-assigning the impressions comprises determining a product of
the misattribution correction matrix and an impressions matrix, the impressions matrix
                                            -18-

indicating numbers of impressions determined by the database proprietor to
correspond to respective ones of the demographic groups. In some example
methods, re-assigning the impressions results in a same total number of impressions
as a total of the numbers of impressions in the impressions matrix.
[0062]      Some example methods further involve providing instructions to a
publisher, the instructions to be provided by the publisher to the computing device
and, when executed by the computing device, to cause the computing device to send
the first request. Some example methods further involve conserving computer
processing resources by not communicating with individual online users about their
online media access activities and by not requesting survey responses from the
online users to generate the aggregated audience distribution. Some example
methods further involve conserving network communication bandwidth by not
communicating with individual online users about their online media access activities
and by not requesting survey responses from the online users to generate the
aggregated audience distribution.
[0063]      Additional disclosed example apparatus include an impression collector to
receive, at a first internet domain, a first request from a first type of computing device,
and send a request for demographic information corresponding to requests received
at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the requests
including the first request. In the disclosed example apparatus, the first request is
indicative of access to media at the computing device. The disclosed example
apparatus also include an aggregated distribution generator to generate an
aggregated audience distribution including a first audience distribution of a first
household aggregated with a second audience distribution of a second household,
the first audience distribution comprising a distribution of first household members of
the first household into demographic groups, based on a survey response of the first
household, of ones of the first household members who are registered with a
database proprietor, the first audience distribution being based on accesses to first
media by the first household members. The example apparatus further includes a
matrix normalizer to normalize the aggregated audience distribution to generate a
misattribution correction matrix, the misattribution correction matrix comprising a
probability that an impression of the media is attributable to a first demographic group
when the database proprietor determines the impression to correspond to a person in
a second demographic group. The disclosed example apparatus further includes a
                                              -19-

misattribution corrector to compensate misattribution error in the impressions by re
assigning the impressions from the second demographic group to the first
demographic group using the misattribution correction matrix, at least one of the
aggregated distribution generator, the matrix normalizer, or the misattribution
corrector being implemented by a logic circuit.
[0064]      Some example apparatus further include a matrix corrector to generate a
correction index to correct the aggregated audience distribution for at least one of
oversampling or undersampling associated with a survey calibration data source, the
survey calibration data source indicating the accesses to the media by the first
household members and registration statuses of the first household members with the
database proprietor. In some example apparatus, the correction index is based on a
second probability that a first person in the first demographic group lives with a
second person in the second demographic group. In some example apparatus, the
matrix corrector is to generate the correction index by: determining, based on first
survey calibration data, a first quantity of first pairs of people, respective ones of the
first pairs of people including a first person in the first demographic group and a
second person in the second demographic group living together; determining, based
on second survey calibration data, a second quantity of second pairs of people,
respective ones of the second pairs of people including a third person in the first
demographic group and a fourth person in the second demographic group living
together, the second survey calibration data having higher accuracy than the first
survey calibration data; and determining a ratio of the first quantity and the second
quantity.
[0065]      In some example apparatus, the aggregated audience distribution
describes, for each first demographic group, a number of people in the second
demographic group who are to be attributed to that first demographic group, and the
matrix normalizer is to normalize the aggregated audience distribution by scaling
respective numbers of people in the second demographic group such that a total of
the number of people for the second demographic group is a designated value.
[0066]      Some example apparatus further include a household distribution generator
to: determine a sharing pattern for the first household, the sharing pattern indicative of
ones of the first household members who access a media category and other ones of
the first household members who do not access the media category; and determine a
probability density function of device sharing probabilities for the first household
                                             -20-

members in the first household based on the sharing pattern for the media category,
the probability density function indicative of respective probabilities that the first
household members access media in the media category, the first audience
distribution being based on the device sharing probabilities.
[0067]      In some example apparatus, the aggregated distribution generator is to
aggregate the device sharing probabilities for the first household members when the
first household has two or more registered ones of the first household members who
are in a same second demographic group. Some example apparatus further include a
household distribution generator to generate the first audience distribution by
distributing fractional numbers into the demographic groups, the fractional numbers
totaling a count of those ones of the first household members who are registered with
a database proprietor. In some example apparatus, the misattribution corrector is to
re-assign the impressions by determining a product of the misattribution correction
matrix and an impressions matrix, the impressions matrix indicating numbers of
impressions determined by the database proprietor to correspond to respective ones
of the demographic groups. In some example apparatus, the misattribution corrector
is to re-assign the impressions such that a total number of re-assigned impressions is
a same total number of impressions as a total of the numbers of impressions in the
impressions matrix.
[0068]      Additional disclosed example methods involve receiving, at a first internet
domain, a first request from a first type of computing device and sending a request for
demographic information corresponding to requests received at the first internet
domain from the first type of computing device, the requests including the first
request. In the disclosed example methods, the first request is indicative of access to
media at the computing device. The disclosed example methods further involve
generating an aggregated audience distribution including a first audience distribution
of a first household aggregated with a second audience distribution of a second
household, the first audience distribution comprising a distribution of first household
members of the first household into demographic groups of ones of the first
household members that are registered with a database proprietor, the first audience
distribution being based on accesses to first media by the first household members,
and the aggregated audience distribution being generated without using cookies;
normalizing the aggregated audience distribution to generate a misattribution
correction matrix, the misattribution correction matrix comprising a probability that an
                                            -21-

impression of the media is attributable to a first demographic group when the
database proprietor determines the impression to correspond to a person in a second
demographic group; and compensating misattribution error in the impressions by re
assigning the impressions to the first demographic group using the misattribution
correction matrix, the impressions being indicative of media accessed on mobile
devices.
[0069]      Some example methods further involve generating a correction index to
correct the aggregated audience distribution for at least one of oversampling or
undersampling associated with a survey calibration data source, the survey
calibration data source indicating the accesses to the media by the first household
members and registration statuses of the first household members with the database
proprietor. In some example methods, the correction index is based on a second
probability that a first person in the first demographic group lives with a second
person in the second demographic group. In some example methods, generating the
correction index comprises: determining, based on first survey calibration data, a first
quantity of first pairs of people representing ones of the first pairs of people including
a first person in the first demographic group and a second person in the second
demographic group living together; determining, based on second survey calibration
data, a second quantity of second pairs of people representing ones of the second
pairs of people including a third person in the first demographic group and a fourth
person in the second demographic group living together, the second survey
calibration data having higher accuracy than the first survey calibration data; and
determining a ratio of the first quantity and the second quantity.
[0070]      In some example methods, the aggregated audience distribution describes,
for each first demographic group, a number of people in the second demographic
group who are to be attributed to that first demographic group, and normalizing the
aggregated audience distribution comprises scaling respective numbers of people in
the second demographic group such that a total of the number of people for the
second demographic group is a designated value. Some example methods further
involve determining a sharing pattern for the first household, the sharing pattern
indicative of ones of the first household members who access a media category and
other ones of the first household members who do not access the media category;
and determining a probability density function of device sharing probabilities for the
first household members in the first household based on the sharing pattern for the
                                              -22-

media category, the probability density function indicative of respective probabilities
that the first household members access media in the media category, the first
audience distribution being based on the device sharing probabilities.
[0071]      Some example methods further involve aggregating the device sharing
probabilities for the first household members when the first household has two or
more registered ones of the first household members who are in a same second
demographic group. Some example methods further involve generating the first
audience distribution by distributing fractional numbers into the demographic groups,
the fractional numbers totaling a count of those ones of the first household members
who are registered with a database proprietor. In some example methods, generating
the first audience distribution does not use cookies. In some example methods,
generating the first audience distribution and generating the aggregated audience
distribution do not use metering software to collect registration statuses of household
members with the database proprietor or to collect media access data. In some
example methods, re-assigning the impressions comprises determining a product of
the misattribution correction matrix and an impressions matrix, the impressions matrix
indicating numbers of impressions determined by the database proprietor to
correspond to respective ones of the demographic groups. In some example
methods, re-assigning the impressions results in a same total number of impressions
as a total of the numbers of impressions in the impressions matrix.
[0072]      Some example methods further involve providing instructions to a
publisher, the instructions to be provided by the publisher to the computing device
and, when executed by the computing device, to cause the computing device to send
the first request. Some example methods further involve conserving computer
processing resources by not communicating with individual online users about their
online media access activities and by not requesting survey responses from the
online users to generate the aggregated audience distribution. Some example
methods further involve conserving network communication bandwidth by not
communicating with individual online users about their online media access activities
and by not requesting survey responses from the online users to generate the
aggregated audience distribution.
[0073]      Additional disclosed example apparatus include an impression collector to
receive, at a first internet domain, a first request from a first type of computing device
and send a request for demographic information corresponding to requests received
                                              -23-

at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the requests
including the first request. In the disclosed example apparatus, the first request
indicative of access to media at the computing device. The disclosed example
apparatus further include an aggregated distribution generator to generate an
aggregated audience distribution including a first audience distribution of a first
household aggregated with a second audience distribution of a second household,
the first audience distribution comprising a distribution of first household members of
the first household into demographic groups of ones of the first household members
that are registered with a database proprietor, the aggregated distribution generator
generates the aggregated audience distribution without using cookies, and the first
audience distribution is based on accesses to first media by the first household
members. The example apparatus also include a matrix normalizer to normalize the
aggregated audience distribution to generate the misattribution correction matrix, the
misattribution correction matrix comprising a probability that an impression of the
media is attributable to a first demographic group when the database proprietor
determines the impression to correspond to a person in a second demographic group.
The example apparatus also include a misattribution corrector to compensate
misattribution error in the impressions by re-assigning the impressions to the first
demographic group using the misattribution correction matrix, the impressions being
indicative of media accessed on mobile devices. At least one of the aggregated
distribution generator, the matrix normalizer, or the misattribution corrector is
implemented by a logic circuit.
[0074]      Some example apparatus further include a matrix corrector to generate a
correction index to correct the aggregated audience distribution for at least one of
oversampling or undersampling associated with a survey calibration data source, the
survey calibration data source indicating the accesses to the media by the first
household members and registration statuses of the first household members with the
database proprietor. In some example apparatus, the correction index is based on a
second probability that a first person in the first demographic group lives with a
second person in the second demographic group. In some example apparatus, the
matrix corrector is to generate the correction index by: determining, based on first
survey calibration data, a first quantity of first pairs of people, respective ones of the
first pairs of people including a first person in the first demographic group and a
second person in the second demographic group living together; determining, based
                                             -24-

on second survey calibration data, a second quantity of second pairs of people,
respective ones of the second pairs of people including a third person in the first
demographic group and a fourth person in the second demographic group living
together, the second survey calibration data having higher accuracy than the first
survey calibration data; and determining a ratio of the first quantity and the second
quantity.
[0075]      In some example apparatus, the aggregated audience distribution
describes, for each first demographic group, a number of people in the second
demographic group who are to be attributed to that first demographic group, and the
matrix normalizer is to normalize the aggregated audience distribution by scaling
respective numbers of people in the second demographic group such that a total of
the number of people for the second demographic group is a designated value.
[0076]      Some example apparatus further include a household distribution generator
to: determine a sharing pattern for the first household, the sharing pattern indicative of
ones of the first household members who access a media category and other ones of
the first household members who do not access the media category; and determine a
probability density function of device sharing probabilities for the first household
members in the first household based on the sharing pattern for the media category,
the probability density function indicative of respective probabilities that the first
household members access media in the media category, the first audience
distribution being based on the device sharing probabilities.
[0077]      In some example apparatus, the aggregated distribution generator is to
aggregate the device sharing probabilities for the first household members when the
first household has two or more registered ones of the first household members who
are in a same second demographic group. Some example apparatus further include a
household distribution generator to generate the first audience distribution by
distributing fractional numbers into the demographic groups, the fractional numbers
totaling a count of those ones of the first household members who are registered with
a database proprietor. In some example apparatus, the misattribution corrector is to
re-assign the impressions by determining a product of the misattribution correction
matrix and an impressions matrix, the impressions matrix indicating numbers of
impressions determined by the database proprietor to correspond to respective ones
of the demographic groups. In some example apparatus, the misattribution corrector
is to re-assign the impressions such that a total number of re-assigned impressions is
                                            -25-

a same total number of impressions as a total of the numbers of impressions in the
impressions matrix.
[0078]      Additional disclosed example methods involve: collecting media
impressions from a first type of computing device; requesting demographic
information for the media impressions from a database proprietor, a first portion of the
media impressions corresponding to persons for whom demographic information is
stored by a database proprietor and a second portion of the media impressions
corresponding to persons for whom demographic information is unavailable to the
database proprietor; receiving the demographic information corresponding to the first
portion of the media impressions from the database proprietor; determining, using the
processor, a number of media impressions in the second portion of the media
impressions; and determining, using the processor, the demographic information for
the second portion of the media impressions based on a first probability that media
corresponding to the media impressions is accessed on the first type of computing
device and based on a second probability that media is accessed on a second type of
device.
[0079]      Additional disclosed example methods involve receiving, at a first internet
domain, a first request from a first type of computing device, the first request
indicative of access to media at the computing device and receiving, at the first
internet domain, a second request from the computing device, the second request
indicative of access to a duration unit of the media at the computing device. The
disclosed example methods further involve sending a request for demographic
information corresponding to requests received at the first internet domain from the
first type of computing device, the requests including the second request. The
disclosed example methods further involve obtaining a count of durational units
occurring on the first type of computing device, a first portion of the durational units
corresponding to persons for whom demographic information is recognizable by a
database proprietor and a second portion of the durational units corresponding to
persons for whom demographic information is unavailable to the database proprietor,
and determining the demographic information for the second portion of the durational
units based on a first probability that media corresponding to the durational units is
accessed on the first type of computing device and based on a second probability that
media is accessed on a second type of device.
                                            -26-

[0080]      Additional disclosed example apparatus include an impression collector. In
the disclosed example apparatus, the impression collector is to receive, at a first
internet domain, a first request from a first type of computing device, the first request
indicative of access to media at the computing device. In the disclosed example
apparatus, the impression collector is also to receive, at the first internet domain, a
second request from the computing device, the second request indicative of access to
a duration unit of the media at the computing device. In the disclosed example
apparatus, the impression collector is also to send a request for demographic
information corresponding to requests received at the first internet domain from the
first type of computing device, the requests including the second request. The
disclosed example apparatus also include an impression information collector to
access a count of duration units occurring on a first type of computing device, a first
portion of the duration units corresponding to persons for whom demographic
information is recognizable by a database proprietor and a second portion of the
duration units corresponding to persons for whom demographic information is
unavailable to the database proprietor. The disclosed example apparatus also include
a non-coverage corrector to determine the demographic information for the portion of
the duration units based on a first probability that media corresponding to the duration
units is accessed on the first type of computing device and based on a second
probability that media is accessed on a second type of device, at least one of the
impression information collector or the non-coverage corrector being implemented by
a logic circuit.
[0081]      While examples disclosed herein are described with reference to
compensating or adjusting impression information obtained from mobile devices, the
examples are also applicable to non-mobile devices such as desktop computers,
televisions, video game consoles, set top boxes, and/or other devices.
Impression and Demographic Information Collection
[0082]      FIG. 1 depicts an example system 100 to collect user information (e.g., user
information 102a, 102b) from distributed database proprietors 104a, 104b for
associating with impressions of media presented at a client device 106. In the
illustrated examples, user information 102a, 102b or user data includes one or more
of demographic data, purchase data, and/or other data indicative of user activities,
behaviors, and/or preferences related to information accessed via the Internet,
purchases, media accessed on electronic devices, physical locations (e.g., retail or
                                            -27-

commercial establishments, restaurants, venues, etc.) visited by users, etc. Examples
disclosed herein are described in connection with a mobile device, which may be a
mobile phone, a mobile communication device, a tablet, a gaming device, a portable
media presentation device, etc. However, examples disclosed herein may be
implemented in connection with non-mobile devices such as internet appliances,
smart televisions, internet terminals, computers, or any other device capable of
presenting media received via network communications.
[0083]      In the illustrated example of FIG. 1, to track media impressions on the client
device 106, an audience measurement entity (AME) 108 partners with or cooperates
with an app publisher 110 to download and install a data collector 112 on the client
device 106. The app publisher 110 of the illustrated example may be a software app
developer that develops and distributes apps to mobile devices and/or a distributor
that receives apps from software app developers and distributes the apps to mobile
devices. The data collector 112 may be included in other software loaded onto the
client device 106, such as the operating system 114, an application (or app) 116, a
web browser 117, and/or any other software. The example client device 106 of FIG. 1
is a non-locally metered device. That is, the client device 106 does not support and/or
has not been provided with metering software (e.g., metering software provided by
the AME 108).
[0084]     Any of the example software 114-117 may present media 118 received
from a media publisher 120. The media 118 may be an advertisement, video, audio,
text, a graphic, a web page, news, educational media, entertainment media, or any
other type of media. In the illustrated example, a media ID 122 is provided in the
media 118 to enable identifying the media 118 so that the AME 108 can credit the
media 118 with media impressions when the media 118 is presented on the client
device 106 or any other device that is monitored by the AME 108.
[0085]     The data collector 112 of the illustrated example includes instructions (e.g.,
Java, java script, or any other computer language or script) that, when executed by
the client device 106, cause the client device 106 to collect the media ID 122 of the
media 118 presented by the app program 116 and/or the client device 106, and to
collect one or more device/user identifier(s) 124 stored in the client device 106. The
device/user identifier(s) 124 of the illustrated example include identifiers that can be
used by corresponding ones of the partner database proprietors 104a-b to identify the
user or users of the client device 106, and to locate user information 102a-b
                                             -28-

corresponding to the user(s). For example, the device/user identifier(s) 124 may
include hardware identifiers (e.g., an international mobile equipment identity (IMEI), a
mobile equipment identifier (MEID), a media access control (MAC) address, etc.), an
app store identifier (e.g., a Google Android ID, an Apple ID, an Amazon ID, etc.), an
open source unique device identifier (OpenUDID), an open device identification
number (ODIN), a login identifier (e.g., a username), an email address, user agent
data (e.g., application type, operating system, software vendor, software revision,
etc.), third-party service identifiers (e.g., advertising service identifiers, device usage
analytics service identifiers, demographics collection service identifiers), web storage
data, document object model (DOM) storage data, local shared objects (also referred
to as "Flash cookies"), etc. In some examples, fewer or more device/user identifier(s)
124 may be used. In addition, although only two partner database proprietors 104a-b
are shown in FIG.1, the AME 108 may partner with any number of partner database
proprietors to collect distributed user information (e.g., the user information 102a-b).
[0086]       In some examples, the client device 106 may not allow access to
identification information stored in the client device 106. For such instances, the
disclosed examples enable the AME 108 to store an AME-provided identifier (e.g., an
identifier managed and tracked by the AME 108) in the client device 106 to track
media impressions on the client device 106. For example, the AME 108 may provide
instructions in the data collector 112 to set an AME-provided identifier in memory
space accessible by and/or allocated to the app program 116, and the data collector
112 uses the identifier as a device/user identifier 124. In such examples, the AME
provided identifier set by the data collector 112 persists in the memory space even
when the app program 116 and the data collector 112 are not running. In this manner,
the same AME-provided identifier can remain associated with the client device 106 for
extended durations. In some examples in which the data collector 112 sets an
identifier in the client device 106, the AME 108 may recruit a user of the client device
106 as a panelist, and may store user information collected from the user during a
panelist registration process and/or collected by monitoring user activities/behavior
via the client device 106 and/or any other device used by the user and monitored by
the AME 108. In this manner, the AME 108 can associate user information of the user
(from panelist data stored by the AME 108) with media impressions attributed to the
user on the client device 106.
                                               -29-

[0087]      In the illustrated example, the data collector 112 sends the media ID 122
and the one or more device/user identifier(s) 124 as collected data 126 to the app
publisher 110. Alternatively, the data collector 112 may be configured to send the
collected data 126 to another collection entity (other than the app publisher 110) that
has been contracted by the AME 108 or is partnered with the AME 108 to collect
media ID's (e.g., the media ID 122) and device/user identifiers (e.g., the device/user
identifier(s) 124) from mobile devices (e.g., the client device 106). In the illustrated
example, the app publisher 110 (or a collection entity) sends the media ID 122 and
the device/user identifier(s) 124 as impression data 130 to an impression collector
132 at the AME 108. The impression data 130 of the illustrated example may include
one media ID 122 and one or more device/user identifier(s) 124 to report a single
impression of the media 118, or it may include numerous media ID's 122 and
device/user identifier(s) 124 based on numerous instances of collected data (e.g., the
collected data 126) received from the client device 106 and/or other mobile devices to
report multiple impressions of media.
[0088]      In the illustrated example, the impression collector 132 stores the
impression data 130 in an AME media impressions store 134 (e.g., a database or
other data structure). Subsequently, the AME 108 sends the device/user identifier(s)
124 to corresponding partner database proprietors (e.g., the partner database
proprietors 104a-b) to receive user information (e.g., the user information 102a-b)
corresponding to the device/user identifier(s) 124 from the partner database
proprietors 104a-b so that the AME 108 can associate the user information with
corresponding media impressions of media (e.g., the media 118) presented at mobile
devices (e.g., the client device 106).
[0089]      In some examples, to protect the privacy of the user of the client device
106, the media identifier 122 and/or the device/user identifier(s) 124 are encrypted
before they are sent to the AME 108 and/or to the partner database proprietors 104a
b. In other examples, the media identifier 122 and/or the device/user identifier(s) 124
are not encrypted.
[0090]      After the AME 108 receives the device/user identifier(s) 124, the AME 108
sends device/user identifier logs 136a-b to corresponding partner database
proprietors (e.g., the partner database proprietors 104a-b). In some examples, each
of the device/user identifier logs 136a-b may include a single device/user identifier, or
it may include numerous aggregate device/user identifiers received over time from
                                             -30-

one or more mobile devices. After receiving the device/user identifier logs 136a-b,
each of the partner database proprietors 104a-b looks up its users corresponding to
the device/user identifiers 124 in the respective logs 136a-b. In this manner, each of
the partner database proprietors 104a-b collects user information 102a-b
corresponding to users identified in the device/user identifier logs 136a-b for sending
to the AME 108. For example, if the partner database proprietor 104a is a wireless
service provider and the device/user identifier log 136a includes IMEI numbers
recognizable by the wireless service provider, the wireless service provider accesses
its subscriber records to find users having IMEI numbers matching the IMEI numbers
received in the device/user identifier log 136a. When the users are identified, the
wireless service provider copies the users' user information to the user information
102a for delivery to the AME 108.
[0091]     In some other examples, the data collector 112 is configured to collect the
device/user identifier(s) 124 from the client device 106. The example data collector
112 sends the device/user identifier(s) 124 to the app publisher 110 in the collected
data 126, and it also sends the device/user identifier(s) 124 to the media publisher
120. In such other examples, the data collector 112 does not collect the media ID 122
from the media 118 at the client device 106 as the data collector 112 does in the
example system 100 of FIG. 1. Instead, the media publisher 120 that publishes the
media 118 to the client device 106 retrieves the media ID 122 from the media 118 that
it publishes. The media publisher 120 then associates the media ID 122 to the
device/user identifier(s) 124 received from the data collector 112 executing in the
client device 106, and sends collected data 138 to the app publisher 110 that includes
the media ID 122 and the associated device/user identifier(s) 124 of the client device
106. For example, when the media publisher 120 sends the media 118 to the client
device 106, it does so by identifying the client device 106 as a destination device for
the media 118 using one or more of the device/user identifier(s) 124 received from the
client device 106. In this manner, the media publisher 120 can associate the media ID
122 of the media 118 with the device/user identifier(s) 124 of the client device 106
indicating that the media 118 was sent to the particular client device 106 for
presentation (e.g., to generate an impression of the media 118).
[0092]     In some other examples in which the data collector 112 is configured to
send the device/user identifier(s) 124 to the media publisher 120, the data collector
112 does not collect the media ID 122 from the media 118 at the client device 106.
                                           -31-

Instead, the media publisher 120 that publishes the media 118 to the client device
106 also retrieves the media ID 122 from the media 118 that it publishes. The media
publisher 120 then associates the media ID 122 with the device/user identifier(s) 124
of the client device 106. The media publisher 120 then sends the media impression
data 130, including the media ID 122 and the device/user identifier(s) 124, to the AME
108. For example, when the media publisher 120 sends the media 118 to the client
device 106, it does so by identifying the client device 106 as a destination device for
the media 118 using one or more of the device/user identifier(s) 124. In this manner,
the media publisher 120 can associate the media ID 122 of the media 118 with the
device/user identifier(s) 124 of the client device 106 indicating that the media 118 was
sent to the particular client device 106 for presentation (e.g., to generate an
impression of the media 118). In the illustrated example, after the AME 108 receives
the impression data 130 from the media publisher 120, the AME 108 can then send
the device/user identifier logs 136a-b to the partner database proprietors 104a-b to
request the user information 102a-b as described above in connection with FIG. 1.
[0093]      Although the media publisher 120 is shown separate from the app publisher
110 in FIG. 1, the app publisher 110 may implement at least some of the operations
of the media publisher 120 to send the media 118 to the client device 106 for
presentation. For example, advertisement providers, media providers, or other
information providers may send media (e.g., the media 118) to the app publisher 110
for publishing to the client device 106 via, for example, the app program 116 when it
is executing on the client device 106. In such examples, the app publisher 110
implements the operations described above as being performed by the media
publisher 120.
[0094]      Additionally or alternatively, in contrast with the examples described above
in which the client device 106 sends identifiers to the audience measurement entity
108 (e.g., via the application publisher 110, the media publisher 120, and/or another
entity), in other examples the client device 106 (e.g., the data collector 112 installed
on the client device 106) sends the identifiers (e.g., the user/device identifier(s) 124)
directly to the respective database proprietors 104a, 104b (e.g., not via the AME 108).
In such examples, the example client device 106 sends the media identifier 122 to the
audience measurement entity 108 (e.g., directly or through an intermediary such as
via the application publisher 110), but does not send the media identifier 122 to the
database proprietors 104a-b.
                                              -32-

[0095]      As mentioned above, the example partner database proprietors 104a-b
provide the user information 102a-b to the example AME 108 for matching with the
media identifier 122 to form media impression information. As also mentioned above,
the database proprietors 104a-b are not provided copies of the media identifier 122.
Instead, the client provides the database proprietors 104a-b with impression
identifiers 140. An impression identifier uniquely identifies an impression event
relative to other impression events of the client device 106 so that an occurrence of
an impression at the client device 106 can be distinguished from other occurrences of
impressions. However, the impression identifier 140 does not itself identify the media
associated with that impression event. In such examples, the impression data 130
from the client device 106 to the AME 108 also includes the impression identifier 140
and the corresponding media identifier 122. To match the user information 102a-b
with the media identifier 122, the example partner database proprietors 104a-b
provide the user information 102a-b to the AME 108 in association with the
impression identifier 140 for the impression event that triggered the collection of the
user information 102a-b. In this manner, the AME 108 can match the impression
identifier 140 received from the client device 106 to a corresponding impression
identifier 140 received from the partner database proprietors 104a-b to associate the
media identifier 122 received from the client device 106 with demographic information
in the user information 102a-b received from the database proprietors 104a-b. The
impression identifier 140 can additionally be used for reducing or avoiding duplication
of demographic information. For example, the example partner database proprietors
104a-b may provide the user information 102a-b and the impression identifier 140 to
the AME 108 on a per-impression basis (e.g., each time a client device 106 sends a
request including an encrypted identifier 208a-b and an impression identifier 140 to
the partner database proprietor 104a-b) and/or on an aggregated basis (e.g., send a
set of user information 102a-b, which may include indications of multiple impressions
at a mobile device 102a-b (e.g., multiple impression identifiers 140), to the AME 108
presented at the client device 106).
[0096]      The impression identifier 140 provided to the AME 108 enables the AME
108 to distinguish unique impressions and avoid overcounting a number of unique
users and/or devices viewing the media. For example, the relationship between the
user information 102a from the partner A database proprietor 104a and the user
information 102b from the partner B database proprietor 104b for the client device
                                           -33-

106 is not readily apparent to the AME 108. By including an impression identifier 140
(or any similar identifier), the example AME 108 can associate user information
corresponding to the same user between the user information 102a-b based on
matching impression identifiers 140 stored in both of the user information 102a-b. The
example AME 108 can use such matching impression identifiers 140 across the user
information 102a-b to avoid overcounting mobile devices and/or users (e.g., by only
counting unique users instead of counting the same user multiple times).
[0097]      A same user may be counted multiple times if, for example, an impression
causes the client device 106 to send multiple user/device identifiers to multiple
different database proprietors 104a-b without an impression identifier (e.g., the
impression identifier 140). For example, a first one of the database proprietors 104a
sends first user information 102a to the AME 108, which signals that an impression
occurred. In addition, a second one of the database proprietors 104b sends second
user information 102b to the AME 108, which signals (separately) that an impression
occurred. In addition, separately, the client device 106 sends an indication of an
impression to the AME 108. Without knowing that the user information 102a-b is from
the same impression, the AME 108 has an indication from the client device 106 of a
single impression and indications from the database proprietors 104a-b of multiple
impressions.
[0098]      To avoid overcounting impressions, the AME 108 can use the impression
identifier 140. For example, after looking up user information 102a-b, the example
partner database proprietors 104a-b transmit the impression identifier 140 to the AME
108 with corresponding user information 102a-b. The AME 108 matches the
impression identifier 140 obtained directly from the client device 106 to the impression
identifier 140 received from the database proprietors 104a-b with the user information
102a-b to thereby associate the user information 102a-b with the media identifier 122
and to generate impression information. This is possible because the AME 108
received the media identifier 122 in association with the impression identifier 140
directly from the client device 106. Therefore, the AME 108 can map user data from
two or more database proprietors 104a-b to the same media exposure event, thus
avoiding double counting.
[0099]      Each unique impression identifier 140 in the illustrated example is
associated with a specific impression of media on the client device 106. The partner
database proprietors 104a-b receive the respective user/device identifiers 124 and
                                           -34-

generate the user information 102a-b independently (e.g., without regard to others of
the partner database proprietors 104a-b) and without knowledge of the media
identifier 122 involved in the impression. Without an indication that a particular user
demographic profile in the user information 102a (received from the partner database
proprietor 104a) is associated with (e.g., the result of) the same impression at the
client device 106 as a particular user demographic profile in the user information 102b
(received from the partner database proprietor 104b independently of the user
information 102a received from the partner database proprietor 104a), and without
reference to the impression identifier 140, the AME 108 may not be able to associate
the user information 102a with the user information 102b and/or cannot determine
that the different pieces of user information 102a-b are associated with a same
impression and could, therefore, count the user information 102a and the user
information 102b as corresponding to two different users/devices and/or two different
impressions.
[00100]     The above examples illustrate methods and apparatus for collecting
impression data at an audience measurement entity (or other entity). The examples
discussed above may be used to collect impression information for any type of media,
including static media (e.g., advertising images), streaming media (e.g., streaming
video and/or audio, including content, advertising, and/or other types of media),
and/or other types of media. For static media (e.g., media that does not have a time
component such as images, text, a webpage, etc.), the example AME 108 records an
impression once for each occurrence of the media being presented, delivered, or
otherwise provided to the client device 106. For streaming media (e.g., video, audio,
etc.), the example AME 108 measures demographics for media occurring over a
period of time. For example, the AME 108 (e.g., via the app publisher 110 and/or the
media publisher 120) provides beacon instructions to a client application or client
software (e.g., the OS 114, the web browser 117, the app 116, etc.) executing on the
client device 106 when media is loaded at client application/software 114-117. In
some examples, the beacon instructions cause the client application/software 114
117 to transmit a request (e.g., a pingback message) to the impression collector 132
at regular and/or irregular intervals (e.g., every minute, every 30 seconds, every 2
minutes, etc.). By monitoring and/or counting the requests occurring at intervals, the
example AME 108 monitors the duration of individual impressions of duration-based
media (e.g., video, audio, etc.). The example AME 108 may determine the numbers of
                                             -35-

impressions (e.g., initial loads) of the duration-based media, the unique audience of
duration-based media, and/or the total duration (in units, such as seconds or minutes)
of the duration-based media viewed in the numbers of impressions. As used herein,
the term "impression information" may include impressions and/or duration units. The
example impression collector 132 identifies the requests from the web browser 117
and, in combination with one or more database proprietors, matches the impression
information for the media with demographics of the user of the web browser 117.
[00101]     In some examples, a user loads (e.g., via the browser 117) a web page
from a web site publisher, in which the web page corresponds to a particular 60
minute video. As a part of or in addition to the example web page, the web site
publisher causes the data collector 112 to send a pingback message (e.g., a beacon
request) to a beacon server 142 by, for example, providing the browser 117 with
beacon instructions. For example, when the beacon instructions are executed by the
example browser 117, the beacon instructions cause the data collector 112 to send
pingback messages (e.g., beacon requests, HTTP requests, pings) to the impression
collector 132 at designated intervals (e.g., once every minute or any other suitable
interval). The example beacon instructions (or a redirect message from, for example,
the impression collector 132 or a database proprietor 104a-b) further cause the data
collector 112 to send pingback messages or beacon requests to one or more
database proprietors 104a-b that collect and/or maintain demographic information
about users. The database proprietor 104a-b transmits demographic information
about the user associated with the data collector 112 for combining or associating
with the impression determined by the impression collector 132. If the user closes the
web page containing the video before the end of the video, the beacon instructions
are stopped, and the data collector 112 stops sending the pingback messages to the
impression collector 132. In some examples, the pingback messages include
timestamps and/or other information indicative of the locations in the video to which
the numerous pingback messages correspond. By determining a number and/or
content of the pingback messages received at the impression collector 132 from the
client device 106, the example impression collector 132 can determine that the user
watched a particular length of the video (e.g., a portion of the video for which
pingback messages were received at the impression collector 132).
[00102]     The client device 106 of the illustrated example executes a client
application/software 114-117 that is directed to a host website (e.g., www.acme.com)
                                             -36-

from which the media 118 (e.g., audio, video, interactive media, streaming media,
etc.) is obtained for presenting via the client device 106. In the illustrated example, the
media 118 (e.g., advertisements and/or content) is tagged with identifier information
(e.g., a media ID 122, a creative type ID, a placement ID, a publisher source URL,
etc.) and a beacon instruction. The example beacon instruction causes the client
application/software 114-117 to request further beacon instructions from a beacon
server 142 that will instruct the client application/software 114-117 on how and where
to send beacon requests to report impressions of the media 118. For example, the
example client application/software 114-117 transmits a request including an
identification of the media 118 (e.g., the media identifier 122) to the beacon server
142. The beacon server 142 then generates and returns beacon instructions 144 to
the example client device 106. Although the beacon server 142 and the impression
collector 132 are shown separately, in some examples the beacon server 142 and the
impression collector 132 are combined. In the illustrated example, beacon instructions
144 include URLs of one or more database proprietors (e.g., one or more of the
partner database proprietors 104a-b) or any other server to which the client device
106 should send beacon requests (e.g., impression requests). In some examples, a
pingback message or beacon request may be implemented as an HTTP request.
However, whereas a transmitted HTTP request identifies a webpage or other
resource to be downloaded, the pingback message or beacon request includes the
audience measurement information (e.g., ad campaign identification, content
identifier, and/or device/user identification information) as its payload. The server to
which the pingback message or beacon request is directed is programmed to log the
audience measurement data of the pingback message or beacon request as an
impression (e.g., an ad and/or content impression depending on the nature of the
media tagged with the beaconing instructions). In some examples, the beacon
instructions received with the tagged media 118 include the beacon instructions 144.
In such examples, the client application/software 114-117 does not need to request
beacon instructions 144 from a beacon server 142 because the beacon instructions
144 are already provided in the tagged media 118.
[00103]     When the beacon instructions 144 are executed by the client device 106,
the beacon instructions 144 cause the client device 106 to send beacon requests
(e.g., repeatedly at designated intervals) to a remote server (e.g., the impression
collector 132, the media publisher 120, the database proprietors 104a-b, or another
                                             -37-

server) specified in the beacon instructions 144. In the illustrated example, the
specified server is a server of the audience measurement entity 108, namely, at the
impression collector 132. The beacon instructions 144 may be implemented using
Javascript or any other types of instructions or script executable via a client
application (e.g., a web browser) including, for example, Java, HTML, etc.
[00104]    Examples that may be used to implement the system of FIG. 1 are
disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 14/127,414, filed on August 28, 2013,
U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 14/261,085, filed on April 24, 2014, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/952,726, filed on March 13, 2014, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/979,391, filed on April 14, 2014, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/986,784, filed on April 30, 2014, U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/991,286, filed on May 9, 2014, and U.S.
Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/014,659, filed June 19, 2014. The
entireties of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 14/127,414, U.S. Patent Application
Serial No. 14/261,085, U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/952,726,
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 61/979,391, U.S. Provisional Patent
Application Serial No. 61/986,784, U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
61/991,286, and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No. 62/014,659 are
incorporated by reference herein.
[00105]    The examples of FIGS. 2-11 may be used to compensate for misattribution
and/or non-coverage error in impression information collected from client devices
through which users access media. Such impression information may be collected
using any suitable techniques, including example techniques discussed above. For
example, the impression information collected from the database proprietors 104a-b
may be aggregated impression information describing the numbers of impressions for
a media item of interest (e.g., an advertisement, streaming media, a web site, etc.), a
number of duration units (e.g., minutes, seconds, etc.) for which duration-based
media is presented, and/or a count of audience members corresponding to the
impressions. The aggregated impression information obtained from the database
proprietors 104a-b may be subject to misattribution error (e.g., error resulting from the
database proprietor incorrectly associating an impression with a first person in a first
demographic group when the impression should be associated with a second person
in a second demographic group) and/or non-coverage error (e.g., error resulting from
the database proprietor not being able to associate an impression with a person).
                                           -38-

Because impressions and/or duration units that cannot be associated with
demographic information by the database proprietors 104a-b may not be included in
the aggregated demographic information, in some disclosed examples, non-coverage
error in the aggregated impression information may be detected using, for example,
counting impressions at the AME 108 and comparing the counted impressions to a
number of impressions for which the database proprietors 104a-b recognize
demographic information. In some other examples, the database proprietors 104a-b
return numbers of impressions and/or duration units for which the database
proprietors 104a-b were unable to determine demographic information. The number
of impressions and/or duration units for which the database proprietors 104a-b were
unable to determine demographic information may be used as a number of non
covered impressions.
[00106]     Examples disclosed herein use survey calibration data to estimate the
respective errors and to generate compensated impression information that is
adjusted to correct for the misattribution error and/or the non-coverage error.
Examples disclosed herein may be used for impressions and/or duration units
collected from client devices (e.g., mobile and/or non-mobile devices), may be applied
to impressions and/or duration units collected from mobile devices only, may be
applied to impressions and/or duration units collected from mobile devices separately
from being applied to impressions and/or duration units collected from non-mobile
devices, and/or may be applied to impressions and/or duration units collected from a
first type of mobile device separately from being applied to impressions collected from
a second type of mobile device. Compensated impression information is, in some
examples, presented or reported separately for mobile devices and non-mobile
devices and/or reported as aggregate data corresponding to both mobile devices and
non-mobile devices.
[00107]     Examples disclosed herein can be applied to incoming data in real-time or
substantially real-time (e.g., within seconds or minutes of receiving the data), and may
be used to compensate impression information (e.g., impressions, duration units) for
any desirable time period (e.g., hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, etc.) and/or
cumulatively (e.g., applied to impressions and/or duration units collected over
numerous time periods). Therefore, examples disclosed herein may provide accurate
demographic information to advertisers and/or media distributors to enable more rapid
                                            -39-

adjustment of media campaign strategies to fit measured demographics than known
methods.
[00108]    FIG. 2 is a block diagram of an example impression data compensator 200
which may be used to implement the example impression collector 132 of FIG. 1 to
compensate impression information for misattribution and/or non-coverage errors.
The example impression data compensator 200 of FIG. 2 compensates or adjusts
impression information obtained from client devices (e.g., the client device 106 of FIG.
1) and/or from the database proprietors 104a-104b to reduce (e.g., avoid) errors such
as those mentioned above.
[00109]    The example impression data compensator 200 of FIG. 2 includes a
calibration data collector 202, a sharing matrix generator 204, a misattribution
corrector 206, an impression information collector 208, a non-coverage calculator
210, a non-coverage corrector 212, and an impression information adjuster 214.
[00110]    The example calibration data collector 202 of FIG. 2 collects or obtains
survey calibration data describing mobile device usage characteristics of an audience.
For example, the survey calibration data may include and/or be based on responses
to a survey of households selected at random. In some examples, a calibration survey
obtains information including the number of persons in the household, the
demographic characteristics of the household (e.g., age and gender, race, ethnicity,
language characteristics, household income, geographic location, etc.), the numbers
and/or types of mobile devices (e.g., smartphones, tablet computers, portable media
players, etc.) present in the household, and/or registrations of persons in the
household with specified database proprietors (e.g., the partner database proprietors
104a-b of FIG. 1). In some examples, the calibration survey obtains, for each person
in the household, usage characteristics of each of the mobile devices and/or types of
mobile devices present in the household; media categories typically viewed by the
person; media categories typically viewed by the person on each mobile device
and/or type of mobile device in the household; apps used by the person on each
mobile device and/or type of mobile device in the household; and/or characteristics of
interactions with specified database proprietors on each mobile device and/or type of
mobile device in the household. The example calibration data collector 202 obtains
the survey calibration data from at least a threshold number of households and, if
appropriate, weights the results to be reflective of a general population or audience.
                                           -40-

[00111]     In some other examples, the survey calibration data source includes a
survey of established panel(s) of respondents, such as the Nielsen National People
Meter (NPM) panel for television ratings. Surveys of established panels often provide
higher quality survey calibration data. In some examples, data from multiple surveys
is used to calculate different compensation factors and/or is used in combination to
calculate compensation factors.
[00112]     Misattribution Correction
[00113]     The example sharing matrix generator 204 of FIG. 2 calculates device
sharing matrices based on the survey calibration data. In the example of FIG. 2, the
sharing matrix generator 204 creates a separate misattribution correction matrix for
each combination of device type and media category represented in the survey
calibration data.
[00114]     To generate a misattribution correction matrix for a device type and a media
category of interest, the example sharing matrix generator 204 includes a household
distribution generator 216, an aggregated distribution generator 218, a matrix
corrector 220, and a matrix normalizer 222.
[00115]     The example household distribution generator 216 of FIG. 2 generates an
audience distribution of a household based on survey calibration data. For example,
the household distribution generator 216 determines the respective likelihoods of
persons represented in the survey calibration data to view media of the media
category of interest using the device type of interest. To illustrate, consider the
following example. An example household from which survey calibration data is
collected includes four members: 1) a 45-54 year old male, 2) a 35-44 year old
female, 3) an 18-24 year old female, and 4) a 12-17 year old male. The 18-24 year
old female and the 12-17 year old male have registered with (e.g., are recognizable
as registered users by) the example database proprietor 104a (e.g., Facebook) of
FIG. 1 and access the database proprietor 104a using the tablet computer (e.g., the
client device 106 of FIG. 1) (though not simultaneously). The 45-54 year old male and
the 35-44 year old female are not recognizable by the database proprietor 104a on
the tablet computer. Table 1 below illustrates an example sharing pattern for the
tablet computer by media category. In Table 1, cells marked with an "X" indicate that
the person noted at the demographic group label of the cell views media in the
category noted in the content type label. Conversely, blank cells in Table 1 indicate
that the person noted at the demographic group label of the cell does not view media
                                            -41-

in the category noted in the content type label. Media categories may be defined
based on, for example, media categories used in the survey calibration data and/or
media categories used in television and/or other media ratings.
                                           Demographic Groups
       Content Type         M45-54         F35-44        M12-17         F18-24
       All                     X              X                            X
        Political              X
        Drama                                 X                            X
       Comedy                                 X                            X
        Reality                               X
EXAMPLE SHARING PATTERN FOR TABLET COMPUTER BY MEDIA CATEGORY
    IN EXAMPLE FIRST HOUSEHOLD BASED ON SURVEY CALIBRATION DATA
                                         Table 1
[00116]     As shown in Table 1, the 45-54 year old male views media (e.g., web sites,
streaming media, etc.) categorized as political media using the tablet computer, the
35-44 year old female views media (e.g., web sites, streaming media, etc.)
categorized as drama, comedy, and/or reality on the tablet computer, and the 18-24
year old female views media (e.g., web sites, streaming media, etc.) categorized as
drama and comedy using the tablet computer. While the 12-17 year old male uses the
tablet to log into the database proprietor 104a, he does not view media monitored by
the audience measurement entity 108 on the tablet computer. Based on the sharing
pattern of Table 1, the example household distribution generator 216 calculates
device sharing probabilities for each of the media categories of Table 1, as shown in
Table 2 below. The device sharing probabilities are shown in Table 2 as probability
density functions (PDFs) that the persons identified in the demographic group label
views the type of content (e.g., media category) on the device.
                                           Demoqraphic Groups
       Content Type         M45-54         F35-44        M12-17         F18-24
       All                   0.33           0.33            0            0.33
        Political              1              0             0              0
        Drama                  0             0.5            0             0.5
       Comedy                  0             0.5            0             0.5
        Reality                0              1             0              0
  EXAMPLE DEVICE SHARING PROBABILITIES BY MEDIA CATEGORY FOR THE
                             FIRST EXAMPLE HOUSEHOLD
                                         Table 2
                                           -42-

[00117]     In this example, if the 12-17 year old male logs into the database proprietor
on the tablet computer (e.g., via the browser and/or an app) and does not log out of
the database proprietor, and the 35-44 year old female subsequently uses the same
tablet computer (while the 12-17 year old male is still logged into the database
proprietor 104a) and does not log in to the database proprietor 104a with her own
credentials, the database proprietor 104a misattributes impressions and/or duration
units to the 12-17 year old male that are properly attributable to the 35-44 year old
female while she views media on the tablet computer. Thus, in such examples the
use of the database proprietor information to associate impressions and/or duration
units with demographic information results in no attribution (or under-attribution) of
impressions and/or duration units to the 45-54 year old male and the 35-44 year old
female, and over-attribution of impressions and/or duration units to the 18-24 year old
female and/or the 12-17 year old male.
[00118]    To determine the misattribution correction matrix for the household for
tablet computers and the 'comedy' category, the example household distribution
generator 216 converts the 'comedy' probabilities in Table 2 above to an example
redistributed audience matrix shown in Table 3 below. In Table 3, the columns
(recognized demographic group i) represent the demographic group identified by the
database proprietor 104a as associated with an impression, and the rows (actual
viewer demographic group j) represent the demographic group actually viewing (e.g.,
actual viewers) the media corresponding to the impression. Thus, Table 3 includes
PDFs that when a person is identified by the database proprietor as being a person in
the recognized demographic group i, the actual or true viewer is a person in the actual
viewer demographic group j. The value in each cell is the probability yij that the actual
viewer demographic group j of that row is viewing the media when the database
proprietor 104a associates an impression for the media with the recognized
demographic group i in the column.
               j\i          M45-54          F35-44        M12-17          F18-24
           M45-54                0             0              0              0
           F35-44                0             0             0.5            0.5
           M12-17                0             0              0              0
           F1 8-24               0             0             0.5            0.5
             Total               0             0              1              1
     EXAMPLE REDISTRIBUTED AUDIENCE MATRIX FOR "COMEDY" MEDIA
                    CATEGORY FOR FIRST EXAMPLE HOUSEHOLD
                                           Table 3
                                            -43-

[00119]     As an example of determining impressions from the redistributed audience
matrix of Table 3 for the household, for 10 impressions in the 'comedy' media
category that are recognized by the database proprietor 104a as being viewed by the
12-17 year old male in the recognized demographic group i, five of the impressions
should be credited to the 35-44 year old female in the actual viewer demographic
group j (e.g., 10 impressions multiplied by a probability of 0.5 in Table 3), five of the
impressions should be credited to the 18-24 year old female in the actual viewer
demographic group j (e.g., 10 impressions multiplied by a probability of 0.5 in Table
3), and none of the impressions should be credited to the 12-17 year old male or the
45-54 year old male in the actual viewer demographic group j (e.g., 10 impressions
multiplied by a probability of 0 in Table 3).
[00120]     The example household distribution generator 216 may use PDFs in Table
2 and/or Table 3 in which the PDF has different probabilities for different demographic
group label (Table 2) and/or different probabilities for different actual viewer
demographic groups (Table 3). For example, the different probabilities in a PDF may
be determined from the survey calibration data when one of the members of the
household views the media category of interest significantly more often than another
one of the members of the household. For example, if the 35-44 year old female of
Table 2 reports viewing media in the 'comedy' category 'often,' while the 18-24 year
old female of Table 2 reports viewing media in the 'comedy' category 'rarely,' the PDF
for the 'comedy' category in Table 2 may be (0, 0.75, 0, 0.25) to reflect the different
frequencies of viewing. Additionally or alternatively, the example household
distribution generator 216 may use PDFs having different probabilities in the example
sharing matrix of Table 2 based on the presence of multiple people in the same
demographic group. For example, a household having two females aged 12-17 and
one female aged 35-44 may have a PDF in which in the F12-17 demographic group
has a probability that is twice the probability of the F35-44 demographic group.
[00121]     The example aggregated distribution generator 218 of FIG. 2 generates an
aggregated redistributed audience matrix for each combination of device type and
media category based on all of the households in the example survey calibration data.
[00122]     In some examples, the household distribution generator 216 generates
separate device sharing matrices from the survey responses of individual households
and the aggregated distribution generator 218 aggregates the individual redistributed
audience matrices into an aggregated redistributed audience matrix. For example, the
                                             -44-

household distribution generator 216 may redistribute persons in a recognized
demographic group i identifiable by the database proprietor 104a within a household.
Thus, the household distribution generator 216 also redistributes the impressions
associated with those persons to actual viewer demographic groups j based on the
survey calibration data.
[00123]      In another example of a redistributed audience matrix, Table 4 below shows
example device sharing probabilities by media category for a household having two
females of the same recognized demographic group i (e.g., recognized by the
database proprietor 104a as the viewers of media corresponding to impressions)
shown as 18-24 year old females (F1 8-24). In the illustrated example, the two females
in the F18-24 demographic group are identifiable registered users of the database
proprietor 104a belonging to the F1 8-24 demographic group.
       Content Type            M45-54         F35-44        F1 8-24       F18-24
       All                      0.33           0.33            0           0.33
        Political                 1              0             0             0
        Drama                     0             0.5            0            0.5
       Comedy                     0             0.5            0            0.5
        Reality                   0              1             0             0
    EXAMPLE DEVICE SHARING PROBABILITIES BY MEDIA CATEGORY FOR A
                              SECOND EXAMPLE HOUSEHOLD
                                            Table 4
[00124]     The cells of Table 4 above include probability density functions (PDFs)
indicative of probabilities that a media device is shared between people belonging to
the specified recognized demographic groups i (e.g., one person in the M45-54
demographic group, one person in the F35-44 demographic group, and 2 people in
the F1 8-24 demographic group) for the specified media categories (e.g., all, political,
drama, comedy, reality). For example, the PDF that media in the "All" media category
is viewed is 0.33 for each of the person in the M45-54 recognized demographic group
i, the person in the F35-44 recognized demographic group i, and one of the people in
the F18-24 recognized demographic group i. In the illustrated example, the PDF is 0
for the other person in the F18-24 recognized demographic group i. The data in Table
4 is based on a survey calibration data source (e.g., a survey of persons and/or
households selected at random) that provides information about the media viewing by
persons in the household.
[00125]      In the illustrated example, the two females in the F18-24 recognized
demographic group i of the example household represented by Table 4 above are
                                              -45-

registered users of the database proprietor 104a (e.g., a social network service).
Based on the data of Table 4 above, the household distribution generator 216
redistributes the audience (and, thus, the associated impressions) of each registered
database proprietor user (e.g., the viewers in the F1 8-24 demographic group) across
the actual viewer demographic groups j M45-54, F35-44, and F1 8-24 in the
household who view media in the category of interest, based on the device sharing
patterns and viewing patterns collected from the household in the example survey
calibration data source. Example redistributed audience for the "All" media category
and the second example household of Table 4 is shown below in Table 5.
               j\i            M45-54         F35-44         F1 8-24         F18-24
           M45-54                0              0             0.33           0.33
           F35-44                0              0             0.33           0.33
           F18-24                0              0               0              0
           F1 8-24               0              0             0.33           0.33
             Total               0              0               1              1
      EXAMPLE REDISTRIBUTED AUDIENCE MATRIX FOR "ALL"CATEGORY
                                            Table 5
[00126]     In Table 5 above, the household distribution generator 216 applies the
same PDF (e.g., 0.33) to every registered database proprietor user in the same
recognized demographic group i (e.g., the two household members of demographic
group F1 8-24). In the illustrated example of Table 5, the cell values indicate the
respective probabilities that when a person in the household is recognized by the
database proprietor as a person in the recognized demographic group i (i.e., the
person and/or demographic group indicated in the column), the actual or true viewer
is a person in the true or actual viewer demographic group j (i.e., the person and/or
demographic group indicated in the row). For example, the probability that the true
viewer of media in the "All" category is the person in the M45-54 actual viewer
demographic group j when the database proprietor recognizes the first person in the
F18-24 recognized demographic group i is 0.33. In this example, the probability is the
same (e.g., 0.33) that the true or actual viewer of media in the "All" category is the
person in the M45-54 actual viewer demographic group j when the database
proprietor recognizes the second person in the F18-24 recognized demographic
group i.
[00127]     In the illustrated example, it does not matter if the female viewers in the
F1 8-24 recognized demographic group i indicate that they view a particular media
category on a particular device represented by the example redistributed audience
                                             -46-

matrix of Table 5. As long as the database proprietor 104a captures impressions
and/or duration units related to that particular device, the household distribution
generator 216 can redistribute the impressions and/or duration units equally across all
of the actual viewer demographic groups j M45-54, F35-44, and F1 8-24 of that
household. Thus, both columns labeled F1 8-24 (e.g., corresponding to the two
daughters of the household) are populated with equal redistributions of 0.33 (for the
M45-54 actual viewer demographic group j), 0.33 (for the F35-44 actual viewer
demographic group j), and 0.33 (for the F1 8-24 actual viewer demographic group j).
The probability values in the same row for the F1 8-24 actual viewer demographic
groups j are then summed across the F1 8-24 columns because the values
correspond to the same recognized demographic groups i F18-24. The cells in the
"Total" row indicate the number of audience members within a corresponding
recognized demographic group i (M45-54, F35-44, F1 8-24) that are registered users
of the database proprietor 104a.
[00128]    Table 6 below shows an example redistributed audience matrix across "All"
genres in which the summed values for the F1 8-24 recognized demographic group i
are shown.
                      j\i          M45-54          F35-44        F18-24
                  M45-54              0               0            0.66
                   F35-44             0               0            0.66
                  M12-17              0               0              0
                   F1 8-24            0               0            0.66
                    Total             0               0              2
 EXAMPLE REDISTRIBUTED AUDIENCE MATRIX FOR "ALL"MEDIA CATEGORY
   FOR HOUSEHOLD WITH TWO PERSONS IN F18-24 DEMOGRAPHIC GROUP
                                         Table 6
[00129]    In example Table 6 above, each column (the recognized demographic
groups i M45-54, F35-44, and F1 8-24) corresponds to the total number of registered
users of the database proprietor 104a in recognized demographic group i in the
household. The cells in the "Total" row indicate the number of audience members
within a corresponding recognized demographic group i (e.g., M54-54, F35-44, F18
24) that are registered users of the database proprietor 104a. In some examples, the
actual viewer demographic groups j (e.g., the rows) of the redistributed audience
matrix of Table 6 are expanded to include all recognized demographic groups i used
by the audience measurement entity 108 and/or the database proprietor 104a to
enable aggregation of the matrices. Thus, although the household represented by
                                            -47-

Table 6 above does not have any household members in the actual viewer
demographic group M12-17, the example Table 6 above includes a M12-17 row to
enable aggregating the PDFs of Table 6 with the PDFs of Table 7 below.
[00130]    After the device sharing probabilities shown in Table 4 are used to generate
a redistributed audience matrix for the second household as described above in
connection with Tables 5 and 6, the redistributed audience matrices of Tables 6 and 7
are aggregated (e.g., summed) across households to combine registered users of the
database proprietor 104a in recognized demographic group i and to sum the
redistributed audience for the actual viewer demographic groups j. For example, the
redistributed audience of Table 6 above and Table 7 below are aggregated to
generate the cross-household aggregated redistributed audience shown in Table 8
below. In the illustrated example, Tables 6 and 7 correspond to two different
households.
              j\i           M45-54         F35-44         M12-17         F18-24
           M45-54              0              0            0.33           0.33
           F35-44              0              0            0.33           0.33
           M12-17              0              0              0              0
           F1 8-24             0              0            0.33           0.33
            Total              0              0              1              1
 EXAMPLE REDISTRIBUTED AUDIENCE MATRIX FOR "ALL"MEDIA CATEGORY
    FOR HOUSEHOLD WITH ONE M12-17 PERSON AND ONE F1 8-24 PERSON
                                          Table 7
              j\i           M45-54         F35-44         M12-17         F18-24
           M45-54              0              0            0.33             1
           F35-44              0              0            0.33             1
           M12-17              0              0              0              0
           F1 8-24             0              0            0.33             1
            Total              0              0              1              3
    EXAMPLE AGGREGATED REDISTRIBUTED AUDIENCE MATRIX FOR "ALL"
                  MEDIA CATEGORY FOR MULTIPLE HOUSEHOLDS
                                          Table 8
[00131]    The probabilities in Table 8 above reflect the redistributed audience for
registered users of the database proprietor 104a across the two households
represented in corresponding ones of Tables 6 and 7. The sums of the M12-17 and
F1 8-24 recognized demographic group i columns reflect the total number of
registered users of the database proprietor 104 in recognized demographic group i.
The cells in the "Total" row indicate the number of audience members within a
                                           -48-

corresponding recognized demographic group i (M45-54, F35-44, M12-17, F18-24)
that are registered users of the database proprietor 104a.
[00132]      In some examples, matrix corrector 220 generates a Nielsen national
people meter (NPM) index to account for probabilities of demographic pairs i, j (e.g.,
one person from the recognized demographic group i and one person from the actual
viewer demographic group j) living together in the same household. For example,
P(L)ij is the probability that a first person in recognized demographic group i lives in
the same household as a person in actual viewer demographic group j. In the
illustrated example, the NPM index is another source of calibration data. In examples
disclosed herein, NPM data is collected from households in which a meter installed by
the AME 108 (FIG. 1) collects identifications of household members when those
household members view/listen to media via a media device associated with the
household. Because NPM data is collected at households using locally-installed
meters that prompt household members to identify themselves (or otherwise
accurately collect identifications of household members viewing/listening to media),
NPM data has a high degree of accuracy related to identifying which household
members are actually viewing (e.g., are true viewers of) media presented by a media
device.
[00133]     The NPM index described below may be used to account for the P(L)ij
probability. In such examples, the matrix corrector 220 applies an NPM index to a
corresponding ij cell in a table of redistributed database proprietor registered users
(e.g., the example redistributed audience matrix for the "All" category shown at Table
5 above). Table 9 below shows estimated quantities of demographic group ij pairs of
people living together based on collected survey responses from households (which,
in these examples, is also used as the survey calibration data source from which the
redistributed audience tables are determined). Table 10 below shows estimated
quantities of demographic group ij pairs of people living together based on collected
NPM data. Table 11 below shows NPM indices generated by the matrix corrector 220
based on the estimated quantities of Tables 9 and 10.
                j\i          M45-54           F35-44        M12-17       F18-24
            M45-54              100              60           10            55
            F35-44              30               100          10            80
            M12-17              20               50           80            15
            F18-24              50               20           20            90
                                               -49-

   EXAMPLE ESTIMATED QUANTITIES OF DEMOGRAPHIC GROUP I,J PAIRS OF
           PEOPLE LIVING TOGETHER BASED ON SURVEY RESPONSES
                                          Table 9
              j\i           M45-54         F35-44        M12-17         F18-24
           M45-54             105            50             15            48
            F35-44             35            102            12            80
           M12-17              25            40             70            20
            F18-24             40            15             18            98
   EXAMPLE ESTIMATED QUANTITIES OF DEMOGRAPHIC GROUP I,J PAIRS OF
                  PEOPLE LIVING TOGETHER BASED ON NPM DATA
                                         Table 10
              j\i           M45-54         F35-44        M12-17         F18-24
           M45-54             1.05          0.83           1.50          0.87
            F35-44            1.17          1.02           1.20          1.00
           M12-17             1.25          0.80           0.88          1.33
            F18-24            0.80          0.75           0.90          1.09
                                 EXAMPLE NPM INDICES
                                         Table 11
[00134]     The example NPM indices of Table 11 above are calculated by dividing the
values of Table 10 (estimate quantities of demographic group ij pairs of people living
together based on panel member data) by corresponding values of Table 9 (estimate
quantities of demographic group ij pairs of people living together based on survey
responses). In the illustrated example, Table 11 is used to account for
oversampling/undersampling of any viewers from different demographic groups i,j
living together in the same household. For example, Table 9 estimates, based on
survey responses, that 100 people across demographic groups ij of M45-54 live
together. Based on more accurate NPM data, Table 10 estimates that 105 people
across the same demographic groups i, j of M45-54 live together in the same
household. Therefore, the example NPM index of Table 11 for that demographic
group M45-54 is 1.05, which is greater than one to compensate for Table 9
undersampling (e.g., 100) the number of people from demographic groups i, j of M45
54 living together relative to the corresponding value of 105 of Table 10. For
instances in which the estimated quantity in Table 9 oversamples relative to a
corresponding quantity in Table 10, the corresponding NPM index in Table 11 would
be less than one (e.g., NPM index = 0.75 in Table 11 for actual viewer demographic
group j of F1 8-24 and recognized demographic group i of F35-44).
                                           -50-

[00135]       In some examples, estimates from Table 9 of some demographic group
pairs i,j living together that are (e.g., determined based on the survey responses) are
aligned with estimates from Table 10 based on the NPM data because the NPM data
is a higher quality data source than demographic data from the database proprietor
104a. Tables 12 and 13 show example data in which estimates of demographic group
i,j pairs of people living together are aligned closer to the NPM data. In Table 12, the
matrix corrector 220 adjusts the redistributed audience values of Table 8 above for
the probability P(L)ij that a first person in recognized demographic group i lives in the
same household as a person in actual viewer demographic group j. In the illustrated
example, the matrix corrector 220 determines each i,j cell value in Table 12 by
multiplying redistributed audience values in the i,j cells of Table 8 above with
corresponding NPM indices in the i,j cell values of Table 11 above. In this manner, the
sharing matrix corrector 220 applies an NPM index to redistributed impressions
collected by the database proprietor 104a across different households to account for
the probability P(L)ij that a first person in recognized demographic group i lives in the
same household as a person in actual viewer demographic group j.
                 j\i         M45-54           F35-44        M12-17        F18-24
             M45-54               0              0           0.495         0.873
             F35-44               0              0           0.396         1.000
             M12-17               0              0             0             0
             F18-24               0              0           0.297         1.089
               Total              0              0           1.188         2.962
   EXAMPLE DATABASE PROPRIETOR REDISTRIBUTED AUDIENCE ADJUSTED
                                           FOR P(L)ij
                                            Table 12
                 j\i         M45-54           F35-44        M12-17        F18-24
             M45-54               0              0           0.417         0.295
             F35-44               0              0           0.333         0.338
             M12-17               0              0             0             0
             F1 8-24              0              0           0.250         0.368
               Total              0              0             1             1
                     EXAMPLE NORMALIZED REDISTRIBUTED AUDIENCE
                                            Table 13
[00136]       In Table 13 above, the matrix normalizer 222 normalizes the adjusted
impression redistributions from Table 12 above so that the columns of the recognized
demographic groups i (e.g., the M12-17 and F18-24 recognized demographic groups
i) sum to one. In this manner, each column (e.g., recognized demographic groups i
                                              -51-

M12-17 and F18-24) represents a probability distribution function (PDF) of what the
AME 108 determines to be the actual viewer demographic group j of the true viewer
of media when the database proprietor 104a detects a particular recognized
demographic group i. In the illustrated example, the normalized redistributed audience
of Table 13 are misattribution correction factors, or probabilities yij for each pair of
demographic groups ij that when a person in recognized demographic group i is
identified by the database proprietor 104a as a viewer of media, a person in the actual
viewer demographic group j is the actual viewer (e.g., yij = 0.417, 0.295, 0.333, 0.338,
0.250, and 0.368).
[00137]     In some examples, the probabilities yij for each pair of recognized
demographic group i detected by a database proprietor and actual viewer
demographic group j assigned as a true or actual viewer may be weighted and/or
averaged across all of the individual household matrices to determine an aggregated
probability. In the illustrated example, a true viewer or actual viewer indicates a
person in a particular demographic group that is deemed to be the actual audience
member that is exposed to (e.g., viewing, listening, consuming, etc.) media on a
device. For example, the actual viewer may be the viewer determined by the AME
108 as being the person that is actually viewing or exposed to the monitored media.
The determination of a person being an actual viewer may be based on statistical
probabilities indicating the likelihood of the actual viewer based on responses to a
survey of persons and/or households selected at random discussed above.
Determinations of actual viewers as perceived by the AME 108 may also be based on
observations or other collected data (e.g., NPM data) indicative of actual viewers in a
household. In any case, the actual viewer is a strong inference by the AME 108 of
who the actual viewer is but the actual viewer, as used herein, is not necessarily an
absolute certainty of the identity of the actual viewer. However, the strength of the
inference of the actual viewer as used in connection with the examples disclosed
herein is sufficiently accurate to use in connection with examples disclosed herein to
provide corrected impressions and/or duration units having a high degree of accuracy.
In some examples, the sharing matrix generator 204 generates device sharing
matrices based on additional and/or alternative distinctions, such as different
geographic markets, different stations, and/or different day parts.
[00138]     As an alternative to the example approach for calculating yij using the
redistributed audiences as described above, in some examples the aggregated
                                             -52-

distribution generator 218 calculates the aggregated redistributed audience matrix by
calculating compound probabilities as shown in Equation 1:
        7y = P(L) j x P(D|L)q x P(S, |D)                           (Equation 1)
[00139]     In Equation 1 above, P(L)ij is the probability that a first person in recognized
demographic group i lives in the same household as a person in actual viewer
demographic group j, P(DIL)ij is the probability that, given a first person in recognized
demographic group i lives in the same household as a person in actual viewer
demographic group j, both persons have access to a mobile device (of any type) in
that household, and P(SxID)ij is the probability that, given a first person in recognized
demographic group i has access to a same mobile device of the selected type as a
person in actual viewer demographic group j, both persons share the mobile device
for media of the selected category. As used herein, "selected category" means a
category of interest being subjected to analysis. Thus, "selected" refers to "selected
for analysis" as used in this context. The same meaning applies to "selected device
type," "selected demographic group," and "selected pair of demographic groups."
[00140]     In some examples, the aggregated distribution generator 218 determines
one or more of the probabilities using data from one or more calibration data sources
(e.g., survey calibration data). For example, in some examples the sharing matrix
calculator determines the probabilities P(L)ij and P(DIL)ij from a survey of an
established panel, such as the panel used to determine the NPM index data
discussed above, and determines P(SxID)ij from another survey of random
households.
[00141]     Referring to the above example described with reference to Tables 1-13,
the example aggregated distribution generator 218 calculates, for each pair of
demographic groups i,j, the probability yij that: (1) a person in recognized
demographic group i is identified by the database proprietor 104a as the viewer of
media, and (2) a person in actual viewer demographic group j is the actual viewer
using the redistributed aggregate audience matrices. The example aggregated
distribution generator 218 generates a misattribution correction matrix that includes
each of the calculated probabilities yij. The example aggregated distribution generator
218 may use the example Equation (1) above and/or may use the NPM index method
described above to calculate the probabilities yij of the misattribution correction matrix.
An example aggregated redistributed audience matrix for a selected tablet computer
device type and a selected comedy media category is shown below in Table 14 as an
                                             -53-

example misattribution correction matrix. Subsequent sections of the example Table
14 extend to the right such that the table has equal numbers of rows and columns.
           j\i      F02-12    F13-17     F18-20    F21-24    F25-29    F30-34
        F02-12      60.0%      1.5%       1.0%       0.5%     2.0%      4.0%
        F13-17       1.0%     65.0%       1.0%       0.5%     0.5%       1.0%
        F18-20       1.0%      1.0%      60.0%       0.5%     0.4%      0.5%
        F21-24       0.5%      0.5%       0.5%      64.0%     0.7%      0.1%
        F25-29       0.5%      0.5%       0.5%       0.5%     74.0%     0.2%
        F30-34      15.0%      7.0%       5.0%       5.0%     0.5%     59.0%
        F35-39       1.0%      8.0%       6.0%       3.0%     0.3%      0.3%
        F40-44       0.5%      1.0%       5.0%       5.0%     0.7%      0.7%
        F45-49       0.2%      0.2%       1.0%       1.0%     0.9%      0.9%
        F50-54       0.1%      0.1%       0.1%       0.1%     0.3%      0.3%
        F55-64       0.1%      0.1%       0.1%       0.1%     0.5%      0.5%
         F65+        0.3%      0.3%       0.3%       0.3%     0.3%      0.3%
        M02-12       1.0%      1.0%       1.0%       1.0%     3.0%      4.0%
        M13-17       1.0%      1.0%       1.0%       1.0%     0.5%      0.5%
        M18-20       0.4%      0.4%       5.0%       5.0%      1.0%      1.0%
        M21-24       0.5%      0.5%       1.0%       1.0%     0.5%      0.5%
        M25-29       0.5%      0.5%       0.5%       0.5%     6.0%      2.0%
        M30-34       8.0%      5.0%       4.5%       4.5%     5.0%      10.0%
        M35-39       7.0%      4.0%       3.5%       3.5%     0.9%      11.0%
        M40-44       1.0%      2.0%       2.0%       2.0%      1.0%      1.0%
        M45-49       0.1%      0.1%       0.1%       0.1%     0.1%      0.5%
        M50-54       0.1%      0.1%       0.1%       0.1%     0.1%      0.6%
        M55-64       0.1%      0.1%       0.1%       0.1%     0.1%      0.4%
         M65+        0.1%      0.1%       0.7%       0.7%     0.7%      0.7%
                   100.0%     100.0%     100.0%    100.0%    100.0%    100.0%
           j\i     F35-39    F40-44    F45-49    F50-54   F55-64     F65+
        F02-12      5.0%      5.0%      3.0%      1.0%     2.0%      1.0%
        F13-17      2.0%      2.0%      2.0%      2.2%     2.0%      1.0%
        F18-20      1.0%      1.0%      0.2%      2.0%     0.5%      0.5%
        F21-24      1.0%      0.2%      0.1%      2.0%     0.1%      0.1%
        F25-29      0.6%      0.1%      0.2%      0.1%     3.0%      3.0%
        F30-34      0.2%      0.2%      0.1%      0.1%     0.1%      0.1%
        F35-39     55.0%      0.1%      0.2%      0.1%     0.1%      0.1%
        F40-44      0.7%     62.0%      0.2%      0.1%     0.4%      0.4%
        F45-49      0.9%      0.2%      60.0%     0.1%     0.1%      0.1%
        F50-54      0.6%      0.3%      0.1%     63.0%     2.0%      0.1%
        F55-64      0.5%      0.2%      0.3%      0.1%    60.0%      3.0%
         F65+       0.8%      0.1%      0.2%      0.2%     2.0%     74.0%
        M02-12      4.0%      4.0%      4.0%      0.2%     3.0%      0.1%
        M13-17      1.0%      2.0%      4.0%      2.0%     2.0%      0.1%
        M18-20      1.0%      0.2%      2.0%      1.9%     1.2%      0.2%
                                           -54-

M21-24  0.5%   0.5%   0.2%     1.2%    0.3%   0.2%
M25-29  2.0%   2.0%   0.5%     0.2%    0.1%   0.1%
M30-34  3.0%   3.0%   1.0%     0.5%    0.5%   0.3%
M35-39  10.0%  1.0%   2.0%     1.0%    0.5%   1.3%
M40-44  8.0%   11.0%  3.0%     2.0%    1.0%   1.0%
M45-49  0.5%   4.0%   10.0%    2.0%    0.1%   0.2%
M50-54  0.6%   0.1%   6.5%     7.0%    2.0%   0.1%
M55-64  0.4%   0.1%   0.1%     8.0%   10.0%   3.0%
 M65+   0.7%   0.7%   0.1%     3.0%    7.0%  10.0%
       100.0% 100.0% 100.0%   100.0% 100.0%  100.0%
  j\i  M02-12 M13-17 M18-20   M21-24 M25-29 M30-34
F02-12  1.0%   1.0%   1.0%     1.0%   3.0%   4.0%
F13-17  1.0%   1.0%   1.0%     1.0%   0.5%   0.5%
F18-20  0.4%   0.4%   5.0%     5.0%   1.0%   1.0%
F21-24  0.5%   0.5%   1.0%     1.0%   0.5%   0.5%
F25-29  0.5%   0.5%   0.5%     0.5%   6.0%   2.0%
F30-34  8.0%   5.0%   4.5%     4.5%   5.0%  10.0%
F35-39  7.0%   4.0%   3.5%     3.5%   0.9%  11.0%
F40-44  1.0%   2.0%   2.0%     2.0%   1.0%   1.0%
F45-49  0.1%   0.1%   0.1%     0.1%   0.1%   0.5%
F50-54  0.1%   0.1%   0.1%     0.1%   0.1%   0.6%
F55-64  0.1%   0.1%   0.1%     0.1%   0.1%   0.4%
 F65+   0.1%   0.1%   0.7%     0.7%   0.7%   0.7%
M02-12 60.0%   1.5%   1.0%     0.5%   2.0%   4.0%
M13-17  1.0%  65.0%   1.0%     0.5%   0.5%   1.0%
M18-20  1.0%   1.0%  60.0%     0.5%   0.4%   0.5%
M21-24  0.5%   0.5%   0.5%    64.0%   0.7%   0.1%
M25-29  0.5%   0.5%   0.5%     0.5%  74.0%   0.2%
M30-34 15.0%   7.0%   5.0%     5.0%   0.5%  59.0%
M35-39  1.0%   8.0%   6.0%     3.0%   0.3%   0.3%
M40-44  0.5%   1.0%   5.0%     5.0%   0.7%   0.7%
M45-49  0.2%   0.2%   1.0%     1.0%   0.9%   0.9%
M50-54  0.1%   0.1%   0.1%     0.1%   0.3%   0.3%
M55-64  0.1%   0.1%   0.1%     0.1%   0.5%   0.5%
 M65+   0.3%   0.3%   0.3%     0.3%   0.3%   0.3%
       100.0% 100.0% 100.0%   100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
  j\i  M35-39 M40-44 M45-49   M50-54 M55-64  M65+
F02-12  4.0%   4.0%   4.0%     0.2%   3.0%   0.1%
F13-17  1.0%   2.0%   4.0%     2.0%   2.0%   0.1%
F18-20  1.0%   0.2%   2.0%     1.9%   1.2%   0.2%
F21-24  0.5%   0.5%   0.2%     1.2%   0.3%   0.2%
F25-29  2.0%   2.0%   0.5%     0.2%   0.1%   0.1%
F30-34  3.0%   3.0%   1.0%     0.5%   0.5%   0.3%
F35-39 10.0%   1.0%   2.0%     1.0%   0.5%   1.3%
                         -55-

          F40-44     8.0%      11.0%     3.0%     2.0%       1.0%     1.0%
          F45-49     0.5%      4.0%     10.0%     2.0%      0.1%      0.2%
          F50-54     0.6%       0.1%     6.5%     7.0%      2.0%      0.1%
          F55-64     0.4%       0.1%     0.1%     8.0%      10.0%     3.0%
           F65+      0.7%       0.7%     0.1%     3.0%      7.0%     10.0%
          M02-12     5.0%       5.0%     3.0%     1.0%      2.0%      1.0%
          M13-17     2.0%       2.0%     2.0%     2.2%      2.0%      1.0%
          M18-20     1.0%       1.0%     0.2%     2.0%      0.5%      0.5%
          M21-24     1.0%       0.2%     0.1%     2.0%      0.1%      0.1%
          M25-29     0.6%       0.1%     0.2%     0.1%      3.0%      3.0%
          M30-34     0.2%       0.2%     0.1%     0.1%      0.1%      0.1%
          M35-39    55.0%       0.1%     0.2%     0.1%      0.1%      0.1%
          M40-44     0.7%      62.0%     0.2%     0.1%      0.4%      0.4%
          M45-49     0.9%       0.2%    60.0%     0.1%      0.1%      0.1%
          M50-54     0.6%       0.3%     0.1%    63.0%      2.0%      0.1%
          M55-64     0.5%       0.2%     0.3%     0.1%      60.0%     3.0%
           M65+      0.8%       0.1%     0.2%     0.2%      2.0%     74.0%
                    100.0%    100.0%    100.0%   100.0%    100.0%   100.0%
                 EXAMPLE MISATTRIBUTION CORRECTION MATRIX
                                         Table 14
[00142]     As shown in the example misattribution correction matrix of Table 14
above, the values of each of the columns sum to 100%. Therefore, all of the
 impressions, duration units, and/or audience attributed to recognized demographic
group i are accounted for when the impressions, duration units, and/or audience are
re-distributed based on the example misattribution correction matrix of Table 14
above. As described in more detail below, the misattribution corrector 206 of FIG. 2
applies the example misattribution correction matrix of Table 14 above to compensate
the impression information for misattribution error.
[00143]     Co-viewinq Matrix
[00144]     In some examples, the sharing matrix generator 204 further includes a co
viewing matrix generator 224 that generates a co-viewing matrix in addition to the
example misattribution correction matrix of Table 14 above (e.g., for each
combination of media category and device type). The co-viewing matrix is a matrix
that provides PDFs of probabilities of simultaneous viewing between two
demographic groups. For example, the co-viewing probability Kij is the probability that,
when a database proprietor recognizes a person in recognized demographic group i
 in association with a media impression, a person in actual viewer demographic group
j is also watching (e.g., co-viewing) the media with the recognized person. Thus,
                                            -56-

probabilities Kij in the co-viewing matrix can be used to compensate the impression
information for situations in which an impression can correctly be associated with
multiple persons.
[00145]     Like the example misattribution correction matrix of Table 14 above, the co
viewing matrix that may also be generated by the co-viewing matrix generator 224
has an equal number of rows and columns. However, unlike the example
misattribution correction matrix of Table 14 above, the columns of the co-viewing
matrix do not necessarily sum to any particular number (e.g., 100%). In the illustrated
example, the example co-viewing matrix generator 224 calculates the co-viewing
probability Kij using the probabilities P(L)ij and P(DIL)ij discussed above, and further
using a probability P(CxID)ij that describes the probability that a person in recognized
demographic group i and a person in actual viewer demographic group j who live in
the same household and have access to a mobile device of the selected device type
simultaneously view media of the selected media category using the same mobile
device of device type x. In some examples, the co-viewing matrix generator 224
replaces the P(SxID)ij term in Equation 1 above with P(CxID)ij to calculate the co
viewing probabilities    Kij.
[00146]     In some examples, the misattribution corrector 206 applies the co-viewing
matrix to the impressions and/or duration units that have been adjusted for device
sharing misattribution. In some other examples, because co-viewing can be
considered to represent additional impressions and/or duration units that are not
accounted for in the data collection, the misattribution corrector 206 applies the
probabilities Kij in co-viewing matrix to the impressions and/or duration units that have
been adjusted for device sharing misattribution and adjusted for non-coverage by the
database proprietor 104a, thereby determining co-viewing based on compensated
(e.g., corrected) impressions and/or duration units.
[00147]     Misattribution Correction Example 1
[00148]     After generating the misattribution correction matrix of Table 14 above, the
example misattribution corrector 206 applies the misattribution correction matrix to a
set of impressions obtained from the impression information collector 208 of FIG. 2. In
a first example of misattribution correction, the misattribution correction matrix is
applied to correct the attribution of impressions to demographic groups, and does not
affect an audience count. Such examples may be applied, for example, to correct
impressions of Internet-based streaming media (e.g., streaming video and/or
                                               -57-

streaming audio). For example, the corrected impression information for Internet
based streaming media may be combined with impression information for another
type of device on which the media may additionally or alternatively be accessed. For
example, television episodes may be accessed via computing devices for delayed or
time-shifted streaming playback by audience members after the episodes are
presented (e.g., broadcast) on television. The impressions of the streaming media
accessed via the computing devices may be added to the Live + 7 television ratings
metric, which measures the sum of the viewing impressions (or corresponding
audience size) of the initial presentation and the impressions (or corresponding
audience size) occurring on the day of the initial scheduled broadcast presentation
and during the 7 days following the initial scheduled broadcast presentation.
[00149]    The example impression information collector 208 of FIG. 2 collects the
impression information from the database proprietor 104a and collects impression
volume information obtained from client devices (e.g., the example client device 106
of FIG. 1). Example impression information obtained from the database proprietor
104a includes aggregate numbers of impressions associated with the demographic
groups by the database proprietor 104a from each of the demographic groups.
[00150]    The example database proprietor 104a may provide the impression
information (e.g., numbers of impressions identified by the database proprietor 104a
as associated with a recognized person) for each media item of interest (e.g., media
items being monitored by the audience measurement entity 108). Additionally or
alternatively, the example database proprietor 104a provides to the impression
information collector 208 impression information for each type of device. Table 15
below illustrates example impression information for tablet computer devices obtained
by the impression information collector 208 from the example database proprietor
104a. The example impression information collector 208 may collect similar data for
other types of mobile devices (e.g., smartphones, portable media players, etc.).
                              Demographic       Impressions
                                  Group
                                  F02-12           12,557
                                  F13-17           33,134
                                  F1 8-20         45,036
                                  F21-24          124,837
                                  F25-29          197,059
                                  F30-34          177,895
                                  F35-39          142,681
                                  F40-44          138,408
                                  F45-49          138,877
                                            -58-

                                  F50-54          136,891
                                  F55-64          200,416
                                   F65+            97,782
                                 M02-12            18,388
                                 M13-17            64,952
                                 M18-20            61,603
                                 M21-24           145,405
                                 M25-29           240,695
                                 M30-34           223,608
                                 M35-39           177,280
                                 M40-44           182,658
                                 M45-49           154,428
                                 M50-54           123,119
                                 M55-64           135,635
                                  M65+             61,234
                                   Total         3,034,578
                        EXAMPLE IMPRESSION INFORMATION
                          FOR TABLET COMPUTER DEVICES
                                          Table 15
[00151]     In some examples, the impressions are processed through a decision tree
prior to providing the impressions to the impression information collector 208. In some
examples, a decision tree is used to determine the delineations between the
recognized demographic groups i and/or the actual viewer demographic groups j.
Examples of processing the impressions are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application
Serial No. 13/209,292, filed August 12, 2011, and in U.S. Provisional Patent
Application No. 61/923,959, filed January 6, 2014. The entireties of U.S. Patent
Application Serial No. 13/209,292 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
61/923,959 are incorporated herein by reference.
[00152]    The example misattribution corrector 206 of FIG. 2 adjusts or compensates
the impression information obtained from the database proprietor 104a for
misattribution errors. FIG. 3A illustrates an example calculation performed by the
misattribution corrector 206 to adjust impression information. In the examples of
FIGS. 2 and 3A, the misattribution corrector 206 adjusts the demographic information
provided by the database proprietor 104a (e.g., impression counts per demographic
group per device type and/or media category, etc.) using the device sharing matrices
generated by the example sharing matrix generator 204.
[00153]     Using the database proprietor data (e.g., impression information 102a,
102b of FIG. 1) obtained by the impression information collector 208, the
misattribution corrector 206 of FIG. 2 calculates the dot product of the n x n
                                            -59-

misattribution correction matrix 302 for the device type and/or media category and the
n x 1 database proprietor data 304 (e.g., an impression counts matrix) for the device
type and/or media category. The result of the dot product is an n x 1 misattribution
adjusted data matrix 306 having adjusted numbers of impressions for the device type
and/or media category.
[00154]    Table 16 below illustrates example misattribution-adjusted impressions
calculated by the misattribution corrector 206 using the example misattribution
correction matrix of Table 14 and the impression information of Table 15. Table 16
includes the adjusted impressions calculated based on the dot product discussed
above with reference to FIG. 3A. The unadjusted impressions from Table 15 above
are also shown in Table 16 for ease of comparison.
                                     Misattribution-   Unadjusted
                          demo          adjusted      impressions
                                      impressions
                         F02-12          88,758          12,557
                         F13-17          63,963         33,134
                         F18-20          61,710         45,036
                         F21-24          95,709         124,837
                         F25-29         186,392         197,059
                         F30-34         182,026         177,895
                         F35-39         152,916         142,681
                         F40-44         153,586         138,408
                         F45-49         118,492         138,877
                         F50-54         117,647         136,891
                         F55-64         154,539         200,416
                           F65+         106,738         97,782
                         M02-12          92,660          18,388
                         M13-17          84,131         64,952
                         M18-20          70,018         61,603
                         M21-24         108,569         145,405
                         M25-29         210,945         240,695
                         M30-34         201,731         223,608
                         M35-39         164,711         177,280
                         M40-44         174,513         182,658
                         M45-49         125,926         154,428
                         M50-54         108,978         123,119
                         M55-64         123,567         135,635
                          M65+           86,326         61,234
                          Totals       3,034,551       3,034,578
MISATTRIBUTION ADJUSTED IMPRESSIONS AND UNADJUSTED IMPRESSIONS
                                         Table 16
                                           -60-

[00155]    Thus, as shown in Table 16 above, the adjusted impressions are
compensated for misattribution error in the impression information 102a, 102b
received from the example database proprietor 104a.
[00156]    Misattribution Correction Example 2
[00157]     In a second example of misattribution correction, the misattribution
correction matrix of Table 14 above is applied to correct the misattribution of
impressions and audience to demographic groups. As explained above, a
misattribution of an impression to an incorrect demographic group can occur when the
database proprietor 104a attributes an impression to a person in a first demographic
group when, in fact, the impression is correctly attributable to a second person in a
second demographic group (e.g., due to the person in the first demographic group
being logged into the database proprietor on a device during the time the second
person in the second demographic group views media giving rise to the impression).
Example misattribution corrections of impressions and audience may be used when,
for example, media is accessible from different types of computing devices and the
audiences logged or measured for those computing devices can be de-duplicated.
For example, a duplication of a logged audience member occurs when the audience
member accesses the same media multiple times from the same device and/or
different devices. The multiple accesses of the same media by the same audience
member results in audience duplication because the same audience member is
counted twice or more times in an audience size count based on the multiple
impressions logged for the multiple accesses of the same media by that audience
member. Such audience duplication can lead to inflated representations of a true
audience size that was exposed to or accessed particular media. Accordingly, de
duplication can be used to more accurately count an audience size to which
impressions of media are attributable.
[00158]    The example impression information collector 208 of FIG. 2 collects the
impression information from the database proprietor 104a and collects volume
information for impressions occurring at client devices 106. Example impression
information obtained from the database proprietor 104a includes aggregate numbers
of impressions by demographic group generated by the database proprietor 104a
and/or audience sizes from each of the demographic groups.
[00159]    The example database proprietor 104a may provide the impression
information (e.g., impression counts, impression counts by demographic group, etc.)
                                          -61-

and/or audience information (e.g., audience sizes, audience sizes by demographic
group, etc.) for each media item of interest (e.g., media items being monitored by the
audience measurement entity 108). Additionally or alternatively, the example
database proprietor 104a provides to the impression information collector 208
impression and/or audience information for each type of device. In some examples,
the impression information collector 208 further collects impression and/or audience
information for media impressions occurring on computer platforms (e.g., non-mobile
device platforms such as desktop computers and/or laptops). Table 17 below
illustrates example impression and audience information (e.g., uncorrected
impression counts and audience sizes) for tablet computer devices obtained by the
impression information collector 208 from the example database proprietor 104a. The
example impression information collector 208 may collect similar data for other types
of mobile devices (e.g., smartphones, portable media players, etc.) and/or computer
platforms. The example Table 17 below is similar to the example Table 15 above,
except that Table 17 below also includes audience size and frequency information
(e.g., from the database proprietor 104a).
             Demo      Impressions       Audience Size          Frequency
            F02-12        12,557               1,512                8.3
            F13-17       33,134               4,492                 7.4
            F1 8-20      45,036               4,689                 9.6
            F21-24       124,837              10,193               12.2
            F25-29       197,059              15,983               12.3
            F30-34       177,895              15,850               11.2
            F35-39       142,681              13,998               10.2
            F40-44       138,408              14,944                9.3
            F45-49       138,877              14,376                9.7
            F50-54       136,891              14,173                9.7
            F55-64       200,416              22,403                8.9
             F65+        97,782               11,680                8.4
            M02-12        18,388              2,226                 8.3
            M13-17       64,952               7,840                 8.3
            M18-20       61,603               6,512                 9.5
            M21-24       145,405              11,911               12.2
            M25-29       240,695              18,925               12.7
            M30-34       223,608              19,000               11.8
            M35-39       177,280              16,581               10.7
            M40-44       182,658              17,522               10.4
            M45-49       154,428              15,251               10.1
            M50-54       123,119              12,484                9.9
            M55-64       135,635              15,463                8.8
             M65+        61,234               7,966                 7.7
             Totals     3,034,578            295,973
                                           -62-

       EXAMPLE IMPRESSION AND AUDIENCE INFORMATION FOR TABLET
        COMPUTER DEVICES OBTAINED FROM THE EXAMPLE DATABASE
                                      PROPRIETOR
                                         Table 17
[00160]     In some examples, the database proprietor total impressions and audience
sizes are processed through a decision tree prior to providing the database proprietor
total impressions and audience sizes to the impression information collector 208.
Examples of processing the impressions and the unique audience are disclosed in
U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application No. 13/209,292, filed August 12, 2011, and in
U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61/923,959, filed January 6, 2014. The
entireties of U.S. Nonprovisional Patent Application No. 13/209,292 and U.S.
Provisional Patent Application No. 61/923,959 are incorporated by reference herein.
[00161]    The example misattribution corrector 206 of FIG. 2 adjusts or compensates
the impression information obtained from the database proprietor 104a for
misattribution error. FIG. 3A, discussed above, also illustrates an example calculation
performed by the misattribution corrector 206 to adjust impression and/or audience
information. In this example, the misattribution corrector 206 adjusts the demographic
information provided by the database proprietor 104a (e.g., impression counts per
demographic group per device type and/or media category, audience size per
demographic group per device type and/or media category, etc.) using the device
sharing matrices generated by the example sharing matrix generator 204.
[00162]     Using the database proprietor data (e.g., impression counts and/or
audience size information) obtained by the impression information collector 208, the
misattribution corrector 206 of FIG. 2 calculates the dot product of the n x n
misattribution correction matrix 302 for the device type and/or media category and the
n x 1 database proprietor data 304 (e.g., an impression counts matrix, an audience
size matrix). The result of the dot product is an n x 1 misattribution-adjusted data
matrix 306 having adjusted impression counts or an adjusted audience size.
[00163]    Table 18 below illustrates an example misattribution-adjusted data matrix
calculated by the misattribution corrector 206 using the misattribution correction
matrix of Table 14 above and the example impression count and/or audience size
data of Table 17 above. Table 18 below includes the audience calculated based on
the dot product discussed above, and impression count information calculated by the
misattribution corrector 206 using the adjusted audience size. In this example, the
misattribution corrector 206 determines the misattribution-adjusted impressions (e.g.,
                                           -63-

118,492 for the F45-49 demographic group) by dividing the misattribution-adjusted
audience size (e.g., 12,216 for the F45-49 demographic group) by the frequency of
Table 17 above (e.g., 9.7 for the F45-49 demographic group) that corresponds to that
demographic group. The unadjusted audience size and unadjusted impression count
are also shown in Table 18 below for ease of comparison.
                      Misattribution-   Misattribution-    Unadjusted    Unadjusted
     Demographic         adjusted          adjusted        impression     audience
         Group          impression      audience sizes        counts        sizes
                          counts
         F02-12           88,758            10,694            12,557        1,512
         F13-17           63,963             8,644            33,134        4,492
         F18-20           61,710             6,428           45,036         4,689
         F21-24           95,709             7,845           124,837       10,193
         F25-29           186,392           15,154           197,059       15,983
         F30-34           182,026           16,252           177,895       15,850
         F35-39           152,916           14,992           142,681       13,998
         F40-44           153,586           16,515           138,408       14,944
         F45-49           118,492           12,216           138,877       14,376
         F50-54           117,647           12,129           136,891       14,173
         F55-64           154,539           17,364           200,416       22,403
          F65+            106,738           12,707            97,782       11,680
        M02-12            92,660            11,164            18,388        2,226
        M13-17            84,131            10,136            64,952        7,840
        M18-20            70,018             7,370            61,603        6,512
        M21-24            108,569            8,899           145,405       11,911
        M25-29            210,945           16,610           240,695       18,925
        M30-34            201,731           17,096           223,608       19,000
        M35-39            164,711           15,394           177,280       16,581
        M40-44            174,513           16,780           182,658       17,522
        M45-49            125,926           12,468           154,428       15,251
        M50-54            108,978           11,008           123,119       12,484
        M55-64            123,567           14,042           135,635       15,463
          M65+            86,326            11,211            61,234        7,966
         Totals          3,034,551         303,116          3,034,578     295,973
  MISATTRIBUTION-ADJUSTED IMPRESSION COUNTS AND AUDIENCE SIZES,
    WITH UNADJUSTED IMPRESSION COUNTS AND AUDIENCE SIZES FOR
                                      COMPARISON
                                         Table 18
[00164]    Thus, as shown in Table 18 above, the misattribution-adjusted impression
counts and the misattribution-adjusted audience sizes are compensated for
misattribution error in the impression count and audience size information received
from the example database proprietor 104a. The total misattribution-adjusted
audience size is substantially equal (e.g., equal except for rounding error) to the total
                                           -64-

unadjusted audience size reported by the database proprietor 104a. The example
misattribution-adjusted audience sizes and/or the misattribution-adjusted impression
counts of this example are corrected for non-coverage error as described in the
examples below.
[00165]     Alpha Factor for Non-Coveraqe
[00166]     In some examples, such as compensating for errors in impression count
information corresponding to media associated with television ratings (e.g., television
program episodes available for streaming), the non-coverage calculator 210 of FIG. 2
calculates the non-coverage factors for the audience using an "alpha factor." As used
herein, the term "alpha factor" refers to a ratio of B/A, where B is defined to be the
probability that a person (e.g., a person in a demographic group of interest) accesses
a media item of interest (e.g., an episode of a television program via streaming video)
using a device type of interest (e.g., on a mobile device and/or on a specific type of
mobile device such as a tablet computer, a smartphone, or a portable media player)
that is not covered by the database proprietor. For example, the database proprietor
may not cover a device type of interest if the database proprietor does not have
access to any identifiers or information (e.g., the device/user identifier(s) 124 of FIG.
1) on the device type that the database proprietor can use to associate with registered
user information (e.g., demographics). As used herein, in the alpha factor ratio B/A, A
is defined to be the probability that the person accesses the media item of interest on
a type of device other than a mobile device, such as a standard device for accessing
the media item of interest (e.g., in the case of a television program, a television set).
For example, for an episode of a television program in a particular media category,
the designated type may be a television and the first device type may be a computing
device on which the episode of the television program may be accessed via
streaming video (e.g., mobile devices and/or mobile devices of a more specific type
such as smartphones, tablet computers, and/or portable media players). Such
television programs are often made available via streaming video after an initial or
premiere presentation on television. Thus, a person can access the episode of the
television program on television and/or via streaming media on a computing device.
[00167]     The example non-coverage calculator 210 of FIG. 2 may generate different
alpha factors for different demographic groups, different media categories, different
mobile device types, mobile and non-mobile devices, different geographic regions,
                                            -65-

different stations, different day parts, and/or any other factor identified based on the
survey calibration data source.
[00168]     In the example of FIG. 2, the example non-coverage calculator 210
calculates the probability B (e.g., the probability that a person watches a media item
of interest using a device type of interest) as a proportion of the selected demographic
group that accesses the media item of interest on the selected device type (e.g.,
based on responses from a survey or another calibration data source) of a total
number of people in the selected demographic group (e.g., based on the responses
from the survey or other calibration data source). For example, if 40 people in the
M18-24 demographic group responded to a survey that they access media in the
'comedy' media category on a tablet computer out of 100 people in the M18-24
demographic group represented in the survey, the probability B is 40% or 0.40.
Similarly, the example non-coverage calculator 210 calculates the probability A (e.g.,
the probability that the person watches the media item of interest using the selected
other device type) as a proportion of the selected demographic group that accesses
the media item of interest on the other device type (e.g., based on responses from a
survey or another calibration data source) of a total number of people in the selected
demographic group (e.g., based on the survey or other calibration data source). For
example, if 20 people in the M18-24 demographic group responded to a survey that
they access media in the 'comedy' media category on television out of the 100 people
in the M1 8-24 demographic group represented in the survey, the probability A is 20%
or 0.20. Equations 2 and 3 below illustrate example models for calculating the
probabilities A and B, respectively. The resulting alpha factor for the M1 8-24
demographic group, the 'comedy' media category, on tablet computers, is 0.40/0.20 =
2.
        Equation 2     A = (Number of people in Age and Gender group X
                that watch Media Category Y on TV) / (Total number of
                people in Age and Gender group X)
        Equation 3     B = (Number of People in Age and Gender group X
                that watch Media Category Y on device type of interest) /
                (Total number of people in Age and Gender group X)
[00169]     In examples in which the non-coverage calculator 210 determines an alpha
factor for determining the non-coverage by the database proprietor 104a, the example
non-coverage corrector 212 corrects the impression information by multiplying the
                                            -66-

alpha factor for a demographic group by the distribution percentage of the
demographic group for a media item of interest. For example, if the 35-39 year old
female group (e.g., F 35-39 in Table 19 below) represents 2.9% of the impressions for
a particular episode of a television program, and the alpha factor for the 35-39 year
old female group is 3.80 for the media category in which the television program is
classified, the new calculated percentage is approximately 11.2%. However, the
resulting percentage (i.e., 11.2%) is normalized such that the percentages for all of
the demographic groups sums to 100% for the episode of the television program. The
example non-coverage corrector 212 multiplies the normalized percentage by the
number of impressions that are not associated with a user by the database proprietor
104a to determine the number of impressions attributable to the 35-39 year old
female group (F35-39). In some examples, the number of impressions that are not
associated with a user by the database proprietor 104a is determined from a
difference between 1) the number of impressions identified by the AME 108 and 2)
the number of impressions that were associated with a user by the database
proprietor 104a. Additionally or alternatively, the database proprietor 104a monitors
and reports a number of impressions that the database proprietor 104a is unable to
associate with a user while also monitoring the numbers of impressions
corresponding to the demographic groups (e.g., the impressions that the database
proprietor is able to associate with a user).
[00170]     Table 19 below illustrates example data generated by the non-coverage
corrector 212 to correct impression information using alpha factors. In the example of
Table 19, the AME 108 counts 2,000 media impressions that the database proprietor
104a is unable to associate with demographic groups (e.g., "Demos" noted in the first
column of Table 19 below).
                                                                              Non
              Means
  Demos          %        A          B     a = B/A     Adj %   Norm %       Covered
                                                                          Impressions
     F2-5      5.5%      0.06      0.06      1.00      5.5%     3.4%           69
     F6-8      5.0%      0.40      0.42      1.05      5.2%     3.2%           65
    F9-11      5.2%      0.23      0.50      2.16     11.2%     7.0%           139
   F12-17      1.9%      0.37      0.76      2.02      3.9%     2.4%           48
   F1 8-20     5.4%      0.47      0.46      0.98      5.3%     3.3%           66
   F21-24      0.8%      0.26      0.04      0.16      0.1%     0.1%            2
   F25-29      0.9%      0.80      0.52      0.66      0.6%     0.4%            7
   F30-34      0.5%      0.23      0.94      4.18      2.3%     1.4%           28
   F35-39      2.9%      0.23      0.87      3.80     11.2%     6.9%           139
   F40-44      5.3%      0.82      0.67      0.82      4.4%     2.7%           54
                                            -67-

  F45-49      2.7%       0.55      0.96     1.76     4.7%       2.9%         59
  F50-54      5.4%       0.43      0.97     2.26     12.2%      7.6%         151
  F55-64      1.9%       0.18      0.94     5.25     9.7%       6.1%         121
    F65+      4.8%       0.38      0.29     0.75     3.6%       2.3%         45
    M2-5      4.2%       0.44      0.29     0.67     2.8%       1.7%         35
    M6-8      5.4%       0.53      0.95     1.79     9.7%       6.0%         120
   M9-11      4.5%       0.33      0.04     0.13     0.6%       0.4%          7
  M12-17      2.6%       0.03      0.30     9.46     24.7%     15.4%        308
  M18-20      1.2%       0.20      0.23     1.15      1.4%      0.9%          18
  M21-24      5.7%       0.36      0.61     1.72     9.8%       6.1%         122
  M25-29      5.8%       0.52      0.88     1.68     9.8%       6.1%         122
  M30-34      5.2%       0.92      0.65     0.71     3.7%       2.3%         46
  M35-39      3.8%       0.91      0.75     0.83     3.2%       2.0%         39
  M40-44      1.8%       0.65      0.67     1.03      1.8%      1.1%         23
  M45-49      1.6%       0.71      0.24     0.33     0.5%       0.3%          6
  M50-54      2.1%       0.40      0.82     2.05     4.4%       2.7%         54
  M55-64      4.5%       0.60      0.85     1.42     6.4%       4.0%         79
   M65+       3.3%       0.97      0.65     0.67     2.2%       1.4%         28
    Total    100.0%                                 160.9%     100.0%       2000
                             NON-COVERED IMPRESSIONS
                                         Table 19
[00171]    As illustrated in the example of Table 19 above, the non-coverage corrector
212 calculates the adjusted percentage (Adj %) as the product of the alpha factor (a =
B/A) and the measured percentage for each demographic group (Demos). The non
coverage corrector 212 normalizes the adjusted percentages (Adj %) to a sum of
100% (e.g., divides the adjusted percentage (Adj %) by the total adjusted percentage
(e.g., 160.9%) to obtain the normalized percentage (Norm %). The non-coverage
corrector 212 multiplies the normalized percentages (Norm %) by the number of
impressions not associated with a demographic group (Demos) by the database
proprietor 104a to obtain the number of non-covered impressions (Non-covered
impressions) attributable to each demographic group (Demos). The example
impressions determined by the non-coverage corrector 212 (Non-covered
impressions) may be added to the misattribution adjusted impressions to determine
the misattribution and non-coverage adjusted impressions.
[00172]    Non-Coveraqe Factors for Non-Coveraqe Correction
[00173]    As an alternative to compensating the impression information for non
coverage error using the example alpha factor (a = B/A) disclosed above, the
example non-coverage calculator 210 of FIG. 2 may calculate non-coverage factors
                                           -68-

for each of the example demographic groups. The non-coverage factors reflect the
portion of impressions that are not attributable to persons by the database proprietor
104a.
[00174]    To calculate the non-coverage factor for a demographic group and a
particular device type, the example non-coverage calculator 210 determines, from the
survey calibration data source, a number or portion of persons (e.g., respondents to a
survey) in the demographic group that indicate they would not be recognized by the
database proprietor 104a when using the particular device type, as a proportion of the
persons in the demographic group that own and have access to that particular device
type. For example, the non-coverage calculator 210 may determine that a respondent
would not be recognized by the database proprietor 104a when using the particular
device type if the respondent indicates that nobody in the respondent's home
accesses the database proprietor 104a using the particular type of device, that he is
not registered to the database proprietor 104a, and/or takes any other action or
inaction that would prevent the database proprietor 104a from recognizing the person
when he accesses media on the particular device type.
[00175]    The example non-coverage calculator 210 of FIG. 2 creates tables of non
coverage factors for each of the demographic groups and device types, where the
non-coverage factor is calculated as: non-coverage factor = (Non-covered portion of
respondents in demographic group for device type)/(Total number of respondents in
demographic group with access to a device of the device type). An example non
coverage factor table for tablet computers is shown below in Table 20. In some
examples, the example non-coverage calculator 210 makes similar tables for other
device types. As shown in Table 20, 20% of the 21-24 year old female demographic
group is not covered (e.g., not recognizable) by the database proprietor 104a on a
tablet device. In other words, 10% of 21-24 year old females who have access to a
tablet computer would not be recognized by the database proprietor 104a. Similarly,
10% of the 18-20 year old male demographic group is not covered by the database
proprietor 104a on a tablet device.
                                Age/Gender      coverage
                                  F02-12          20.0%
                                  F13-17          10.0%
                                  F18-20          10.0%
                                  F21-24          20.0%
                                  F25-29          10.0%
                                  F30-34          10.0%
                                           -69-

                                   F35-39        20.0%
                                   F40-44        30.0%
                                   F45-49        40.0%
                                   F50-54        50.0%
                                   F55-64        40.0%
                                    F65+         50.0%
                                   M02-12        20.0%
                                   M13-17         10.0%
                                   M18-20         10.0%
                                   M21-24        20.0%
                                   M25-29         10.0%
                                   M30-34         10.0%
                                   M35-39        20.0%
                                   M40-44        30.0%
                                   M45-49        40.0%
                                   M50-54        50.0%
                                   M55-64        40.0%
                                    M65+         50.0%
         EXAMPLE NON-COVERAGE FACTORS FOR TABLET COMPUTERS
                                         Table 20
[00176]    The non-coverage factors of Table 20 above may be used as an alternative
to the alpha factor (a = B/A) for performing non-coverage adjustment for the
impression information. For example, a frequency (e.g., average impressions per
audience member during a time period) observed by the database proprietor 104a
may be used to calculate an audience corresponding to the impressions observed by
the database proprietor 104a. The example non-coverage calculator 210 then adjusts
the audience by the non-coverage factor (e.g., adjusted audience = audience / (1
non-coverage factor)), and converts the adjusted audience into non-coverage
adjusted impression using the frequency.
[00177]    While the above example describes non-coverage factors for one database
proprietor, the example non-coverage calculator 210 may additionally or alternatively
calculate non-coverage factors for multiple database proprietors. For example, if two
database proprietors are used, the example survey calibration data source may
include data designed to determine whether respondents access either of the
database proprietors 104a-b via one or more device type(s). The example non
coverage calculator 210 of FIG. 2 then determines that non-coverage error is limited
to those persons and/or impressions which neither of the database proprietors 104a-b
can recognize. In the example of FIG. 2, if at least one of the database proprietors
                                           -70-

104a-b can recognize a person on a mobile device, the example person is considered
covered.
[00178]    Non-Coveraqe Error Compensation and Scalinq Example 1
[00179]    A first example of compensating for non-coverage error includes multiplying
the alpha factor (a = B/A) for a demographic group by the misattribution-adjusted
impression count corresponding to the same demographic group. For example, the
alpha factor may be used to calculate the non-covered impression counts based on
the misattribution-adjusted impression counts of the first misattribution compensation
example described above with reference to Tables 16 and/or 18.
[00180]    FIG. 3B illustrates an example calculation that may be performed by the
non-coverage corrector 212 of FIG. 2 to compensate for non-coverage error. In the
example of FIG. 3B, the non-coverage corrector 212 obtains the misattribution
adjusted data 306 calculated by the misattribution corrector 206 in the example of
FIG. 3A. The non-coverage corrector 212 applies non-coverage factors 308 (e.g., a
set of alpha factors, a set of scalars) corresponding to the same device type (and/or
media category) to the misattribution-adjusted data 306 for the device type (and/or
media category) to determine misattribution and non-coverage adjusted data 310 for
the device type (and/or media category).
[00181]    For example, Table 21 below illustrates an example calculation to
determine quantities of non-covered impressions per demographic group using total
numbers of corresponding misattribution-adjusted impression counts of Table 18
above. The non-coverage corrector 212 adjusts misattribution-adjusted impression
counts (e.g., 210,945for the M25-29 demographic group of Table 18 above) using the
alpha factor (a = B/A) for the M25-29 demographic group (e.g., 1.68 from Table 19
above). Table 21 below illustrates an example of the misattribution and non-coverage
adjusted data 310 (e.g., misattribution and non-coverage adjusted impression
counts). In the following example, the AME 108 has identified 1,126,462 total
impressions that the database proprietor 104 does not associate with demographic
groups.
                                                                    Non-      Misatt.
              Misatt.
                                   Alpha       Adj     Norm      Covered     and Non
             adjusted     Meas
  Demo                       %      a=          %         %         Imp.     Cov.-Adj.
              Count                 B/A                            Count       Cunt
  F02-12      88,758      2.92%      5.43    15.88%     3.37%        37,995    126,753
  F13-17      63,963      2.11%      8.68    18.30%     3.89%        43,799    107,762
  F18-20      61,710      2.03%      6.23    12.66%     2.69%        30,296     92,006
                                            -71-

 F21-24       95,709     3.15%      7.22    22.76%      4.84%       54,471    150,180
 F25-29      186,392     6.14%      8.60    52.84%     11.23%      126,449    312,841
 F30-34      182,026     6.00%      3.02    18.13%      3.85%       43,388    225,414
 F35-39      152,916     5.04%      7.31    36.83%      7.82%       88,136    241,052
 F40-44      153,586     5.06%      3.02    15.28%      3.25%       36,556    190,142
 F45-49      118,492     3.90%      0.08     0.32%      0.07%          760    119,252
 F50-54      117,647     3.88%      3.45    13.39%      2.84%       32,038    149,685
 F55-64      154,539     5.09%      1.27     6.47%      1.37%       15,480    170,019
   F65+      106,738     3.52%      9.55    33.58%      7.13%       80,357    187,095
 M02-12       92,660     3.05%      2.77     8.47%      1.80%       20,270    112,930
 M13-17       84,131     2.77%      2.02     5.61%      1.19%       13,434      97,565
 M18-20       70,018     2.31%      2.13     4.91%      1.04%       11,743      81,761
 M21-24      108,569     3.58%      1.77     6.34%      1.35%       15,181    123,750
 M25-29      210,945     6.95%      5.76    40.07%      8.51%       95,894    306,839
 M30-34      201,731     6.65%      8.72    58.00%     12.32%      138,778    340,509
 M35-39      164,711     5.43%      0.69     3.74%      0.79%        8,940    173,651
 M40-44      174,513     5.75%      4.97    28.57%      6.07%       68,363    242,876
 M45-49      125,926     4.15%      8.09    33.56%      7.13%       80,312    206,238
 M50-54      108,978     3.59%      0.12     0.45%      0.09%        1,067    110,045
 M55-64      123,567     4.07%      1.69     6.87%      1.46%       16,430    139,997
  M65+        86,326     2.84%      9.74    27.72%      5.89%       66,327    152,653
   Total    3,034,551     100%              470.8%       100%    1,126,462  4,161,015
  EXAMPLE MISATTRIBUTION AND NON-COVERAGE ADJUSTED IMPRESSION
                                          DATA
                                         Table 21
[00182]    In Table 21 above, the example misattribution-adjusted impressions
(Misatt.-adjusted Imp. Count) are obtained from the misattribution correction example
described above with reference to Table 18. The example measured percentage
(Meas %) of Table 21 is determined for each of the demographic groups based on the
misattribution-adjusted impression count (Misatt.-adjusted Imp. Count) by determining
a percentage of the misattribution-adjusted impression count (e.g., 182,026 for the
F30-34 demographic group) relative to the total misattribution-adjusted impression
count (e.g., 3,034,551).
[00183]    Table 21 includes a set of example alpha factors (a = B/A) for each of the
example demographic groups, which may be calculated as described above with
reference to the example Table 19. The alpha factors are determined via, for
example, the results of a calibration survey (e.g., the survey discussed above) and
Equations 2 and 3 disclosed above. Using the alpha factors, the example non
coverage corrector 212 calculates the adjusted percentage (Adj. %) by multiplying the
measured percentage (Meas. %) by the corresponding alpha factor for each example
demographic group of Table 21. The example non-coverage corrector 212 further
                                           -72-

normalizes the adjusted percentages (Adj. %) to obtain a normalized percentage
(Norm. %) for each of the example demographic groups of Table 21.
[00184]     The example non-coverage corrector 212 determines the non-covered
impression counts (Non-Covered Imp. Count) by multiplying the normalized
percentage (Norm. %) for each of the example demographic groups of Table 21 by
the total non-covered impression count (e.g., 1,126,426). For example, the non
covered impression counts (Non-covered Imp. Count) for the F30-34 demographic
group is calculated as 3.85% * 1,126,426 = 43,388. The example non-coverage
corrector 212 may then add the non-covered impression count (Non-Covered Imp.
Count) to the misattribution-adjusted impression count (Misatt.-adjusted Imp. Count)
for each of the example demographic groups of Table 21 to determine misattribution
and non-coverage-adjusted impression count (Misatt. and Non-Cov.-Adj. Imp. Count).
[00185]     Non-Coveraqe Error Compensation and Scalinq Example 2
[00186]     A second example of compensating for non-coverage error includes using
the non-coverage factor of Table 20 above. The example non-coverage approach
disclosed above in connection with the non-coverage factors may be used instead of
the alpha factors of the non-coverage error compensation example disclosed above in
connection with the alpha factors when, for example, the alpha factors are not
available for a particular type of media and/or for a particular device type (e.g.,
probabilities of viewing the media and/or probabilities of viewing on the device types
are not available).
[00187]     In this example, the non-coverage corrector 212 of FIG. 2 corrects the
impression information obtained from the database proprietor 104a using the non
coverage factors. For example, the non-coverage corrector 212 may determine the
adjusted number of impressions to be: (reported impression count) / (1-(non-coverage
factor for demographic group)).
[00188]     Using the example of FIG. 3B, the non-coverage corrector 212 obtains the
misattribution-adjusted data 306 calculated by the misattribution corrector 206 in the
example of FIG. 3A. The non-coverage corrector 212 applies the non-coverage
factors 308 (e.g., a set of scalars instead of the alpha factors) corresponding to the
same device type to the misattribution-adjusted data 306 for the device type to
determine misattribution and non-coverage adjusted data 310 for the device type. For
example, the non-coverage corrector 212 adjusts a misattribution-adjusted impression
count (e.g., 210,945 for the M25-29 demographic group of Table 18 above) using the
                                            -73-

10.0% non-coverage factor for the M25-29 demographic group of Table 20 to
determine the misattribution and non-coverage adjusted impression count to be
19,046. The example non-coverage corrector 212 further determines the
misattribution and non-coverage adjusted audience size to be the quotient of the
misattribution and non-coverage adjusted impression count divided by the frequency
calculated or obtained from the database proprietor data (e.g., Frequency from Table
17 above). Table 22 illustrates examples of the misattribution and non-coverage
adjusted data 310 (e.g., misattribution and non-coverage adjusted impressions and
audience) for tablet computer device types.
                      misattribution and                    misattribution and non
        Demo            non-coverage          Frequency       coverage adjusted
                      tabletidjustcount                      tablet audience size
       F02-12              126,753                8.3                15,271
       F13-17              107,762                7.4                14,562
       F1 8-20             92,006                 9.6                9,584
       F21-24              150,180                12.2               12,310
       F25-29              312,841                12.3               25,434
       F30-34              225,414                11.2               20,126
       F35-39              241,052                10.2               23,633
       F40-44              190,142                9.3                20,445
       F45-49              119,252                9.7                12,294
       F50-54              149,685                9.7                15,431
       F55-64              170,019                8.9                19,103
         F65+              187,095                8.4                22,273
       M02-12              112,930                8.3                13,606
       M13-17              97,565                 8.3                11,755
       M18-20              81,761                 9.5                8,606
       M21-24              123,750                12.2               10,143
       M25-29              306,839                12.7               24,161
       M30-34              340,509                11.8               28,857
       M35-39              173,651                10.7               16,229
       M40-44              242,876                10.4               23,353
       M45-49              206,238                10.1               20,420
       M50-54              110,045                9.9                11,116
       M55-64              139,997                8.8                15,909
        M65+               152,653                7.7                19,825
        Totals            4,161,015                                 414,447
  EXAMPLE MISATTRIBUTION AND NON-COVERAGE ADJUSTED IMPRESSION
   COUNTS AND AUDIENCE SIZES FOR TABLET COMPUTER DEVICE TYPES
                                         Table 22
[00189]     In the example of Table 22 above, the example non-coverage corrector 212
determines the misattribution and non-coverage adjusted audience size for each
                                           -74-

    demographic group by dividing the corresponding misattribution and non-coverage
    adjusted impression count by the corresponding frequency of Table 17 (e.g., from the
    database proprietor 104a).
    [00190]     The example impression information adjuster 214 of FIG. 2 adjusts the
    compensated impression count and audience size to align with the numbers of
    impressions observed by the audience measurement entity 108. FIG. 3C illustrates an
    example process to adjust the compensated (e.g., misattribution and non-coverage
    adjusted) impression count and/or audience size 310 based on observed census data
    (e.g., impression volume counts).
    [00191]     While the examples of compensating for misattribution and/or non-coverage
    described above with reference to Tables 15-22 describe compensating impressions
    and unique audience size, the example misattribution corrector 206 and/or the
    example non-coverage corrector 212 of FIG. 2 may additionally or alternatively
    compensate duration units misattribution and/or non-coverage using the same
    techniques. Table 23 below shows an example of applying the misattribution matrix of
    Table 14 above to duration units associated with the impressions and unique
    audience sizes of the example of Table 18 above.
                                      Unadjusted    Misattribution  Misattribution  Misattribution
           Unadjusted     Unadjusted
Demo.impression            audience     Duration      -adjusted       -adjusted       -adjusted
Group         counts         sizes        Units      impression       audience         Duration
                                                        counts          sizes            Units
F02-12        12,557         1,512       21,149        88,758          10,694          138,686
F13-17       33,134          4,492       53,483        63,963           8,644           98,107
F18-20       45,036          4,689       70,733        61,710           6,428           92,720
F21-24       124,837        10,193      214,059        95,709           7,845          160,987
F25-29       197,059        15,983      232,430        186,392         15,154          236,018
F30-34       177,895        15,850      332,967        182,026         16,252          323,291
F35-39       142,681        13,998      189,930        152,916         14,992          228,454
F40-44       138,408        14,944      146,703        153,586         16,515          202,878
F45-49       138,877        14,376      252,550        118,492         12,216          202,955
F50-54       136,891        14,173      263,252        117,647         12,129          206,828
F55-64       200,416        22,403      342,626        154,539         17,364          247,014
 F65+        97,782         11,680       98,598        106,738         12,707          121,184
M02-12        18,388         2,226       32,814        92,660          11,164          148,865
M13-17       64,952          7,840       76,540        84,131          10,136          115,211
M18-20       61,603          6,512       61,788        70,018           7,370           90,310
M21-24       145,405        11,911      223,252        108,569          8,899          165,960
M25-29       240,695        18,925      353,366        210,945         16,610          305,676
M30-34       223,608        19,000      426,960        201,731         17,096          358,129
M35-39       177,280        16,581      297,233        164,711         15,394          267,232
M40-44       182,658        17,522      357,618        174,513         16,780          307,153
M45-49       154,428        15,251      190,495        125,926         12,468          168,287
                                               -75-

M50-54       123,119        12,484        128,982       108,978         11,008         135,990
M55-64       135,635        15,463        159,662       123,567         14,042         166,911
 M65+         61,234         7,966         85,093       86,326          11,211         123,437
Totals      3,034,578      295,973       4,612,283     3,034,551       303,116        4,612,283
       EXAMPLE MISATTRIBUTION AND NON-COVERAGE ADJUSTED IMPRESSION
             COUNTS, DURATION UNITS, AND UNIQUE AUDIENCE SIZES AND
          UNADJUSTED IMPRESSION COUNTS, DURATION UNITS, AND UNIQUE
                 AUDIENCE SIZES FOR TABLET COMPUTER DEVICE TYPES
                                              Table 23
    [00192]     As shown in Table 23 above, applying the misattribution correction matrix of
    Table 14 to the unadjusted duration units (Unadj. Duration Units) of Table 23 results
    in redistributing the duration units among the demographic groups (Demo. Group).
    The adjustment of the misattribution and the unique audience sizes is the same as in
    the example described above with reference to Table 18. The example non-coverage
    corrector 212 may then correct the misattribution-adjusted duration units using the
    non-coverage correction techniques described above with reference to the
    impressions in Tables 19-21.
    [00193]     Impression Scalinq, Duration Unit Scalinq. and/or Audience Scalinq
    Example
    [00194]     The example impression information adjuster 214 of FIG. 2 adjusts the
    compensated impressions to align with the numbers of impressions observed by the
    audience measurement entity 108. FIG. 3C illustrates an example process to adjust
    the compensated (e.g., misattribution and non-coverage adjusted) impressions based
    on observed census data (e.g., impression volume counts).
    [00195]     Using the example misattribution and non-coverage adjusted impression
    counts of the example of Table 21 above, the impression information adjuster 214
    scales 312 the misattribution and non-coverage adjusted impression counts 310 to
    match (e.g., be equal to) the observed number of impressions from tablet computers
    (e.g., as observed by the AME 108 of FIG. 1), which in this example is 6,385,686
    impressions. The example impression information adjuster 214 may scale the
    impression counts for a host web site (e.g., a web site on which an advertisement or
    other media is hosted) and/or may scale the impressions for media (e.g., an
    advertisement or other media) placed on a host site.
    [00196]     To scale 312 the example compensated impression information for a
    demographic group, the example impression information adjuster 214 multiplies the
    total observed number of impressions (e.g., recognized and non-recognized) from the
                                                -76-

database proprietor (e.g., 6,385,686 in this example) and compensated impression
counts attributed to the M21-24 demographic group (e.g., 158,067 in Table 21 above)
as a fraction (or percentage) of the total compensated impressions (e.g., 4,161,011 in
Table 21 above). For example, the impression information adjuster 214 determines
the scaled compensated impressions for the 21-24 year old male demographic group
to be (6,385,686)*(1 23,750/4,161,011) = 189,913. Table 24 below illustrates example
scaled compensated impression counts for tablet computers.
                                                   Scaled
                              Demographic      compensated
                                  Group          impression
                                                    count
                                 F02-12             194,521
                                 F13-17             165,377
                                 F18-20             141,197
                                 F21-24            230,473
                                 F25-29            480,101
                                 F30-34            345,931
                                 F35-39            369,930
                                 F40-44            291,801
                                 F45-49             183,010
                                 F50-54            229,714
                                 F55-64            260,919
                                  F65+             287,125
                                 M02-12             173,308
                                 M13-17             149,728
                                 M18-20             125,474
                                 M21-24             189,913
                                 M25-29            470,890
                                 M30-34            522,561
                                 M35-39            266,493
                                 M40-44            372,729
                                 M45-49            316,503
                                 M50-54             168,880
                                 M55-64            214,846
                                  M65+             234,269
                                  Total           6,385,692
             EXAMPLE SCALED COMPENSATED IMPRESSION COUNTS
                              FOR TABLET COMPUTERS
                                         Table 24
[00197]     In some other examples, the impression information adjuster 214 scales
impressions based on a PDF of a site hosting the media for which impression
information is being calculated. For example, to scale the impressions for media
placed on a host web site, the example impression information adjuster 214
                                            -77-

determines, for a demographic group of interest and a device of interest (or all
devices), a difference between: a) a number of impressions identified for the host site
for the device type by the audience measurement entity 108 (e.g., a census count of
impressions) and b) the misattribution and non-coverage adjusted impressions for the
device type. This difference is the number of impressions that are to be accounted for
by scaling. The example impression information adjuster 214 determines the product
of the difference and the portion of the impressions attributable to the demographic
group of interest for the device type of interest. In other words, the impression
information adjuster 214 applies the probability distribution function of the
demographic groups for the host site to the number of impressions required to be
added to scale the misattribution and non-coverage adjusted impressions. The
product (e.g., the portion of the impressions for the demographic group) is added to
the misattribution and non-coverage adjusted impressions for the demographic group.
Thus, in this example the impression information adjuster 214 determines the scaled
impressions as: scaled impressions = (misattribution and non-coverage adjusted
impressions for selected demographic group and selected device type) + (census
impressions for media on hosting site for selected device type - total misattribution
and non-coverage adjusted media impressions for all demographic groups for
selected device type) * (scaled impressions for hosting site for selected demographic
group and selected device type / total scaled impressions for hosting site for all
demographic groups and selected device type).
[00198]     Table 25 below illustrates an example scaling using the probability
distribution function method described above, and using the example misattribution
and non-coverage adjusted impressions of Table 19 above as the adjusted
impressions for the media impressions being scaled (instead of the impressions of the
hosting site). Table 25 is based on 6,385,687 total census impressions for tablet
computers on the hosting site for the example media.
                        Misattribution and                            Scaled tablet
     Demographic          Non-Coverage           Scaled Hosting      impressions for
         Group           Adjusted Tablet       Site Impressions           media
                           Impressions
        F02-12               126,753                832,740              175,668
        F1 3-17              107,762               2,812,768             272,985
        F18-20               92,006                2,230,693             223,037
        F21-24               150,180               2,404,922             291,446
        F25-29               312,841               3,093,408             494,548
        F30-34               225,414               2,506,275             372,633
        F35-39               241,052               2,434,335             384,045
                                            -78-

        F40-44              190,142              2,200,531           319,402
        F45-49              119,252               1,874,367          229,353
        F50-54              149,685               1,406,009          232,274
        F55-64              170,019               1,869,496          279,834
         F65+               187,095                961,444           243,570
       M02-12               112,930                653,452            151,314
       M13-17                97,565               1,293,978           173,574
       M18-20                81,761               1,113,567           147,172
       M21-24               123,750               1,132,301           190,262
       M25-29               306,839               1,494,061          394,600
       M30-34               340,509               1,195,810          410,751
       M35-39               173,651               1,050,432          235,354
       M40-44               242,876               1,226,347          314,912
       M45-49               206,238               1,144,853          273,487
       M50-54               110,045               1,040,128           171,142
       M55-64               139,997               1,289,482          215,741
         M65+               152,653                611,675            188,583
        Totals             4,161,015             37,873,074         6,385,688
                                  EXAMPLE SCALING
                                        Table 25
[00199]    In the example of Table 25 above, the example impression information
adjuster 214 scales the impressions for the F21-24 demographic group and the tablet
computer device type as scaled impressions = (Misattribution and Non-Coverage
Adjusted Impression Count for Device Type and Demographic Group) + (Total
Observed Tablet impression Count for all Demographic Groups - Total Misattribution
and Non-Coverage Adjusted Tablet Impression Count for all Demographic Groups) *
(Scaled Hosting Site Impression Count for Demographic Group / Total Scaled Hosting
Site Impression Count for all Demographic Groups) = 123,750 + (6,385,686
4,161,015) * (1,132,301 / 37,873,074) = 190,262. The example scaling of the above
example may be performed to scale impressions for different demographic groups to
other census impression counts, such as impression counts of the hosting site (e.g., if
the hosting site exclusively presents the media of interest).
[00200]    While examples disclosed herein are described with reference to viewing
and video media and/or combination audio/video media, the examples disclosed
herein may also be used to measuring listeners to audio-only media. For example, the
media categories, the survey calibration data, and/or the second device type used for
calculating the alpha factor may be tailored for audio media. For example, the second
device type used for calculating the "A" term (e.g., Equation 2 above) may be
modified to refer to the (Number of people in Age and Gender group X that listen to
                                           -79-

Media Category Y on the radio) / (Total number of people in Age and Gender group
X).
[00201]     The examples scaling techniques described above with reference to Tables
24 and 25 may be used to scale the misattribution and/or non-coverage adjusted
duration units to duration unit counts observed for the hosting site (e.g., census
duration counts).
[00202]     While the examples above disclose performing both misattribution
correction and non-coverage correction, misattribution correction may be performed
on impression counts and/or audience sizes without performing non-coverage
correction. Alternatively, non-coverage correction may be performed on impression
counts and/or audience sizes without performing misattribution correction.
[00203]     While an example manner of implementing the example impression data
compensator 200 has been illustrated in FIG. 2, one or more of the elements,
processes and/or devices illustrated in FIG. 2 may be combined, divided, re-arranged,
omitted, eliminated and/or implemented in any other way. Further, the example
calibration data collector 202, the example sharing matrix generator 204, the example
misattribution corrector 206, the example impression information collector 208, the
example non-coverage calculator 210, the example non-coverage corrector 212, the
example impression information adjuster 214, the example household distribution
generator 216, the example aggregated distribution generator 218, the example
matrix corrector 220, the example matrix normalizer 222, the example co-viewing
matrix generator 224 and/or, more generally, the example impression data
compensator 200 may be implemented using hardware, software, firmware and/or
any combination of hardware, software and/or firmware. Thus, for example, any of the
example calibration data collector 202, the example sharing matrix generator 204, the
example misattribution corrector 206, the example impression information collector
208, the example non-coverage calculator 210, the example non-coverage corrector
212, the example impression information adjuster 214, the example household
distribution generator 216, the example aggregated distribution generator 218, the
example matrix corrector 220, the example matrix normalizer 222, the example co
viewing matrix generator 224 and/or, more generally, the example impression data
compensator 200 could be implemented using one or more analog or digital circuit(s),
logical circuit(s), programmable processor(s), application specific integrated circuit(s)
(ASIC(s)), programmable logic device(s) (PLD(s)) and/or field programmable logic
                                          -80-

device(s) (FPLD(s)), etc. When reading any of the apparatus or system claims of this
patent to cover a purely software and/or firmware implementation, at least one of the
example calibration data collector 202, the example sharing matrix generator 204, the
example misattribution corrector 206, the example impression information collector
208, the example non-coverage calculator 210, the example non-coverage corrector
212, the example impression information adjuster 214 the example household
distribution generator 216, the example aggregated distribution generator 218, the
example matrix corrector 220, the example matrix normalizer 222, and/or the example
co-viewing matrix generator 224 is/are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible
computer readable storage device or storage disk such as a memory, a digital
versatile disk (DVD), a compact disk (CD), a Blu-ray disk, etc. storing the software
and/or firmware. Further still, the example impression data compensator 200 of FIG. 2
may include one or more elements, processes and/or devices in addition to, or
instead of, those illustrated in FIG. 2, and/or may include more than one of any or all
of the illustrated elements, processes and devices.
[00204]     Flowcharts representative of example machine readable instructions for
implementing the impression data compensator 200 of FIG. 2 are shown in FIGS. 4
13. In this example, the machine readable instructions comprise programs for
execution by a processor such as the processor 1412 shown in the example
processor platform 1400 discussed below in connection with FIG. 14. The programs
may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable storage
medium such as a CD-ROM, a floppy disk, a hard drive, a digital versatile disk (DVD),
a Blu-ray disk, or a memory associated with the processor 1412, but the entire
programs and/or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than
the processor 1412 and/or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware. Further,
although the example programs are described with reference to the flowcharts
illustrated in FIGS. 4-13, many other methods of implementing the example
impression data compensator 200 may alternatively be used. For example, the order
of execution of the blocks may be changed, and/or some of the blocks described may
be changed, eliminated, or combined.
[00205]     As mentioned above, the example processes of FIGS. 4-13 may be
implemented using coded instructions (e.g., computer and/or machine readable
instructions) stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a hard
disk drive, a flash memory, a read-only memory (ROM), a compact disk (CD), a digital
                                            -81-

versatile disk (DVD), a cache, a random-access memory (RAM) and/or any other
storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration (e.g., for
extended time periods, permanently, for brief instances, for temporarily buffering,
and/or for caching of the information). As used herein, the term tangible computer
readable storage medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer
readable storage device and/or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals and
transmission media. As used herein, "tangible computer readable storage medium"
and "tangible machine readable storage medium" are used interchangeably.
Additionally or alternatively, the example processes of FIGS. 4-13 may be
implemented using coded instructions (e.g., computer and/or machine readable
instructions) stored on a non-transitory computer and/or machine readable medium
such as a hard disk drive, a flash memory, a read-only memory, a compact disk, a
digital versatile disk, a cache, a random-access memory and/or any other storage
device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration (e.g., for
extended time periods, permanently, for brief instances, for temporarily buffering,
and/or for caching of the information). As used herein, the term non-transitory
computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer
readable storage device and/or storage disk and to exclude propagating signals and
transmission media. As used herein, when the phrase "at least" is used as the
transition term in a preamble of a claim, it is open-ended in the same manner as the
term "comprising" is open ended.
[00206]     FIG. 4 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions 400 which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator 200 of FIG. 2 to compensate impression data.
[00207]     The example sharing matrix generator 204 of FIG. 2 generates a
misattribution correction matrix and/or a co-viewing matrix (block 402). For example,
the sharing matrix generator 204 calculates device sharing matrices for each device
type represented in impression information (e.g., impressions) obtained by the
calibration data collector 202 (FIG. 2) from the database proprietor 104a (FIG. 1). The
example sharing matrix generator 204 may calculate the misattribution correction
matrix for a device type by calculating the probability described above in Equation 1
and/or by calculating and aggregating household sharing matrices. Additionally or
alternatively, the example sharing matrix generator 204 may calculate a co-viewing
matrix containing co-viewing probabilities Kij for each device type and/or media
                                            -82-

category. The co-viewing probabilities Kij may also be calculated using the example
survey calibration data source (e.g., a survey of persons and/or households selected
at random) to determine, for example, the incidence of co-viewing in representative
households. Example instructions that may be used to implement block 402 are
described below with reference to FIG. 5.
[00208]     The example non-coverage calculator 210 of FIG. 2 determines
probabilities of non-covered audience accessing media on device types of interest
(block 404). The example non-coverage calculator 210 also determines non-coverage
factors (block 405). For example, the non-coverage calculator 210 may determine
alpha factors (e.g., the example alpha factors a = B/A described above with reference
to Table 17) for calculating the demographic distribution for impressions not
associated with demographic information by the database proprietor 104a. Example
instructions that may be executed to implement blocks 404 and 405 are described
below with reference to FIG. 9.
[00209]     The example impression information collector 208 of FIG. 2 obtains counts
of impressions from volumetric (e.g., census) measurements of impressions (block
406). For example the impression information collector 208 determines numbers of
impressions identified at the audience measurement entity 108 (FIG. 1) for each
media item of interest (e.g., media being monitored) and/or for each device type.
Example volumetric data is shown in Table 16 above. The example impression
information collector 208 also obtains demographic information corresponding to the
impressions (and/or a subset of the impressions) (block 408). For example, the
impression information collector 208 receives counts of impressions associated with
each demographic group by the database proprietor 104a for each device type and/or
for all device types.
[00210]     The example misattribution corrector 206 of FIG. 2 selects a media
category (e.g., comedy, drama, feature films, etc.) (block 410). The example
misattribution corrector 206 also selects a device type (e.g., smartphones, tablet
computers, portable media players, etc.) (block 412). The example misattribution
corrector 206 adjusts the impressions, duration units, and/or unique audience sizes
(obtained from the database proprietor 104a) based on the misattribution correction
matrix for the selected media category and the selected device type (block 414). For
example, the misattribution corrector 206 may determine the dot product of the
misattribution correction matrix 302 and the database proprietor impression data 304
                                           -83-

as illustrated in FIG. 3A. In some examples, the misattribution corrector 206
calculates a misattribution-corrected unique audience size based on the
misattribution-corrected impressions and a frequency determined by the database
proprietor 104a. Example instructions that may be executed to implement block 414
are described below with reference to FIG. 7.
[00211]     The example non-coverage corrector 212 of FIG. 2 further adjusts the
impressions, duration units, and/or unique audience sizes based on the non-coverage
factors for the selected media category and the selected device type (block 416). For
example, the non-coverage corrector 212 may divide the misattribution-adjusted
impressions 306 of FIG. 3B by the covered percentage (e.g., one minus the non
covered percentage) to obtain the misattribution and non-coverage adjusted
impression information 310. In some examples, the misattribution corrector 206
calculates a misattribution and non-coverage corrected audience based on the
misattribution and non-coverage corrected impressions and a frequency determined
by the database proprietor 104a. Example instructions that may be executed to
implement block 416 are described below with reference to FIG. 8.
[00212]     The example misattribution corrector 206 determines whether there are
additional device types for which impression information is to be compensated (block
418). If there are additional device types for which impression information is to be
compensated (block 418), control returns to block 412 to select another device type.
When there are no more device types for which impression information is to be
compensated (block 418), the example misattribution corrector 206 determines
whether there are additional media categories for which impression information is to
be compensated (block 420). If there are additional media categories for which
impression information is to be compensated (block 420), control returns to block 410
to select another media category.
[00213]     When there are no more media categories for which impression information
is to be compensated (block 420), the example impression information adjuster 214 of
FIG. 2 calculates media ratings based on the adjusted impression information (block
422). For example, the impression information adjuster 214 may scale the
misattribution and non-coverage adjusted impressions to match the impressions
identified by the audience measurement entity 108. Additionally or alternatively, the
example impression information adjuster 214 may combine device types to determine
                                            -84-

impression information for multiple or all mobile device types. The example
instructions 400 of FIG. 4 then end.
[00214]     FIG. 5 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions 500 which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator 200 of FIG. 2 to calculate a misattribution correction matrix and/or a co
viewing matrix. The example instructions 500 may be executed by the example
sharing matrix generator 204 of FIG. 2 to implement block 402 of FIG. 4.
[00215]    The example sharing matrix generator 204 of FIG. 2 obtains survey
calibration data from a survey calibration data source (e.g., from the calibration data
collector 202 of FIG. 2) (block 502). For example, the sharing matrix generator 204
may obtain information indicating the devices accessible to persons in respondent
households and/or media categories watched on different device types by
respondents. The example aggregated distribution generator 218 selects a media
category (block 504). The example aggregated distribution generator 218 selects a
device type (block 506). In the example of FIG. 5, the media category and/or the
device type are selected from media categories and/or devices types represented in
the survey calibration data. For all demographic groups i and        j, the example
aggregated distribution generator 218 determines the probability yij that: (1) a person
in recognized demographic group i is identified by a database proprietor (e.g., the
database proprietor 104a of FIG. 1) as a viewer of media, and (2) a person in actual
viewer demographic group j is an actual viewer (block 508). For example, the
aggregated distribution generator 218 may use the example Tables 1-13 above to
generate a misattribution correction matrix as shown in Table 14 above. Example
instructions that may be executed to implement block 508 are described below with
reference to FIG. 6.
[00216]    The example aggregated distribution generator 218 determines, for all pairs
of demographic groups i and     j, a probability Kij that: (1) a person in recognized
demographic group i is identified by database proprietor as a viewer of media, and (2)
there is also an impression for a person in actual viewer demographic group j (block
510). The collection of probabilities Kij for the pairs of demographic groups i and j may
be aggregated as a co-viewing matrix. Example instructions for implementing block
510 are described below with reference to FIG. 8.
[00217]    The example aggregated distribution generator 218 determines whether
there is any additional device type for which survey calibration data from the survey
                                              -85-

calibration data source should be processed (block 512). If there is an additional
device type (block 512), control returns to block 506. If there is no additional device
type (block 512), the example aggregated distribution generator 218 determines
whether there is an additional media category for which survey calibration data from
the survey calibration data source should be processed (block 514). If there is an
additional media category, control returns to block 504. Otherwise, if there is no
additional media category (block 514), the example instructions 500 end and, for
example, control returns to block 404 of FIG. 4.
[00218]     FIG. 6 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions 600 which may be executed to determine a misattribution probability yij.
The example instructions 600 may be executed to implement block 508 of FIG. 5 to
determine the probability yij that: (1) a person in recognized demographic group i is
identified by a database proprietor (e.g., the database proprietor 104a of FIG. 1) as
viewer of media, and (2) a person in actual viewer demographic group j is an actual
viewer. Initially in the example instructions 600, the example household distribution
generator 216 redistributes the audience of household members that are registered
users of the database proprietor 104a (block 602). For example, the example
household distribution generator 216 may generate an example redistributed
audience matrix for a selected media category as described in connection with Table
5 and/or Table 6 above. The example aggregated distribution generator 218
aggregates the redistributed audience across households by recognized demographic
group i and actual viewer demographic group j (block 604). For example, the
aggregated distribution generator 218 can generate an example redistributed
audience matrix for a selected media category for multiple households as described
above in connection with Table 8.
[00219]    The example matrix corrector 220 generates NPM indices to account for
the probability P(L)ij that a first person in recognized demographic group i lives in the
same household as a person in actual viewer demographic group j (block 606). For
example, the example matrix corrector 220 may apply NPM data to survey response
data to generate NPM indices as described above in connection with Tables 9-11.
The example matrix corrector 220 applies NPM indices to redistributed database
proprietor impressions across households to account for the probability P(L)ij that a
first person in recognized demographic group i lives in the same household as a
person in actual viewer demographic group j (block 608). For example, as described
                                              -86-

above in connection with Table 12, the matrix corrector 220 may determine each i,j
cell value in Table 12 by multiplying redistributed audience values in the ij cells of
Table 8 above with corresponding NPM indices in the ij cell values of Table 11
above. In this manner, the matrix corrector 220 applies an NPM index to redistributed
impressions collected by the database proprietor 104a across different households to
account for the probability P(L)ij that a first person in recognized demographic group i
lives in the same household as a person in actual viewer demographic group j.
[00220]     The example matrix normalizer 222 normalizes the probabilities for each of
the recognized demographic groups i (block 610). For example, the matrix normalizer
222 normalizes each column (e.g., each demographic group recognized by the
database proprietor 104a) in the misattribution matrix of Table 14 to cause the total of
each column to equal the same number (e.g., 1.00, or 100%). Normalizing each of the
columns causes the numbers of impressions after correction for misattribution to be
equal to the total number of impressions detected by the database proprietor 104a
and maintains the proportions of impressions that are associated with each
recognized demographic group i by the database proprietor 104a. The example
instructions 600 of FIG. 6 and, for example, control returns to block 510 of FIG. 5.
[00221]     FIG. 7 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions 700 which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator 200 of FIG. 2 to calculate a misattribution correction matrix and/or a co
viewing matrix. The example instructions 700 are an alternative example to the
example instructions described above with reference to FIG. 5 to implement block 402
of FIG. 4.
[00222]     The example sharing matrix generator 204 of FIG. 2 obtains survey
calibration data from a survey calibration data source (e.g., from the calibration data
collector 202 of FIG. 2) (block 702). For example, the sharing matrix generator 204
may obtain information indicating the devices accessible to persons in respondent
households and/or media categories watched on different device types by
respondents. The example aggregated distribution generator 218 selects a media
category (block 704). The example aggregated distribution generator 218 selects a
device type (block 706). In the example of FIG. 7, the media category and/or the
device type are selected from media categories and/or devices types represented in
the survey calibration data. For all pairs of demographic groups i and j, the example
aggregated distribution generator 218 calculates a probability P(L)ij that a person in
                                              -87-

recognized demographic group i and a person in actual viewer demographic group j
live in the same household (e.g., based on the survey calibration data source) (block
708). For example, the aggregated distribution generator 218 may determine the
incidence of co-viewing by persons in demographic groups i and j living in the same
household.
[00223]     For all pairs of demographic groups i and    j, the example aggregated
distribution generator 218 determines a probability P(DIL)ij that a person in recognized
demographic group i and a person in actual viewer demographic group j who live in
the same household both have access to a mobile device of a selected device type
(block 710).
[00224]     For all pairs of demographic groups i and    j, the example aggregated
distribution generator 218 determines a probability P(SxID)ij that a person in
recognized demographic group i (who is a database proprietor user) and a person in
actual viewer demographic group j who live in the same household and have access
to a mobile device of the selected device type share the same mobile device for
viewing media of the selected media category (block 712). For example, the
aggregated distribution generator 218 may determine an incidence in which persons
in the demographic groups i and j both access media of the selected media category
on the device type selected from the survey calibration data.
[00225]     For all pairs of demographic groups i and    j, the example aggregated
distribution generator 218 determines the sharing probability yij for the selected pair of
demographic groups ij for a misattribution correction matrix associated with the
selected device type and a selected media category (block 714). For example, the
aggregated distribution generator 218 may use example Equation 1 described above
to calculate the sharing probability yij.
[00226]     The example co-viewing matrix generator 224 determines, for all pairs of
demographic groups i and j, a probability Kij that: (1) a person in recognized
demographic group i is identified by database proprietor as a viewer of media, and (2)
there is also an impression for a person in actual viewer demographic group j (block
716). The collection of probabilities Kij for the pairs of demographic groups i and j may
be aggregated as a co-viewing matrix. Example instructions for implementing block
716 are described below with reference to FIG. 8.
[00227]     The example aggregated distribution generator 218 determines whether
there is any additional device type for which survey calibration data from the survey
                                              -88-

calibration data source should be processed (block 718). If there is an additional
device type (block 718), control returns to block 706. If there is no additional device
types (block 718), the example aggregated distribution generator 218 determines
whether there is an additional media category for which survey calibration data from
the survey calibration data source should be processed (block 720). If there is an
additional media category, control returns to block 704. Otherwise, if there is no
additional media category (block 720), the example instructions 700 end and, for
example, control returns to block 404 of FIG. 4.
[00228]       FIG. 8 is a flow diagram of example machine readable instructions 800
which may be executed to calculate a co-viewing matrix. For example, the instructions
800 may be executed by the example co-viewing matrix generator 224 of FIG. 2 to
implement block 510 of FIG. 5 and/or block 716 of FIG. 7.
[00229]       For all pairs of demographic groups i and   j, the example    co-viewing matrix
generator 224 determines a probability P(CxID)ij that a person in recognized
demographic group i and a person in actual viewer demographic group j, who live in
the same household and have access to a mobile device of a selected device type,
simultaneously access (e.g., view) media of a selected media category using the
same the mobile device (block 802). In other words, the example co-viewing matrix
generator 224 determines the probability or incidence of co-viewing for the selected
device type, media category, and demographic groups i and           j, given  the persons live
in the same household and have access to the same mobile device. The example co
viewing matrix generator 224 determines the probability Kij for the co-viewing matrix
for the selected device type and the selected media category (block 804). For
example, the example co-viewing matrix generator 224 may calculate the probability
Kij as: Kij = P(L)ij x P(DIL)ij x P(CxID)ij. The example probability Kij represents the
probability of co-viewing for the selected pair of demographic groups i and         j, the
selected device type, and the selected media category.
[00230]       The example instructions 800 end and, for example, control returns to block
512 of FIG. 5 and/or block 718 of FIG. 7.
[00231]       FIG. 9 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions 900 which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator 200 of FIG. 2 to calculate a demographic profile (or non-coverage
factors) associated with a media audience not covered by a database proprietor. The
                                                 -89-

example instructions 900 may be executed by the example non-coverage calculator
210 of FIG. 2 to implement blocks 404 and 405 of FIG. 4.
[00232]    The example non-coverage calculator 210 of FIG. 2 obtains survey
calibration data from the survey calibration data source (block 902). For example, the
non-coverage calculator 210 may obtain survey calibration data (e.g., from the
calibration data collector 202 of FIG. 2) indicating numbers of persons that are not
registered with the database proprietor 104a and/or are registered with the database
proprietor 104a but do not log in to the database proprietor 104a on specific types of
devices.
[00233]    The example non-coverage calculator 210 selects a device type (block
904). The example non-coverage calculator 210 selects a demographic group (block
906). The example non-coverage calculator 210 selects a media category (block
908). In the example of FIG. 9, the media category, the demographic group, and/or
the device type are selected from media categories, demographic groups, and/or
devices types represented in the survey calibration data. For example, the non
coverage calculator 210 may generate different alpha factors (e.g., the example alpha
factors a = B/A of Table 17) for different combinations of demographic groups, media
categories, and device types based on the survey calibration data obtained from the
survey calibration data source.
[00234]    The example non-coverage calculator 210 determines a probability B based
on the survey calibration data (e.g., data from the survey calibration data source),
where B is the probability that a person in the selected demographic group watches
an item of media in the selected media category on the selected device type (block
910). In the example of FIG. 9, the non-coverage calculator 210 determines the
probability B based on weights associated with the selected device type, the selected
demographic group, and/or the selected media category determined from the survey
calibration data.
[00235]    The example non-coverage calculator 210 also determines a probability A
based on the survey calibration data, where A is the probability that a person in the
selected demographic group watches an item of media in the selected media
category on another device type (e.g., a standard device type associated with the
item of media) that is different than the selected device type (block 912). In the
example of FIG. 9, the non-coverage calculator 210 determines the probability A
based on weights associated with the other device type, the selected demographic
                                            -90-

group, and/or the selected media category determined from the survey calibration
data. In the example of FIG. 9, the probabilities B and A are determined for media that
is accessible via both the selected device type and the other device type.
[00236]     For example, for an episode of a television program in a particular media
category, the other device type may be a television and the selected device type may
be a computing device on which the episode of the television program may be
accessed via streaming video (e.g., mobile devices and/or mobile devices of a more
specific type such as smartphones, tablet computers, and/or portable media players).
Such television programs are often made available via streaming video after an initial
or premiere presentation on television. Thus, a person can access the episode of the
television program on television (e.g., the other device type) and/or via streaming
media on a computing device (e.g., the selected device type).
[00237]    The example non-coverage calculator 210 determines the alpha factor
(e.g., a = B/A of Table 17 above) for the selected demographic group, the selected
media category, and the selected device type (block 914). Thus, in the example of
FIG. 9, each combination of demographic group, media category, and device type has
a separate alpha factor. However, in other examples, alpha factors may be the same
for every demographic group, every media category, and/or every device type.
Additionally or alternatively, the example non-coverage calculator 210 determines
alpha factors using combinations including factors such as geographic regions,
stations, day parts, and/or other factors.
[00238]    The example non-coverage calculator 210 determines whether there are
additional media categories (block 916). If there are additional media categories
(block 916), control returns to block 908 to select another media category. When
there are no more media categories (block 916), the example non-coverage calculator
210 determines whether there are additional demographic groups (block 918). If there
are additional demographic groups (block 918), control returns to block 906 to select
another demographic group. When there are no more demographic groups for the
selected device type (block 918), the example non-coverage calculator 210
determines whether there are additional device types (block 920). If there are
additional device types (block 920), control returns to block 904 to select another
device type. When there are no additional device types for the selected media
category (block 920), the example instructions 900 of FIG. 9 end and, for example,
control returns to block 406 of FIG. 4.
                                           -91-

[00239]     FIG. 10 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions 1000 which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator 200 of FIG. 2 to adjust impressions and/or duration units based on a
misattribution correction matrix. The example instructions 1000 may be executed by
the example misattribution corrector 206 of FIG. 2 to implement block 414 of FIG. 4.
[00240]    The example misattribution corrector 206 of FIG. 2 determines
misattribution adjusted impressions by calculating a dot product of: a) the
misattribution correction matrix that corresponds to the selected media category and
the selected device type, and b) the impression counts recognized by the database
proprietor for each recognized demographic group i (block 1002). The result of the dot
product is the misattribution adjusted impressions for each of the demographic
groups. For example, the misattribution corrector 206 may calculate the dot product of
the misattribution correction matrix of Table 14 with the impression information of
Table 15 to obtain misattribution adjusted impressions.
[00241]    The example misattribution corrector 206 of FIG. 2 determines
misattribution adjusted duration units by calculating a dot product of: a) the
misattribution correction matrix that corresponds to the selected media category and
the selected device type, and b) the duration units recognized by the database
proprietor for each recognized demographic group i (block 1004). The example
instructions 1000 end and, for example, control returns to block 416 of FIG. 4.
[00242]     FIG. 11 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions 1100 which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator 200 of FIG. 2 to adjust impressions based on non-coverage factors for a
database proprietor. The example instructions 1100 may be executed by the example
non-coverage corrector 212 of FIG. 2 to implement block 416 of FIG. 4.
[00243]    The example non-coverage corrector 212 of FIG. 2 selects a demographic
group (block 1102). The selected demographic group may be a recognized
demographic group i and/or an actual viewer demographic group j discussed above
with reference to Tables 1-14. The non-coverage corrector 212 determines non
covered impressions by multiplying misattribution adjusted impressions by an alpha
factor (e.g., a = B/A of Table 17 above) associated with the selected demographic
group, the selected device type, and/or the selected media category (block 1104). For
example, the non-coverage corrector 212 may determine the applicable alpha factor
(e.g., determined in block 404 of FIG. 4 and/or in the example instructions 900 of FIG.
                                           -92-

6) for the selected demographic group (e.g., selected in block 1102), the selected
device type (e.g., selected in block 412 of FIG. 4), and/or the selected media category
(e.g., selected in block 410 of FIG. 4). The example non-coverage corrector 212
multiplies the determined alpha factor by the misattribution-adjusted impressions to
determine the non-covered impressions at block 1104.
[00244]     The example non-coverage corrector 212 determines whether there are
additional demographic groups (block 1106). If there are additional demographic
groups (block 1106), control returns to block 1102 to select another demographic
group. When there are no more demographic groups to be adjusted (block 1106), the
example non-coverage corrector 212 scales the non-covered impressions for the
demographic groups (e.g., all of the demographic groups in the same set of
calculations) so that the sum of the non-covered impressions for all of the
demographic groups equals the observed number of non-covered impressions (block
1108). For example, as described above with reference to Table 17, the example non
coverage corrector 212 may 1) calculate the adjusted percentage (Adj % of Table 17)
as the product of the alpha factor (a = B/A) and the measured percentage (Meas % of
Table 17) for each demographic group (Demos); 2) normalize the adjusted
percentages (Adj % of Table 17) to a sum of 100%; and 3) multiply the normalized
percentages (Norm % of Table 17) by the non-covered impressions (e.g., the number
of impressions not associated with a demographic group (Demos of Table 17) by the
database proprietor 104a) to obtain the scaled number of non-covered impressions
(Non-covered impressions of Table 17) attributable to each demographic group
(Demos of Table 17).
[00245]     The example non-coverage corrector 212 of FIG. 2 selects a demographic
group (block 1110). The demographic group selected in block 1110 is a demographic
group previously selected in an iteration of block 1102. In the illustrated example,
blocks 1110, 1112, and 1114 are executed to process the scaled non-covered
impressions for all demographic groups determined at blocks 1102, 1104, 1106, and
1108. The non-coverage corrector 212 determines misattribution and non-coverage
adjusted impressions for the selected demographic group by adding the scaled non
covered impressions (e.g., determined in block 1108) to the misattribution adjusted
impressions for the demographic group (block 1112).
[00246]     The example non-coverage corrector 212 determines whether there are
additional demographic groups (block 1114). If there are additional demographic
                                           -93-

groups (block 1114), control returns to block 1110 to select another demographic
group. When there are no more demographic groups to be adjusted (block 1114), the
example instructions 1100 end and, for example, control returns to block 418 of FIG.
4.
[00247]    While the examples above are described with reference to impressions, the
examples may additionally or alternatively be applied to unique audience and/or
duration units. For example, a redistributed audience matrix may be applied to an
audience of media of interest, instead of being applied to impressions as described
above. In some examples, only one impression is required to counted a person in the
audience of media, and a person is not counted in an audience of the media when he
or she has no impressions. Thus, for example, in the example of Table 3, the
audience for 12-17 year old males would be reduced by one after redistribution of
impressions, because the 12-17 year old male is reported as accessing media by the
database proprietor 104a but, after redistribution, is determined to have no
impressions for media of the comedy category on the tablet computer, thereby
decreasing the audience of 12-17 year old males by one. Conversely, the audience
for 35-44 year old females would be increased by one because the 35-44 year old
female is not associated with any impressions by the database proprietor 104a and
results in no audience, but after redistribution of the audience it may be determined
that the 35-44 year old female does in fact access media of the category of interest on
the tablet computer.
[00248]    FIG. 12 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions 1200 which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator 200 of FIG. 2 to calculate a demographic profile (or non-coverage
factors) associated with a media audience not covered by a database proprietor. The
example instructions 1200 may be executed by the example non-coverage calculator
210 of FIG. 2 to implement blocks 404 and 405 of FIG. 4.
[00249]    The example non-coverage calculator 210 obtains data from the calibration
survey (block 1202). For example, the non-coverage calculator 210 may obtain
calibration survey data indicating numbers of respondents that are not registered with
the database proprietor 104a and/or are registered with the database proprietor 104a
but do not log in to the database proprietor 104a on specific types of devices.
[00250]    The example non-coverage calculator 210 selects a device type (block
1204) and selects a demographic group (block 1206). The example non-coverage
                                            -94-

calculator 210 determines a non-coverage factor for the selected demographic group
and the selected device type as the portion of respondents to the calibration survey in
the selected demographic group who would not be recognized by the database
proprietor 104a when viewing media on the selected device type (block 1208).
[00251]    The example non-coverage calculator 210 determines whether there are
additional demographic groups (block 1210). If there are additional demographic
groups (block 1210), control returns to block 1206 to select another demographic
group. When there are no more demographic groups for the selected device type
(block 1210), the example non-coverage calculator 210 determines whether there are
additional device types (block 1212). If there are additional device types (block 1212),
control returns to block 1204 to select another device type. When there are no
additional device types (block 1212), the example instructions 1200 of FIG. 12 end
and, for example, control returns to a calling function or process such as the example
instructions 400 of FIG. 4 to proceed with execution of block 406.
[00252]     FIG. 13 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions 1300 which may be executed to implement the example impression data
compensator 200 of FIG. 2 to adjust impression counts and/or audience sizes based
on non-coverage factors for a database proprietor. The example instructions 1300
may be executed by the example non-coverage corrector 212 of FIG. 2 to implement
block 416 of FIG. 4.
[00253]    The example non-coverage corrector 212 of FIG. 2 selects a demographic
group (block 1302). The example non-coverage corrector 212 determines a
misattribution and non-coverage error adjusted unique audience size by dividing the
misattribution adjusted unique audience size (determined using the instructions of
FIG. 10) by 1-(Non-Coverage Factor for the selected demographic group and
selected device type) (block 1304).
[00254]    The example non-coverage corrector 212 determines misattribution and
non-coverage adjusted impression count by multiplying the misattribution and non
coverage adjusted unique audience size by a frequency for the selected demographic
group and the selected device type determined from impression information (block
1306).
[00255]    The example non-coverage corrector 212 determines a misattribution and
non-coverage error adjusted duration units by dividing the misattribution adjusted
                                           -95-

duration units (determined using the instructions of FIG. 10) by 1-(Non-Coverage
Factor for the selected demographic group and selected device type) (block 1308).
[00256]    The example non-coverage corrector 212 determines whether there are
additional demographic groups (block 1310). If there are additional demographic
groups (block 1310), control returns to block 1302 to select another demographic
group. When there are no more demographic groups to be adjusted (block 1308), the
example instructions 1300 end and, for example, control returns to a calling function
or process such as the example instructions 400 of FIG. 4 to proceed with execution
of block 418.
[00257]     In some instances, data selection may be performed based on genre. In
some examples, genre may be provided by the media publisher 120 (e.g., television
network provider, media provider, etc.). In other examples, genre may be unavailable
from providers of the media. In such other examples when genre is not readily
available, genre may be predicted using, for example, techniques disclosed below in
connection with FIGS. 14-20.
[00258]     In cross-platform audience measurement, an AME (e.g., the AME 108 of
FIG. 1) monitors audiences of television (and/or radio) programs when they are
broadcast via television (and/or radio) stations (e.g., local television stations, local
radio stations) and when they are provided via delayed media services within a
particular amount of time (e.g., seven days) after the broadcast. Example delayed
media services may be accessed via on-demand services, streaming services
application, apps, web pages, etc. on mobile devices or stationary computing devices.
Example delayed media services may also be provided on digital video recorders
(DVRs), cable boxes, internet-media delivery set-to-boxes, smart televisions, etc. In
this manner, the AME performs cross-platform audience measurement by collecting
impressions for both the television (and/or radio) audience and the delayed audience.
In some examples, the impressions are analyzed to generate media ratings. In some
examples, genre is used to determine adjustment factors for calibrating mobile
census data. In such examples, the calibrated mobile census data is used to produce
ratings. Genres are categories of media based on, for example, similarities in form,
style, and/or subject matter, etc. Example genres include comedy, drama, sports,
news, children's programming, etc.
[00259]     In some examples, impressions are collected based on data encoded in the
media. However, in some examples, the encoded data does not include genre
                                           -96-

information. For example, programming broadcast by local broadcasters does not
have genre information and the encoded data for local broadcasts do not include a
program name or identifier. In addition, the genre information or the program name is
not provided by the broadcasters or media owners in time to produce overnight
ratings. Overnight ratings are often used to quickly assess the success of a broadcast
program based on impression counts and audience size. In some instances, the
success of a broadcast program reflected in overnight ratings may be used by media
networks (e.g., television networks) to sell advertisement space corresponding to
delayed-viewing access of the same media available via, for example, an app or
webpage of the media network (e.g., the ABC television broadcasting company) or a
third party (e.g., Hulu.com) owning the rights to provide the media via delayed viewing
services. Examples disclosed herein may be used to generate a model to predict the
genre of local television (and/or radio) impressions. While the examples below are
described with respect to television, the examples below may alternatively be
implemented using radio or other media types.
[00260]     GENRE PREDICTION MODELING
[00261]     The above examples of misattribution and/or non-coverage correction may
include generating multiple misattribution correction tables (e.g., such as Table 14
above). In some examples, a misattribution correction matrix is generated for different
device types and/or different genres of media. Examples described below may be
used to predict the media genre of impressions for which genre information is not
provided from the impression. By assigning genres to impressions, examples
disclosed herein select an appropriate misattribution correction matrix and/or non
coverage factors (e.g., alpha factors of Tables 19 and/or 21 above) to compensate for
misattribution error and/or non-coverage error in impression counts and/or audience
sizes as disclosed above.
[00262]     Examples disclosed below to generate genre prediction models use in
home media meters locally installed at client computers or televisions to collect
information about accessed media or tuned-to media to facilitate generating the genre
prediction models. However, examples disclosed above generate misattribution
correction factors without relying on panelist meter software locally-installed at client
computers to collect database proprietor registration status data and/or to collect data
about media accessed by household members. The use of in-home media meters
locally installed at client computers or televisions in genre prediction modeling and
                                             -97-

genre assignment is limited to collecting impressions and/or assigning genres to
impressions. Such locally installed in-home meters are not used to generate
misattribution correction matrices or non-coverage factors as disclosed herein. The
genre prediction modeling and genre assignments disclosed below can be used to
correct impressions for misattribution and/or non-coverage as disclosed above.
[00263]     FIG. 14 illustrates an example system 1400 to generate genre prediction
models, and predict and/or assign a genre to non-genre impression data 1402 (e.g.,
impression data that does not include genre information). In the illustrated example,
in-home media meters 1404 (e.g., set top meters, personal people meters, etc.) send
local television impression data 1402 to an audience measurement entity (AME) 108.
The example AME 108 of FIG. 14 may be the AME 108 of FIG. 1.
[00264]     In the illustrated example, the impression data 1402 generated from local
broadcast television is not encoded with genre information because local television
broadcasters have not yet encoded media at a time of its broadcasting. In the
illustrated example, to monitor cross-platform audiences in addition to collecting local
television impression data 1402 for a television audience, an example collector 1406
is provided in internet-enabled media devices 1410 to collect impressions of media
accessed using streaming services via the internet-enabled media devices 1410. In
the illustrated example, the collector 1406 is implemented using instructions
incorporated into web pages, applications, or apps (e.g., on-demand applications,
streaming applications, DVR access applications, etc.) that are executed by the
internet-enabled media access devices 1410 (e.g., computers, televisions, tablets,
smartphones, e-book readers, etc.).
[00265]     Examples for collecting impressions using the example collector 1406 are
disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 8,370,489, issued February 5, 2013, U.S. Patent
Application Serial No 14/127,414, filed December 18, 2013, U.S. Patent Application
Serial No. 14/329,779, filed July 11, 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
61/952,726, filed March 13, 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 62/014,659,
filed June 19, 2014, U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 62/023,675, filed July 11,
2014, all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. The
example media meters 1404 and/or the example collectors 1406 communicate with
the example AME 108 through an example network 1412 (e.g., the Internet, a local
area network, a wide area network, a cellular data network, etc.) via wired and/or
wireless connections (e.g., a cable/DSL/satellite modem, a cell tower, etc.).
                                             -98-

[00266]    In the illustrated example of FIG. 14, the AME 108 processes the non-genre
impression data 1402 to determine genres for impressions logged at the AME 108
based on the non-genre impression data 1402. In the illustrated example, the AME
108 includes a collection database 1414, a genre prediction modeler 1416, a genre
predictor 1418, a historical genre database 1420, and a prediction database 1422.
The example collection database 1414 is provided to store impressions logged based
on the example non-genre impression data 1402 received and/or retrieved from the
example media meters 1404 and/or the example collectors 1406.
[00267]    The example genre prediction modeler 1416 generates genre prediction
model(s) 1428 based on historical genre data stored in the example historical genre
database 1420. In the illustrated example, historical genre data includes historical
programming records 1430 that identify, for example, a genre of a program, a day
part of the program, a day category of the program, a duration of the program. The
example historical programming records 1430 are based on information (e.g., a
program identifier, timestamp(s), a station identifier, an affiliate identifier, etc.)
provided by local broadcasters 1432 after the program is broadcast. For example, the
local broadcaster 1432 may provide the records 1430 for every quarter hour of local
broadcast programming a week after the local broadcast.
[00268]    The example genre predictor 1418 uses the genre prediction model(s) 1428
generated by the example genre prediction modeler 1416 to predict genre information
and assign predicted genres to impressions logged in the collection database 1414
based on non-genre impression data 1402. In this manner, the example genre
predictor 1418 generates predicted-genre impression records 1424 (e.g., the non
genre impressions logged in the collection database 1414 combined with the
predicted genre information). In the illustrated example of FIG. 14, the predicted
genre impression records 1424 are stored in the prediction database 1422. In some
examples, the predicted-genre impression records 1424 are used as non-corrected
impressions, which may be compensated for misattribution and/or non-coverage to
determine the demographic groups to which the predicted-genre impressions are
attributable, as discussed above.
[00269]    FIG. 15 illustrates an example implementation of the genre predictor 1418
of FIG. 14 to determine genre information for the non-genre impression records
1501 logged in the collection database 1414 based on the non-genre impression data
1402 of FIG. 14. In the illustrated example, the genre predictor 1418 receives and/or
                                            -99-

retrieves the non-genre impression records 1501 from the collection database 1414
and generates the predicted-genre impression records 1424 to be stored in the
prediction database 1422 and/or reported on the prediction report 1426. In the
illustrated example of FIG. 15, the genre predictor 1418 includes a data categorizer
1500 and a genre analyzer 1502. The example data categorizer 1500 is structured to
transform the example non-genre impression records 1501 into categorized
impression data 1504. Categorized impression data 1504 is described in more detail
below with reference to FIG. 16.
[00270]     The example genre analyzer 1502 is structured to apply genre prediction
model(s) 1428 generated by the example genre prediction modeler 1416 to the
example categorized impression data 1504. The example genre analyzer 1502
applies the genre prediction model(s) 1428 to the categorized impression data 1504.
The example genre analyzer 1502 then assigns the predicted genre to the
categorized impression data 1504 to generate the example predicted-genre
impression records 1424. The example genre analyzer 1502 stores the example
predicted-genre impression data 1424 in the example prediction database 1422,
and/or includes the example predicted-genre impression data 1424 on the example
prediction report 1426.
[00271]     FIG. 16 illustrates an example manner in which the data categorizer 1500
of FIG. 15 categorizes the non-genre impression data records 1501 to be used by the
genre analyzer 1502 of FIG. 15 to predict genre. In the illustrated example, a non
genre impression data records 1501 includes an example market identifier (ID) 1600,
an example station ID 1602, an example affiliate ID 1604, an example start timestamp
1606, an example end timestamp 1608, an example program ID 1610, and an
example source ID 1612. Any one or more of these fields may be omitted and one or
more additional fields may be present. For example, non-genre impression data
records 1501 corresponding to national programming may include the program ID
1610 and the source ID 1612. Additionally, non-genre impression data records 1501
corresponding to local broadcast programming may omit the program ID 1610 and the
source ID 1612. The example market ID 1600 identifies the market (e.g., a
geographic location, a municipality, etc.) in which the corresponding television
program aired. In some examples, the market ID 1600 is assigned by the AME 108
(FIG. 14) or any other appropriate entity. The station ID 1602 identifies the local
station that broadcast the television program. In some examples, the station ID 1602
                                          -100-

is an alphanumeric number assigned by the AME 108 (FIG. 14) or any other
appropriate entity. In some examples, the station ID 1602 is the call sign (e.g., WXTV,
KVEA, WSNS, etc.) used by a local television station to identify itself.
[00272]     The example affiliate ID 1604 identifies the network affiliate (e.g., American
Broadcasting Company, Telemundo, FOX Broadcasting Company, etc.) of the local
television station. In some examples, the affiliate ID 1604 is a number assigned by the
AME 108 to represent the network affiliate (e.g., 100 for ABC, 101 for NBC, etc.). In
some examples, the affiliate ID 1604 may be an alphabetic representation of the
name of the network affiliate (e.g., "ABC" for the American Broadcasting Company,
"TMD" for Telemundo, etc.). The example start timestamp 1606 includes a starting
date and a starting time of the program associated with the non-genre impression
record 1501. The example end timestamp 1608 includes an ending date and an
ending time of the program associated with the non-genre impression record 1501. If
included in the non-genre impression record 1501, the example program ID 1610
identifies the television program (e.g., "Arrested Development," "News Radio,"
"Sabado Gigante," etc.) associated with the non-genre impression record 1501. In
some examples, the program ID 1610 is a numeric or alphanumeric identifier that is
uniquely associated in a reference database with a title and/or other information of a
corresponding television program. The example source ID 1612 identifies the source
(e.g., the production company, etc.) of the television program.
[00273]     In the illustrated example of FIG. 16, the categorized impression data 1504
includes the example market identifier 1600, the example station ID 1602, the
example affiliate ID 1604, an example day category 1614, an example day part 1616,
and an example duration 1618. The example data categorizer 1500 uses the start
timestamp 1606 and the end timestamp 1608 of the non-genre impression record
1501to determine the example day category 1614, the example day part 1616 and the
example duration 1618 of the categorized impression data 1504. In the illustrated
example, the duration 1618 of the categorized impression data 1504 is calculated by
the data categorizer 1500 as being the difference in time between the start time noted
in the start timestamp 1606 and the end time noted in the end timestamp 1608.
[00274]     In the illustrated example, the data categorizer 1500 determines the
example day category 1614 by using the start date in the example start timestamp
1606 and the end date in the example end timestamp 1608. In some examples, the
day category 1614 may have a value of a day of the week (e.g., Monday, Tuesday,
                                            -101-

Wednesday, etc.). In some examples, the day category 1614 may be a reduced set of
the days of the week. For example, the reduced set may include values for
"weekday," "Saturday," or "Sunday." In some examples, when the start date noted the
example start timestamp 1606 and the end date noted in the example end timestamp
1608 are different, the data categorizer 1500 may assign a day to the day category
1614 based on the amount of time the program was broadcast on that day. For
example, if the start timestamp 1606 is "7/25/2014 23:30" (e.g., 30 minutes on a
Friday) and the end timestamp 1608 is "7/26/2014 1:00" (e.g., 60 minutes on a
Saturday), "Saturday" would be assigned to the day category 1614. In such examples,
the data categorizer 1500 assigns to the day category 1614 the day on which more of
the program was broadcast.
[00275]      The example data categorizer 1500 uses the start time noted in the
example start timestamp 1606 and the end time noted in the example end timestamp
1608 to determine the example day part 1616 of the example categorized impression
data 1504. As discussed further below in connection with FIG. 17, day parts are time
segments or partitions of a day (e.g., late fringe, weekday morning, weekday daytime,
early fringe, prime time, weekend daytime, etc.) during which different types of
television programming are aired, advertisements are purchased, and/or audience
ratings are measured. In some examples, the day part 1616 of FIG. 16 may be the
day part that includes the start time noted in the start timestamp 1606 and the end
time noted in the end timestamp 1608.
[00276]      While an example manner of implementing the genre predictor 1418 of FIG.
14 is illustrated in FIG. 15, one or more of the elements, processes and/or devices
illustrated in FIG. 15 may be combined, divided, re-arranged, omitted, eliminated
and/or implemented in any other way. Further, the example data categorizer 1500,
the example genre analyzer 1502 and/or, more generally, the example genre
predictor 1418 of FIG. 14 may be implemented by hardware, software, firmware
and/or any combination of hardware, software and/or firmware. Thus, for example,
any of the example data categorizer 1500, the example genre analyzer 1502 and/or,
more generally, the example genre predictor 1418 could be implemented by one or
more analog or digital circuit(s), logic circuits, programmable processor(s), application
specific integrated circuit(s) (ASIC(s)), programmable logic device(s) (PLD(s)) and/or
field programmable logic device(s) (FPLD(s)). When reading any of the apparatus or
system claims of this patent to cover a purely software and/or firmware
                                            -102-

implementation, at least one of the example data categorizer 1500, the example
genre analyzer 1502, and/or the example genre predictor 1418 is/are hereby
expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable storage device or storage
disk such as a memory, a digital versatile disk (DVD), a compact disk (CD), a Blu-ray
disk, etc. storing the software and/or firmware. Further still, the example genre
predictor 1418 may include one or more elements, processes and/or devices in
addition to, or instead of, those illustrated in FIG. 15, and/or may include more than
one of any or all of the illustrated elements, processes and devices.
[00277]      FIG. 17 illustrates an example chart depicting day parts (e.g., day parts that
may be indicated in the example day part 1616 of FIG. 16) and day categories (e.g.,
day categories that may be indicated in the example day category 1614 of FIG. 16)
used by the genre predictor 1418 of FIGS. 14 and 15. In the illustrated example, each
day of the week 1700 is divided into multiple day parts 1702. In the illustrated
example, Monday through Friday are divided into the same day part segments or
partitions (e.g., day parts having the same durations and bounded by the same day
part start times and day part end times). Alternatively, each day of the week 1700, or
any combination thereof, may be divided into different day parts. In the illustrated
example, the day categories 1704 are divided into three categories, "weekday,"
"Saturday," and "Sunday." Alternatively, the day categories 1704 may include a
separate category for each day of the week (e.g., a "Monday" category, a "Tuesday"
category, etc.). In some examples, day categories may have different day groupings
based on similar characteristics (e.g., temporal proximity, audience viewing habits,
etc.) between the different days that are grouped together. For example, the day
categories 1704 may include an "early week" category (e.g., including Monday and
Tuesday), a "mid-week" category (e.g., including Wednesday and Thursday), a "late
week" category (e.g., including Friday), and a "weekend" category (e.g., including
Saturday and Sunday).
[00278]      FIG. 18 illustrates an example of the genre prediction modeler 1416 of FIG.
14 to construct genre prediction model(s) 1428 to be used by the genre predictor
1418 of FIG. 14. In the illustrated example, the genre prediction modeler 1416
includes an example genre prediction model constructor 1802, an example genre
prediction model evaluator 1804, and an example genre prediction model comparator
1806. The example genre prediction model constructor 1802 uses data sets from the
historical genre database 1420 to generate one or more candidate models using
                                            -103-

different modeling techniques. Example modeling techniques that may be used to
implement the genre prediction modeler 1416 include logistic regression, linear
discriminant analysis, quadratic discriminant analysis, k-nearest neighbor, etc. The
example model constructor 1802 retrieves an example training dataset 1808 from the
historical genre database 1420. In the illustrated example, the training dataset 1808 is
used to build predictive relationships between inputs (e.g., the variables included in
the categorized impression data 1504 of FIG. 15) to the genre prediction model(s)
1428 and the output of the genre prediction model(s) 1428 (e.g., the predicted genre).
The example training dataset 1808 includes categorized impression data (e.g., the
example market identifier 1600, the example station ID 1602, the example affiliate ID
1604, the example day category 1614, the example day part 1616, and the example
duration 1618) and an assigned genre. Using the training data set 1808, the example
genre prediction model constructor 1802 generates one or more candidate models
1800. A candidate model 1800 is a genre prediction model that is being evaluated for
its suitableness (e.g., accuracy) to be used by the genre analyzer 1502 (FIG. 15) to
assign genre to the non-genre impression records 1501 (FIG. 14). In some examples,
the genre prediction model constructor 1802, after generating an example candidate
model 1800, calculates a correct classification rate (CCR) using the training data set
1808. In some examples, the CCR is the percentage of impressions in the training
data set 1808 correctly predicted by the candidate model.
[00279]     In the example illustrated in FIG. 18, the genre prediction model evaluator
1804 receives and/or retrieves the candidate models 1800 generated by the genre
prediction model constructor 1802. The genre prediction model evaluator 1804 also
retrieves a test data set 1810 from the historical genre database 1420. The example
genre prediction model evaluator 1804 validates the candidate models 1800 using the
test data set 1810. In some examples, the genre prediction model evaluator 1804
calculates CCRs for the candidate models using the test data set 1810. In some such
examples, the genre prediction model evaluator 1804 calculates CCRs for the genres
of interest included in the test data set 1810.
[00280]     In the example illustrated in FIG. 18, the genre prediction model comparator
1806 selects one or more of the candidate models 1800 to be the genre prediction
model(s) 1428 using selection criteria defined by the AME 108 (FIG. 14). In some
examples, the selection criteria includes highest CCR, shortest processing time, least
                                            -104-

resource requirements, etc. In some examples, the genre prediction model
comparator 1806 selects the candidate model 1800 with the highest CCR.
[00281]      While an example manner of implementing the genre prediction modeler
1416 of FIG. 14 is illustrated in FIG. 18, one or more of the elements, processes
and/or devices illustrated in FIG. 18 may be combined, divided, re-arranged, omitted,
eliminated and/or implemented in any other way. Further, the example genre
prediction model constructor 1802, the example genre prediction model evaluator
1804, the example genre prediction model comparator 1806 and/or, more generally,
the example genre prediction modeler 1416 of FIG. 14 may be implemented by
hardware, software, firmware and/or any combination of hardware, software and/or
firmware. Thus, for example, any of the example genre prediction model constructor
1802, the example genre prediction model evaluator 1804, the example genre
prediction model comparator 1806 and/or, more generally, the example genre
prediction modeler 1416 could be implemented by one or more analog or digital
circuit(s), logic circuits, programmable processor(s), application specific integrated
circuit(s) (ASIC(s)), programmable logic device(s) (PLD(s)) and/or field programmable
logic device(s) (FPLD(s)). When reading any of the apparatus or system claims of this
patent to cover a purely software and/or firmware implementation, at least one of the
example genre prediction model constructor 1802, the example genre prediction
model evaluator 1804, the example genre prediction model comparator 1806, and/or
the example genre prediction modeler 1416 is/are hereby expressly defined to include
a tangible computer readable storage device or storage disk such as a memory, a
digital versatile disk (DVD), a compact disk (CD), a Blu-ray disk, etc. storing the
software and/or firmware. Further still, the example genre prediction modeler 1416
may include one or more elements, processes and/or devices in addition to, or
instead of, those illustrated in FIG. 18, and/or may include more than one of any or all
of the illustrated elements, processes and devices.
[00282]      A flowchart representative of example machine readable instructions for
implementing the example genre prediction modeler 1416 of FIGS. 14 and 18 is
shown in FIG. 19. A flowchart representative of example machine readable
instructions for implementing the example genre predictor 1418 of FIGS. 14 and 15 is
shown in FIG. 20. In these examples, the machine readable instructions comprise one
or more program(s) for execution by a processor such as the processor 2112 shown
in the example processor platform 2100 discussed below in connection with FIG. 21.
                                            -105-

The program(s) may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable
storage medium such as a CD-ROM, a floppy disk, a hard drive, a digital versatile
disk (DVD), a Blu-ray disk, or a memory associated with the processor 2112, but the
entire program(s) and/or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device
other than the processor 2112 and/or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware.
Further, although the example program(s) are described with reference to the
flowcharts illustrated in FIGS. 19 and 20, many other methods of implementing the
example genre predictor 1418 and/or the example genre prediction modeler 1416
may alternatively be used. For example, the order of execution of the blocks may be
changed, and/or some of the blocks described may be changed, eliminated, or
combined.
[00283]      As mentioned above, the example processes of FIGS. 19 and/or 20 may be
implemented using coded instructions (e.g., computer and/or machine readable
instructions) stored on a tangible computer readable storage medium such as a hard
disk drive, a flash memory, a read-only memory (ROM), a compact disk (CD), a digital
versatile disk (DVD), a cache, a random-access memory (RAM) and/or any other
storage device or storage disk in which information is stored for any duration (e.g., for
extended time periods, permanently, for brief instances, for temporarily buffering,
and/or for caching of the information). Additionally or alternatively, the example
processes of FIGS. 19 and/or 20 may be implemented using coded instructions (e.g.,
computer and/or machine readable instructions) stored on a non-transitory computer
and/or machine readable medium such as a hard disk drive, a flash memory, a read
only memory, a compact disk, a digital versatile disk, a cache, a random-access
memory and/or any other storage device or storage disk in which information is stored
for any duration (e.g., for extended time periods, permanently, for brief instances, for
temporarily buffering, and/or for caching of the information).
[00284]       FIG. 19 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions 1900 that may be executed to implement the example genre prediction
modeler 1416 of FIGS. 14 and 18 to construct genre prediction model(s) (e.g., the
genre prediction model(s) 1428 of FIG. 18) to be used for predicting genre for non
genre impressions logged based on the non-genre impression data 1402 (FIG. 14).
Initially, at block 1902, the genre prediction model constructor 1802 (FIG. 18) selects
variables or parameters (e.g., a market identifier, a station ID, an affiliate ID, a day
category, a day part, and a duration) included in impressions in a training data set
                                            -106-

(e.g., the training data set 1808 of FIG. 18). In some examples, the genre prediction
model constructor 1802 selects variables by performing statistical significance testing
(e.g., calculating p-values, performing a chi-squared test, etc.) on the variables. At
block 1903, the example genre prediction model constructor 1802 excludes
impressions from the training data set 1808 based on selection criteria (e.g., exclude
impressions associated with genres not of interest, exclude impressions with
durations of exposure or access below a threshold, etc.). For example, some of the
records 1430 (FIG. 14) in the historical genre database 1420 (FIG. 14) may be
categorized in an "unclassified" genre. In some instances, it may not be desirable for
a genre prediction model 1428 to predict "unclassified" genre for impressions. In such
an example, to prevent the genre prediction model 1428 from assigning non-genre
impressions 1402 (FIG. 14) to the "unclassified" genre, the records 1430 in the
historical genre database 1420 categorized in an "unclassified" genre are excluded
from the training data set 1808.
[00285]     At block 1904, the example genre prediction model constructor 1802
constructs a candidate model 1800 (FIG. 18) using the variables or parameters
selected at block 1902 based on the training data set 1808. Example modeling
techniques that may be used to generate candidate models 1800 include logistic
regression, linear discriminant analysis, quadratic discriminant analysis, k-nearest
neighbor, etc. For example, the genre prediction model constructor 1802 may
construct a model using a k-nearest neighbor algorithm with k equal to nine. In some
examples, the genre prediction model constructor 1802 calculates the CCR of the
candidate model 1800 using the training data set 1808. At block 1906, the genre
prediction model evaluator 1804 (FIG. 18) evaluates the candidate model 1800
generated at block 1904. In some examples, the genre prediction model evaluator
1804 retrieves test data set(s) 1810 (FIG. 18) from the historical genre database 1420
(FIG. 14) and calculates the CCR(s) of the candidate model 1800 using the test data
set(s) 1810. In some such examples, the genre prediction model evaluator 1804
calculates separate CCR(s) for each genre represented in the test data set(s) 1810.
[00286]     At block 1908, the genre prediction model evaluator 1804 determines
whether the CCR(s) generated at block 1906 are acceptable. If the CCR(s) are
acceptable, program control advances to block 1912. Otherwise, if the CCR(s) are not
acceptable, program control advances to block 1910. At block 1910, the genre
prediction model constructor 1802 refines or adjusts the candidate model 1800
                                           -107-

generated at block 1904. In some examples, the genre prediction model constructor
1802 adjusts the model parameters (e.g., selects a different value for k, etc.), adjusts
the input variables (e.g., uses different day categories, adds and/or removes
variables, etc.), and/or adjusts the training dataset 1808 (e.g., increases the size of
the training dataset 1808, changes the composition of the training dataset 1808 to
include impression that were previously excluded based on, for example, type of
genre, etc.).
[00287]    At block 1912, the genre prediction model evaluator 1804 determines
whether another candidate model 1800 is to be generated. In some examples, the
genre prediction model evaluator 1804 uses a CCR threshold to determine whether
another candidate model 1800 is to be constructed. In some examples, the genre
prediction model evaluator 1804 evaluates the candidate model 1800 based on
processing speed and/or computing resource requirements. If another candidate
model 1800 is to be constructed, program control returns to block 1902. Otherwise, if
another candidate model 1800 is not to be constructed, program control advances to
block 1914. At block 1914, the genre prediction model comparator 1806 (FIG. 18)
compares the candidate models 1800 generated by the genre prediction model
constructor 1802. In some examples, the genre prediction model comparator 1806
compares the CCRs of the candidate models 1800. In some such examples, for the
genres of interest, the genre prediction model comparator 1806 may compare
separate CCRs corresponding to the candidate models 1800. For example, a first
candidate model may have an overall CCR (e.g., the average of the CCRs for the
genre of interest, etc.) of 70%, but a CCR for the "family" genre of 30%. A second
candidate model may have an overall CCR of 65%, but a CCR for the "family" genre
of 57%.
[00288]    At block 1916, the genre prediction model comparator 1806 selects a
candidate genre prediction model 1800 to be the genre prediction model 1428 to be
used by the genre prediction model predictor 1418. In some examples, the genre
prediction model comparator 1806 selects the candidate model 1800 with the highest
overall CCR. For example, from the above example, the genre prediction model
comparator 1806 would select the first candidate model. In some examples, the genre
prediction model comparator 1806 selects the candidate model 1800 with highest
CCR in a particular genre of interest. For example, from the above example, if the
"family" genre was of particular interest, the genre prediction model comparator 1806
                                            -108-

would select the second candidate model because the "family" genre CCR of the
second candidate model is higher than the "family" genre CCR of the first candidate
model. In some examples, the genre prediction model comparator 1806 selects a
candidate model 1800 based on performance factors (e.g., required processing power
to predict genre, required processing speed to predict genre, etc.). The example
program 1900 of FIG. 19 then ends.
[00289]     FIG. 20 is a flow diagram representative of example machine readable
instructions 2000 that may be executed to implement the example genre predictor
1418 of FIGS. 14 and 15 to predict genre of impressions collected for a local
television program that is not encoded with genre information (e.g., non-genre
impression data 1402 of FIG. 14). At block 2002, the example data categorizer 1500
(FIGS. 15 and 16) retrieves non-genre impression data (e.g., the non-genre
impression records 1501 logged based on the non-genre impression data 1402 of
FIGS. 14 and 15) from the collection database 1414 (FIGS. 14 and 15). At block
2004, the data categorizer 1500 transforms the non-genre impression records 1501
into categorized impression data 1504 (FIG. 15). In some examples, the data
categorizer 1500 uses timestamp values (e.g., the start timestamp 1606 and the end
timestamp 1608 of FIG. 16) included in the non-genre impression records 1501 to
generate variables used by a genre prediction model (e.g., the genre prediction model
1428 of FIGS. 14 and 18) to categorize the non-genre impression records 1501 to be
input into the genre prediction model 1428. For example, the data categorizer 1500
may generate a day category value 1614 (FIG. 16), a day part value 1616 (FIG. 16),
and/or a duration value 1618 (FIG. 16).
[00290]     At block 2006, the genre analyzer 1502 (FIG. 15) applies the genre
prediction model 1428 generated by the genre prediction modeler 1416 (FIGS. 14 and
18) to the categorized impression data 1504 to predict genre information. In some
examples, the genre predictions may include an accuracy level. In some such
examples, the accuracy level may be based on the CCR(s) of the genre prediction
model 1428 calculated by the genre prediction modeler 1416. At block 2008, the
genre analyzer 1502 associates the genre predictions with the non-genre impression
data 1402 to create the predicted-genre impressions 1424 (FIGS. 14 and 15). In
some examples, the genre analyzer 1502 stores the predicted-genre impressions
1424 in the prediction database 1422 (FIGS. 14 and 15). Alternatively or additionally,
the genre analyzer 1502 includes the predicted-genre impressions 1424 in the
                                          -109-

prediction report 1426 (FIGS. 14 and 15). The example program 2000 of FIG. 20 then
ends.
[00291]     FIG. 21 is a block diagram of an example processor platform 1200 capable
of executing the instructions of FIGS. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and/or 13to
implement the example calibration data collector 202, the example sharing matrix
generator 204, the example misattribution corrector 206, the example impression
information collector 208, the example non-coverage calculator 210, the example
non-coverage corrector 212, the example impression information adjuster 214, the
example household distribution generator 216, the example aggregated distribution
generator 218, the example matrix corrector 220, the example matrix normalizer 222,
the example co-viewing matrix generator 224 and/or, more generally, the example
impression data compensator 200 of FIG. 2. The processor platform 2100 can be, for
example, a server, a personal computer, a mobile device (e.g., a cell phone, a smart
phone, a tablet such as an iPadTM), an Internet appliance, or any other type of
computing device.
[00292]     The processor platform 2100 of the illustrated example includes a
processor 2112. The processor 2112 of the illustrated example is hardware. For
example, the processor 2112 can be implemented by one or more integrated circuits,
logic circuits, microprocessors or controllers from any desired family or manufacturer.
The example processor 2100 of FIG. 21 may implement the example calibration data
collector 202, the example sharing matrix generator 204, the example misattribution
corrector 206, the example impression information collector 208, the example non
coverage calculator 210, the example non-coverage corrector 212, the example
impression information adjuster 214, the example household distribution generator
216, the example aggregated distribution generator 218, the example matrix corrector
220, the example matrix normalizer 222, and/or the example co-viewing matrix
generator 224.
[00293]     The processor 2112 of the illustrated example includes a local memory
2113 (e.g., a cache). The processor 2112 of the illustrated example is in
communication with a main memory including a volatile memory 2114 and a non
volatile memory 2116 via a bus 2118. The volatile memory 2114 may be implemented
by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory (SDRAM), Dynamic Random
Access Memory (DRAM), RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory (RDRAM)
and/or any other type of random access memory device. The non-volatile memory
                                           -110-

2116 may be implemented by flash memory and/or any other desired type of memory
device. Access to the main memory 2114, 2116 is controlled by a memory controller.
[00294]    The processor platform 2100 of the illustrated example also includes an
interface circuit 2120. The interface circuit 2120 may be implemented by any type of
interface standard, such as an Ethernet interface, a universal serial bus (USB), and/or
a PCI express interface.
[00295]    In the illustrated example, one or more input devices 2122 are connected to
the interface circuit 2120. The input device(s) 2122 permit(s) a user to enter data and
commands into the processor 2112. The input device(s) can be implemented by, for
example, an audio sensor, a microphone, a camera (still or video), a keyboard, a
button, a mouse, a touchscreen, a track-pad, a trackball, isopoint and/or a voice
recognition system.
[00296]    One or more output devices 2124 are also connected to the interface circuit
2120 of the illustrated example. The output devices 2124 can be implemented, for
example, by display devices (e.g., a light emitting diode (LED), an organic light
emitting diode (OLED), a liquid crystal display, a cathode ray tube display (CRT), a
touchscreen, a tactile output device, a light emitting diode (LED), a printer and/or
speakers). The interface circuit 2120 of the illustrated example, thus, typically
includes a graphics driver card, a graphics driver chip or a graphics driver processor.
[00297]    The interface circuit 2120 of the illustrated example also includes a
communication device such as a transmitter, a receiver, a transceiver, a modem
and/or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external machines
(e.g., computing devices of any kind) via a network 2126 (e.g., an Ethernet
connection, a digital subscriber line (DSL), a telephone line, coaxial cable, a cellular
telephone system, etc.).
[00298]    The processor platform 2100 of the illustrated example also includes one or
more mass storage devices 2128 for storing software and/or data. The example mass
storage device 2128 of FIG. 21 may implement the AME media impressions store 134
of FIG. 1. Examples of such mass storage devices 2128 include floppy disk drives,
hard drive disks, compact disk drives, Blu-ray disk drives, RAID systems, and digital
versatile disk (DVD) drives.
[00299]    The coded instructions 2132 of FIGS. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and/or 13
may be stored in the mass storage device 2128, in the volatile memory 2114, in the
                                           -111-

non-volatile memory 2116, and/or on a removable tangible computer readable
storage medium such as a CD or DVD.
[00300]     FIG. 22 is a block diagram of an example processor platform 1200 capable
of executing the instructions of FIGS. 19 and/or 20 to implement the example
collection database 1414, the example genre prediction modeler 1416, the example
genre predictor 1418, the example historical genre database 1420, the example
prediction database 1422, the example data categorizer 1500, the example genre
analyzer 1502, the example genre prediction model constructor 1802, the example
genre prediction model evaluator 1804, the example genre prediction model
comparator 1806 and/or, more generally, the example audience measurement entity
108 of FIG. 1. The processor platform 2200 can be, for example, a server, a personal
computer, a mobile device (e.g., a cell phone, a smart phone, a tablet such as an
iPadTM), an Internet appliance, or any other type of computing device.
[00301]     The processor platform 2200 of the illustrated example includes a
processor 2212. The processor 2212 of the illustrated example is hardware. For
example, the processor 2212 can be implemented by one or more integrated circuits,
logic circuits, microprocessors or controllers from any desired family or manufacturer.
The example processor 2212 of FIG. 22 may implement the example genre prediction
modeler 1416, the example genre predictor 1418, the example data categorizer 1500,
the example genre analyzer 1502, the example genre prediction model constructor
1802, the example genre prediction model evaluator 1804, and/or the example genre
prediction model comparator 1806.
[00302]     The processor 2212 of the illustrated example includes a local memory
2213 (e.g., a cache). The processor 2212 of the illustrated example is in
communication with a main memory including a volatile memory 2214 and a non
volatile memory 2216 via a bus 2218. The volatile memory 2214 may be implemented
by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory (SDRAM), Dynamic Random
Access Memory (DRAM), RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory (RDRAM)
and/or any other type of random access memory device. The non-volatile memory
2216 may be implemented by flash memory and/or any other desired type of memory
device. Access to the main memory 2214, 2216 is controlled by a memory controller.
[00303]     The processor platform 2200 of the illustrated example also includes an
interface circuit 2220. The interface circuit 2220 may be implemented by any type of
                                           -112-

interface standard, such as an Ethernet interface, a universal serial bus (USB), and/or
a PCI express interface.
[00304]     In the illustrated example, one or more input devices 2222 are connected to
the interface circuit 2220. The input device(s) 2222 permit(s) a user to enter data and
commands into the processor 2212. The input device(s) can be implemented by, for
example, an audio sensor, a microphone, a camera (still or video), a keyboard, a
button, a mouse, a touchscreen, a track-pad, a trackball, isopoint and/or a voice
recognition system.
[00305]     One or more output devices 2224 are also connected to the interface circuit
2220 of the illustrated example. The output devices 2224 can be implemented, for
example, by display devices (e.g., a light emitting diode (LED), an organic light
emitting diode (OLED), a liquid crystal display, a cathode ray tube display (CRT), a
touchscreen, a tactile output device, a light emitting diode (LED), a printer and/or
speakers). The interface circuit 2220 of the illustrated example, thus, typically
includes a graphics driver card, a graphics driver chip or a graphics driver processor.
[00306]     The interface circuit 2220 of the illustrated example also includes a
communication device such as a transmitter, a receiver, a transceiver, a modem
and/or network interface card to facilitate exchange of data with external machines
(e.g., computing devices of any kind) via a network 2226 (e.g., an Ethernet
connection, a digital subscriber line (DSL), a telephone line, coaxial cable, a cellular
telephone system, etc.).
[00307]     The processor platform 2200 of the illustrated example also includes one or
more mass storage devices 2228 for storing software and/or data. The example mass
storage device 2228 of FIG. 22 may implement the AME media impressions store
134, the example collection database 1414, the example historical genre database
1420, and/or the example prediction database 1422. Examples of such mass storage
devices 2228 include floppy disk drives, hard drive disks, compact disk drives, Blu-ray
disk drives, RAID systems, and digital versatile disk (DVD) drives.
[00308]     The coded instructions 2232 of FIGS. 19 and/or 20 may be stored in the
mass storage device 2228, in the volatile memory 2214, in the non-volatile memory
2216, and/or on a removable tangible computer readable storage medium such as a
CD or DVD.
[00309]     From the foregoing, it will be appreciate that methods, apparatus and
articles of manufacture have been disclosed which enhance the operations of a
                                            -113-

computer to improve the accuracy of impression-based data such as unique
audience, impression counts, and duration units so that computers and processing
systems therein can be relied upon to produce audience analysis information with
higher accuracies. In some examples, computer operations can be made more
efficient based on the above equations and techniques for determining misattribution
corrected and/or non-coverage-corrected unique audience sizes, misattribution
corrected and/or non-coverage-corrected impression counts, and/or misattribution
corrected and/or non-coverage-corrected duration units. That is, through the use of
these processes, computers can operate more efficiently by relatively quickly
determining parameters and applying those parameters through the above disclosed
techniques to determine the misattribution-corrected and/or non-coverage-corrected
data. For example, using example processes disclosed herein, a computer can more
efficiently and effectively correct misattribution errors (e.g., apply the misattribution
correction matrix of Table 14 above to impressions, unique audience sizes, and/or
duration units) and/or correct non-coverage errors (e.g., apply the non-coverage
factors or the alpha factors to impressions, unique audience sizes, and/or duration
units) in development or test data logged by the AME 108 and the database
proprietors 104a-b without using large amounts of network communication bandwidth
(e.g., conserving network communication bandwidth) and without using large amounts
of computer processing resources (e.g., conserving processing resources) to
continuously communicate with individual online users to request survey responses
about their online media access habits and without needing to rely on such
continuous survey responses from such online users. Survey responses from online
users can be inaccurate due to inabilities or unwillingness of users to recollect online
media accesses. Survey responses can also be incomplete, which could require
additional processor resources to identify and supplement incomplete survey
responses. As such, examples disclosed herein more efficiently and effectively
determine misattribution-corrected data. Such misattribution-corrected data is useful
in subsequent processing for identifying exposure performances of different media so
that media providers, advertisers, product manufacturers, and/or service providers
can make more informed decisions on how to spend advertising dollars and/or media
production and distribution dollars.
[00310]     Although certain example methods, apparatus and articles of manufacture
have been disclosed herein, the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited
                                            -114-

thereto. On the contrary, this patent covers all methods, apparatus and articles of
manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.
                                          -115-

What is Claimed is:
1.      A method, comprising:
        receiving, at a first internet domain, a first request from a first type of
computing device, the first request indicative of access to media at the computing
device;
        sending a request for demographic information corresponding to requests
received at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the
requests including the first request;
        obtaining a count of media impressions occurring on the first type of computing
device, a first portion of the media impressions corresponding to persons for whom
demographic information is recognizable by a database proprietor and a second
portion of the media impressions corresponding to persons for whom demographic
information is unavailable to the database proprietor; and
        determining, using a processor, the demographic information for the second
portion of the media impressions based on a first probability that media corresponding
to the media impressions is accessed on the first type of computing device and based
on a second probability that media is accessed on a second type of device.
2.      A method as defined in claim 1, wherein determining the demographic
information comprises multiplying a ratio of the first probability to the second
probability by a number of the media impressions attributed to a first demographic
group.
3.      A method as defined in claim 2, wherein the first probability is a probability that
a person in the first demographic group accesses media on the first type of computing
device and the second probability is a probability that the person in the first
demographic group accesses the media on the second type of computing device.
4.      A method as defined in claim 2, further comprising adjusting the media
impressions to compensate for incorrect attribution of a subset of the media
impressions to second persons in a second demographic group, the number of the
media impressions attributed to the first demographic group being determined from
the subset of the media impressions that are adjusted to compensate for the incorrect
attribution.
5.      A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first type of computing device
comprises a mobile device and the second type of device comprises a television.
                                            -116-

6.      A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first type of computing device
comprises at least one of a smartphone, a tablet computer, or a portable media
player.
7.      A method as defined in claim 1, wherein the first and second probabilities
correspond to a media category of the media.
8.      A method as defined in claim 7, wherein the media category is at least one of
comedy, drama, political, reality, or a combination media category.
9.      A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising, before determining the
demographic information, adjusting the media impressions for ones of the media
impressions being incorrectly attributed to persons not having caused the ones of the
media impressions.
10.     A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising calculating the first and
second probabilities based on survey responses to a survey of people, calculating the
first probability comprising determining, from the survey responses, weights
associated with at least one of a demographic group, a media category, a type of
computing device, or a geographic region, the weights indicating respective
probabilities of accessing the media associated with the media impressions on a
device type of interest.
11.     A method as defined in claim 10, wherein the survey is of at least one of a
random panel or a panel of audience members maintained by an audience
measurement entity.
12.     A method as defined in claim 1, wherein determining the demographic
information for the portion of the media impressions comprises:
        determining proportions of the media impressions attributable to different
demographic groups corresponding to the persons; and
        scaling the proportions of the media impressions to the portion of the media
impressions.
13.     A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising providing instructions to a
publisher, the instructions to be provided by the publisher to the computing device
and, when executed by the computing device, to cause the computing device to send
the first request.
14.     A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising conserving computer
processing resources by not communicating with individual online users about their
online media access activities and by not requesting survey responses from the
                                           -117-

online users to determine the first probability that the media corresponding to the
media impressions is accessed on the first type of computing device or to determine
the second probability that the media is accessed on the second type of device.
15.     A method as defined in claim 1, further comprising conserving network
communication bandwidth by not communicating with individual online users about
their online media access activities and by not requesting survey responses from the
online users to determine the first probability that the media corresponding to the
media impressions is accessed on the first type of computing device or to determine
the second probability that the media is accessed on the second type of device.
16.     An apparatus, comprising:
        an impression collector to:
               receive, at a first internet domain, a first request from a first type of
        computing device, the first request indicative of access to media at the
        computing device; and
               send a request for demographic information corresponding to requests
        received at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the
        requests including the first request;
        an impression information collector to access a count of media impressions
occurring on a first type of computing device, a first portion of the media impressions
corresponding to persons for whom demographic information is recognizable by a
database proprietor and a second portion of the media impressions corresponding to
persons for whom demographic information is unavailable to the database proprietor;
and
        a non-coverage corrector to determine the demographic information for the
portion of the media impressions based on a first probability that media corresponding
to the media impressions is accessed on the first type of computing device and based
on a second probability that media is accessed on a second type of device, at least
one of the impression information collector or the non-coverage corrector being
implemented by a logic circuit.
17.     An apparatus as defined in claim 16, further comprising a non-coverage
calculator to multiply a ratio of the first probability to the second probability by a
number of the media impressions attributed to a first demographic group.
18.     An apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein the first probability is a probability
that a person in the first demographic group accesses media on the first type of
                                              -118-

computing device and the second probability is a probability that the person in the first
demographic group accesses the media on the second type of computing device.
19.     An apparatus as defined in claim 17, further comprising a misattribution
corrector to adjust the media impressions to compensate for incorrect attribution of a
subset of the media impressions to second persons in a second demographic group,
the number of the media impressions attributed to the first demographic group being
determined from the subset of the media impressions that are adjusted to
compensate for the incorrect attribution.
20.     An apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein the first type of computing device
comprises a mobile device and the second type of computing device comprises a
television.
21.     An apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein the first type of computing device
comprises at least one of a smartphone, a tablet computer, or a portable media
player.
22.     An apparatus as defined in claim 17, wherein the non-coverage calculator is to
calculate the first and second probabilities based on survey responses to a survey of
people, the non-coverage calculator to calculate the first probability by determining,
from the survey responses, weights associated with at least one of a demographic
group, a media category, a type of computing device, or a geographic region, the
weights indicating respective probabilities of accessing the media associated with the
media impressions on a device type of interest.
23.     An apparatus as defined in claim 22, wherein the survey is of at least one of a
random panel or a panel of audience members maintained by an audience
measurement entity.
24.     An apparatus as defined in claim 16, wherein the first and second probabilities
correspond to a media category of the media.
25.     An apparatus as defined in claim 24, wherein the media category is at least
one of comedy, drama, political, reality, or a combination media category.
26.     An apparatus as defined in claim 16, wherein the non-coverage corrector is to
determine the demographic information for the portion of the media impressions by:
        determining proportions of the media impressions attributable to different
demographic groups corresponding to the persons; and
        scaling the proportions of the media impressions to the portion of the media
impressions.
                                           -119-

27.     A tangible computer readable storage medium comprising computer readable
instructions which, when executed, cause a processor to at least:
        access, at a first internet domain, a first request from a computing device, the
first request indicative of access to media at the computing device; and
        send a request for demographic information corresponding to requests
received at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the
requests including the first request;
        access a count of media impressions occurring on a first type of computing
device, a first portion of the media impressions corresponding to persons for whom
demographic information is recognizable by a database proprietor and a second
portion of the media impressions corresponding to persons for whom demographic
information is unavailable to the database proprietor; and
        determining the demographic information for the portion of the media
impressions based on a first probability that media corresponding to the media
impressions is accessed on the first type of computing device and based on a second
probability that media is accessed on a second type of device.
28.     A tangible computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 27, wherein
the instructions are to cause the processor to determine the demographic information
by multiplying a ratio of the first probability to the second probability by a number of
the media impressions attributed to a first demographic group.
29.     A tangible computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 28, wherein
the first probability is a probability that a person in the first demographic group
accesses media on the first type of computing device and the second probability is a
probability that the person in the first demographic group accesses the media on the
second type of computing device.
30.     A tangible computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 28, wherein
the instructions are further to cause the processor to adjust the media impressions to
compensate for incorrect attribution of a subset of the media impressions to second
persons in a second demographic group, the number of the media impressions
attributed to the first demographic group being determined from the subset of the
media impressions that are adjusted to compensate for the incorrect attribution.
31.     A tangible computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 27, wherein
the first type of computing device comprises a mobile device and the second type of
device comprises a television.
                                              -120-

32.     A tangible computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 27, wherein
the first type of computing device comprises at least one of a smartphone, a tablet
computer, or a portable media player.
33.     A tangible computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 27, wherein
the first and second probabilities correspond to a media category of the media.
34.     A tangible computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 33, wherein
the media category is at least one of comedy, drama, political, reality, or a
combination media category.
35.     A tangible computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 27, wherein
the instructions are further to cause the processor to, before determining the
demographic information, adjust the media impressions for ones of the media
impressions being incorrectly attributed to persons not having caused the ones of the
media impressions.
36.     A tangible computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 35, wherein
the instructions are further to cause the processor to calculate the first and second
probabilities based on survey responses to a survey of people, the instructions to
cause the processor to calculate the first probability by determining, from the survey
responses, weights associated with at least one of a demographic group, a media
category, a type of computing device, or a geographic region, the weights indicating
respective probabilities of accessing the media associated with the media
impressions on a device type of interest.
37.     A tangible computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 36, wherein
the survey is of at least one of a random panel or a panel of audience members
maintained by an audience measurement entity.
38.     A tangible computer readable storage medium as defined in claim 27, wherein
the instructions are to cause the processor to determine the demographic information
for the portion of the media impressions by:
        determining proportions of the media impressions attributable to different
demographic groups corresponding to the persons; and
        scaling the proportions of the media impressions to the portion of the media
impressions.
39.     A method to compensate impressions of media for misattribution error, the
method comprising:
                                          -121-

        receiving, at a first internet domain, a first request from a first type of
computing device, the first request indicative of access to media at the computing
device;
        sending a request for demographic information corresponding to requests
received at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the
requests including the first request;
        generating, using a processor, an aggregated audience distribution including a
first audience distribution of a first household aggregated with a second audience
distribution of a second household, the first audience distribution comprising a
distribution of first household members of the first household into demographic
groups, based on a survey response of the first household, of ones of the household
members who are registered with a database proprietor, the first audience distribution
being based on accesses to first media by the first household members;
        normalizing, using the processor, the aggregated audience distribution to
generate a misattribution correction matrix, the misattribution correction matrix
comprising a probability that an impression of the media is attributable to a first
demographic group when the database proprietor determines the impression to
correspond to a person in a second demographic group; and
        compensating misattribution error in the impressions by re-assigning the
impressions from the second demographic group to the first demographic group using
the misattribution correction matrix.
40.     A method as defined in claim 39, further comprising generating a correction
index to correct the aggregated audience distribution for at least one of oversampling
or undersampling associated with a survey calibration data source, the survey
calibration data source indicating the accesses to the media by the first household
members and registration statuses of the first household members with the database
proprietor.
41.     A method as defined in claim 40, wherein the correction index is based on a
second probability that a first person in the first demographic group lives with a
second person in the second demographic group.
42.     A method as defined in claim 40, wherein generating the correction index
comprises:
        determining, based on first survey calibration data, a first quantity of first pairs
of people representing ones of the first pairs of people including a first person in the
                                            -122-

first demographic group and a second person in the second demographic group living
together;
        determining, based on second survey calibration data, a second quantity of
second pairs of people representing ones of the second pairs of people including a
third person in the first demographic group and a fourth person in the second
demographic group living together, the second survey calibration data having higher
accuracy than the first survey calibration data; and
        determining a ratio of the first quantity and the second quantity.
43.     A method as defined in claim 39, wherein the aggregated audience distribution
describes, for each first demographic group, a number of people in the second
demographic group who are to be attributed to that first demographic group, and
normalizing the aggregated audience distribution comprises scaling respective
numbers of people in the second demographic group such that a total of the number
of people for the second demographic group is a designated value.
44.     A method as defined in claim 39, further comprising:
        determining a sharing pattern for the first household, the sharing pattern
indicative of ones of the first household members who access a media category and
other ones of the first household members who do not access the media category;
and
        determining a probability density function of device sharing probabilities for the
first household members in the first household based on the sharing pattern for the
media category, the probability density function indicative of respective probabilities
that the first household members access media in the media category, the first
audience distribution being based on the device sharing probabilities.
45.     A method as defined in claim 44, further comprising aggregating the device
sharing probabilities for the first household members when the first household has
two or more registered ones of the first household members who are in a same
second demographic group.
46.     A method as defined in claim 39, further comprising generating the first
audience distribution by distributing fractional numbers into the demographic groups,
the fractional numbers totaling a count of those ones of the first household members
who are registered with a database proprietor.
47.     A method as defined in claim 46, wherein generating the first audience
distribution does not use cookies.
                                            -123-

48.     A method as defined in claim 46, wherein generating the first audience
distribution and generating the aggregated audience distribution do not use metering
software to collect registration statuses of household members with the database
proprietor or to collect media access data.
49.     A method as defined in claim 39, wherein re-assigning the impressions
comprises determining a product of the misattribution correction matrix and an
impressions matrix, the impressions matrix indicating numbers of impressions
determined by the database proprietor to correspond to respective ones of the
demographic groups.
50.     A method as defined in claim 49, wherein re-assigning the impressions results
in a same total number of impressions as a total of the numbers of impressions in the
impressions matrix.
51.     A method as defined in claim 39, further comprising providing instructions to a
publisher, the instructions to be provided by the publisher to the computing device
and, when executed by the computing device, to cause the computing device to send
the first request.
52.     A method as defined in claim 39, further comprising conserving computer
processing resources by not communicating with individual online users about their
online media access activities and by not requesting survey responses from the
online users to generate the aggregated audience distribution.
53.     A method as defined in claim 39, further comprising conserving network
communication bandwidth by not communicating with individual online users about
their online media access activities and by not requesting survey responses from the
online users to generate the aggregated audience distribution.
54.     An apparatus to compensate impressions of media for misattribution error, the
apparatus comprising:
        an impression collector to:
               receive, at a first internet domain, a first request from a first type of
        computing device, the first request indicative of access to media at the
        computing device; and
               send a request for demographic information corresponding to requests
        received at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the
        requests including the first request;
                                             -124-

        an aggregated distribution generator to generate an aggregated audience
distribution including a first audience distribution of a first household aggregated with
a second audience distribution of a second household, the first audience distribution
comprising a distribution of first household members of the first household into
demographic groups, based on a survey response of the first household, of ones of
the first household members who are registered with a database proprietor, the first
audience distribution being based on accesses to first media by the first household
members;
        a matrix normalizer to normalize the aggregated audience distribution to
generate a misattribution correction matrix, the misattribution correction matrix
comprising a probability that an impression of the media is attributable to a first
demographic group when the database proprietor determines the impression to
correspond to a person in a second demographic group; and
        a misattribution corrector to compensate misattribution error in the impressions
by re-assigning the impressions from the second demographic group to the first
demographic group using the misattribution correction matrix, at least one of the
aggregated distribution generator, the matrix normalizer, or the misattribution
corrector being implemented by a logic circuit.
55.     An apparatus as defined in claim 54, further comprising a matrix corrector to
generate a correction index to correct the aggregated audience distribution for at least
one of oversampling or undersampling associated with a survey calibration data
source, the survey calibration data source indicating the accesses to the media by the
first household members and registration statuses of the first household members
with the database proprietor.
56.     An apparatus as defined in claim 55, wherein the correction index is based on
a second probability that a first person in the first demographic group lives with a
second person in the second demographic group.
57.     An apparatus as defined in claim 55, wherein the matrix corrector is to
generate the correction index by:
        determining, based on first survey calibration data, a first quantity of first pairs
of people, respective ones of the first pairs of people including a first person in the
first demographic group and a second person in the second demographic group living
together;
                                            -125-

        determining, based on second survey calibration data, a second quantity of
second pairs of people, respective ones of the second pairs of people including a third
person in the first demographic group and a fourth person in the second demographic
group living together, the second survey calibration data having higher accuracy than
the first survey calibration data; and
        determining a ratio of the first quantity and the second quantity.
58.     An apparatus as defined in claim 54, wherein the aggregated audience
distribution describes, for each first demographic group, a number of people in the
second demographic group who are to be attributed to that first demographic group,
and the matrix normalizer is to normalize the aggregated audience distribution by
scaling respective numbers of people in the second demographic group such that a
total of the number of people for the second demographic group is a designated
value.
59.     An apparatus as defined in claim 54, further comprising a household
distribution generator to:
        determine a sharing pattern for the first household, the sharing pattern
indicative of ones of the first household members who access a media category and
other ones of the first household members who do not access the media category;
and
        determine a probability density function of device sharing probabilities for the
first household members in the first household based on the sharing pattern for the
media category, the probability density function indicative of respective probabilities
that the first household members access media in the media category, the first
audience distribution being based on the device sharing probabilities.
60.     An apparatus as defined in claim 59, wherein the aggregated distribution
generator is to aggregate the device sharing probabilities for the first household
members when the first household has two or more registered ones of the first
household members who are in a same second demographic group.
61.     An apparatus as defined in claim 54, further comprising a household
distribution generator to generate the first audience distribution by distributing
fractional numbers into the demographic groups, the fractional numbers totaling a
count of those ones of the first household members who are registered with a
database proprietor.
                                            -126-

62.     An apparatus as defined in claim 54, wherein the misattribution corrector is to
re-assign the impressions by determining a product of the misattribution correction
matrix and an impressions matrix, the impressions matrix indicating numbers of
impressions determined by the database proprietor to correspond to respective ones
of the demographic groups.
63.     An apparatus as defined in claim 62, wherein the misattribution corrector is to
re-assign the impressions such that a total number of re-assigned impressions is a
same total number of impressions as a total of the numbers of impressions in the
impressions matrix.
64.     A computer readable storage medium comprising computer readable
instructions which, when executed, cause a processor to at least:
        access, at a first internet domain, a first request from a first type of computing
device, the first request indicative of access to media at the computing device; and
        send a request for demographic information corresponding to requests
received at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the
requests including the first request;
        generate an aggregated audience distribution including a first audience
distribution of a first household aggregated with a second audience distribution of a
second household, the first audience distribution comprising a distribution of first
household members of the first household into demographic groups, based on a
survey response of the first household, of ones of the first household members that
are registered with a database proprietor, the first audience distribution being based
on accesses to first media by the first household members;
        normalize the aggregated audience distribution to generate a misattribution
correction matrix, the misattribution correction matrix comprising a probability that an
impression of the media is attributable to a first demographic group when the
database proprietor determines the impression to correspond to a person in a second
demographic group; and
        compensate misattribution error in the impressions by re-assigning the
impressions from the second demographic group to the first demographic group using
the misattribution correction matrix.
65.     A storage medium as defined in claim 64, wherein the instructions are further
to cause the processor to generate a correction index to correct the aggregated
audience distribution for at least one of oversampling or undersampling associated
                                            -127-

with a survey calibration data source, the survey calibration data source indicating the
accesses to of the media by the first household members and registration statuses of
the first household members with the database proprietor.
66.     A storage medium as defined in claim 65, wherein the correction index is
based on a second probability that a first person in the first demographic group lives
with a second person in the second demographic group.
67.     A storage medium as defined in claim 65, wherein the instructions are to cause
the processor to generate the correction index by:
        determining, based on first survey calibration data, a first quantity of first pairs
of people, respective ones of the first pairs of people including a first person in the
first demographic group and a second person in the second demographic group living
together;
        determining, based on second survey calibration data, a second quantity of
second pairs of people, respective ones of the second pairs of people including a third
person in the first demographic group and a fourth person in the second demographic
group living together, the second survey calibration data having higher accuracy than
the first survey calibration data; and
        determining a ratio of the first quantity and the second quantity.
68.     A storage medium as defined in claim 64, wherein the aggregated audience
distribution describes, for each first demographic group, a number of people in the
second demographic group who are to be attributed to that first demographic group,
and the instructions are to cause the processor to normalize the aggregated audience
distribution by scaling respective numbers of people in the second demographic
group such that a total of the number of people for the second demographic group is
a designated value.
69.     A storage medium as defined in claim 64, wherein the instructions are further
to cause the processor to:
        determine a sharing pattern for the first household, the sharing pattern
indicative of ones of the first household members who access a media category and
other ones of the first household members who do not access the media category;
and
        determine a probability density function of device sharing probabilities for the
first household members in the first household based on the sharing pattern for the
media category, the probability density function indicative of respective probabilities
                                            -128-

that the first household members access media in the media category, the first
audience distribution being based on the device sharing probabilities.
70.     A storage medium as defined in claim 69, wherein the instructions are further
to cause the processor to aggregate the device sharing probabilities for the first
household members when the first household has two or more registered ones of the
household members who are in a same second demographic group.
71.     A storage medium as defined in claim 64, wherein the instructions are to cause
the processor to generate the first audience distribution by distributing fractional
numbers into the demographic groups, the fractional numbers totaling a count of
those ones of the first household members who are registered with a database
proprietor.
72.     A storage medium as defined in claim 64, wherein the instructions are to cause
the processor to re-assign the impressions by determining a product of the
misattribution correction matrix and an impressions matrix, the impressions matrix
indicating numbers of impressions determined by the database proprietor to
correspond to respective ones of the demographic groups.
73.     A storage medium as defined in claim 72, wherein the instructions are to cause
the processor to re-assign the impressions such that a total number of re-assigned
impressions is a same total number of impressions as a total of the numbers of
impressions in the impressions matrix.
74.     A method to compensate impressions of media for misattribution error, the
method comprising:
        receiving, at a first internet domain, a first request from a first type of
computing device, the first request indicative of access to media at the computing
device;
        sending a request for demographic information corresponding to requests
received at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the
requests including the first request;
        generating, using a processor, an aggregated audience distribution including a
first audience distribution of a first household aggregated with a second audience
distribution of a second household, the first audience distribution comprising a
distribution of first household members of the first household into demographic groups
of ones of the first household members that are registered with a database proprietor,
the first audience distribution being based on accesses to first media by the first
                                            -129-

household members, and the aggregated audience distribution being generated
without using cookies;
        normalizing, using the processor, the aggregated audience distribution to
generate a misattribution correction matrix, the misattribution correction matrix
comprising a probability that an impression of the media is attributable to a first
demographic group when the database proprietor determines the impression to
correspond to a person in a second demographic group; and
        compensating misattribution error in the impressions by re-assigning the
impressions to the first demographic group using the misattribution correction matrix,
the impressions being indicative of media accessed on mobile devices.
75.     A method as defined in claim 74, further comprising generating a correction
index to correct the aggregated audience distribution for at least one of oversampling
or undersampling associated with a survey calibration data source, the survey
calibration data source indicating the accesses to the media by the first household
members and registration statuses of the first household members with the database
proprietor.
76.     A method as defined in claim 75, wherein the correction index is based on a
second probability that a first person in the first demographic group lives with a
second person in the second demographic group.
77.     A method as defined in claim 75, wherein generating the correction index
comprises:
        determining, based on first survey calibration data, a first quantity of first pairs
of people, respective ones of the first pairs of people including a first person in the
first demographic group and a second person in the second demographic group living
together;
        determining, based on second survey calibration data, a second quantity of
second pairs of people, respective ones of the second pairs of people including a third
person in the first demographic group and a fourth person in the second demographic
group living together, the second survey calibration data having higher accuracy than
the first survey calibration data; and
        determining a ratio of the first quantity and the second quantity.
78.     A method as defined in claim 74, wherein the aggregated audience distribution
describes, for each first demographic group, a number of people in the second
demographic group who are to be attributed to that first demographic group, and
                                            -130-

normalizing the aggregated audience distribution comprises scaling respective
numbers of people in the second demographic group such that a total of the number
of people for the second demographic group is a designated value.
79.     A method as defined in claim 74, further comprising:
        determining a sharing pattern for the first household, the sharing pattern
indicative of ones of the first household members who access a media category and
other ones of the first household members who do not access the media category;
and
        determining a probability density function of device sharing probabilities for the
first household members in the first household based on the sharing pattern for the
media category, the probability density function indicative of respective probabilities
that the first household members access media in the media category, the first
audience distribution being based on the device sharing probabilities.
80.     A method as defined in claim 79, further comprising aggregating the device
sharing probabilities for the first household members when the first household has
two or more registered ones of the first household members who are in a same
second demographic group.
81.     A method as defined in claim 74, further comprising generating the first
audience distribution by distributing fractional numbers into the demographic groups,
the fractional numbers totaling a count of those ones of the first household members
who are registered with a database proprietor.
82.     A method as defined in claim 81, wherein generating the first audience
distribution does not include using cookies.
83.     A method as defined in claim 81, wherein generating the first audience
distribution and generating the aggregated audience distribution do not use an
audience panel.
84.     A method as defined in claim 74, further comprising providing instructions to a
publisher, the instructions to be provided by the publisher to the computing device
and, when executed by the computing device, to cause the computing device to send
the first request.
85.     A method as defined in claim 74, further comprising conserving computer
processing resources by not communicating with individual online users about their
online media access activities and by not requesting survey responses from the
online users to generate the aggregated audience distribution.
                                           -131-

86.     A method as defined in claim 74, further comprising conserving network
communication bandwidth by not communicating with individual online users about
their online media access activities and by not requesting survey responses from the
online users to generate the aggregated audience distribution.
87.     An apparatus to compensate impressions of media for misattribution error, the
apparatus comprising:
        an impression collector to:
               receive, at a first internet domain, a first request from a first type of
        computing device, the first request indicative of access to media at the
        computing device; and
               send a request for demographic information corresponding to requests
        received at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the
        requests including the first request;
        an aggregated distribution generator to generate an aggregated audience
distribution including a first audience distribution of a first household aggregated with
a second audience distribution of a second household, the first audience distribution
comprising a distribution of first household members of the first household into
demographic groups of ones of the first household members that are registered with a
database proprietor, the first audience distribution being based on accesses to first
media by the first household members, the aggregated distribution generator to
generate the aggregated audience distribution without using cookies;
        a matrix normalizer to normalize the aggregated audience distribution to
generate a misattribution correction matrix, the misattribution correction matrix
comprising a probability that an impression of the media is attributable to a first
demographic group when the database proprietor determines the impression to
correspond to a person in a second demographic group; and
        a misattribution corrector to compensate misattribution error in the impressions
by re-assigning the impressions to the first demographic group using the
misattribution correction matrix, the impressions being indicative of media accessed
on mobile devices, at least one of the aggregated distribution generator, the matrix
normalizer, or the misattribution corrector being implemented by a logic circuit.
88.     An apparatus as defined in claim 87, further comprising a matrix corrector to
generate a correction index to correct the aggregated audience distribution for at least
one of oversampling or undersampling associated with a survey calibration data
                                             -132-

source, the survey calibration data source indicating the accesses to the media by the
first household members and registration statuses of the first household members
with the database proprietor.
89.     An apparatus as defined in claim 88, wherein the correction index is based on
a second probability that a first person in the first demographic group lives with a
second person in the second demographic group.
90.     An apparatus as defined in claim 88, wherein the matrix corrector is to
generate the correction index by:
        determining, based on first survey calibration data, a first quantity of first pairs
of people, respective ones of the first pairs of people including a first person in the
first demographic group and a second person in the second demographic group living
together;
        determining, based on second survey calibration data, a second quantity of
second pairs of people, respective ones of the second pairs of people including a third
person in the first demographic group and a fourth person in the second demographic
group living together, the second survey calibration data having higher accuracy than
the first survey calibration data; and
        determining a ratio of the first quantity and the second quantity.
91.     An apparatus as defined in claim 87, wherein the aggregated audience
distribution describes, for each first demographic group, a number of people in the
second demographic group who are to be attributed to that first demographic group,
and the matrix normalizer is to normalize the aggregated audience distribution by
scaling respective numbers of people in the second demographic group such that a
total of the number of people for the second demographic group is a designated
value.
92.     An apparatus as defined in claim 87, further comprising a household
distribution generator to:
        determine a sharing pattern for the first household, the sharing pattern
indicative of ones of the first household members who access a media category and
other ones of the first household members who do not access the media category;
and
        determine a probability density function of device sharing probabilities for the
first household members in the first household based on the sharing pattern for the
media category, the probability density function indicative of respective probabilities
                                            -133-

that the first household members access media in the media category, the first
audience distribution being based on the device sharing probabilities.
93.     An apparatus as defined in claim 92, wherein the aggregated distribution
generator is to aggregate the device sharing probabilities for the first household
members when the first household has two or more registered ones of the household
members who are in a same second demographic group.
94.     An apparatus as defined in claim 87, further comprising a household
distribution generator to generate the first audience distribution by distributing
fractional numbers into the demographic groups, the fractional numbers totaling a
count of those ones of the first household members who are registered with a
database proprietor.
95.     An apparatus as defined in claim 87, wherein the misattribution corrector is to
re-assign the impressions by determining a product of the misattribution correction
matrix and an impressions matrix, the impressions matrix indicating numbers of
impressions determined by the database proprietor to correspond to respective ones
of the demographic groups.
96.     An apparatus as defined in claim 95, wherein the misattribution corrector is to
re-assign the impressions such that a total number of re-assigned impressions is a
same total number of impressions as a total of the numbers of impressions in the
impressions matrix.
97.     A computer readable storage medium comprising computer readable
instructions which, when executed, cause a processor to at least:
        access, at a first internet domain, a first request from a first type of computing
device, the first request indicative of access to media at the computing device; and
        send a request for demographic information corresponding to requests
received at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the
requests including the first request;
        generate an aggregated audience distribution including a first audience
distribution of a first household aggregated with a second audience distribution of a
second household, the first audience distribution comprising a distribution of first
household members of the first household into demographic groups of ones of the
first household members that are registered with a database proprietor, the first
audience distribution being based on accesses to first media by the first household
                                            -134-

members, and the aggregated audience distribution being generated without using
cookies;
        normalize the aggregated audience distribution to generate a misattribution
correction matrix, the misattribution correction matrix comprising a probability that an
impression of the media is attributable to a first demographic group when the
database proprietor determines the impression to correspond to a person in a second
demographic group; and
        compensate misattribution error in the impressions by re-assigning the
impressions to the first demographic group using the misattribution correction matrix,
the impressions being indicative of media accessed on mobile devices.
98.     A storage medium as defined in claim 97, wherein the instructions are further
to cause the processor to generate a correction index to correct the aggregated
audience distribution for at least one of oversampling or undersampling associated
with a survey calibration data source, the survey calibration data source indicating the
accesses to the media by the first household members and registration statuses of
the first household members with the database proprietor.
99.     A storage medium as defined in claim 98, wherein the correction index is
based on a second probability that a first person in the first demographic group lives
with a second person in the second demographic group.
100.    A storage medium as defined in claim 98, wherein the instructions are to cause
the processor to generate the correction index by:
        determining, based on first survey calibration data, a first quantity of first pairs
of people, respective ones of the first pairs of people including a first person in the
first demographic group and a second person in the second demographic group living
together;
        determining, based on second survey calibration data, a second quantity of
second pairs of people, respective ones of the second pairs of people including a third
person in the first demographic group and a fourth person in the second demographic
group living together, the second survey calibration data having higher accuracy than
the first survey calibration data; and
        determining a ratio of the first quantity and the second quantity.
101.    A storage medium as defined in claim 97, wherein the aggregated audience
distribution describes, for each first demographic group, a number of people in the
second demographic group who are to be attributed to that first demographic group,
                                            -135-

and the instructions are to cause the processor to normalize the aggregated audience
distribution by scaling respective numbers of people in the second demographic
group such that a total of the number of people for the second demographic group is
a designated value.
102.    A storage medium as defined in claim 97, wherein the instructions are further
to cause the processor to:
        determine a sharing pattern for the first household, the sharing pattern
indicative of ones of the first household members who access a media category and
other ones of the first household members who do not access the media category;
and
        determine a probability density function of device sharing probabilities for the
first household members in the first household based on the sharing pattern for the
media category, the probability density function indicative of respective probabilities
that the first household members access media in the media category, the first
audience distribution being based on the device sharing probabilities.
103.    A storage medium as defined in claim 102, wherein the instructions are further
to cause the processor to aggregate the device sharing probabilities for the first
household members when the first household has two or more registered ones of the
first household members who are in a same second demographic group.
104.    A storage medium as defined in claim 97, wherein the instructions are to cause
the processor to generate the first audience distribution by distributing fractional
numbers into the demographic groups, the fractional numbers totaling a count of
those ones of the first household members who are registered with a database
proprietor.
105.    A storage medium as defined in claim 97, wherein the instructions are to cause
the processor to re-assign the impressions by determining a product of the
misattribution correction matrix and an impressions matrix, the impressions matrix
indicating numbers of impressions determined by the database proprietor to
correspond to respective ones of the demographic groups.
106.    A storage medium as defined in claim 105, wherein the instructions are to
cause the processor to re-assign the impressions such that a total number of re
assigned impressions is a same total number of impressions as a total of the numbers
of impressions in the impressions matrix.
                                          -136-

107.   A method, comprising:
       collecting, using a processor, media impressions from a first type of computing
device;
       requesting, using the processor, demographic information for the media
impressions from a database proprietor, a first portion of the media impressions
corresponding to persons for whom demographic information is stored by a database
proprietor and a second portion of the media impressions corresponding to persons
for whom demographic information is unavailable to the database proprietor
       receiving the demographic information corresponding to the first portion of the
media impressions from the database proprietor;
       determining, using the processor, a number of media impressions in the
second portion of the media impressions; and
       determining, using the processor, the demographic information for the second
portion of the media impressions based on a first probability that media corresponding
to the media impressions is accessed on the first type of computing device and based
on a second probability that media is accessed on a second type of device.
108.   A method, comprising:
       receiving, at a first internet domain, a first request from a first type of
computing device, the first request indicative of access to media at the computing
device;
       receiving, at the first internet domain, a second request from the computing
device, the second request indicative of access to a duration unit of the media at the
computing device;
       sending a request for demographic information corresponding to requests
received at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the
requests including the second request;
       obtaining a count of duration units occurring on the first type of computing
device, a first portion of the duration units corresponding to persons for whom
demographic information is recognizable by a database proprietor and a second
portion of the duration units corresponding to persons for whom demographic
information is unavailable to the database proprietor; and
       determining, using a processor, the demographic information for the second
portion of the duration units based on a first probability that media corresponding to
                                            -137-

the duration units is accessed on the first type of computing device and based on a
second probability that media is accessed on a second type of device.
109.   An apparatus, comprising:
       an impression collector to:
               receive, at a first internet domain, a first request from a first type of
       computing device, the first request indicative of access to media at the
       computing device;
               receive, at the first internet domain, a second request from the
       computing device, the second request indicative of access to a duration unit of
       the media at the computing device; and
               send a request for demographic information corresponding to requests
       received at the first internet domain from the first type of computing device, the
       requests including the second request;
       an impression information collector to access a count of duration units
occurring on a first type of computing device, a first portion of the duration units
corresponding to persons for whom demographic information is recognizable by a
database proprietor and a second portion of the duration units corresponding to
persons for whom demographic information is unavailable to the database proprietor;
and
       a non-coverage corrector to determine the demographic information for the
portion of the duration units based on a first probability that media corresponding to
the duration units is accessed on the first type of computing device and based on a
second probability that media is accessed on a second type of device, at least one of
the impression information collector or the non-coverage corrector being implemented
by a logic circuit.
                               The Nielsen Company (US), LLC
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                 SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                             -138-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
