                                            36
                 SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONVENIENCE GAMING
  ABSTRACT
           A convenience gaming system is provided. The convenience gaming system
  allows users to access applications via gaming communication devices coupled to a
  communication network. At least a portion of the network may be wireless. The
5 gaming applications include gambling, financial, entertainment service, and other
  types of transactions. The system may include a user location determination feature
  to prevent users from conducting transactions from unauthorized areas.
  DAL01:840780.1

      10                       1/4
        14-\ 13                                --
FIG. 1
 24    25IG.                __ 14
                                -   2   22        -N
                                VOICE/                    GAMING
                      El                    DATA      -SERVICE
                                           SWITCH        PROVIDER
                                            26                28
 24                                     22
                           FIG. 2
                          MOBILE CARRIER        34
                             NETWORK
                                                   36
                              GAMING SERVICE PROVIDER
               HORSE RACING          FINANCIAL             CASINO OR
                AND OTHER            EXCHANGE           VIRTUAL CASINO
                  SPORTS
              ENTERTAINMENT                                NEWS AND
                AND OTHER          SPORTS BOOK             REAL TIME
  FIG. 3     EVENTS EXCHANGE                            ENTERTAINMENT

                                            1
            SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONVENIENCE GAMING
TECHNICAL FIELD
        The present invention relates generally to the field of gaming and, more
particularly to a gaming system and method incorporating a wireless network.
BACKGROUND
        On-line casinos are accessible via the Internet. These on-line casinos present a
graphical representation of games, such as casino games, to a user on the screen of a
computer in communication with the Internet. The user may place wagers, participate
in the gaming, and win or lose money. Receipt of winnings, or payment of losses is
typically handled through a credit account.
SUMMARY
        Due to a variety of factors, Internet-based electronic gaming systems may
have a number of undesirable aspects. For example, the Internet lacks the security
necessary to ensure confidence that operation of an electronic gaming system will
proceed without tampering.     An operator of an Internet gaming system is prone to
hacking, viruses and other shortcomings of conducting business over the Internet.
Users of Intemet-based systems often lack confidence that their financial transactions
are secure and that their privacy will remain intact. Moreover, the use of the Internet
does not provide location verification suitable to ensure that a user is within an
approved gaming area.
        Among other things, certain embodiments of the present invention incorporate
non-Internet based technology with respect to a communications network in order to
avoid the problems encountered in operating a gaming system via the Internet.
        In one embodiment the present invention provides a convenience gaming
system, which includes at least one server and at least one gaming communication
device connected to the at least one server by a telecommunications network. The at
least one gaming communication device is operable to send and receive gaming
information to and from the at least one gaming server if the at least one gaming
communication device meets at least one predetermined criteria.

                                             2
        In another embodiment, a method is provided for conducting convenience
gaming activities on a gaming communication device in communication with a
gaming server. The method includes presenting a user of the gaming communication
device with one or more gaming activity options.           The method further includes
accepting a selection of a gaming activity option by the user, transmitting information
associated   with    the   selected gaming     activity  option  between   the   gaming
communication device and the server, determining a result associated with the user's
selection, and transmitting the result to the user.
        Various embodiments of the present invention may benefit from numerous
advantages.    It should be noted that one or more embodiments may benefit from
some, none, or all of the advantages discussed below.
        One advantage is that the system enables remote, wireless, mobile gaming
over a secure network. Another advantage is that the system enables remote, wireless,
mobile,   gaming,     while preventing     gaming by unauthorized     users and from
unauthorized locations.     Another advantage is the enablement of a gaming system
accessible by remote, wireless, mobile users, wherein the system includes gaming
communication devices used by the users and connected to a communication network,
and wherein a portion of the communication network is movable.
        Other advantages will be readily apparent to one having ordinary skill in the
art from the following figures, descriptions, and claims.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        For a more complete understanding of the present invention and for further
features and advantages, reference is now made to the following description, taken in
conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
        FIGURE      1 illustrates a convenience       gaming system according to an
embodiment of the present invention;
        FIGURE 2 illustrates a convenience gaming system with a wireless network
according to an embodiment of the present invention;
        FIGURE 3 is a block diagram of a convenience gaming system illustrating
various gaming activities in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;

                                            3
         FIGURE 4 illustrates a convenience gaming system showing coverage areas in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
         FIGURE 5 illustrates a convenience gaming system with a wireless network
showing triangulation location determination in accordance with an embodiment of
the present invention;
         FIGURE 6 is a flow chart depicting steps in a convenience gaming method
according to an embodiment of the present invention;
         FIGURE 7 depicts a convenience gaming system showing a communication
path in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention; and
         FIGURE 8 illustrates a ship-based convenience gaming system in accordance
with an embodiment of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
         A convenience gaming system enables participants to engage in gaming
activities from remote and/or mobile locations.       The possible gaming activities
include gambling, such as that provided by casinos. Gambling activities may include
any casino-type gambling activities including, but not limited to, slot machines, video
poker, table games (e.g., craps, roulette, blackjack, pai gow poker, Caribbean stud
poker, baccarat, etc), the wheel of fortune game, keno, sports betting, horse racing,
dog racing, jai alai, and other gambling activities. The gaming activities can also
include wagering on any type of event. Events can include, for example, sporting
events, such as horse or auto racing, and athletic competitions such as football,
basketball, baseball, golf, etc.    Events can also include such things that do not
normally involve wagering. Such events may include, without limitation, political
elections, entertainment industry awards, and box office performance of movies.
Gaming can also include non-wagering games and events. Gaming can also include
lotteries or lottery-type activities such as state and interstate lotteries. These can
include all forms of number-selection lotteries, "scratch-off' lotteries, and other
lottery contests.    The convenience gaming system may be implemented over a
communications network such as a cellular network or a private wireless and/or
wireline network. Examples of the latter include WiFi and WiMax networks. In one

                                               4
embodiment, the convenience gaming system communications network is entirely
independent of the Internet. In another embodiment, the convenience gaming system
operation makes minimal use of the Internet, such that only information for which
there is no security issues is transmitted via the Internet and/or information may be
encrypted. Preferably, the communications network enables players to participate in
gaming from remote locations (e.g., outside of the gaming area of a casino). Also, the
system may enable players to be mobile during participation in the convenience
gaming activities. Preferably, the system has a location verification or determination
feature, which is operable to permit or disallow gaming from the remote location
depending upon whether or not the location meets one or more criteria. The criterion
may be, for example, whether the location is within a pre-defined area in which
gaming is permitted by law.
         The gaming industry is frustrated in maximizing the efficiency of its
production facilities because different jurisdictions have different rules relating to
gaming. Furthermore, within the United States, different states have different rules
relating to gaming.      Complying with all the rules, in a single system, can be very
difficult. If a manufacturer of a gaming machine or system wishes to sell the machine
in a number of different jurisdictions, they have to ensure that the machine meets the
operational requirements of each different jurisdiction. Additionally, Internet gaming
is difficult to control because of its all-pervasive nature.
         Some establishments, such as a casino, or a betting office, require a license,
and to keep their license, they have to control the gaming that takes place in their
premises to be within the rules set by the country or state.      This means that they
cannot use certain types of machine because there is a possibility of using them
outside of the rules.     For example, Internet gambling is, typically, not allowed in
casinos and betting shops because of difficulties in controlling who is betting. Many
countries and states have rules governing the age of people who can bet, their
geographical location, and possibly the need to pay tax on bets (which is difficult to
collect if the bets are made over the Internet).

                                            5
        One aim of the invention is to provide a new gaming apparatus. This may
have enhanced interest to users, or purchasers of a system.
        In   one   embodiment,    the  invention    includes  location   verification  or
determination apparatus.    This enables us to use mobile devices, which cannot be
guaranteed to be in a certain location, as gaming apparatus and yet still comply with
rules relating to the physical location of people who use the gaming apparatus. The
apparatus can be disabled if it is in certain locations, or if it is not in specified
locations.
        In other embodiments, the apparatus requires the input of an identification
code to identify the user. Identity can be authenticated by alternative techniques.
        Internet   gaming has problems        from the perspective     of jurisdictional
requirements.    We have realized that it is possible to segregate allowable and non
allowable "remote" gambling. In many embodiments this will be wireless networked
gambling. This can allow users the freedom to move around with gaming machines
that are portable, and play them in more convenient local locations, without fear of
losing the gaming/gambling license of the establishment (e.g. casino). Apparatus with
such ability and flexibility offered to the customer is new, interesting, and will
improve the game-playing experience of a user.
        In another embodiment, the apparatus/system includes a keystroke log. This
improves the security of the gaming operations.        The history of which keys were
pressed/what date and time a bet was actually entered would be very useful if there
were disputes about what bets were placed when.
        In some embodiments, the connection between a "handset" and a gaming
server comprises a non-Internet connection.        This has the capability of enhanced
security, and proprietary control over who has access to the network. By using a non
Internet wireless network, we can have appropriate interface software to prevent
access to the gaming server by devices that either have not had an allowable person
identifying code entered, or that are not in the correct geographical place (or are in an
excluded geographical place), or both.

                                            6
        In some embodiments, the handsets are pre-programmed with either or both of
gaming software and authentication software (either personal identification, position
identification, or network carrier identification).     By providing at least some
functional software in the handset, we can reduce the data traffic/bandwidth
requirement between the handset and the gaming server. This might be especially
applicable if the handset has a display screen to either display images, or moving
images (which can be data-transfer intensive), and it can be better to store the
images/moving images at the handset rather than transmit them to the handset. Not
all embodiments may have this.
        As shown in FIGURE 1, for example, convenience gaming system 10 includes
at least one user 12. The system may include additional users such that there is at
least a first user 12 and a second user 14.        Multiple users may access a first
convenience gaming system 10, while other multiple users access a second
convenience gaming system (not shown) in communication with first gaming system
10. Users 12 and 14 preferably access system 10 by way of a gaming communication
device 13. Gaming communication device 13 may comprise any suitable device for
transmitting and receiving electronic communications.      Examples of such devices
include, without limitation, mobile phones, personal data assistants (PDAs),
computers, mini-computers, etc.      Gaming communication devices 13 transmit and
receive gaming information to and from communications network 16.            Gaming
information is also transmitted between network 16 and a computer 18, such as a
server, which may reside within the domain of a gaming service provider 20. The
location of computer 18 is not critical, however, and computer 18 may reside adjacent
to or remote from the domain of gaming service provider 20. Moreover, in certain
embodiments, a gaming service provider is not required. The computer 18 and/or
gaming service provider 20 may reside within, adjacent to, or remote from a gaming
provider (not shown in FIGURE 1). The gaming provider may be an actual controller
of games, such as a casino. As an example, a gaming service provider may be located
on the grounds of a casino and the computer 18 may be physically within the
geographic boundaries of the gaming service provider. As discussed, however, other
possibilities exist for remote location of the computer 18 and the gaming service

                                              7
provider 20. Computer 18 may function as a gaming server. Additional computers
(not expressly shown) may function as database management computers and
redundant servers, for example.
        Preferably, software resides on both the gaming communication device 13 and
the computer 18.        Software resident on gaming communication device 13 is
preferably operable to present information corresponding to gaming activities
(including gambling and non-gambling activities discussed herein) to the user. The
information    includes, without    limitation, graphical   representations   of objects
associated with the activities, and presentation of options related to the activities and
selectable by the user. The gaming communication device software is also preferably
operable to receive data from the computer and data input by the user.          Software
resident on the computer is preferably able to exchange data with the gaming
communication device, access additional computers and data storage devices, and
perform all of the functions described herein as well as functions common to known
electronic gaming systems.
        Thus, the system encompasses one or more databases and data structures for
maintaining the various types of information pertinent to the gaming activities the
users of the system and the operations of the system. Example databases may include
a   database    of   allowable   users,    allowable   geographical    areas,  allowable
telecommunication providers, etc. The data structures may include data linking users
with devices and/or allowable geographical areas. The information maintained in the
database(s) may periodically change or be periodically updated.       For example, if a
new user is loaned a device, the database will be updated to reflect the relationship
between the new user and the device, and to delete information (or move/store the
information) related to the prior user. Preferably, data pertinent to users may be
readily changed to reflect new users, new credit information, new user codes,
addresses, names, preferences, etc.
        Gaming information transmitted          across network   16 may include       any
information, in any format, which is necessary or desirable in the operation of the
gaming experience in which the user participates.            The information may be
transmitted in whole, or in combination, in any format including digital or analog, text
or voice, and according to any known or future transport technologies, which may

                                             8
include, for example, wireline or wireless technologies. Wireless technologies may
include, for example, licensed or license-exempt technologies.              Some specific
technologies which may be used include, without limitation, Code Division Multiple
Access (CDMA), Global System for Mobile Communication (GSM), General Packet
Radio Service (GPRS), WiFi (802.1lx),             WiMax (802.16x), Public Switched
Telephone Network (PSTN), Digital Subscriber Line (DSL), Integrated Services
Digital Network (ISDN), or cable modem technologies. These are examples only and
one of ordinary skill will understand that other types of communication techniques are
within the scope of the present invention.         Further, it will be understood that
additional components may be used in the communication of information between the
users and the gaming server.        Such additional components may include, without
limitation, lines, trunks, antennas, switches, cables, transmitters, receivers, computers,
routers, servers, fiber optical transmission equipment, repeaters, amplifiers, etc.
        In at least one embodiment, the communication of gaming information takes
place without involvement of the Internet. This has an advantage of avoiding the
security problems which typically arise when conducting business over the Internet.
However, in certain embodiments, a portion of the gaming information may be
transmitted over the Internet. Also, some or all of the gaming information may be
transmitted partially over an Internet communications path. In certain embodiments,
some information is transmitted entirely or partially over the Internet, but the
information is either not gaming information or is gaming information that does not
need to be maintained secretly.           For instance, data that causes a graphical
representation of a table game on the user's gaming communication device might be
transmitted at least partially over the Internet, while wagering information transmitted
by the user might be transmitted entirely over a non-Internet communications
network.
        Where certain information, such as non-confidential information, may be
transmitted over the Internet, there may be savings due to the accessibility and
relatively low-cost of using the Internet as a communications medium.
        According to one embodiment, as shown in FIGURE 2 for example, the
communications network comprises a cellular network 22.              Cellular network 22

                                            9
comprises a plurality of base stations 23, each of which has a corresponding coverage
area 25. Base station technology is generally known and the base stations may be of
any type found in a typical cellular network. The base stations may have coverage
areas that overlap. Further, the coverage areas may be sectorized or non-sectorized.
The network also includes mobile stations 24, which function as the gaming
communication devices used by users to access the convenience gaming system and
participate in the activities available on the convenience gaming system. Users are
connected to the network of base stations via transmission and reception of radio
signals. The communications network also includes at least one voice/data switch,
which is preferably connected to the wireless portion of the network via a dedicated,
secure landline.    The communications network also includes a gaming service
provider, which is likewise connected to the voice/data switch via a dedicated, secure
landline. The voice/data switch may be connected to the wireless network of base
stations via a mobile switching center (MSC), for example and the landline may be
provided between the voice/data switch and the MSC.
        Users access the convenience gaming system by way of mobile stations which
are in communication with, and thus part of, the communications network.          The
mobile station may be any electronic communication device that is operable in
connection with the network as described.           For example, in this particular
embodiment, the mobile station may comprise a cellular telephone.
        Preferably, in the case of a cellular network for example, the convenience
gaming system is enabled through the use of a private label carrier network. Each
base station is programmed by the cellular carrier to send and receive private secure
voice and/or data transmissions to and from mobile station handsets. The handsets are
preferably pre-programmed with both gaming software and the carrier's authentication
software. The base stations communicate via Private T-1 lines to a switch. A gaming
service provider leases a private T-1 or T-3 line, which routes the calls back to
gaming servers controlled by the gaming service provider.          Encryption can be
installed on the telephones if required by a gaming regulation authority, such as a
gaming commission.
        The cellular network is preferably a private, closed system. Mobile stations
communicate with base stations and base stations are connected to a centralized

                                            10
switch located within a gaming jurisdiction. At the switch, voice calls are transported
either locally or via long distance.      Specific service provider gaming traffic is
transported from the central switch to a gaming server at a host location, which can be
a casino or other location.
        As subscribers launch their specific gaming application, the handset will only
talk to certain base stations with cells or sectors that have been engineered to be
wholly within the gaming jurisdiction. For example, if a base station is close enough
to pick up or send a signal across state lines, it will not be able to communicate with
the device. When a customer uses the device for gaming, the system may prohibit, if
desired, the making or receiving voice calls.       Moreover, voice can be eliminated
entirely if required. Further, the devices are preferably not allowed to "connect" to
the Internet.   This ensures a high level of certainty that bets/wagers originate and
terminate within the boundaries of the gaming jurisdiction and the "private" wireless
system cannot be circumvented or bypassed. Although in certain embodiments some
data and/or voice traffic may be communicated at least partially over the Internet, it is
preferred that the communication path does not include the Internet. Alternatively, in
some embodiments, certain non-gaming information may be transported over a path
which includes the Internet, while other information relating to the gaming activities
of the system is transported on a path that does not include the Internet.
        As shown in FIGURE 3, a gaming communication                    device 32 is in
communication with a gaming service provider over a network 34.              The gaming
service provider preferably has one or more servers, on which are resident various
gaming and other applications.      As shown in FIGURE 3, some example gaming
applications include horse racing and other sports, financial exchange, casino and/or
virtual casino, entertainment and other events exchange, and news and real time
entertainment. Each of these applications may be embodied in one or more software
modules.      The applications may be combined in any possible combination.
Additionally, it should be understood that these applications are not exhaustive and
that other applications may exist to provide an environment to the user that is
associated with any of the described or potential convenience activities.
        In another embodiment,       as shown in FIGURE 4, for example,              the
communications network comprises a private wireless network. The private wireless

                                             11
network may include, for example, an 802.1 1x (WiFi) network technology to cover
"Game Spots" or "Entertainment Spots." In FIGURE 4, various WiFi networks are
indicated as networks 41. Networks 41 may use other communications protocols to
provide a private wireless network including, but not limited to, 802.16x (WiMax)
technology.      Further, networks 41 may be interconnected.       Also, a convenience
gaming system may comprise a combination of networks as depicted in FIGURE 4.
For example, there is shown a combination of private wireless networks 16, a cellular
network comprising a multi-channel access unit or sectorized base station 42, and a
satellite network comprising one or more satellites 46.
         With respect to the private wireless network, because the preferable
technology covers smaller areas, (e.g., in the range of 100-300 feet) and provides very
high-speed throughput, the private wireless network is particularly well-suited for
gaming commission needs of location and identity verification for the gaming service
provider products. The gaming spots enabled by networks 41 may include a current
casino area 48, new areas such as swimming pools, lakes or other recreational areas
49, guest rooms and restaurants such as might be found in casino 48 or hotels 45 and
47, residential areas 40, and other remote convenience gaming areas 43.             The
configuration of the overall convenience gaming system depicted in FIGURE 4 is
intended only as an example and may be modified within the scope of the present
invention.
         In one embodiment, the system architecture for the convenience gaming
system includes:
(1)      a wireless LAN (Local Access Network) component, which consists of mostly
802.1 1x     (WiFi)    and/or    802.16x   WiMax   technologies;  robust  security  and
authentication software; gaming software; mobile carrier approved handsets with
Windows or Symbian@ operating systems integrated within; and
         (a) CDMA-technology that is secure for over-the-air data protection;
         (b) at least two layers of user authentication, (that provided by the mobile
carrier and that provided by the gaming service provider);
         (c) compulsory tunneling (static routing) to gaming servers;
         (d) end-to-end encryption at the application layer; and
         (e) state-of-the-art firewall and DMZ technologies;

                                            12
(2)     an MWAN (Metropolitan Wireless Access Network), which consists of
licensed and license-exempt, point-to-point links, as well as licensed and license
exempt, point-to-multi-point technologies;
(3)     private MAN (Metropolitan Access Network) T-1 and T-3 lines to provide
connectivity where wireless services cannot reach; and
(4)     redundant private-line communications from the mobile switch back to the
gaming server.
        Each of the "Game Spots" or "Entertainment Spots" is preferably connected
via the MWAN/MAN back to central and redundant game servers. For accessing the
private wireless networks 41, the gaming communication devices are preferably
WiFi- or WiMax-enabled PDAs or mini-laptops, and do not have to be managed by a
third-party partner.
        Preferably, the convenience gaming system includes a location verification
feature, which is operable to permit or disable gaming from a remote location
depending upon whether or not the location meets one or more criteria. The criterion
may be, for example, whether the location is within a pre-defined area in which
gaming is permitted by law. As another example, the criterion may be whether the
location is in a no-gaming zone, such as a school.           The location verification
technology used in the system may include, without limitation, "network-based"
and/or "satellite-based" technology.   Network-based technology may included such
technologies as multilateration, triangulation and geo-fencing, for example. Satellite
based technologies may include global positioning satellite (GPS) technology, for
example.
        As previously discussed, the cellular approach preferably includes the use of at
least one cellular, mobile, voice and data network.           For gaming in certain
jurisdictions, such as Nevada for example, the technology may involve triangulation,
global positioning satellite (GPS) technology, and/or geo-fencing to avoid the
potential for bets or wagers to be made outside Nevada state lines.              In one
embodiment, the network would not cover all of a particular jurisdiction, such as
Nevada. For instance, the network would not cover areas in which cellular coverage
for a particular base station straddled the state line or other boundary of the
jurisdiction. This is done in order to permit the use of location verification to insure

                                            13
against the chance of bets originating or terminating outside of the state.
Triangulation may be used as a method for preventing gaming from unapproved
locations. Triangulation may be accomplished, for example, by comparing the signal
strength from a single mobile station received at multiple base stations, each having
GPS coordinates. This technology may be used to pinpoint the location of a mobile
station. The location can then be compared to a map or other resource to determine
whether the user of the mobile station is in an unapproved area, such as a school.
Alternatively, GPS technology may be used for these purposes.
        As shown in FIGURE 5, the convenience gaming system includes a plurality
of gaming communication devices 54, 55, and 56. Device 54 is located outside the
gaming jurisdiction 58. Devices 55 and 56 are both located inside gaming jurisdiction
58. However only device 56 is located within geo-fence 57, which is established by
the coverage areas of a plurality of base station 53. Thus, geo-fencing may be used to
enable gaming via device 56 but disable gaming via devices 54 and 55. Even though
some gaming communication devices that are within the gaming jurisdiction 58, such
as device 55, are not permitted access to the convenience gaming system, the geo
fence 57 ensures that no gaming communication devices outside jurisdiction 58, such
as device 54, are permitted access.
        Geo-fencing does not specify location. Rather, it ensures that a mobile station
is within certain boundaries. For instance, geo-fencing may be used to ensure that a
mobile station beyond state lines does not access the convenience gaming system.
Triangulation on the other hand specifies a pinpoint, or near-pinpoint, location. For
example, as shown in FIGURE 5, device 56 is triangulated between three of the base
stations 53 to determine the location of device 56. Triangulation may be used to
identify whether a device, such as a mobile station, is located in a specific spot where
gambling is unauthorized (such as, for example, a school). Preferably, the location
determination technology utilized in conjunction with the present invention meets the
Federal   Communication Commission's          (FCC's) Phase    2 E911      requirements.
Geological Institute Survey (GIS) mapping may also be utilized to compare identified
coordinates of a gaming communication device with GIS map features or elements to
determine whether a device is in an area not authorized for gaming. It should be
noted that any type of location verification may be used such as triangulation, geo-

                                             14
fencing, global positioning satellite (GPS) technology, or any other type of location
determining technology, which can be used to ensure, or provide an acceptable level
of confidence, that the user is within an approved gaming area.
        In another embodiment, location verification is accomplished using channel
address checking or location verification using some other identifying number or
piece of information indicative of which network or portion of a network is being
accessed by the gaming communication device. Assuming the using of an identifying
number for this purpose, then according to one method of location checking, as an
example, a participant accesses the gaming system via a mobile telephone.            The
identifying number of the mobile telephone, or of the network component being
accessed by the mobile telephone, identifies the caller's connection to the mobile
network. The number is indicative of the fact that the caller is in a defined area and is
on a certain mobile network. A server application may be resident on the mobile
telephone to communicate this information via the network to the gaming service
provider. In a related embodiment, the identifying number or information is passed
from a first network provider to a second network provider. For example, a caller's
home network may be that provided by the second provider, but the caller is roaming
on a network (and in a jurisdiction) provided by the first provider. The first provider
passes the identifying information through to the second provider to enable the second
provider to determine whether the caller is in a defined area that does or does not
allow the relevant gaming activity.      Preferably the gaming service provider either
maintains, or has access to, a database that maps the various possible worldwide
mobile network identifying numbers to geographic areas. The invention contemplates
using any number or proxy that indicates a network, portion of a network, or network
component, which is being connected with a mobile telephone.             The identifying
number may indicate one or more of a base station or group of base stations, a line, a
channel, a trunk, a switch, a router, a repeater, etc.
        In another embodiment, when the user connects his mobile telephone to the
gaming server, the gaming server draws the network identifying information and
communicates that information to the gaming service provider. The software resident
on the gaming communication device may incorporate functionality that will, upon
login or access by the user, determine the user's location (based at least in part on the

                                             15
identifying information) and send a message to the gaming service provider.          The
identifying number or information used to determine location may be country
specific, state-specific, town-specific, or specific to some other definable boundaries.
         In connection with any of the location determination methods, the gaming
system may periodically update the location determination information. This may be
done, for example, during a gaming session, at pre-defined time intervals to ensure
that movement of the gaming communication device to an unauthorized area is
detected during play, and not just upon login or initial access.
         Thus, depending on the location determination technology being used, the
decision whether to permit or prohibit a gaming activity may be made at the gaming
communication device, at the gaming server, or at any of the components of the
telecommunication network being used to transmit information between the gaming
communication device and the gaming server (such as at a base station, for example).
         An aspect of the private wireless network related to preventing gaming in
unauthorized     areas is the    placement    of sensors,   such as Radio      Frequency
Identification (RFID) sensors on the gaming communication devices.            The sensors
trigger alarms if users take the devices outside the approved gaming areas. Further,
the devices may be "tethered" to immovable objects. Users might simply log in to
such devices using their ID and password.
         The system may be configured to allow some users to engage in gaming
activities in certain geographical areas while other users may not. Similarly, a user
might be permitted to engage in only one or more particular activities located in a
certain geographical area.
         In connection with FIGURE 6, an example embodiment of a method
according to the present invention can be described as follows.            As discussed,
software is preferably loaded on a gaming communication device and is operable to
receive input data for gaming. The input data may originate at associated gaming
software resident on the gaming server, or it may be input by the user of the gaming
communication device.        The software on the device is operable to present a
representation of a gaming environment.         This can include, among other things, a
representation of a table game such as a blackjack table or a slot machine. Other

                                             16
examples of the representation of a gaming environment include graphical
representations of any of the other applications described herein.
        In the example method shown in FIGURE 6, in a first step 602, the gaming
communication device is activated. This may take place as a function of turning on a
phone, PDA, or other communication device as described elsewhere herein.
Preferably, activation comprises connecting the gaming communication device to a
private data network. Part of the activation includes logging in at a prompt. This may
be considered as a first level of authentication of a user of the gaming communication
device. A second level of user authentication comprises authentication of the gaming
communication device itself. This may occur, for example, by authentication of a
mobile station by a mobile carrier. A third level of user identification may comprise
biometrics.   Various examples of biometrics may include, but are not limited to,
fingerprint identification, photo identification, retina scanning, voice print matching,
etc.
        It should be noted that the various types of verification and authentication are
made easier by the configuration of the gaming system. For example, the wireless
access to the gaming servers makes verification and authentication more efficient.
        In a next step 604, the user is presented with the gaming environment. The
gaming environment may be presented in various stages. For instance, in a first stage,
the gaming environment may comprise a casino lobby where the user is presented
with certain gaming options including, for example, table games, slots, sports book,
video poker, and a casino cashier. In a subsequent stage, the user may be presented
with optional instances of the type of activity selected from the casino lobby.
        In a next step 606, the user selects an activity, such as a particular casino table
game. In step 608, the user is presented with one or more options related to the
selected activity. In step 610, the user selects an option. For instance, at this point,
the user might place a wager, draw a card, select a restaurant or restaurant menu item,
select a news source or a news story, place a buy or sell order on a financial exchange,
place a bet on a certain box office performance over/under amount for a given movie,
etc. The options for user input are myriad. In step 612, the software resident on the
gaming communication device accepts the option input by the user and transmits the

                                             17
input data to the software resident at the gaming server.       In step 614, the gaming
server software acts on the input data.
         Actions at this point, may include, without limitation, determining an outcome
and/or amount, accessing another server and/or software application, retrieving
information, preparing a response to the user, etc.      The action of determining an
outcome and/or amount might take place, for example, if the user is using the device
to place wagers in connection with a gambling activity.            For certain gambling
activities, such as a table game or slot machine, a random number generator may be
incorporated to determine the outcome (i.e., whether the user won or lost) and the
gaming server software would also determine an amount won or lost based on the
amount wagered and any applicable odds.         The action of accessing another server
and/or software application might occur, for example, in the event the user is
engaging in a services activity such as accessing news services, making reservations
and placing food and beverage orders at a restaurant, or making a retail purchase. The
action of retrieving information might occur when the gaming server software is
prompted to access another server for the purpose of retrieving a certain type of
information requested by the user.
         Preferably, the gaming server software prepares a response to the user's input
data and in step 616. In step 618, the user acknowledges the response. For example,
in the case of gambling, the user might acknowledge that he won a hand of blackjack
because the dealer busted and that his payout was $100 based on a $50 bet at even
odds. In step 620, the user logs out.
         In the situation where the user is gambling, after the series of steps described
in connection with FIGURE 6, (or a subset or modified series of steps), the user
physically enters a casino and goes to a casino cashier for payout and/or settlement
(which can include, for example, extensions of credit or advance deposits).        In one
embodiment, there is a waiting period (e.g., twenty-four hours) before the user can
collect winnings.      The purpose of the waiting period is to allow time for fraud
monitoring.     The waiting period may depend on the amount of the balance.           For
example, if the user is owed less than $5,000 the waiting period may be twelve hours.
If the user is owed between $5,000 and $10,000 the waiting period may be twenty-

                                             18
four hours. If the user is owed more than $10,000 the waiting period may be forty
eight hours.
        The duration of activation of the gaming communication device, the duration
of a particular session, and/or the duration of a particular activity may be controlled
according to any number of different parameters. For example, the duration may be
based on a predetermined amount of time or period of time. Activation of the gaming
communication device may terminate upon the expiration of a predetermined time
period. As another example, an activity may only be permitted until the occurrence of
a particular time of day. According to an alternative, an administrator, or another
party to a transaction within any of the various activities, may determine the time
period or amount of time. According to yet another alternative, the duration may end
upon the occurrence of an event such as the user entering or leaving a particular
location.   The duration of activation may be dynamically determined based on a
period of non-use. In other words, after a predetermined time without being used, the
device may "time out" and be deactivated. The period of time, or amount of time,
may be cumulatively determined. For example, an activity may only be permitted for
a period of five hours, collectively. Time counting toward the five hours might stop
and start depending upon the location of the user. As another example, an activity
might only be permitted so long as the user does not enter or leave a particular
location for longer than a predetermined period of time.
         Similarly, activation of the gaming communication device and/or the ability
for a user to engage in a particular activity may only be permitted during a specified
time of day, or for a particular period of time prior to an event, or for a particular
period of time after notification to the user. Also, activation and/or access may be
controlled based upon the location of the user. For example, if a user is in a particular
casino in which a particular show will take place that evening, the user might be
notified that tickets to the show are available for a specified period of time prior to the
show.    The user might only be permitted to engage in the activity of purchasing
tickets for the show if the user is in the casino and during the specified period of time
prior to the show. For example, the user might only be able to purchase tickets while
in the casino and up to five minutes before the start time of the show. Similarly, the
activation of the device may be restricted based on the location of the user and a

                                            19
corresponding period of time. For example, if a user is in a location where a show is
occurring, or is going to occur, the device may be deactivated (either automatically, or
by a party other than the user) during a period beginning five minutes prior to the
show and ending five minutes after the end of the show.
         According to another alternative, the duration or enablement of one activity
might be determined by the participation of the user in another activity. For example,
a user might be allowed to make dinner reservations at a popular restaurant if the user
has been gambling enough at a given casino. In this way, bonuses or comps may be
determined or managed based on the activity of the user via the gaming
communication device.
         Preferably, data is transmitted back and forth during the convenience gaming
activities between the gaming communication device and a server controlled by the
gaming service provider. An example of the path of communication is shown in
FIGURE 7. Gaming data, such as a wager placed by the user, is transmitted from
gaming communication device 701 to a base station 702 (or a transmitter in the case
of a private wireless network such as a WiFi or WiMax network). Base station 702
routes the data through network 703 to a hub or gateway 704, which in turn routes the
data to a gaming server 705 operated by a gaming service provider. Preferably, the
communication from gaming communication device 701 to the network 703
comprises wireless communication.         This may be any type of known wireless
communication or any type of wireless communication available in the future.
Examples of acceptable wireless communication protocols include CDMA, GSM, and
GPRS.
         Preferably, the communication from the network 703 to the gateway 704 and
to the server 705 is conducted over secure land lines. FIGURE 7 is an example
communication network only and the present invention should be understood to cover
other networks in which data may be transmitted from gaming communication device
701 to server 705. Preferably, data in response to data being transmitted from gaming
communication      device    701  to server 705     is transmitted back to gaming
communication device 701 along a path essentially opposite to the path of the first
transmission. It should be noted that in at least certain embodiments of the methods
and systems described herein, a user is not actually playing a game on the gaming

                                          20
communication device. Rather, the user is actually playing the game on the server
controlled by the gaming service provider, which may be located within a casino.
        With respect to payment and/or receipt of winnings and losses, one possible
approach is as follows. Upon check-in at a casino hotel, a hotel representative may
query a guest as to whether the guest wants access to a gaming communication
device. If the guest does want such access, the hotel representative may provide the
guest with a gaming communication device in exchange for a credit-card type deposit
or other deposit. The guest then deposits money into an account for wireless gaming.
The guest's account balance information is loaded onto the guest's account file, which
is preferably maintained on the gaming server. The user may load money into his
gaming account by establishing a credit account, for example, at a casino cashier
and/or by paying cash to the casino cashier. Many other alternatives exist and this
process is an example only. Guest accounts or gaming communication devices may
be preloaded with funds.     Funds may be deposited during a convenience gaming
session. This may occur, for example, if a user selected a casino cashier activity from
the gaming environment and instructed the cashier to add funds to the account. The
finance subsystem may also utilize account card technology (such as ATM cards,
credit cards, stored value cards, gift cards, etc) in order to conduct financial
transactions associated with a user's account.   Moreover, the user may receive or
make payments remotely, by way of inputting instructions via the gaming
communication device or by another remote device such as an automatic teller
machine (ATM), which is in electronic communication with the gaming server or
other server operated by the casino, hotel, gaming service provider or other entity
involved in the convenience gaming activities. For example, a user might remotely
(via the gaming communication device) place an order at a restaurant. Then, the user
might make advance payment for the meal at an ATM-type machine which is
operable   to  receive  instructions  corresponding    to  the   financial   transaction
requirements of the convenience gaming activity of ordering food.
        A unique aspect of the present invention includes establishing an electronic
record of the gaming transactions undertaken by a user.             Preferably, this is
accomplished by utilization of a keystroke log, which is an electronic record of all
keystrokes made by the user. Utilization of a keystroke log in this context allows for

                                           21
unprecedented monitoring of a user's gaming activity. In the event of a dispute, one
may refer to the keystroke log and readily determine whether, in fact, a user placed a
particular wager, for example.
         An additional possible aspect of the electronic record is to allow a gaming
control board or other regulatory authority, access to the electronic record in a direct
manner in order to conduct periodic independent monitoring of the convenience
gaming activities conducted over the system. Another possible aspect is to allow
policing against rigged machines. For instance, it is possible that the gaming control
board (or other regulatory authority) could obtain a gaming communication device
and compare their test results over time against records in the electronic record
database (e.g., by comparing the results shown in the keystroke log). This essentially
comprises electronic access for testing.
         In another embodiment of the invention, as shown in FIGURE 8, a ship-based
convenience gaming system is provided. The system preferably comprises passenger
vessel 802, such as a cruise liner for example.     The system includes one or more
gaming communication devices 806 connected to a communication network.              The
network shown in FIGURE 8 comprises a mobile network with base stations 808
connected via a LAN to a base station controller (BSC) 810. BSC 810 is connected
via a TI interface to a first Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) modem 812,
which is in communication with a first satellite 814. First satellite 814 is operable to
transmit and receive signals from second satellite 814, which is in communication
with second VSAT modem 812.          Second VSAT modem 812 is in communication
with a gaming server 818 located at gaming service provider 816. Gaming server is
coupled to gaming database 820.        Again, the network configuration depicted in
FIGURE 8 is for example purposes only, and other configurations are within the
scope of the present invention. An on-board back office 822 is preferably provided.
Data is communicated by the on-board VSAT modem and transmitter to the first
satellite for relay to the second (preferably land-based) VSAT receiver and modem.
The data is then communicated to a server and/or centralized database via a mobile
station controller (not shown).
         A corresponding business model involves the gaming service provider
contracting with a cruise line, which agrees to allow the gaming service provider to

                                            22
provide coverage throughout the cruise line's ship(s), by using repeaters for example.
The gaming service provider may provide a private wireless network, in which case
any revenue generated from use of or access to the private wireless network, and
revenue from gaming activities, may be allocated among all or any subset of the
cruise line and the gaming service provider. Alternatively, the gaming service
provider may contract with a mobile carrier and a satellite provider, in which case
revenue from the mobile calls, and revenue from gaming activities, may be allocated
among all or any subset of the cruise line, the mobile carrier and the gaming service
provider.
         There are several scenarios for a user's activity relative to transactions
conducted over the convenience gaming system. In one example scenario the user is
in a fixed, but remote, location from the gaming server, which may be located on the
premises of a casino.     This may be include, for instance, a situation in which the
gaming communication device is a kiosk or some other communication device which
is in a fixed position or which is tethered to a fixed position so that the gaming
communication device cannot be moved beyond a certain area. In another example
scenario, the user starts a convenience gaming transaction at a first location and ends
the transaction at a second location different from the first location.      In another
example scenario, the user is mobile during a single convenience gaming transaction.
In another example scenario, the user is mobile within a first approved area then
(during the convenience gaming transaction) the user moves outside the first approved
area, through an unapproved area, to a remote second approved area.
         In an alternative embodiment, the convenience gaming system may be
configured to operate as a "curb-to-curb" gaming system.          In such a system, a
communication path may be established between the device and a particular server,
based upon whether the user is in a location corresponding to that particular server.
For example, the user might enter a first casino, or an authorized area associated with
the first casino, and thereby activate the establishment of a communication path
between the device and a server located at and/or controlled by the first casino. While
the user is on the premises of the first casino, the user might be able to participate in
activities, such as playing blackjack, at the first casino. Then, if the user leaves the
first casino, the convenience gaming system might be configured to terminate the first

                                             23
communication path (i.e., between the device and the first casino's server), or
otherwise deactivate the device and/or terminate the user's ability to use the device to
participate in activities associated with the first casino. When the user enters a second
casino,    or an authorized     area associated with the second casino,         a second
communication path (e.g., between the device and a second server located at or
controlled by the second casino) may be established. Thus, the user would now be
able to play blackjack (or engage in other activities) at the second casino, rather than
the first casino.
         As another example, a particular casino is often related to other casinos within
a jurisdiction or specified area. Under such a scenario, if a user entered any of the
related casinos, then the appropriate communication path or paths could be
established between the gaming communication device and one or more of the casinos
in the group of related casinos, thereby enabling the user to play casino games (or
engage in other activities) at the one or more casinos in the group of related casinos.
Depending on regulatory requirements, the preferred configuration might be to
establish a communication path with a server at a particular casino within the group at
which the user wants to play.         Then, a different communication path could be
established at a subsequent casino if the user wants to play at another casino. Under
certain circumstances, and again depending on regulatory requirements, some
information associated with user activity might be maintained at a centralized server
accessible by more than one casino within the group.
         In another example embodiment, the convenience gaming system may be used
to enable gaming activities involving multiple wireless users who interact with one
another.    For instance, the system may enable a table game (such as blackjack) in
which a first user and a second user are conducting gaming transactions on the same
table and in which options selected by the first user directly impact outcomes and
options relative to the second user. Preferably, the gaming environment presented on
the gaming communication devices of both the first and second users will indicate the
existence and activity of the other respective user. Another example of multiple users
interacting on the convenience gaming system is the provision of a poker game in
which users place bets against one another instead of, or in addition to, placing bets
against the house. Another example of interaction between users is when a first user

                                            24
makes restaurant reservations or purchases event tickets, thereby reducing the options
available to the second user.
         Preferably, the gaming service provider provides at least the following
functions. First the gaming service provider provides and controls the one or more
gaming servers. These servers may be physically located within the confines of the
gaming service provider or may exist at a remote location. As mentioned, the gaming
servers may also be located at or near a games provider such as a casino, casino hotel,
racino, cruise ship, race track, etc.  The gaming service provider may also provide
monitoring services such as transaction monitoring and key stroke logging services.
The gaming service provider may also provide data management and security
services.    These services are not intended to be exhaustive and the gaming service
provider may provide other services which facilitate the convenience gaming process.
         It should be noted that the invention can be implemented in connection with
any gaming environment or an environment for any other activity, which may be
conducted electronically.     The invention is not limited to Nevada or any other
particular gaming jurisdiction.     For instance, the invention can be employed in
connection with casinos in Atlantic City, New Jersey, international jurisdictions,
Native American gaming facilities, and "racinos" which are race tracks that also have
slot machines, video lottery terminals, or other gambling devices. For example, in
connection with "racinos," the invention might be used by participants who wish to
play slot machine games while they are viewing race horses in the paddock area. This
might be desirable in the event that the slot machine area does not allow smoking and
a participant wishes to gamble from an outdoor smoking area. Alternatively, the slot
machine area might permit smoking and the gambler wishes to play the slot machines
from an area where he or she can avoid breathing second-hand smoke. Numerous
other scenarios can be envisioned in which the gaming participant can use the
invention to participate in remote gaming, while enjoying some other primary activity
in a location remote from the gaming facility. Further, the invention is not limited to
gaming, but can include other applications, such as trading financial instruments, and
wagering on other types of events, such as elections, award events, or any other
activity.

                                            25
        Another example embodiment involves the application of one or more of the
methods and systems described herein to the activity of conducting financial
transactions. Thus, the gaming communication device may be configured to enable a
user to conduct such financial transactions, which may include, without limitation,
any transaction involving a financial institution, such as banking, trading securities, or
managing 401K or other investment fund assets. Preferably, a communication path
would be established between the user and any of the servers or other computers
necessary to conduct the financial transaction. As with certain other embodiments the
ability to engage in this activity may be controlled by one or more parameters
including location and/or identity verification and time or duration limits.
        Conducting financial transactions may be one of the activities presented to the
user of the gaming communication device. Any of the possible financial transactions
might be presented as sub-activities.     As an example, a user might want to trade
securities listed on a particular exchange. Regulations might require the trader to be
located within a certain jurisdiction to execute trades on the exchange. The exchange
might have its own rules and could require that the trader be located on the premises.
With the location verification techniques described elsewhere herein, the particular
financial transaction activity might only be enabled if the user is located in a
particular geographic area, for example.
        As a related feature, the system may be configured to provide a credit
verification feature, according to which a user's creditworthiness may be checked by
a party to a transaction, or by which the user might apply for credit. For example, if a
user wants to purchase $10,000 worth of a particular stock, then a communication
path might be established between the user and a server located at and/or controlled
by an exchange upon which the stock is being traded. An additional communication
path might be established between the exchange server and a server of an account
manager that manages the user's account. These communication paths would enable
the basic transaction -- that of the user purchasing the stock.              Yet another
communication path, however, might be established between a seller's server, the
exchange server, and/or the account manager server and a server located at and/or
controlled by a credit agency.      This path would enable an interested party to the
transaction to check and/or approve the user's credit to prior enabling the transaction.

                                            26
        According to one aspect of certain embodiments, a user of the gaming
communication device can connect from the device to a financial service provider's
server to provide a "Push to Trade" feature. In order to enable this feature, the device
is configured to be capable of facilitating a "Push to Talk" protocol, whereby the
device behaves like a walkie-talkie.      Thus, the device may include any suitable
program or application that enables the Push to Talk feature.      As used herein, the
phrase "Push to Talk" includes any protocol that allows for a direct connection feature
for an end user. Included are all such protocols (e.g. Instant Talk, Fastchat, etc.)
within the broad rubric of "Push to Talk" including those that provide wide-area,
instantaneous contact.
        The Push to Talk protocol allows a given device to instantly connect to any
number of other devices, such as any other telephone (mobile or landline-based),
personal computer, laptop, etc. The connection for the end user does not have to be
spawned by any conventional dialing or by triggering some form of automatic dialing.
A simple button can be depressed to provide the requisite connection. In the context
of timing, Nextel (who developed the original Push to Talk technology) suggests that
their Push to Talk protocol should connect within 2 seconds.
        A related technology is Push to Talk Over Cellular (PoC). PoC service is a
form of interactive voice messaging that combines walkie-talkie and cellular phone
connectivity, allowing users to quickly connect with another person or an entire group
of friends and contacts at the push of a button on a PoC-enabled handset.
        The Push to Talk protocol allows users to use the walkie-talkie paradigm over
an IP or a cellular network, which diminishes the boundary limitations of a
conventional two-way radio.      The Push to Talk service is based on a disruptive
technology.      Latency is an issue during some traditional         mobile telephone
conversations. One appeal of the Push to Talk platform, as compared to executing a
traditional telephone call, is being able to talk to an individual or to a group of
individuals instantly, without waiting for someone to answer due to latency issues.
Another benefit of the Push to Talk feature is a shorter than normal phone call, which
cuts down on dialing costs for corresponding end users. Nextel estimates that the
average Push to Talk call lasts forty seconds. Push to Talk technology is compatible
with virtually any network communications; for example, the Push to Talk protocol

                                             27
may readily be used in conjunction with cellular telephone networks, including GSM
and CDMA.       The network equipment used for the Push to Talk feature is currently
being offered by companies such as Ericsson Motorola, Siemens, Sony Ericsson, and
Nextel.
        Because Push to Talk effectively turns the handheld device into a walkie
talkie, it not only successfully enables end users to send voice messages, it also
enables immediate data texts (commonly referred to as "direct messaging"). Push to
Talk messaging represents a significant improvement over short messaging systems in
bypassing the slow and clumsy process of entering text via a phone keypad. This
makes text messaging quicker and more effective.
        According to the "Push to Trade" feature, once the end user initiates the call,
the financial service provider is instantly connected to the end user.            In one
embodiment, the financial service provider has one or more electronic trade desks that
are dedicated to this feature for their clients. Thus, all "Push to Trade" requests may
be received at this location.     In other embodiments, any suitable entity, broker,
standard trading desk, or electronic device may receive such Push to Trade
communications.
        Once the connection has been established, the financial service provider may
then simply conduct the trade as prescribed by the end user. For example, upon
connection, the end user may be presented with the financial or market environment
in which he seeks to participate. The trade desk representative or device can query
the end user to execute an electronic or a broker-assisted trade.        In addition, the
financial environment may be presented in various stages.         For instance, in a first
stage, the financial environment may comprise a financial summary of all markets
where the user is presented with certain financial options including, for example,
specific market summaries, specific prices for selected assets (e.g. commodities,
stocks, bonds, etc.), current positions, buying power, etc. In a subsequent stage, the
user may be presented with optional instances of the type of activity selected from the
market platform.
        From this platform, the end user can select an activity, such as a particular
type of trade.   Thus, the user is presented with one or more options related to the
selected activity. For instance, at this point, the user might place a buy or a sell order

                                            28
on a financial exchange. The software, which may be resident on the device, on the
server, or on a combination of both, accepts the option input by the user and transmits
the input data to the financial service provider. Subsequently, the financial service
provider acts on the input data. The Push to Talk technology readily accommodates a
voice log of the transaction for audit or confirmation purposes. Hence, a digital voice
storage may be provided, whereby the transaction (e.g., inclusive of bid and ask
prices) is recorded.     In addition, the automatic voice log can then relay this
information back to the end user (e.g., via his e-mail or via a conventional postal mail
service).  This could occur as a matter of course such that the end user is routinely
provided with a suitable confirmation receipt for all of his trading activity.
        Actions at this point may include, without limitation, determining an outcome
and/or amount for the trade, accessing another server and/or software application,
retrieving additional information, preparing a suitable response to the user, etc. The
action of determining an outcome and/or amount might take place, for example, if the
user is using the device to place trades in conjunction with his account and a given
exchange. Hence, this could include a formal tallying of the executed trade, inclusive
of the charged commission, the amount debited from the account to cover the trade,
etc. The action of accessing another server and/or software application might occur,
for example, in the event the user is engaging in a services activity such as accessing
news services. The action of retrieving information might occur when the financial
software is prompted to access another server for the purpose of retrieving a certain
type of information requested by the user. The financial service provider can then
prepare a response to the user's input data. Once this activity has concluded, the user
can acknowledge the response and then log out and terminate his session.
        It should be noted that the "Push to Trade" feature can be used in other
applications of the convenience gaming technology described herein. For example, in
an application where the user of the gaming communication device is playing
blackjack from an authorized area outside the casino gaming area, the Push to Trade
feature would enable the user to participate audibly in the blackjack game actually
taking place within the casino gaming area.       The Push to Talk technology would
allow the user to immediately and virtually "sit down" at an actual blackjack table
without the delay caused by the conventional setup and tear down process of certain

                                             29
traditional telecommunication protocols. Also, once the user is participating in the
game, the user can communicate orally with the dealer, or other players that are
physically at the table, without the latency issues of certain mobile telecommunication
systems.
        In at least one embodiment, the invention provides jurisdictional controls,
which limit gaming to approved geographical areas. The invention may also include
an age/identity verification feature. This can be accomplished through any applicable
technique including retina scanning, finger print identification, voice print matching,
or other biometrics.     Identity verification can also be accomplished by having a
customer take a picture of himself (e.g., by use of a digital picture phone) and
transmitting the picture to the gaming service provider for comparison to a stored
picture of the pre-approved user. Identity verification can also be accomplished by
way of comparison of participant provided data to stored data, and execution of
electronic agreements or contracts by the participant. Identity verification can also be
accomplished by monitoring a keystroke characteristic (e.g., rhythm, patterns, or
cadence) of the user, or any other method in which a parameter uniquely associated
with the user can be observed.      The invention may also provide for the logging of
keystrokes.    In at least one embodiment, all communications are accomplished
without accessing the Internet.
        Mobile, remote gaming may be desirable for many reasons, some of which
have already been described. The invention may allow supplementation of existing
in-house gaming revenue by allowing bettors to place bets while enjoying other
leisure activities such as golf, swimming, dining and shows.         The invention may
complement the new coinless wagering environment as bettors can play their favorite
games outside the casino. The invention provides a high-speed, reliable, accurate, and
secure mobile gaming environment that complies with regulatory requirements for
identification and location verification of the bettor with the ability to generate key
stroke logs.     The invention may restrict unauthorized usage from a geographic
perspective and is capable of implementation using location verification technology
(e.g., geo-fencing) to conform the gaming activities to legal parameters.
        Consumers may benefit from an increased choice of gaming environments.
Consumers will be able to bet in whatever surroundings they prefer, benefiting from

                                           30
the knowledge that the product is regulated, fair and secure while enjoying the gaming
experience at the speed they choose without external influences, such as that which
might occur within the in-house casino environment. The gaming businesses can use
the invention to increase their revenue base through a new, regulated, mobile, remote
channel. Customers wanting to be entertained during downtime or outside a casino
will be able to play games on their gaming communication device and customers
intimidated by a traditional casino environment will be able to play in private. The
gaming jurisdictions may benefit from an increase in gaming an ancillary revenue
growth because customers will have a more enjoyable experience.
         The invention may also be used to deliver content at an increased speed
compared to traditional telecommunications systems. The content may include, for
example, live reports, entertainment, news, promotions and advertising.
         As mentioned, the invention provides a mobile gaming environment that
complies with regulatory requirements for identification and location verification of
the bettor. Moreover, the system is designed to be one hundred percent "clean" from
a regulatory perspective. The software is clean in that it has not been and will not be
licensed to anyone who does business illegally or otherwise operates in a "gray" area.
For example, in a preferred embodiment, the software is not licensed to an entity that
will illegally operate the software, or otherwise illegally do business on, the Internet.
This may be desirable in that certain gaming jurisdictions will not grant gaming
permits or licenses to companies that do business with, or license technology to or
from, other entities known to be engaging in illegal operations.
         Preferably, the system is designed such that the gaming software (or other
application software operating on the system) is also one hundred percent clean from
a regulatory perspective.       For instance, before granting a license, a gaming
jurisdiction may require that the software being used is not tainted in that it has not
been used by the license applicant in violation of any laws and has not been licensed
or otherwise distributed or disseminated to others who have used the software for
illegal purposes, or who have been engaging in illegal activity.        Therefore, it is
preferred that the gaming software be clean and untainted from this perspective.
         The systems and methods described herein may also be used to deliver and/or
access "Rich Media" content such as, for example, sports video (live or nearly live)

                                            31
and audio commentary.          Such may often only be distributed within specific
jurisdictions.   Therefore, the distribution may benefit from the inventive aspects
discussed herein, particularly the location verification aspect, such as geo-fencing.
        The gaming system and methods described herein may permit, among other
things, pari-mutuel wagering, sports betting, and dissemination of news and other
content. The invention also enables a casino or other gaming provider to advertise
ancillary services such as shows, bars, and restaurants. The invention also enables
remote reservations and purchases in connection with such services.
        According to an embodiment of the invention, the convenience gaming system
provides for the dissemination of real-time odds to users accessing the system.
        In another embodiment, an outcome in one transaction can trigger the
presentation to the user of options for a second transaction. For example, if a user
wins a predetermined amount of money playing blackjack, the user might be
presented with an option to purchase retail items at a casino store or to make
reservations for certain services at a club. As another example, if a user uses the
system to purchase show tickets, the user might be offered to make reservations at one
of several restaurants within a certain proximity to the show.
        Although this disclosure has been described in terms of certain embodiments
and generally associated methods, alterations and permutations of these embodiments
and methods will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly, the above
description of example embodiments does not define or constrain this disclosure.
Other changes, substitutions, and alterations are also possible without departing from
the spirit and scope of this disclosure.
        Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
 "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
integers or steps.
        The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part
of the common general knowledge in Australia.

                                          32
CLAIMS
1.       A method comprising:
         responsive to a device accessing a gaming system to engage in at least one
gaming activity, determining by at least one server whether the      device is located
within a pre-defined location;
         transmitting    gaming    information   to   the  device  over    an  Internet
communication path and transmitting       wagering information to the device over a
private communication path, in response to determining that the device is located in
the pre-defined location; and
         in response to the    device accessing the gaming system, altering certain
functionality of the device to ensure wagers received by the at least one server from
the device, while the device is located in the pre-defined location, did not originate
from outside boundaries of the pre-defined location.
2.        The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one gaming activity is sports
betting.
3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one gaming activity is horse
betting.
4.       The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one gaming activity is a gambling
activity.
5.       The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one gaming activity is a wagering
activity.
6.       The method of claim 1, wherein the altered functionality includes making
voice calls.
7.       The method of claim 1, wherein the altered functionality includes receiving
voice calls.

                                             33
8.      The method of claim 1, wherein the altered functionality includes Internet
connectivity.
9.               The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the device is
located within the pre-defined location includes making the determination using geo
fencing.
10.              The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the device is
located within the pre-defined location includes making the determination             using
triangulation.
11.              The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the device is
located within the pre-defined location includes making the determination using
multilateration.
12.              The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the device is
located within the pre-defined location includes making the determination through an
identification of which network, portion of a network, or network component the
device is accessing.
13.     The method of claim 12, wherein the identification indicates at least one of a
base station, group of base stations, a line, a channel, a trunk, a switch, a router, and a
repeater.
14.     The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the device is located
within the pre-defined location includes:
                 receiving the location of the device; and
                 based upon the location, determining whether the device is located
        within the pre-defined location.

                                              34
15.      The method of claim 14, wherein receiving the location of the device
comprises receiving the location from the device.
16.      An apparatus, comprising:
         at least one processor; and
         at least one memory device electronically coupled to the at least one
processor, in which the memory device stores instructions which, when executed by
the at least one processor, direct the at least one processor to:
                  responsive to a user using a device to access a gaming system to
         engage in at least one gaming activity,      determining whether the   device is
         located within a pre-defined location;
                  transmit    gaming information to the        device over an Internet
         communication path and transmitting wagering information to the device over
         a private communication path, in response to determining that the device is
         located in the pre-defined location; and
                  in response to the device accessing the gaming system, altering certain
         functionality of the device to ensure wagers received by the at least one
         processor from the device, while the device is located in the pre-defined
         location, did not originate from outside boundaries of the pre-defined location.
17.      The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the at least one gaming activity is sports
betting.
18.      The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the at least one gaming activity is horse
betting.
19.      The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the at least one gaming activity is a
gambling activity.
20.      The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the at least one gaming activity is a
wagering activity.

                                            35
21.     The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the altered functionality includes making
voice calls.
22.     The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the altered functionality includes receiving
voice calls.
23.     The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the altered functionality includes Internet
connectivity.
24.     The apparatus of claim 16, wherein to determine whether the device is located
within the pre-defined location includes to make the determination through the use of
geo-fencing.
25.     The apparatus of claim 16, wherein to determine whether the device is located
within the pre-defined     location includes to make the determination                using
triangulation.
26.     The apparatus of claim 16, wherein to determine whether the device is located
within    the  pre-defined  location   includes    to  make    the   determination    using
multilateration.
27.     The apparatus of claim 16, wherein to determine whether the device is located
within the pre-defined location includes to make the determination through an
identification of which network, portion of a network, or network component the
device is accessing.
28.     The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the identification indicates at least one of a
base station, group of base stations, a line, a channel, a trunk, a switch, a router, and a
repeater.
29.     The apparatus of claim 16, wherein to determine whether the device is located
within the pre-defined location includes to:

                                           36
               receive the location of the device; and
               based upon the location, determine whether the  device is located
       within the pre-defined location.
30.    The apparatus of claim 29, wherein to receive the location of the device
comprises to receive the location from the device.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
