                                  ABSTRACT
           An embodiment of the present invention provides a
carbonated beverage comprising a stevia extract in which
foaming is suppressed and a method for producing the same.          A
carbonated beverage comprising RebA and RebD and/or RebM,
wherein a content of RebA is 500 ppm or less;        a content of RebD
and/or RebM is 486 ppm or less;        ((RebD and/or RebM)/RebA) is
0.45 or more in a mass ratio;       and a total content of RebA and
RebD and/or RebM is 0.5 to 13.5        in Brix in terms of sucrose.
<filename>

                               - 1
                           DESCRIPTION
    CARBONATED BEVERAGE,  SYRUP  USED FOR PREPARING  CARBONATED
  BEVERAGE, METHOD FOR MANUFACTURING    CARBONATED BEVERAGE, AND
      METHOD FOR SUPPRESSING FOAMING IN CARBONATED BEVERAGE
The present application is a divisional application from
Australian patent application number 2015325329, the entire
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE   INVENTION
[0001]
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]     This embodiment relates to a carbonated beverage, a
syrup used for the preparation of a carbonated beverage, a
method for producing a carbonated beverage, and a method for
suppressing the foaming of a carbonated beverage.
BACKGROUND ART
[0003]     Carbonated beverages are preferably drunk by a wide
range of consumers.   Currently commercially available
carbonated beverages are various and have properties such as
visually pleasing a drinker by foaming when opening a
container or when pouring the carbonated beverage into a
container such as a glass, and giving to a drinker a
refreshing feeling in the throat.     Such properties of the
carbonated beverages are mainly due to carbon dioxide gas
contained in the carbonated beverages, but the foaming may be
a problem.
[0004]     In order to suppress foaming during the production

                              - 2
of a carbonated beverage and during opening a container
thereof, Patent Literature 1 discloses using a particular
antifoaming agent such as a silicone oil, a glycerin fatty
acid ester, or a sorbitan fatty acid ester.    Patent Literature
2 discloses,  regarding a cup type beverage vending machine,
blending sucralose or acesulfame potassium in a syrup in order
to suppress excessive foaming caused by the mixing of the
syrup and carbonated water.   On the other hand,  in Patent
Literatures 3 and 4, blending a non-polymerized catechin and a
stevia extract in a carbonated beverage at a particular ratio
is disclosed, but this is directed to the improvement of
carbon dioxide gas retention properties and is not directed to
the suppression of foaming.
CITATION LIST
PATENT LITERATURE
[0005]    Patent Literature 1:   Japanese Patent Laid-Open
No. 2014-087359
     Patent Literature 2:  Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 2008
228633
     Patent Literature 3:  Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 2012
179015
     Patent Literature 4:  Japanese Patent Laid-Open No. 2012
213341
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0006]    In response to an increase in nature orientation in
recent years, the inventors of this application have conducted
a study on the use of natural sweeteners in beverages.     In the
course of the study, when a container is opened, a carbonated

                            -  2a
beverage comprising this natural sweetener foams and bubbles
over the container in some cases.  Alternatively, also when
the carbonated beverage is poured into another container such

                               - 3
as a glass after opening, foaming occurs and the carbonated
beverage bubbles over in some cases.   As natural sweeteners,
Stevioside, Rebaudioside   (hereinafter referred to as "Reb"),
and the like as the sweet components of stevia extracts are
known, and the details will be described later.
[0007]     The present invention has been made in view of the
above-described problem, and it is an object of the present
invention to provide a carbonated beverage in which foaming is
suppressed, a syrup used for the preparation of a carbonated
beverage, a method for producing a carbonated beverage, and a
method for suppressing the foaming of a carbonated beverage.
[0008]     According to this embodiment, in a carbonated
beverage, a content of RebA is 500 ppm or less, a content of
RebD and/or RebM is 486 ppm or less,   ((RebD and/or RebM)/RebA)
is 0.45 or more in a mass ratio, and a total content of RebA
and RebD and/or RebM is 0.5 to 13.5 in Brix in terms of
sucrose.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0009]     Figure 1 shows the influence of the content of RebA,
RebD, and RebM on foaming.
      Figure 2 shows the influence of RebA, RebD, and RebM on
foaming.
      Figure 3 shows the influence of the combination of Reb
and caffeine on foaming.
      Figure 4 shows the influence of the ratio between RebM or
RebD and RebA on  foaming.
      Figure 5 shows the influence of the combination of RebD

                                -4
and RebM on   foaming.
     Figure   6 shows the influence of the gas pressure of a
carbonated beverage on foaming.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0010]     A carbonated beverage according to an embodiment of
the present invention will be described below with reference
to the drawings.
[0011]     In the carbonated beverage in the embodiment of the
present invention, the content of RebA is 500 ppm or less, the
content of RebD and/or RebM is 486 ppm or less,    ((RebD and/or
RebM)/RebA) is 0.45 or more in a mass ratio, and the total
content of RebA and RebD and/or RebM is 0.5 to 13.5 in Brix in
terms of sucrose.
[0012]     Reb is known as a sweet component contained in a
stevia extract.    The stevia extract is obtained by extraction
from stevia dry leaves and purification.    A stevia is a
composite perennial plant native to Paraguay in South America,
and its scientific name is Stevia Rebaudiana Bertoni.     The
stevia comprises a component having about 300 times or more
the sweetness of   sugar and therefore is grown in order to
extract this sweet component and use it as a natural sweetener.
As Reb, RebA, RebB, RebC, RebD, and RebE have been previously
described.   Further, recently, it has been reported presence
of various glycosides such as RebM, which is described in
Japanese Patent Domestic Announcement No. 2012-504552.     Among
various Reb, RebA is evaluated as a sweetener having a high
degree of sweetness and good sweetness and widely used.     In
the embodiment of the present invention, as the stevia extract,

                                      -   5
RebA,  RebD,  and RebM are paid attention                  to.    RebA,  RebD,      and
RebM are available on the market and can also be synthesized
by way of organic    chemistry.         Alternatively,            using a   stevia
extract as a starting raw material, RebA, RebD, and RebM can
also be  separated and purified.             For example,          RebA,  RebD,      and
RebM can be purified according to methods described in
Japanese Patent Domestic Announcement No. 2009-517043,
US8414949, and Foods 2014,         3(1),      162-175;         doi:
10.3390/foods3010162,     respectively.             RebA,       RebD,  and RebM may
be analyzed by any method and can be analyzed, for example, by
a high performance liquid chromatograph                     (HPLC) set under
conditions described in Japanese Patent Domestic Announcement
No.  2012-504552.   RebA,    RebD,      and RebM are analyzed herein                  by
the method unless otherwise described.
[0013]      A carbonated beverage refers to a beverage
comprising carbon dioxide        gas.       Examples        of the carbonated
beverage include refreshing beverages, nonalcoholic beverages,
and alcoholic beverages.         Specific examples include, but are
not  limited to, sparkling beverages, cola, diet                      cola, ginger
ale, soda pop, and carbonated water provided with a fruit
juice flavor.    The inventors        of this        application       have   found
for the first time that regarding a carbonated beverage
comprising a stevia extract, RebA is involved in foaming that
can be an issue during opening, in a case where the carbonated
beverage  is  poured into    a   container,          and the like.        In    the
embodiment of the present invention, foaming is suppressed by
decreasing the content of RebA as a stevia extract in a
carbonated beverage.      The content of RebA can be,

                               - 6
for example,   500 ppm or less, preferably 450 ppm or less, more
preferably 383 ppm or less, and further preferably 250 ppm or
less in the carbonated beverage but is not       limited to these.
Alternatively, RebA may be contained in the carbonated
beverage to the extent that even slight       sweetness    is felt, and,
for example,   0.5 ppm or more, preferably 1 ppm or more, and
more preferably 16.7 ppm or more of RebA may be contained in
the carbonated beverage.
[0014]     When the content of RebA as a stevia extract in a
carbonated beverage is simply decreased as described above,
sweetness derived from the stevia extract cannot be
sufficiently given to the carbonated beverage.        The inventors
of this application have found for the first time that RebD
and RebM are   less likely to foam than RebA.      In other words,
in the embodiment of the present invention, by replacing RebA
as a stevia extract with RebD and/or RebM in a carbonated
beverage, sweetness derived from a stevia extract can be
sufficiently given while the problem of the foaming of the
carbonated beverage is addressed.       In the carbonated beverage
in the embodiment of the present invention, the content of
RebD and/or RebM can be an amount required as an alternative
to RebA.   The carbonated beverage can contain RebD and RebM
singly or in combination.    When the carbonated beverage
comprises RebD alone, the content of RebD is not        limited and
can be,  for example,  486 ppm or less.     When the carbonated
beverage comprises RebM alone, the content of RebM is not
limited and can be,   for example,  450 ppm or less, preferably
404 ppm or less,   and more preferably    271 ppm or less.     When

                                  - 7
the carbonated beverage comprises RebD and RebM, the total
amount of RebD and RebM can be,       for example, 486 ppm or less.
 [0015]      The total amount of RebA, RebD, and RebM as a stevia
extract in the carbonated beverage can be set in a required
range, can be set in a range that does not        cause a problem in
terms of flavor, or can also be set in a range required for a
low calorie    carbonated  beverage.    For example,  although not
limited, the total amount of RebA, RebD, and RebM in the
carbonated beverage can be equivalent to Brix 0.5 to 13.5,
preferably 0.5 to 12, more preferably 0.5 to 11.5, and further
preferably 0.5 to 7.5 in terms of sucrose.         When the total
amount is less than Brix 0.5 in terms of sucrose, sweetness
derived from the stevia extract cannot be sufficiently
provided, and the bubble suppression effect by the replacement
of RebA with RebD and/or RebM may not be sufficiently exerted.
On the other hand, in a case where the total amount is more
than Brix 13.5 in terms of      sucrose, regarding the carbonated
beverage, the bubble suppression effect by the replacement of
RebA with RebD and/or RebM is not obtained, and moreover the
flavor may become worse due to too strong sweetness.
 [0016]      Here, Brix in terms of sucrose can be calculated
from the degree of sweetness of Reb based on sucrose and the
content of Reb.     RebA has  300 times the sweetness of sucrose,
RebD has    285 times the sweetness of sucrose, and RebM has       285
times the sweetness of sucrose.        Therefore, the amount of Reb
equivalent to Brix 1 in terms of sucrose can be calculated as
33.3 ppm for RebA and 35.1 ppm for RebD        (also RebM).
 [0017]      The relationship between the content of RebA, RebD,

                                     -  8
and RebM and the foaming suppression effect can be confirmed
as follows.      In order to adjust the degrees of sweetness of
test solutions to be equivalent to Brix 0.5,             1.0,  1.59, 7.5,
and 13.5 in terms of sucrose, the content of Reb was adjusted
as follows.      16.7 ppm,    33.3 ppm,    53 ppm, 250 ppm,    and 450 ppm
of RebA was dissolved in 15.8 mL of pure water.               17.6 ppm,
35.1 ppm, 55.7 ppm, 271.2 ppm, and 486 ppm of each of RebD and
RebM was dissolved in 15.8 mL of pure water.              Each solution
was  cooled to 40C,       and the amount of liquid    was adjusted to
100 mL with carbonated water.          The   container was sealed and
left  in  a refrigerator       at 40C for 1 hour.    The   container was
opened, and an inverted 500 mL graduated cylinder was placed
over the spout of the container in which the test solution was
contained,    and fixed.      The graduated cylinder and the
container were reversed to pour the test solution into the
graduated cylinder.         The  scale mark at the bubble rising
surface was read and taken as the volume corresponding to
bubble liquid level.         The volume corresponding to bubble
liquid level is shown in Figure           1 as a relative value in which
the volume corresponding to bubble liquid level regarding the
test solution comprising RebA at Brix 1.59            (53 ppm) in terms
of sucrose is 1.         In the case of blending at Brix 0.5 in terms
of sucrose, no substantial difference was seen in the volume
corresponding to bubble liquid level among RebA, RebD, and
RebM.    In the case of blending at Brix 1.0 or more in terms of
sucrose, for RebD and RebM, the volume corresponding to bubble
liquid level was decreased compared with that for RebA.               For
RebD, also at Brix 13.5 in terms of sucrose, the bubble liquid

                              -  9
level was decreased compared with that for RebA.      For RebM,
when the amount blended was Brix 11.5 or less in terms of
sucrose, the bubble liquid level was decreased compared with
that for RebA.
[0018]    From this, it was shown that the foaming suppression
effect of RebD was effective in the alternative to RebA at
Brix 0.5 to 13.5 or 1.0 to 13.5 in terms of sucrose.      It was
shown that the foaming suppression effect of RebM was
effective in the alternative to RebA at Brix 0.5 to 11.5 or
1.0 to 11.5 in terms of sucrose.     It is also suggested that
the total content of RebA and RebD and/or RebM being 0.5 to
13.5 in Brix in terms of sucrose is effective in the
suppression of foaming.
[0019]    The carbonated beverage in the embodiment of the
present invention can further comprise components generally
used in carbonated beverages,    such as caffeine,   cinnamaldehyde,
caramel coloring, and sweeteners    (sugar, isomerized liquid
sugars, and high intensity sweeteners such as aspartame,
sucralose, and acesulfame K),   perfumes, acidulants    (citric
acid, tartaric acid, malic acid, phosphoric acid, and lactic
acid), colorants, fruit juices, and fruit     juice purees, milk
and milk products, and nutrient    supplements   (vitamins, calcium,
minerals, and amino acids) .  The carbonated    beverage may
comprise a single or a combination of a plurality of these
components.  For example, the carbonated beverage can comprise
caffeine, cinnamaldehyde, caramel coloring, or a combination
of two or more of these together with the stevia extract.       As
one mode, the carbonated beverage in the embodiment of the

                                  -  10
present invention can comprise caffeine.           Here, the caffeine
may be in the form of an extract of a plant comprising
caffeine    (tea leaves, kola nuts,     coffee beans, guarana, or the
like) or its concentrate in addition to a purified product
that can be used as a food additive          (a purified product having
a caffeine content of      98.5% or more) and a roughly purified
product that can be used as a food         (caffeine content of 50 to
98.5%) .   In   the embodiment  of the present     invention,  the
content of caffeine in the carbonated beverage can be 1 to
200 ppm.     The quantification of caffeine may be performed
using any method and can be performed, for example, by
filtering the carbonated beverage by a membrane filter
 (cellulose acetate membrane 0.45        tm manufactured by ADVANTEC)
and subjecting the sample to HPLC set under the following
conditions.      The caffeine content is quantified herein by the
method unless otherwise mentioned.
 [0020]       (Conditions of HPLC for Caffeine Quantification)
- Column      TSK-gel ODS-80TsQA    (4.6 mm y x 150 mm,    Tosoh
Corporation)
- Mobile phase A         water:trifluoroacetic acid = 1000:0.5
- Mobile phase B         acetonitrile:trifluoroacetic acid       =
1000:0.5
- Flow rate         1.0 ml/min
- Column temperature 40 0 C
- Gradient conditions
       A:B =   95:5 is maintained from the start of analysis to 5
minutes after
       A:B = 5:95 from 5 minutes to 20 minutes

                                   - 11
       A:B = 5:95 is maintained from 20 minutes to 25 minutes
       A:B =   95:5 from 25 minutes to 26 minutes
       A:B =   95:5 is maintained from 26 minutes to 30 minutes
- Injection volume       5.0  tL
- Detection wavelength         280 nm
- Standard substance           anhydrous caffeine      (NACALAI TESQUE,
INC.).
 [0021]      As another mode, the carbonated beverage in the
embodiment of the present invention can comprise
cinnamaldehyde.      Here,  cinnamaldehyde    (C6H 5CH=CH-CHO,  molecular
weight   132.16) is one of aromatic aldehydes known as a
cinnamon aroma component and is available as a perfume
preparation.      In the embodiment of the present invention, the
carbonated beverage can comprise cinnamaldehyde in an amount
of a particular range.       For example, the content of
cinnamaldehyde in the carbonated beverage in the embodiment of
the present invention can be 0.5 to 50 ppm, preferably 0.5 to
32 ppm, and 1.0 to 20 ppm.        For the quantification of
cinnamaldehyde, for example, cinnamaldehyde can be quantified
by a method using gas chromatography, a mass spectrometer, or
the like.     The  content of cinnamaldehyde is quantified herein
by the method unless otherwise described.
 [0022]      As still another mode, the carbonated beverage in
the embodiment of the present invention can comprise caramel
coloring.     Here,  as the caramel    coloring,    known edible  caramel
coloring   can be used.     For example,   a  substance   obtained by
heat-treating an edible carbohydrate typified by sugar or
glucose, one obtained by adding an acid or an alkali to an

                                     -  12
edible carbohydrate and heat-treating the mixture, and the
like      can be used as the    caramel coloring.     In addition, a
sugar contained in a fruit          juice or a vegetable juice can also
be caramelized and used, and in this case, the sugar can be
caramelized by heat treatment, treatment with an acid or an
alkali, or the like. In the embodiment of the present
invention, the carbonated beverage can comprise caramel
coloring at a content of a particular range.
 [0023]        The foaming suppression effect of RebD and RebM in
combination with caffeine or cinnamaldehyde can be confirmed
as follows.       For RebA,   RebD,   and RebM,  commercial  products
were generally used.        To adjust sweetness of test solutions to
Brix 1.59 in terms of        sucrose, 53 ppm of RebA, 55.7 ppm of
RebD, and 55.7 ppm of RebM were each dissolved alone in
15.8 mL of pure water.          In addition, each of 53 ppm of RebA,
55.7 ppm of RebD, and 55.7 ppm of RebM, in combination with
10 ppm of caffeine or        50   1tl/100 ml of cinnamaldehyde, was
dissolved in 15.8 mL of pure water.            Each solution was cooled
to 40C and volume of the solution was adjusted to 100 mL with
carbonated water.       The container was sealed and left in a
refrigerator      at 40C for 1 hour.       The container was opened,  and
an inverted 500 mL graduated cylinder was placed over the
spout of the container in which the test solution was
contained,      and fixed.    The graduated cylinder and the
container were reversed to pour the test solution into the
graduated cylinder.        The   scale mark at the bubble rising
surface was read and taken as the volume corresponding to
bubble liquid level.        The volume corresponding to bubble

                                     - 13
liquid level is shown in Figure 2 as a relative value in which
the volume corresponding to bubble liquid level regarding the
test solution comprising RebA alone is 1.
 [0024]          For the test solution comprising RebM alone, the
volume corresponding to bubble liquid level was about 0.8
compared with that for the test solution comprising RebA alone.
Also for RebD, a similar result was obtained.              In combination
with caffeine, for the test solution comprising RebD or RebM,
the volume corresponding to bubble liquid level was greatly
decreased compared with that for the test solution comprising
RebA.        Also when RebA, RebD, and RebM were combined with
cinnamaldehyde, a similar result was obtained.               From the above
results, it was shown that RebD and RebM exerted the foaming
suppression effect even in combination with other materials
such as caffeine and cinnamaldehyde, which are widely blended
in carbonated beverages.
 [0025]          Further, the foaming suppression effect of RebD and
RebM in combination with caffeine can be confirmed as follows.
In order to adjust sweetness of test solutions to Brix 1.59 in
terms of sucrose, the content was set at 53 ppm of RebA,
55.7 ppm of RebD,         and 55.7 ppm of RebM.   RebA,    RebD,  and RebM
were each dissolved in 15.8 mL of pure water together with
caffeine.         Here, the caffeine content was changed to 1 ppm,
5 ppm,        10 ppm,  100 ppm, and 200 ppm.   Each solution     was cooled
to 40C and volume of the solution was adjusted to 100 mL with
carbonated water.          The container was sealed and left in a
refrigerator        at 40C for 1 hour.    The container was opened,     and
an inverted 500 mL graduated cylinder was placed over the

                                  -   14
spout of the container in which the test solution was
contained,  and fixed.    The graduated cylinder and the
container were reversed to pour the test solution into the
graduated cylinder.    The    scale mark at the bubble rising
surface was read and taken as the volume corresponding to
bubble liquid level.    The volume corresponding to bubble
liquid level is shown in Figure          3(A) as a relative value in
which the volume corresponding to bubble liquid level of the
test solution comprising 53 ppm of RebA and 1 ppm of caffeine
is 1.  In combination with any amount of caffeine, for the
test solution comprising RebM, the volume corresponding to
bubble liquid level was decreased compared with that for the
test solution comprising RebA.          Also for RebD, a similar
result was obtained    (Figure 3(B)).
[0026]     From these results, it was shown that RebM and RebD
effectively suppressed the foaming of the carbonated beverage
compared with RebA even when combined with caffeine.             It was
also suggested that this foaming suppression effect was
exerted regardless of the content of caffeine.            Caffeine is a
component generally blended in carbonated beverages.             Thus,  it
is suggested that the effect achieved by RebM and/or RebD can
be widely applied to carbonated beverages.
[0027]     The carbonated beverage may comprise RebD and/or
RebM and RebA at a particular        ratio.    For example,  ((RebD
and/or RebM)/RebA)   can be     0.45   or more,   preferably  1.1  or more,
more preferably 2.5 or more, and further preferably 6.0 or
more in a mass ratio.     When the ratio is less than 0.45, the
influence of RebA becomes strong, and the foaming of the

                                     -  15
carbonated beverage cannot be suppressed.
 [0028]      The influence of the content ratio of RebM and/or
RebD to RebA on foaming can be confirmed as follows.                The
degrees of sweetness of test solutions were adjusted to be
equivalent to Brix 1.59 in terms of sucrose.              RebA and RebM
were combined at ratios of          100:0, 70:30, 30:70,     15:85, 5:95,
and 0:100 in Brix in terms of sucrose and dissolved in 15.8 mL
of pure water.      Each solution      was cooled to   40C and volume of
the solution was adjusted to 100 mL with carbonated water.
The container was sealed and left in a refrigerator at 40C for
1 hour.    Also   for combinations      of RebA and RebD,     a  similar
operation was performed.          The  container was opened,      and an
inverted 500 mL graduated cylinder was placed over the spout
of the container in which the test solution was contained, and
fixed.    The graduated cylinder and the container were reversed
to pour the test solution into the graduated cylinder.                The
scale mark at the bubble rising surface was read and taken as
the volume corresponding to bubble liquid level.                The volume
corresponding to bubble liquid level is shown in Figure 4 as a
relative value in which the volume corresponding to bubble
liquid level regarding the test solution comprising RebA alone
is 1.    In Figure 4(A),    A100 represents RebA:RebM = 100:0, A70
represents RebA:RebM = 70:30, A30           represents RebA:RebM =       30:70,
A15   represents RebA:RebM =        15:85, A5 represents RebA:RebM =
5:95,   and AO   represents RebA:RebM = 0:100        (The ratios are all
in  Brix in   terms of sucrose) .       For Figure 4 (B),   RebM is
replaced by RebD in the description of the above Figure 4(A).
 [0029]      It was shown that as the proportion of RebM

                                        -   16
increased, the volume corresponding to bubble liquid level
decreased         (Figure 4 (A))   . This tendency was clear           when the
proportion of RebM in Brix in terms of sucrose was 30%                        or more,
and was clearer particularly when the proportion of RebM in
Brix in       terms of      sucrose was   70% or more.         Also for RebD,      a
similar       tendency was shown       (Figure 4 (B))      .   From these results,
it was shown that by replacing RebA with RebM and/or RebD,
foaming was suppressed without substantially changing the
sweetness of the carbonated beverage.                   It was shown that when
 ((RebD and/or RebM)/RebA) was about 0.45 or more in a mass
ratio, foaming was suppressed.
 [0030]           In the embodiment of the present invention, when
RebD and RebM are            contained in combination in the carbonated
beverage, RebD and RebM may be combined at any ratio.                       The
influence of the combination of RebD and RebM on foaming can
be confirmed as follows.             In order to adjust sweetness of test
solutions to Brix 1.59 in terms of sucrose, the content of Reb
was adjusted.            RebD and RebM were combined at ratios of 0:100,
25:75,       50:50, 75:25, and 100:0 in Brix in terms of sucrose and
dissolved in 15.8 mL of pure water.                   Each solution was cooled
to 40C and volume of the solution was adjusted to 100 mL with
carbonated water.             The container was sealed and left in a
refrigerator           at 40C for 1 hour.      A test    solution     comprising
RebA alone was also prepared in the similar manner.                       The
container was opened, and an inverted 500 mL graduated
cylinder was placed over the spout of the container in which
the test        solution     was contained,     and fixed.        The graduated
cylinder and the container were reversed to pour the test

                               - 17
solution into the graduated cylinder.      The scale mark at the
bubble rising surface was read and taken as the volume
corresponding to bubble liquid level.      The volume
corresponding to bubble liquid level is shown in Figure 5 as a
relative value in which the volume corresponding to bubble
liquid level regarding the test solution comprising RebA alone
is 1.   In the figure,  "100" on the horizontal axis   represents
the test solution comprising RebA, RebD, or RebM alone.       "Y75"Y,
"50",  and "25"  on the horizontal axis   represent the test
solutions comprising RebM and RebD at ratios of 75:25, 50:50,
and 25:75 in Brix in terms of sucrose respectively.
[0031]     For the test solution comprising RebD or RebM alone,
the volume corresponding to bubble liquid level was
significantly decreased compared with the case where RebA was
contained alone.    It was also confirmed that for the test
solutions comprising the combinations of RebD and RebM, the
volume corresponding to bubble liquid level was decreased
compared with that for the test solution comprising RebA alone.
From these results, it was shown that even when RebA was
replaced with RebD and RebM in combination, foaming could be
suppressed without substantially changing the degree of
sweetness of the carbonated beverage.
[0032]     The carbonated beverage in the embodiment of the
present invention may further comprise sweeteners generally
used in beverages, such as    sucrose, glucose, fructose,
isomerized liquid sugars, and high intensity sweeteners such
as aspartame,   sucralose,  and acesulfame  K.  The carbonated
beverage may comprise a single or plurality of these

                                      - 18
sweeteners.    As one mode, the carbonated beverage in the
embodiment of the present invention can further comprise
sucrose.   Here, the content of sucrose in the carbonated
beverage is not limited and can be 6 to 12 g/100 g.               The
quantification of saccharides such as sucrose can also be
performed, for example, by a usual method such as high
performance   liquid      chromatography     (HPLC) .  HPLC can be
performed, for example, under the following conditions.
Equipment used:      HP1100 system manufactured by HP
Column used:    LiChrospher 100 NH2         (5  tm) (4 mm X 250 mm)
Mobile phase: acetonitrile:water = 75:25
Flow rate:   1.0 mL/min
Column temperature:         400C
Injection volume:       10    tL
Detector:  Sugar content differential refractometer             (Shodex RI
71)
[0033]     Saccharides such as sucrose are quantified herein by
the method unless otherwise described.
[0034]     The carbonated beverage in the embodiment of the
present invention comprises carbon dioxide gas.              The content
of carbon dioxide gas in the carbonated beverage can be
defined by gas pressure.           For the carbon dioxide gas in the
carbonated beverage, the gas pressure can be, for example,
           2                              2                           2
1.7 kgf/cm    or more, 1.89 kgf/cm          or more, or 2.15 kgf/cm      or
more.  The upper      limit     of the gas pressure may be,      for example,
           2
5.0 kgf/cm    or less or 4.0 kgf/cm 2 or less,          as required.    The
gas pressure regarding the carbonated beverage refers to the
gas pressure of carbon dioxide gas in the carbonated beverage

                               -  19
in a container unless otherwise described.         Therefore, the
carbonated beverage can be filled into a container.          For the
container, a container of any form and material can be used,
and, for example, the container may be a container such as a
bottle, a can, a barrel, or a PET bottle.         The measurement of
gas pressure can be performed, for example, by fixing a
beverage  set at 200C in  a gas  internal     pressure meter,  opening
the gas  internal pressure meter cock once to remove gas,
closing the cock again, swinging the gas internal pressure
meter, and reading the value when the pointer reaches a
certain position.    The gas pressure of the carbonated beverage
is measured herein using the method unless otherwise described.
 [0035]     The influence of the carbon dioxide gas content of
the carbonated beverage on foaming can be confirmed as follows.
To prepare each test solution, RebA, RebD, and RebM equivalent
to Brix 10 in terms of sucrose were each added to pure water
and dissolved, and then carbonated water was added to adjust a
gas pressure to a defined value.        An inverted 500 mL graduated
cylinder was placed over the spout of the container in which
the test  solution  was contained,     and fixed.    The graduated
cylinder and the container were reversed to pour the test
solution into the graduated cylinder.         The scale mark at the
bubble rising surface was read and taken as the volume
corresponding to bubble liquid level.         The volume
corresponding to bubble liquid level is shown in Figure          6 as a
relative value in which the volume corresponding to bubble
liquid level regarding the test solution comprising RebA
equivalent to Brix 10 in terms of         sucrose is  1.  In the figure,

                              -  20
"GAS VOL"  represents  gas pressure.    Compared with the test
solution comprising RebA, for the test solution comprising
RebM, foaming tended to be suppressed at a gas pressure of
1.9 kgf/cm2 or more, and further, foaming tended to be more
                                                          2
strongly suppressed at a gas pressure of 2.15 kgf/cm        or more.
For the test solution comprising RebD, foaming tended to be
suppressed at a gas pressure of     1.7 kgf/cm 2 or more, and
further, foaming tended to be suppressed from a gas pressure
of 1.89 kgf/cm 2 or more.
[0036]     The carbonated beverage in the embodiment of the
present invention may further comprise components approved as
food additives, or components eaten from old times and
generally recognized as safe though not approved, such as
fruit  juices, acidulants, perfumes, extracts of plants, milk
products, and other flavors.
[0037]     <Method for Producing Carbonated Beverage>
      According to an embodiment of the present invention, a
method for producing a carbonated beverage is provided.        The
production method comprises preparing a syrup, adjusting the
amount of liquid required, and supplying carbon dioxide gas.
The syrup herein refers to a solution comprising at least one
component described above contained in a carbonated beverage,
and comprising substantially no carbon dioxide gas.
[0038]     The syrup can be prepared by dissolving raw
materials such as RebA, RebD, and RebM in water.       The RebA
content in the syrup can be set so that the content of RebA in
the carbonated beverage is 500 ppm or less, preferably 450 ppm
or less, more preferably 383 ppm or less, and further

                               -  21
preferably 250 ppm or less, and can also be set so that
substantially no RebA is contained in the carbonated beverage,
but is not limited to these.     RebA may be contained in the
carbonated beverage to the extent that even slight sweetness
is felt, and the content of RebA in the syrup may be set so
that,  for example, 0.5 ppm or more, preferably 1 ppm or more,
and more preferably 16.7 ppm or more of RebA is contained in
the carbonated beverage.
[0039]     The content of RebD and/or RebM in the syrup can be
an amount required as an alternative to RebA.       RebD or RebM
can be contained alone in the syrup, or RebD and RebM can be
contained in combination in the syrup.       When RebD is contained
alone in the syrup, the content of RebD is not limited and can
be set so that,   for example, the content of RebD in the
carbonated beverage is 486 ppm or less.       When RebM is
contained alone in the syrup, the content of RebM is not
limited and can be set so that,      for example, the content of
RebM in the carbonated beverage is 450 ppm or less, preferably
404 ppm or less,   and more preferably    271 ppm or less.    When
RebD and RebM are   contained in combination in the syrup, the
total amount of RebD and RebM can be set so that,        for example,
the content of RebD and RebM in the carbonated beverage is
486 ppm or less.    By replacing RebA as a stevia extract with
ReD and/or RebM in a syrup, sweetness derived from a stevia
extract can be sufficiently given to a carbonated beverage
while the issue of the foaming of the carbonated beverage is
addressed.   When RebD and RebM are     contained in combination in
the syrup, RebD and RebM may be combined at any ratio.

                                  -  22
 [0040]     RebD and/or RebM and RebA may be contained in the
syrup at a particular     ratio.    For example, ((RebD   and/or
RebM)/RebA) can be 0.45 or more, preferably 1.1 or more, more
preferably 2.5 or more, and further preferably 6.0 or more in
a mass ratio.     When the ratio is less than 0.45, the influence
of RebA is strong, and the foaming of the carbonated beverage
sometimes cannot be suppressed.
 [0041]     The total amount of RebA, RebD, and RebM as a stevia
extract in the syrup can be set in a required range and, for
example, can be set in a range that is not problematic in
terms of flavor, and can also be set in a range required for a
low calorie   carbonated    beverage.   For example,  although not
limited, the total amount of RebA, RebD, and RebM in the syrup
can be set so that the total amount of RebA, RebD, and RebM in
the carbonated beverage is equivalent to Brix 0.5 to 13.5,
preferably 0.5 to 12, more preferably 0.5 to 11.5, and further
preferably 0.5 to 7.5 in terms of sucrose.        When the total
amount is less than Brix 0.5 in terms of sucrose, not only can
sweetness derived from the stevia extract not be sufficiently
provided, but the bubble suppression effect of the replacement
of RebA with RebD and/or RebM may not be sufficiently exerted.
On the other hand, in a case where the total amount is more
than Brix 13.5 in terms of       sucrose, regarding the carbonated
beverage, the bubble suppression effect of the replacement of
RebA with RebD and/or RebM is not obtained, and moreover the
flavor may become worse due to too strong sweetness.
 [0042]     Components generally used in carbonated beverages,
such as caffeine, cinnamaldehyde, caramel coloring, and

                                  -  23
sweeteners    (sugar, isomerized liquid sugars, and high
intensity sweeteners such as aspartame, sucralose, and
acesulfame K),    perfumes, acidulants     (citric acid, tartaric
acid, malic acid, phosphoric        acid, and lactic acid),   colorants,
fruit   juices and fruit juice purees, milk and milk products,
and nutrient    supplements  (vitamins, calcium, minerals, and
amino acids),    may be further contained in the syrup.       A   single
of these components may be contained in the syrup, or a
plurality of these components may be contained in combination
in  the  syrup.   For example,   caffeine,  cinnamaldehyde,   caramel
coloring, or a combination of two or more of these can be
contained in the syrup together with the stevia extract.            As
one mode, caffeine can be contained in the syrup in the
embodiment   of the present    invention.   Here,  the caffeine may
be in the form of an extract of a plant comprising caffeine
 (tea leaves, kola nuts,    coffee beans, guarana, or the like) or
its concentrate in addition to a purified product that can be
used as a food additive     (a purified product having a caffeine
content of   98.5% or more) and a roughly purified product that
can be used as a     food (caffeine content    50 to  98.5%).   In  the
embodiment of the present invention, caffeine can be contained
in the syrup so that the content in the carbonated beverage is
in a particular range.     For example, the content of caffeine
in the syrup is not limited and can be set so that the
caffeine content of the carbonated beverage is 1 to 200 ppm.
 [0043]     As another mode, cinnamaldehyde can be contained in
the syrup in the embodiment of the present invention.
Cinnamaldehyde can be contained in the syrup so that the

                              - 24
content in the carbonated beverage is in a particular range.
For example, the content of cinnamaldehyde in the syrup can be
set so that cinnamaldehyde in the carbonated beverage is 0.5
to 50 ppm, preferably 0.5 to 32 ppm or 1.0 to 20 ppm.
[0044]     As still another mode,   caramel coloring can be
contained in the syrup in the embodiment of the present
invention.   In the embodiment of the present invention,
caramel coloring can be contained in the syrup so that the
content in the carbonated beverage is in a particular range.
[0045]     Sweeteners generally used for the production of
beverages, such as sucrose, glucose,    fructose, isomerized
liquid sugars,   and high intensity sweeteners such as aspartame,
sucralose, and acesulfame K, may be further contained in the
syrup in the embodiment of the present invention.     These
sweeteners may be contained in the syrup singly or in
combination of a plurality of these sweeteners.     As one mode,
sucrose can be further contained in the syrup in the
embodiment  of the present  invention.   Here, the content of
sucrose in the syrup can be designed so that sucrose is
contained in the carbonated beverage in a particular range.
For example, the content of sucrose in the syrup is not
limited and can be set so that the content of sucrose in the
carbonated beverage is 6 to 12 g/100 g.
[0046]     In addition, components approved as food additives,
or components eaten from old times and generally recognized as
safe though not approved, such as fruit    juices, acidulants,
perfumes, extracts   of plants, milk products, and other flavors,
may be further contained in the syrup.

                                  -   25
[0047]     In the preparation of a carbonated beverage, the
supply of carbon dioxide gas can be performed by mixing a
syrup and carbonated water.         The mixing may be performed by
adding carbonated water to a container comprising the syrup,
may be performed by adding the syrup to a container comprising
carbonated water, or may be performed while the syrup and
carbonated water are transferred to another container.            In
addition, a syrup and a carbonated beverage may be prepared in
the same factory, or a carbonated beverage may be prepared by
filling a syrup into a container or the like, transporting it
to another factory, and mixing the syrup with carbonated water.
Further, it is possible that a syrup is transported to a
restaurant or the like, and in the restaurant, a user mixes
the syrup and carbonated water to prepare a carbonated
beverage.   Alternatively, the supply of carbon dioxide gas can
also be performed by diluting a syrup with water and then
injecting carbon dioxide gas thereto.          The amount of carbon
dioxide gas   supplied to the carbonated beverage can be defined
as gas pressure.     Carbon dioxide gas can be supplied to the
syrup so that the gas pressure in the carbonated beverage is,
for example,   1.7 kgf/cm2 or more,       1.89 kgf/cm 2 or more, or
2.15 kgf/cm 2 or more.    An upper limit may be provided to the
amount of carbon dioxide       gas supplied,    as required.   Carbon
dioxide gas can be supplied to the syrup so that,           for example,
the gas pressure in the carbonated beverage is 5.0 kgf/cm 2 or
less or 4.0 kgf/cm 2 or less.        Therefore, the carbonated
beverage  can be filled    into   a   container.   For the  container, a
container of any form and material can be used, and, for

                              - 26
example, the container may be a container such as a bottle, a
can, a barrel, or a PET bottle.    In addition, the method for
filling the carbonated beverage into a container is also not
particularly limited.
The discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices,
articles and the like is included in this specification solely
for the purpose of providing a context for the present
invention.  It  is not suggested or represented that any or all
of these matters formed part of the prior art base or were
common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present
invention as it existed before the priority date of each claim
of this application.
Where the terms   "comprise", "comprises",  "comprised" or
"comprising" are used in this specification    (including the
claims) they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence
of the stated features, integers, steps or components, but not
precluding the presence of one or more other features,
integers, steps or components, or group thereof.

                               - 27
        The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.    A carbonated beverage, wherein
      a content of RebA is 500 ppm or less,
      a content of RebD and/or RebM is 486 ppm or less,
     ((RebD  and/or RebM)/RebA)  is 0.45 or more in a mass  ratio,
and
      a total content of RebA and RebD and/or RebM is 0.5 to
13.5 in Brix in terms of sucrose.
2.    The carbonated beverage according to claim 1, comprising
caffeine, cinnamaldehyde, or caramel coloring.
3.    The carbonated beverage according to claim 1 or 2,
comprising sucrose.
4.    The carbonated beverage according to any one of claims 1
to 3, comprising    carbon dioxide gas at a gas pressure of
1.89 kgf/cm 2 or more.
5.    The carbonated beverage according to any one of claims 1
to 4, filled into a container.
6.    A  syrup used for preparation of a carbonated beverage,
comprising RebA and RebD and/or RebM
      so that
      in a prepared carbonated beverage,
      a content of RebA is 500 ppm or less,
      a content of RebD and/or RebM is 486 ppm or less,
     ((RebD  and/or RebM)/RebA)  is 0.45 or more in a mass  ratio,
and

                               - 28
      a total content of RebA and RebD and/or RebM is 0.5 to
13.5 in Brix in terms of sucrose.
7.    A method for producing a carbonated beverage, comprising:
      adding 500 ppm or less of RebA;
      adding 486 ppm or less of RebD and/or RebM;
      setting   ((RebD and/or RebM)/RebA) at 0.45 or more in a
mass ratio;   and
      setting a total content of RebA and RebD and/or RebM at
0.5 to 13.5 in Brix in terms of     sucrose.
8.    The production method according to claim 7,   comprising
supplying carbon dioxide gas.
9.    A method for producing a carbonated beverage, comprising
diluting the syrup according to claim 6 with water and then
injecting carbon dioxide gas thereto, wherein
      for RebA and RebD and/or RebM in a carbonated beverage,
      a content of RebA is adjusted to 500 ppm or less,
      a content of RebD and/or RebM is adjusted to 486 ppm or
less,
       ((RebD and/or RebM)/RebA) is adjusted to 0.45 or more in
a mass ratio, and
      a total content of RebA and RebD and/or RebM is adjusted
to 0.5 to 13.5 in Brix in terms of sucrose.
10.   The production method according to any one of claims 7 to
9 for producing the carbonated beverage according to any one
of claims 1 to 4.
11. A method for suppressing foaming of a carbonated beverage,
comprising:

                              - 29
     adding 500 ppm or less of RebA;
     adding 486 ppm or less of RebD and/or RebM;
     setting   ((RebD and/or RebM)/RebA) at 0.45 or more in a
mass ratio;  and
     setting a total content of RebA and RebD and/or RebM at
0.5 to 13.5 in Brix in terms of    sucrose.

                                                                  <removed-apn>           <removed-date>
                                                                 BUBBLE LIQUID LEVEL
BUBBLE LIQUID LEVEL (PROPORTION WHEN
  BUBBLE LIQUID LEVEL FOR RebA IS 1)
                                       Figure 2                                            Figure 1
       CAFFEINE
 CINNAMALDEHYDE
                                                  ASSUMED Brix
       CAFFEINE                                                                                       1/4
 CINNAMALDEHYDE
       CAFFEINE
 CINNAMALDEHYDE

<removed-date>
                               2/4
              Figure 3
<removed-apn>
              CAFFEINE (ppm)
              CAFFEINE (ppm)

                 <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
BUBBLE LIQUID   BUBBLE LIQUID
   LEVEL           LEVEL
                                    Figure 4
                                               3/4

                                                       <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
LIQUID LEVEL HEIGHT                                     BUBBLE LIQUID
  (RELATIVE VALUE)                                         LEVEL
                      Figure 6                                              Figure 5
                                                                                       4/4
                                 (REMAINDER IS RebD)

