                            ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
          A pump, having a pump housing with an impeller arranged therein, features
  an anti-airlock valve assembly configured with a valve housing having a passageway
  configured with a vent hole to allow air to bleed out of the pump housing into the
5 atmosphere so liquid can fill the pump housing, rise and engage the impeller in order
  to get the pump running; and a valve ball arranged in the passageway, the valve ball
  configured to rest against one part of the passageway so air can pass out of the vent
  hole, and also configured to be light or buoyant enough to respond to the liquid filling
  the pump housing, float upwardly and rest against another part of the passageway
0 so as not to allow water to escape readily from the vent hole after the liquid rises to a
  sufficient level and substantially engages the impeller.

                              ANTI-AIRLOCK VALVE ASSEMBLY
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           1. Field of the Invention
           This invention relates to a pump; and more particularly, relates to a centrifugal
 5 pump, e.g., including a bilge pump.
           2. Description of Related Art
           Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way
   be considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of
 o common general knowledge in the field.
           A centrifugal pump cannot begin pumping water until its impeller is immersed
   in water. In the operation of the centrifugal pump, there are cases in which the
   impeller is prevented from engaging any water by air entrapped in the pump's
   housing or body. This situation is known as air lock and is a problem in the art. In
 5 view of this, there is a need for a way to prevent air lock, e.g., in centrifugal pumps.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                   To overcome this air lock condition, the pump must release this
   entrapped air, the air must be allowed to "bleed" out to the atmosphere allowing the
20 water to rise and engage the impeller. By way of example, a related patent
   application serial no. 14/193,269 (911-17.31-1//M-RLE-X0007), filed on 28 February
   2014, which discloses a technique for solving the aforementioned air lock problem, is
   assigned to the assignee of the present application, and is incorporated by reference
   in its entirety. See also patent application serial no. 13/917,970, (911-17.28-2//M
25 RLE-X0005), filed 14 June 2013, which discloses another technique for solving the
                                                1

   aforementioned air lock problem, is also assigned to the assignee of the present
   application, and which is also incorporated by reference in its entirety.
           The instant application builds on the techniques set forth in the
   aforementioned related applications.
 5         According to some embodiments, the present invention may take the form of
   a pump having a pump housing with an impeller arranged therein, featuring an anti
   airlock valve or valve assembly configured with a valve housing in combination with
   a valve ball. The valve housing may be configured with a passageway having a vent
   hole to allow air to bleed out of a chamber of the pump housing into the atmosphere
 0 so liquid can fill the pump housing, rise and engage the impeller in order to get the
   pump running. The valve ball may be arranged in the valve housing, configured to
   rest against one part of the valve housing so air can pass out of the vent hole, and
   also configured to be light or buoyant enough to respond to the liquid filling the pump
   housing, float upwardly and rest against another part of the valve housing so as not
 5 to allow water to escape readily from the vent hole after the liquid rises to a sufficient
   level and substantially engages the impeller.
           According to some embodiments, the present invention may also include one
   or more of the following features:
           The anti-airlock valve assembly may be configured in, or form an integral part
20 of, the pump housing.
           The anti-airlock valve assembly may be configured on the discharge side of
   the pump, e.g., including forming part of a discharge chamber of the pump.
           The anti-airlock valve assembly may be configured on the suction side of the
   pump, e.g., including forming part of a suction chamber of the pump.
                                               2

           The valve housing may include an upper valve seat configured with the vent
   hole; and a lower valve seat configured to contain the valve ball in the valve housing
   and allow air to bleed out of the pump housing into the atmosphere via the vent hole.
           The upper valve seat may include a frustoconical wall configured to form part
 5 of the passageway.
           The frustoconical wall may include one end configured with a wide opening
   dimensioned to be larger in diameter than the valve ball; and another end configured
   with the vent hole dimensioned to be smaller in diameter than the valve ball, so that
   when the valve ball floats upwardly and seals against part of the frustoconical wall,
 o water cannot escape readily from the vent hole after the liquid rises to the sufficient
   level and substantially engages the impeller.
           The valve ball may be configured to respond to a suction discharge pressure
   once the pump is running and seal against the lower valve seat in order to prevent
   air from passing from the atmosphere into a suction discharge chamber of the pump
 5 housing.
           The pump may be configured as a centrifugal pump, e.g., for use as a bilge
   pump, including where the bilge pump has an outlet nozzle having a backflow
   preventer assembly coupled thereto with a duckbill-type check valve arranged
   therein to allow only liquid flow in only one direction, consistent with that disclosed in
20 patent application serial no. 14/193,324 (911-17.32-1//M-RLE-X0008), filed on 28
   February 2014, and incorporated by reference in its entirety.
           These and other features, aspects, and advantages of embodiments of the
   invention will become apparent with reference to the following description in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawing. It is to be understood, however, that
                                                3

   the drawing is designed solely for the purposes of illustration and not as a definition
   of the limits of the invention.
           According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a pump
   having a pump housing with an impeller arranged therein, comprising:
 5         an anti-airlock valve assembly configured with
                   a valve housing having a passageway configured with a vent hole to
           allow air to bleed out of a chamber of the pump housing into the atmosphere
           so liquid can fill the pump housing, rise and engage the impeller in order to get
           the pump running; and
 0                 a valve ball arranged in the valve housing, the valve ball configured to
           rest against one part of the valve housing so air can pass out of the vent hole,
           and also configured to be light or buoyant enough to respond to the liquid
          filling the pump housing, float upwardly and rest against another part of the
           valve housing so as not to allow water to escape readily from the vent hole
 5         after the liquid rises to a sufficient level and substantially engages the
           impeller.
           Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and
   the claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
   inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the
20 sense of "including, but not limited to".
           It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one
   of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
                                                   4

                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWING
           The drawing, which is not necessarily to scale, include the following Figures:
           Figure 1a is a diagram of a centrifugal pump equipped with a discharge type
 5 anti-lock valve or valve assembly, according to some embodiments of the present
   invention.
           Figure 1b is a more detailed view of the discharge type anti-lock valve of the
   centrifugal pump in Figure 1a.
           Figure 2a is a diagram of a centrifugal pump equipped with a suction type
 o anti-lock valve or valve assembly, according to some embodiments of the present
   invention.
           Figure 2b is a more detailed view of the suction type anti-lock valve of the
   centrifugal pump in Figure 2a.
           In the following description of the exemplary embodiment, reference is made
 5 to the accompanying drawing, which form a part hereof, and in which is shown by
   way of illustration of an embodiment in which the invention may be practiced. It is to
   be understood that other embodiments may be utilized, as structural and operational
   changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.
20                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           To overcome the aforementioned air lock problem, the pump must be
   configured to release the entrapped air in the pump housing. In effect, the air must
   be allowed to "bleed" out to the atmosphere surrounding the pump allowing the water
   to rise and engage the impeller. The anti-airlock valve assemblies disclosed herein
25 allow this release of the entrapped air to occur.
                                                5

           By way of example, Figures 1a and 2a show the present invention in the form
   of a pump generally indicated as 10, 10' having the pump housing B with the impeller
   A arranged therein. The pump 10, 10' may be configured with an anti-airlock valve
   (also known as an anti-airlock valve assembly) generally indicated as D, D' in
 5 Figures la and 2a, each configured with a valve housing generally indicated as 12,
   12' in combination with a valve ball G, H as shown in Figures 1b and 2b. The valve
   housing 12, 12' may be configured with a passageway 14, 14' having a vent hole 16
   to allow air to bleed out of a chamber 11 of the pump housing B into the atmosphere
   surrounding the pump so liquid can fill the pump housing B, rise and engage the
 o impeller A in order to get the pump 10, 10' running. The valve ball G, H may be
   arranged in the valve housing 12, 12', configured to rest against a lower part of the
   valve housing 12, 12' so air can pass out of the vent hole 16, and also configured to
   be light or buoyant enough to respond to the liquid filling the pump housing B, float
   upwardly and rest against an upper part of the valve housing 12, 12' so as not to
 5 allow water to escape readily from the vent hole 16 after the liquid rises to a
   sufficient level and substantially engages the impeller A. By way of example, in
   operation pressurized air in the chamber 11 may cause the valve ball G, H to lift so
   as to enable the air to pass around the valve ball G, H, through the passageway 14,
   14' of the valve D, D', and out the vent hole 16 to the atmosphere surrounding the
20 pump 10, 10'.
           By way of example, the valve housing 12, 12' may be configured with an
   upper valve seat 20, 20' configured with the vent hole 16; and a lower valve seat 22,
   22' configured to contain the valve ball G, H in the valve housing 12, 12' and allow air
   to bleed out of the chamber of the pump housing B into the atmosphere via the vent
25 hole 16, consistent with that shown in Figures 1b, 2b.
                                               6

          Consistent with that shown in Figure 1b, the upper valve seat 20 may include
   a frustoconical wall 24 configured to form one part of the passageway 14, and the
   lower valve seat 22 may include a frustoconical wall 26 also configured to form
   another part of the passageway 14. The frustoconical wall 24 may include one end
 5 24a configured with a wide opening dimensioned to be larger in diameter than the
   valve ball G; and another end 24b configured with the vent hole 16 dimensioned to
   be smaller in diameter than the valve ball G, so that when the valve ball G floats
   upwardly and seals against part of the frustoconical wall 24, water cannot escape
   readily from the vent hole 16 after the liquid rises to the sufficient level and
 0 substantially engages the impeller A. The frustoconical wall 26 has an end 26a
   configured with an opening dimensioned to be smaller in diameter than the valve ball
   G to prevent the valve ball G from escaping the valve housing 12.
          Consistent with that shown in Figure 2b, the upper valve seat 20' may include
   a wall 28 configured to form one part of the passageway 14', and the lower valve
 5 seat 22' may include a frustoconical wall 30 configured to form another part of the
   passageway 14'. The upper valve seat 20' and the lower valve seat 22' are
   configured with corresponding openings dimensioned to allow the air out of the valve
   housing 12' and keep the valve ball H in the valve housing 12', similar to that set
   forth above in relation to Figure 1b.
20         In particular, Figure 1a shows the pump 10 in the form of a centrifugal pump
   equipped with a discharge type anti-airlock valve C located on the pump's discharge
   E. When the pump 10 is activated, the impeller A causes the air pressure to rise in
   the pump's discharge chamber 11. This pressurized air escapes through the vent
   hole 16 in the valve D and water begins to fill the pump chamber 11. Once the
25 impeller A is adequately submerged in the rising water, it will begin to push water
                                                7

   through the pump 10 and out the pump discharge E. With water being pushed
   through the pump 10, the valve ball G is forcibly pressed against the top of the valve
   D creating a seal which prevents water from escaping out the vent hole 16. See
   Figure 1b for an enlarged and more detailed view of the discharge anti-airlock valve
 5 design shown in Figure 1a.
           In comparison, Figure 2a shows the pump 10' in the form of a low profile
   centrifugal pump having the valve D' located at the pump's intake F. This pump
   configuration is basically useful when the central axis of the pump 10' is parallel to
   the plane of the surface of the water to be pumped. In this situation, the air is
 0 allowed to bleed out due to increased pressure of the air in the intake chamber 11'
   from the turning of the impeller A. Once water is flowing, this intake area is at a
   negative pressure relative to the atmosphere surrounding the pump 10' and the valve
   ball H is forced inwards to the bottom of the valve D' creating a seal. See Figure 2b
   for a detailed view of the intake anti-airlock valve design.
 5         In effect, the present invention provides anti-airlock valve assembly in two
   different forms, e.g., including discharge and suction types. In each type, the anti
   airlock valve assembly includes the valve housing 12, 12' having the upper valve
   seat 20, 20' for the valve ball G, H to set under the water pressure preventing any
   water to escape through the vent hole 16. In each type, the anti-airlock valve
20 assembly also includes the valve ball G, H that is constructed light enough to allow
   air to escape yet will easily be forced upward (or downward in the case of the intake
   valve) to seat against the upper valve housing seat 20, 20' not allowing water to
   escape readily.
           According to some embodiments, a pump housing receptacle may be
25 configured for receiving the valve housing 12, 12', including where it is an integral
                                                8

   part of the pump 10, 10', has suitable mating, and also has a diameter and
   dimensioning for allowing the valve housing 12, 12' to be securely held to the pump
   housing B.
           The lower valve ball seat 22, 22' is integral to the overall geometry and valve
 5 configuration by preventing the valve ball G, H from escaping yet allowing air to
   escape through the vent hole 16 in the pump housing outlet.
           Pump, like that shown in Figures 1a and 2a, may also include, e.g., other
   parts, elements, components, or circuits that do not form part of the underlying
   invention, including a motor, diaphragm pumping components, pressure transducers,
 o wiring for coupling the motor to a control circuit, and are thus not identified and
   described in detail herein.
           Moreover, pumps having motors and impeller arranged or configured thereon
   are known in the art, and the scope of the invention is not intended to be limited to
   any particular type or kind thereof either now known or later developed in the future.
 5         See also another related patent application serial no. 14/193,324 (911-17.32
   1//M-RLE-X0008), filed on 28 February 2014, showing the same pump as that shown
   in Figures 1a and 1b herein, which discloses a technique for using a duckbill-type
   check valve for solving a backflow problem, is assigned to the assignee of the
   present application, and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.
20
                                    Possible Applications:
           Possible applications are envisioned to include any type or kind of pump or
   rotary equipment that may be submerged and contain trapped air, e.g., in its housing
   or impeller housing, including but not limited to centrifugal pumps or other types or
                                                9

  kinds of submersible pumps either now known or later developed in the future,
  including bilge pumps or utility pumps.
                                   Scope of the Invention
5        Although described in the context of particular embodiments, it will be
  apparent to those skilled in the art that a number of modifications and various
  changes to these teachings may occur. Thus, while the invention has been
  particularly shown and described with respect to one or more preferred embodiments
  thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that certain modifications or
0 changes, in form and shape, may be made therein without departing from the scope
  and spirit of the invention as set forth above.
                                              10

   WE CLAIM:
          1. A pump having a pump housing with an impeller arranged therein,
   comprising:
          an anti-airlock valve assembly configured with
 5                 a valve housing having a passageway configured with a vent hole to
          allow air to bleed out of a chamber of the pump housing into the atmosphere
          so liquid can fill the pump housing, rise and engage the impeller in order to
          get the pump running; and
                   a valve ball arranged in the valve housing, the valve ball configured to
 o        rest against one part of the valve housing so air can pass out of the vent hole,
          and also configured to be light or buoyant enough to respond to the liquid
          filling the pump housing, float upwardly and rest against another part of the
          valve housing so as not to allow water to escape readily from the vent hole
          after the liquid rises to a sufficient level and substantially engages the
 5        impeller.
          2. A pump according to claim 1, wherein the anti-airlock valve assembly is
   configured in, or forms an integral part of, the pump housing.
20        3. A pump according to claim 1, wherein the anti-airlock valve assembly is
   configured on the discharge side of the pump.
          4. A pump according to claim 1, wherein the anti-airlock valve assembly is
   configured on the suction side of the pump, including forming part of a suction
25 chamber of the pump.
                                                  11

           5. A pump according to claim 1, wherein the valve housing comprises:
           an upper valve seat configured with the vent hole; and
           a lower valve seat configured to contain the valve ball in the valve housing
   and allow air to bleed out of the pump housing into the atmosphere via the vent hole.
 5
           6. A pump according to claim 5, wherein the upper valve seat comprises a
   frustoconical wall configured to form part of the passageway.
           7. A pump according to claim 6, wherein the frustoconical wall comprises
 0         one end configured with a wide opening dimensioned to be larger in diameter
   than the valve ball; and
           another end configured with the vent hole dimensioned to be smaller in
   diameter than the valve ball,
           so that when the valve ball floats upwardly and seals against part of the
 5 frustoconical wall, water cannot escape readily from the vent hole after the liquid
   rises to the sufficient level and substantially engages the impeller.
           8. A pump according to claim 1, wherein the pump comprises an outlet nozzle
   having a backflow preventer assembly coupled thereto with a duckbill-type check
20 valve arranged therein to allow only liquid flow in only one direction.
           9. A pump according to claim 5, wherein the valve ball is configured to
   respond to a suction discharge pressure once the pump is running and seal against
   the lower valve seat in order to prevent air from passing from the atmosphere into a
25 suction discharge chamber of the pump housing.
                                                12

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
