                                       ABSTRACT
Disclosed is a method for increasing the signal/noise ratio of an electric signal for
detecting heart beat optically by means of an optical reflection sensor unit, the method
comprising: differentiating, by means of an adaptive numerical filter, between the
effects of at least two light wavelengths by means of electrically adjustable optical
filters, a first wavelength of the two light wavelengths associated with operation of the
optical reflection sensor unit in an absorption mode, a second wavelength of the two
light wavelengths associated with operation of the optical reflection sensor unit in a
fluorescence mode; and processing the corresponding signals received from the
optical reflection sensor unit so as to obtain the electric signal representing the
heartbeat, wherein the electrically adjustable optical filters are adjusted so as to tune
dynamically the two (or more) wavelengths in order to maximize signal levels of the
optical reflection sensor unit.

 WO 2014/115075                                                           PCT/IB2014/058428
                                            TITLE
       "Device, system and method for detection and processing of heartbeat signals"
                                        DESCRIPTION
 The present invention relates to innovative devices, systems and methods for detecting
 the heart beat.
 Heart beat detection systems (also called BVP - Blood Volume Pulse - detection
 systems) which function optically are known. These systems usually employ a light
 emitter which by means of reflection or transparency illuminates a suitable receiver
 after the emitted light has struck or passed through a zone of the body.
 Basically, these heart rate monitors are detection systems which are able to measure the
 way in which the blood volume changes over time in a specific zone of the body.
 Generally, the reflection devices are placed on a zone of the body, such as the wrist,
where there is a variation in the quantity of light reflected depending on the superficial
blood flow in this zone. The transparency devices are instead applied in the vicinity of
relatively thin parts of the body (such as the fingers or the ear lobes) so that the light is
able to pass through them and detect the variation in the light passing through owing to
the blood flow in said parts.
Both systems, however, are subject to disturbances of the useful signal, for example due
to both the surrounding light conditions and the movement of the person undergoing
measurement.
For example, the sensor operates by means of contact with a deformable medium - the
skin - inside which blood flows. This medium is subject to mechanical deformation

  WO 2014/115075                                                           PCT/IB2014/058428
  which corrupts the measurement, adding an unwanted signal, namely noise.
  Reflection devices are more practical for prolonged use, but the variation in reflected
  light produced by the variations in blood flow following the heart beat is very small and
  moreover is generally affected by a large amount of noise.
  For example, although the wrist is one of the most convenient positions for wearing a
 reflection sensor for detecting the pulse, the noise on the signal, created by the
 movement of the tissues underneath the sensor following, for example, the movement of
 the limb, the wrist or the fingers, is one of the major obstacles to optical detection of the
 pulse in this zone. Also the act of moving or walking produces relative movements of
 the sensor and tissues which produce further disturbances of a significant nature.
 In the art various solutions have been proposed in order to try to improve the
 signal/noise ratio during reflection detection, attempting to filter the various
 disturbances superimposed on the useful signal.
 For example it has been proposed using movement sensors arranged together with
 optical sensors for detecting relatively wide amplitude movements of the body to which
the sensor is applied. This detection arrangement, however, does not provide data about
the relative displacement of sensor and underlying tissue and is usually used to prevent
reading of the optical sensor in the case of excessive movements on the part of the
person, which it is assumed a priori may produce a large amount of disturbance which
cannot be effectively filtered. In the case of prolonged physical activity, the sensor
remains, however, deactivated for a long period and precisely when detection of the
heart beat is of most interest.
It has also been proposed using two light sources with a suitable different wavelength.
                                             2

  WO 2014/115075                                                          PCT/IB2014/058428
  The first wavelength has been chosen from among those wavelengths which are not
 absorbed by the oxyhaemoglobin (for example red), while the second wavelength is
 chosen from among those which are better absorbed by the oxyhaemoglobin (for
 example green). This results in a first signal which is better related to the movement of
 the tissues and a second signal which is better related to the blood flow. Filtering of the
 noise is then performed by suitably subtracting the first signal from the second signal,
 so as to mitigate the effect of the relative movements of tissues and sensor. Such a
 system is described for example in EP2462866.
 A filtering system of this type provides an output signal with reduced noise. However,
 most often the signal/noise ratio is still very unfavourable. Moreover, not always does
 the response to the specific wavelength chosen remain constant with the passing of time
 and/or change of person undergoing the measurement.
 Mixed methods also provide results which are not entirely satisfactory. For example, the
noise is very high both when running and when working on a computer (finger
movements). In the first case accelerometers are most useful for eliminating the noise,
while in the second case it is preferable to make use of the system with two
wavelengths. The simultaneous use of both methods as proposed in the prior art (for
example, as described again in US2012150052)           compensates, however, only for a
number of noise sources and still does not provide a satisfactory signal/noise ratio for
special applications or where the person is free to perform any daily activity. Moreover,
the two systems may interfere with each other, further hindering detection.
A general object of the present invention is to provide a system able to ensure
satisfactory detection of the heart beat even in the presence of disturbances caused by
                                            3

 WO 2014/115075                                                          PCT/IB2014/058428
 various sources. A further object is to provide an innovative system for processing heart
 beat signals.
 In view of these objects the idea which has occurred, according to the invention, is to
 provide a heart beat detection device comprising at least one optical reflection sensor
 unit to be placed on the person's skin, the sensor unit being provided with a light emitter
 and a corresponding light receiver which converts the light reflected by the skin into an
 electric signal, characterized in that it comprises electrically adjustable optical filters
 which are connected to the emitter, to the receiver or to both of them in order to select,
 upon operation, a desired wavelength of the light.
 The idea has also occurred to provide a system for detecting and processing
 physiological data, comprising at least one device according to any one of the preceding
 claims connected by means of a wireless interface to a data processing and transmission
 unit which receives the data from the device and processes it.
The idea has also occurred to provide a method for increasing the signal/noise ratio of
an electric signal for detecting the heart beat optically by means of at least one optical
reflection sensor unit, comprising differentiating between the effects of at least two light
wavelengths by means of electrically adjustable optical filters and processing the
corresponding signals received from the at least one optical reflection unit in order to
obtain the electric signal representing the heart beat.
As will become clear from the description and the drawings, according to the invention
a device for detecting or monitoring the heart rate may comprise a sensor system which
is in contact with the skin and which communicates with a central processing system.
The remote system may comprise one or more optical detection systems for measuring
                                            4

 WO 2014/115075                                                           PCT/IB2014/058428
 the variations in the blood volume making use of the physical principles of absorption
 and fluorescence. The optical systems may comprise:
 - one or more wide-band light emitters (for example LEDs);
 - one or more wide-band light receivers (for example photodiodes or phototransistors)
 and
 - one or more tunable monochromators which can be connected to the light emitters, to
the light receivers or to both of them, in order to select a certain wavelength.
The heart rate monitor may also comprise one or more of the following:
- one or more optical detection systems situated at a fixed distance along the direction of
the blood flow in order to estimate the propagation time of the blood;
- an electrical detection system comprising two or more electrodes in contact with the
skin for measuring the galvanic response of the skin, and
- a mechanical detection system for measuring the three-dimensional acceleration and
the orientation of the system.
The heart frequency monitor may also envisage that one or more monochromators allow
the optical detection system to work both in absorption mode and in fluorescence mode
at two or more wavelengths.
Still according to the invention a method for maximizing the signal/noise ratio of the
blood volume signal may comprise the steps of:
- differentiating between the effects of two (or more) wavelengths in absorption mode
and fluorescence mode on signals of the optical detection systems;
- dynamically tuning the two (or more) wavelengths in order to maximize the signal
levels of the optical detection systems.
                                            5

  WO 2014/115075                                                       PCT/IB2014/058428
  Moreover the method may comprise one or more of the following steps:
  - combining the effects of the absorption mode and fluorescence mode on the signals of
  the optical detection systems;
  - combining the signals from the optical detection systems with the signal of the
 electrical detection system;
 - eliminating the effect of deformation of the medium on the blood propagation time,
 and
 - eliminating the effect of deformation of the medium resulting from other mechanical
 effects which are contained in the signal supplied by the mechanical detection system
 The heart rate monitor may also comprise a remote system in contact with a user's skin
 and communicating with a central processing system.
 The remote system may also comprise one or more of the following elements:
 - a remote processor;
 - a detection system connected to the remote processor;
-  a remote memory connected to the remote processor;
-  a clock signal generator connected to the remote processor;
-  a remote user interface connected to the remote processor;
-  a remote transceiver connected to the remote processor;
-  a remote antenna connected to the remote transceiver, and
-  a remote battery connected to the remote processor, to the detection system, to the
remote memory, to the clock signal generator, and to the remote transceiver.
The central processing system may comprise:
- a central processor;
                                            6

  WO 2014/115075                                                          PCT/IB2014/058428
  - a central memory connected to the central processor;
  - a central transceiver connected to the central processor, and
  - a central antenna connected to the central transceiver.
  The said central memory may further comprise a set of instructions which can be carried
 out on the central processor, the instructions comprising:
 - an algorithm for maximizing the signal/noise ratio of the blood volume signal received
 from the remote system, and
 - an algorithm for processing the optimized blood volume signal for determining a
 pulsation signal based on detection of the peak value.
 In order to illustrate more clearly the innovative principles of the present invention and
 its advantages compared to the prior art, examples of embodiment applying these
 principles will be described below with the aid of the accompanying drawings. In the
 drawings:
- Figure 1 shows a block diagram of a first reflection detection device provided in
accordance with the principles of the present invention;
-  Figure 2 shows a graph of signals detected by an apparatus according to the invention;
-  Figure 3 shows a block diagram of a second reflection detection device provided in
accordance with the principles of the present invention;
- Figure 4 shows a further graph illustrating signals detected by an apparatus according
to the invention;
- Figure 5 shows a block diagram of a possible system for remote processing of the data
detected by the sensors according to the invention;
- Figure 6 shows a schematic view of a bracelet detection system and intelligent
                                             7

  WO 2014/115075                                                           PCT/IB2014/058428
  portable terminal for processing (or initial processing) of the signals detected.
  With reference to the figures, Figure 1 shows a first reflection detector according to the
  invention for detecting the heart beat.
  Such a detector, which is generally denoted by 10, comprises a light emitter II (for
 example an LED diode emitter) and a corresponding receiver 12 (for example a
 photodiode or phototransistor) which receives the light of the emitter 11 after reflection
 on the skin 13 of the person undergoing heart beat detection. Advantageously, as will be
 clarified below, the detector or device 10 may be positioned on the rear part of the wrist,
 for example in the manner of a wrist-watch.
 The receiver 12 converts the light received into an electric signal sent to an electronic
 processing block 14 which emits a corresponding signal 15 (also called BVP - i.e.
 Blood Volume Pulse - signal) which depends on the heart beat of the person. The block
 14 may be a combination of an analog amplification circuit and programmable
 microprocessor device for processing a signal, as may be easily imagined by the person
 skilled in the art in the light of the description provided here.
Advantageously, the emitter 11 emits light in a wide spectrum (for example white light)
and the device 10 comprises an adjustable optical filter 16 and/or an adjustable optical
filter 17, which are arranged respectively in front of the transmitter 11 and the receiver
 12. These optical filters may be controlled by the processing block 14 so as to be tuned
to a desired wavelength for filtering the light sent and/or reflected.
Advantageously, these optical filters comprise so-called "monochromators" and allow
dynamic selection of a specific wavelength from a wide-spectrum light. In particular, it
has been found to be advantageous to use tunable Fabry-Perot monochromators, known
                                               8

 WO 2014/115075                                                           PCT/IB2014/058428
 per se, which can be easily miniaturized.
 Again advantageously, the device may comprise a circuit 18 for powering the emitter 11
 which is controlled by the processing block 14 so as to tune the emission luminosity of
 the emitter 11 to a desired value.
 For reasons which will become clear below, the device 10 may also comprise a known
 accelerometer 19 which sends movement signals to the processing block                   14.
 Advantageously, the accelerometer is chosen to measure the three-dimensional
 acceleration and the orientation of the system.
 As is known, the oxyhaemoglobin present in the blood absorbs given wavelengths. This
 effect is referred to as "absorption".
 Moreover, the oxyhaemoglobin re-emits part of the energy absorbed in the form of light
 at a wavelength different from that absorbed. This effect is referred to as
 "fluorescence".
 Owing to the use of adjustable filters, it is possible to configure the system in order to
make use first of one effect and then the other effect. In the first mode the wavelength
which maximizes absorption is provided and the same wavelength is "observed" by
means of the receiver 12. In the second mode the wavelength which maximizes the
fluorescence      is provided     and   the fluorescence    wavelength    characteristic of
oxyhaemoglobin (wavelength which is always greater than the incident wavelength for
energy balance reasons) is observed by means of the receiver 11.
By combining the signal read by the receiver in the two different modes, i.e.
"absorption" mode and "fluorescence" mode, it is possible to improve the signal/noise
ratio.
                                            9

  WO 2014/115075                                                            PCT/IB2014/058428
  Moreover, owing to the adjustability of the filters it is possible to adapt the fluorescence
  and/or absorption wavelength to the characteristics of the skin of the person whose heart
  beat is being detected (for example age, degree of tanning, skin complexion, presence of
  fat, presence of hair).
  In fact the skin situated between detector and oxyhaemoglobin creates optical
 interference which may alter the light emitted and/or received. Therefore, it has been
 found useful to attempt to find, possibly whenever the device is switched on, the
 wavelengths which maximize the amplitude of the BVP signal, depending on the
 characteristics of the skin, both in fluorescence mode and in absorption mode.
 For example, extremely fair skin favours the penetration of light and therefore, in
 absorption mode, wavelengths close to the UV band may be effectively used. On the
 contrary, tanned or dark skins do not allow small wavelengths to reach the receiver
 except in the case where the intensity is such that it adversely affects the battery life.
 A similar situation exists in fluorescence mode, where a maximum response of the
 oxyhaemoglobin is obtained by performing stimulation in the violet-blue band and
detection in the orange band.
 In other words, during operation, the processing block 14 may tune the filters to
wavelengths considered suitable for detecting the heart beat using the "absorption"
method (for example in the range of 530-580 nm for dark skin and 410-450 rim for
extremely fair skin) and acquire the corresponding signal reflected and captured by the
receiver 12. The processing block 14 may also tune the filters to a wavelength
considered suitable for detecting the heart beat using the "fluorescence" method (for
example in the range 410-450 nm for the emission filter and 590-630 nm for the
                                             10

 WO 2014/115075                                                           PCT/IB2014/058428
 reception filter) and acquire the corresponding fluorescence signal captured by the
 receiver 12. By superimposing the two signals received (suitably compensating for the
 temporal delay between the two measurements) it is possible to obtain a BVP signal
 with a greater amplitude than the background noise.
 Moreover, during the two measurements (or, advantageously, during a calibration step
 which may take place upon switching on the device following application onto the skin,
 or cyclically during operation) the device may vary the wavelength of the filter in the
 region of the basic wavelengths defined for fluorescence and absorption, attempting to
 maximize the signal peak received in the two modes. After defining the wavelengths for
which the greater signal is obtained, the device may use these wavelengths for the
subsequent measurements until the subsequent calibration operation is performed.
By periodically repeating calibration during operation of the device it is possible to
compensate also for the varying conditions of the skin (for example, variation in the
degree of tanning, sweating or change in temperature) which may influence the
measurement.
By way of a further advantage it is also possible to compensate for disturbances on the
signal due to relative movements of the skin and device, for example caused by
movements of the person or movements of the muscles and tendons of the body zone on
which the sensor is placed (for example movement of the fingers). In fact it is possible
to tune the filter (or filters, in the case of a device with both filters) so that the light
emitted by the emitter 11 is characterized by a wavelength which is less sensitive to
flowing of the blood, but more sensitive to movements on or under the skin (for
example the wavelength 650-750 nm). The corresponding signal captured by the
                                            II

  WO 2014/115075                                                             PCT/IB2014/058428
  detector 12 may be used by the processing block 14 as a noise signal to be subtracted
  from the electric signal obtained by the detection of the BVP signal, via an adaptive
  numerical filter, so as to eliminate an important noise component.
  Filtering may also take place for selecting green light or red light for the uses
  substantially of the prior art or also for filtering (using suitable emitters) in the infrared
 range or other ranges.
 Advantageously, the detector 10 may also use the signal supplied by the accelerometer
  19 in order to compensate for disturbances due to major movements of the device (for
 example, as a result of physical activity performed by the person). The accelerometer
 signal may be supplied to the block 14 in order to provide an adaptive numerical filter
 which intervenes in the case of sudden accelerations (for example when running).
 The signal of the accelerometer 19 may also be used to prevent emission of the BVP
 signal by the device when the acceleration detected is above a threshold which has been
 determined beforehand as corresponding to a movement noise source which is too great
 for effective compensation of the noise on the BVP detected by the optical system.
 In order to reduce the noise on the output signal, the device 10 may also advantageously
 act on the luminous intensity of the light emitted by the sensor 11. However, in the case
of battery-powered devices, a greater light intensity may negatively affect the duration
of the battery charge.
Figure 2 shows a graph which schematically illustrates the relationship between light E
emitted by the emitter (axis X) and amplitude of the signal received R (axis Y).
As can be seen from the graph, there exists essentially a linear relationship between
light emitted and reflected light measured by the receiver. The noise signal, or BR
                                              12

 WO 2014/115075                                                           PCT/IB2014/058428
 (Background Reflection) signal, which may also comprise any ambient light captured
 by the sensor, and the BPR (Blood Pulse Reflection) signal are therefore both
 incremented with an increase in the luminous emission intensity E. The slope of the two
 straight lines in the graph, which define the light reflection curve, may vary from person
 to person.
 All the above means that, given a certain emitted light E, a first person may have a
certain dR (namely a certain amplitude dR of periodic variation of reflected light which
carries blood pulsation information). A second person may have, for the same value E,
a value dR smaller or greater than the value dR of the first person.
If a value dRmin is established (namely a minimum useful signal value received) the
emitter will be advantageously controlled by the block 14 so as to have in any case an
emission E which allows the signal dR to be kept above the value dRmin. Although it
is possible to emit constantly a light at a value (for example, I 000mcd) which ensures
that this condition always exists, such a solution may result in an unnecessary premature
wear of the battery power.
Advantageously, it is instead preferable that the signal dR should always be only
slightly higher than the value dRmin. A value of E, which may be called Eopt (i.e. E
optimum), is thus obtained, this value satisfying this condition and being variable
depending on the person to another or different conditions of the person. All this is
shown by way of example in Figure 2 (where Eopl and Eopt2 give rise to the same
dRI=dR 2 =dRmin for two sample persons).
The block 14 may therefore advantageously vary the emission E by means of the power
supply element 18 as mentioned above so as to keep the signal dR slightly above dRmin
                                            13

 WO 2014/115075                                                          PCT/IB2014/058428
 (optionally with a small safety margin) so as to optimize the amplitude of the useful
 signal, maximizing at the same time the battery life.
 It is thus possible to use high-luminosity emitters (LEDs) also in battery systems, using
the higher light emissions only in the case of need and only for the time needed.
The power supply of the sources may also be provided pulsed and/or alternating
between the emitters, both in order to reduce the battery consumption and so as to share
part or all of the drive circuit among the emitters.
Figure 3 shows a second embodiment of a detector according to the invention. In this
second embodiment, which is denoted overall by 110, two detectors or devices 10, as
described above, denoted by 10a and 10b, are used, the BVP signal outputs 15a and I5b
thereof being further processed by a processing and comparison block 120.
The two detectors 10a and 10b are arranged with the corresponding optical units
(formed by emitter 11, receiver 12 and any optical filters 16 and/or 17) arranged
generally along the main direction of flow of the blood in the part of the body where the
device I 10 is positioned. For example, in the case of positioning on a limb, the direction
will be along the axis of the limb itself. In particular, in the case of positioning on a
wrist, the direction may be advantageously that of elbow-to-hand.
The distance between the optical units may be a few centimetres or even less, also
depending on the sensitivity of the detector and the position chosen on the body.
Owing to the use of the two devices I Oa and 1Ob, two signals 15a and 15b which are
slightly phase-displaced in relation to each other (depending on the mutual distance)
will be obtained, as shown schematically in Figure 4.
By means of calculation of the correlation, upon variation of the time of the two signals,
                                            14

  WO 2014/115075                                                           PCT/IB2014/058428
  performed by the block 120, it is possible to calculate the time "delta-t" for transit of the
  blood between the two optical units.
  By detecting the variations of this time (or the apparent speed of displacement of the
  blood between the two optical units) it has been found to be possible to obtain
  information about the movement of the tissues underneath and between the two optical
  units. In other words it has been found that these movements may vary the length of the
  blood vessels and therefore alter the speed value detected or, rather, the transit time
 between the two optical units (which are at a fixed distance from each other).
 It is thus possible to obtain further information about the noise which has been produced
 by the muscular movement and which may be subtracted from the BVP signal,
 obtaining an improved BVP signal at the output 121 of the processing block 120.
 Advantageously, the device 110 also comprises a system for measuring the conductivity
 of the skin, preferably in the ventral zone of the wrist, which has a pronounced electro
 dermal activity.
 The system for measuring the conductivity (or the galvanic effect of the skin) comprises
 advantageously two metal electrodes 122, 123 which make contact with the skin in the
 chosen zone and are connected to a measurement block 124 which detects the electrical
 resistance between the two electrodes.
The measurement of the resistance may be simply performed by causing a low or very
 low strength current to flow across the skin. A compensation algorithm may also be
used to control the current which flows through the skin so as to balance a base line for
the person, taking it as a zero line. In order to avoid polarization and/or electrolysis
phenomena, the power supply on the electrodes may be periodically inverted. Moreover,
                                             15

  WO 2014/115075                                                        PCT/IB2014/058428
  the electrodes may be silver-lined so as to prevent possible damage to the skin and
  deterioration of the electrode.
  The inversion of polarity drastically reduces the risk of deposition of Ag+ ions on the
  outer layers of the skin. The ions which may have been deposited on the skin are
  combined again with the surface of the electrode after each inversion of polarity.
 The resistance value measured by the detector is present on the output 125 of the block
  124 and is sent to a further processing block 126 which performs further processing of
 the BPV signal 121 so as to reduce further the noise associated with it, using variations
 in the conductivity at the output 125
 In fact it has been found that the variation in conductivity measured on the skin in the
 region of the optical unit has a progression similar to the BVP added to the slow
 progression of sweating. The variation in conductivity observed, similar to the BVP, is
 due in particular to the wave of blood which travels along superficial vessels and which
tends to constrict the sweat glands, which release small amounts of fluid at the same
 frequency as the heart beat.
This signal is in general very small and cannot be easily used alone to obtain an
indication of the heart beat, but if combined with the signal detected optically as
described above, allows a further improvement in the signal/noise ratio of the BVP
signal output by the device according to the invention.
Even though not shown in Figure 1, this system for measuring the conductivity may be
used in the same way also to reduce the noise in the device 10 according to Figure 1,
using a processing block 125, to the input of which the signal 15 of the block 14 is sent
(instead of the signal 121 of the block 120), as may be now easily imagined by the
                                           16

  WO 2014/115075                                                        PCT/IB2014/058428
  person skilled in the art.
  The slow variation in the conductivity of the skin may also be sent outside of the device
  110 (or the device 10 which uses such a conductivity detector) in order to be used to
  provide further physiological information about the person, as is indicated by way of
  example by a broken line 127 in Figure 3.
 The device 110 may also use an accelerometer 19 as described for the device in Figure
  1. The accelerometer is in this case advantageously connected to the last processing
 block 126 which is positioned before the BVP signal output 128 of the device. In both
 the devices 10 and 110, the three-dimensional acceleration signal may also be sent
 externally so as to used to provide further information about the person, as indicated by
 way of example by the broken lines 20 and 129 in Figures 1 and 3.
 Figure 5 shows schematically an advantageous complete system, indicated generally by
 200, for detecting and processing the physiological data of a person.
 The system 200 comprises a remote device 201 which comprises in turn a detector of
the same type as the detector 10 or 110 described here, the BVP signals (15 or 128) and
any conductivity signal 127 of which are sent to a data processing and transmission unit
202.
This unit 202 is advantageously formed as a microprocessor unit which is suitably
programmed and therefore comprises advantageously a processor 203 which receives
the signals from the device 10, 110, a program memory 204, a data memory 205 and a
transmitting unit 206 which are connected to the processor 203.
The unit 202 may be incorporated in the remote device 201 or be entirely or partly
designed as a separate device and may also comprise known systems for introducing
                                           17

  WO 2014/115075                                                       PCT/IB2014/058428
  commands and for displaying data and information (for example by means of a touch
  screen display).
 The unit 202 may be designed to communicate (advantageously via a wireless or mobile
 phone connection for connection to the Internet) with a remote server 208 which may in
 turn be in communication with one or more terminals 209.
 In this way the physiological data processed or pre-processed by the device 201 may be
 sent (also after further processing by the server 208) to a remote display and control
 terminal 209. A remote examination of a person wearing the device 201 is thus possible.
 The data processed by the server (or also by the remote terminal 209 upon operation by
 an operator) may be sent to the unit 202 for local display, for example, by the said
person on whom the measurement is being performed.
The signals 15, 128 and 127 may be sent directly to the unit 202 or pass via a
communication interface 207 known per se (of the cabled or advantageously wireless
type).
In the case of a wireless connection, the detector 10, 110, together with the suitable
communication interface 207, may be incorporated in a small portable device (for
example in the form of a wrist-watch) which communicates wirelessly with the
processing and communication unit 202, kept in a pocket or hand-held.
Figure 6 shows an advantageous embodiment of the device 201 according to Figure 5.
In this embodiment the detector 10, 110 is designed in the form of a device 210 to be
worn on the wrist, with the optical sensors arranged on a side intended to be placed in
contact with the skin when the device is fastened to the wrist by means of a strap 211.
Preferably, the electrical sensors are arranged on the strap itself. Advantageously, a
                                          18

  WO 2014/115075                                                       PCT/IB2014/058428
  sealing ring 212 may be provided around the optical sensors and is pressed against the
  skin and prevents the entry of ambient light and/or external moisture into the area
  monitored by the sensors.
  The device 210 communicates          wirelessly (for example via the      interface 207
 advantageously of the low energy Bluetooth type) with an intelligent terminal (such as
 advantageously a smart phone or a tablet) which, by means of suitable programming,
 which may be now easily imagined, performs the functions of a processing and
 communications unit 202. The terminal may in turn communicate with the Internet or
 mobile phone network wirelessly as mentioned above, in the case where remote
 processing or display of the data is required.
 The input of commands and display of information locally may be easily performed by
 means of a touch screen 213 of the terminal 202.
 An interesting application of the system shown in Figures 5 and/or 6 may be that of
 indicating to the person wearing the device 210 and/or to a remote operator via the
 terminal 209 various physiological parameters such as the stress state, the level of
physical activity and physical condition, the quality of sleep, the excitation level, etc.
These parameters may be determined on the basis of the signals detected by the device
210. The operator may also receive the data from a plurality of remote detectors worn
by several persons.
At this point it is clear how the predefined objects have been achieved. Using the
methods and the devices according to the invention it is possible to obtain precise and
reliable signals in many conditions where there is disturbance.      For example, it is
possible to change the operating mode of the system, choosing the colour of the light
                                            19

 WO 2014/115075                                                          PCT/IB2014/058428
 depending on the external conditions and the condition and the type of skin, while also
 switching between absorption mode or fluorescence mode.
 A heart rate monitor according to the invention may advantageously comprise a sensor
 system in contact with the skin and communicating with a central processing system.
 Moreover, the sensor system may comprise one or more optical detection systems for
 measuring the variations in the blood volume using the physical principles of absorption
 and/or fluorescence. The optical systems advantageously comprise one or more wide
 band light emitters (LEDs) and one or more wide-band light receivers and one or more
 tunable monochromator filters which are connected to light emitters, light receivers or
both of them, in order to select a certain wavelength.
Owing to the principles of the invention, if required, it is possible to remove the effect
of deformation of the tissues on the blood propagation time. The propagation speed is
altered partly by the beat itself, but more so by stretching of the tissues. By making
suitable use of the signal obtained by means of the system described it is possible to
remove a further noise component. Moreover, if required, it is possible to remove the
effect of the "macroscopic" movement measured by the accelerometers. It is also
possible to use effectively high-luminosity emitters.
Obviously the description provided above of embodiments applying the innovative
principles of the present invention is provided by way of example of these innovative
principles and must therefore not be regarded as limiting the scope of the rights claimed
herein.
For example, the various processing blocks described above as separate may also be
combined with each other in a single processing block (for example a suitably
                                           20

 WO 2014/115075                                                          PCT/IB2014/058428
 programmed microcontroller unit) as may now be easily imagined by the person skilled
 in the art. For example, the block 14 of the detector 10 or the two detectors 1Oa and I Ob
 may also be designed as a single processing block, which may also comprise the block
 120 and, possibly, the blocks 124 and 126. Advantageously, the various blocks may be
 realized by means of algorithms which comprise at least one of the following: an
 algorithm for controlling the optical detection systems and receiving signals from the
 optical detection systems during the absorption mode; an algorithm for controlling the
 optical detection systems and receiving signals from the optical detection systems
during the fluorescence mode; an algorithm for controlling the system for detection of
the electrical conductivity of the skin and receiving signals from the system for
detecting the electrical conductivity of the skin; an algorithm for controlling the system
for detecting the acceleration (or mechanical movement) and receiving signals from the
acceleration detection system.
These algorithms may be realized by means of a suitable program which can be
performed by the processor contained in the device according to the invention, as may
be imagined by the person skilled in the art on the basis of the present description.
Advantageously, the filters may be all adaptive numerical filters.
In the case of remote transmission it is also possible to envisage an algorithm for
encoding signals received from the detection device or devices, for transmission thereof
via the transceiver of the device to the external processing unit, and an algorithm for
decoding signals received via the transceiver from the external processing unit. Further
program parts may manage status commands for controlling a status light emitter (for
example an LED) on a user interface of the device.
                                           21

 WO 2014/115075                                                         PCT/IB2014/058428
 Thanks to the system which uses selectable filters for the wavelengths of the light, it is
 also possible to use, compare and process signals obtained at more than two
 wavelengths (for example blue, green, infrared) in order to optimize particular aspects
of the detection operation.
The various innovative solutions according to the present invention which are described
as being incorporated simultaneously in the examples of embodiment described above,
may also be used separately in devices and systems according to the invention or may
be differently combined.
The device according to the invention (for example in its device configuration 210) may
also comprise further elements useful for practical operation such as a three-colour
status light emitter (LED) connected to the processor for indicating the system status
and a pushbutton connected to the remote processor for interacting with the detection
device. The status indicated by the status indicator may be at least one of the following:
battery power low, battery charging, data acquisition mode. The device may also
comprise a port for recharging an internal battery.
                                          22

                                                    CLAIMS
1.       A method for increasing the signal/noise ratio of an electric signal for detecting heart beat optically
by means of an optical reflection sensor unit, the method comprising:
         differentiating, by means of an adaptive numerical filter, between the effects of at least two light
wavelengths by means of electrically adjustable optical filters, a first wavelength of the two light
wavelengths associated with operation of the optical reflection sensor unit in an absorption mode, a second
wavelength of the two light wavelengths associated with operation of the optical reflection sensor unit in a
fluorescence mode; and
         processing the corresponding signals received from the optical reflection sensor unit so as to obtain
the electric signal representing the heart beat,
         wherein the electrically adjustable optical filters are adjusted so as to tune dynamically the two (or
more) wavelengths in order to maximize signal levels of the optical reflection sensor unit.
2.       The method according to Claim 1, wherein the optical reflection sensor unit is a first optical
reflection sensor unit, the first optical reflection sensor unit being arranged at a distance from a second
optical reflection sensor unit, the method further comprising:
         estimating a blood propagation time between the first optical reflection sensor unit and the second
optical reflection sensor unit; and
         modifying the corresponding signal detected by the first optical sensor unit based on variations in
the blood propagation time.
3.       The method according to Claim 1, further comprising:
         obtaining a three-dimensional acceleration signal; and
         subtracting, via the adaptive numerical filter, the three-dimensional acceleration signal from the
corresponding signal.
4.       The method according to Claim 1, further comprising:
         measuring a galvanic response of a person's skin;
         obtaining a first signal representing the heart beat based on the galvanic response; and
         combining the first signal with the corresponding signal detected by the optical reflection sensor
unit.
                                                       23

5.      The method according to Claim 1, further comprising:
        estimating physiological parameters of a person based on an electric signal representing the heart
beat, wherein the physiological parameters include at least one of a stress state, a level of physical activity
and physical condition, a quality of sleep and/or an excitation level.
                                                     24

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
