  ABSTRACT
  A gaming apparatus and a game controller for a gaming apparatus is provided. A game
5 provided on the gaming apparatus under the control of the game controller is arranged to play a
  first game in the form of a wheel game having a number of outcome indicating parts. It is also
  arranged to play a further game, in the form of a symbol game, a function of which is based on
  an outcome of the wheel game. In one embodiment, a function of one or more symbols in the
  symbol game is determined by an outcome of the wheel game.
                                                                          10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                     1
                          GAMING APPARATUS WITH A WHEEL GAME
    Technical Field
  5          The present invention relates to a gaming apparatus, a game controller for a gaming
    apparatus and/or a method of providing a game of chance, all including a game generally of the
    type of a wheel game. In particular, but not exclusively, the present invention relates to a
    gaming apparatus, game controller for a gaming apparatus and/or a method of providing a game
    of chance that includes a wheel game as a feature game.
10
    Background
             Many gaming machines in existence at present include both a primary game, which
    may be a spinning reel game, and a secondary game that is a feature game. Typically the feature
15  game is able to be played only occasionally and often provides the opportunity for winning a
    substantial prize. Gaming machines having a feature game have experienced widespread
    success in attracting and retaining players.
             Games incorporating a spinning wheel or representation of a spinning wheel are often
    very effective at providing an enjoyable gaming experience for a player. This may be due to the
20  simplicity of a spinning wheel combined with its visual impact.
             Known wheel features are a game of chance in which a player may participate which is
    in addition to a primary game of a gaming machine. The game of chance involves the display of
    a number of segments that together form a circular shape, and a selector to select one or more of
    the areas so as to indicate an outcome of the same of chance. Feature games of this type will be
25  referred to herein as "wheel features".
             United States patent numbers 5,823,874 and 5,848,932 both to Adams describe a
    secondary payout indicator in the form of a rotatable bonus wheel which can be caused to spin
    automatically or in response to some action by a player, when the primary game indicates one
    of a predetermined plurality of indicia.
30           A major disadvantage of wheel features is the limitation on the size of the prize
    segments caused by the limited area that a representation of a wheel can occupy. There are
    therefore, a limited number of prizes that can be displayed effectively on the wheel without
    taking away from the look and feel of the wheel, and therefore taking away one of the
    advantages of a wheel feature, by making it cluttered and/or by making it difficult to read the
35  prize values.
                                                                              10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                     2
             Australian patent number 711501 describes providing an electronic wheel where the
   odds of landing on any given indicium are determined by the number of integers in the first
   range of integers mapped to the indicia, where the number of integers in the first range may be
   different from the number of indicia on the simulated wheel. This patent also describes
 5 changing, replacing or otherwise modifying indicia on a simulated wheel so that, even though it
   may be desired to provide only n indicium locations on the simulated wheel, the simulated
   wheel may be provided with m possible indicia by "swapping" new indicia onto the wheel
   during simulated spinning. The patent further describes having a wheel that provides the
   potential for winning a large or jackpot prize, but which can only provide such a win if the
10 player has previously achieved a predefined result on a previous spin of another wheel, with the
   previous wheel not needing to provide an opportunity for a jackpot win.
             United States patent number 6,612,575 describes a gaming machine having a game with
   a bonus feature where a player places a wager, spins a plurality of first reels having indicia
   thereon, determining if indicia displayed by the plurality of first reels associated with a first pay
15 line comprises a predetermined winning combination, and if so, paying a first award and the
   associating that first award with at least one bonus reel, permitting a player to spin the at least
   one bonus reel or otherwise participate in the bonus event, and determining if an award
   associated with the at least one bonus reel is associated with a second pay line, and if so, paying
   a bonus award.
20           Regulations for some markets, including most Australian markets, requires that the
   odds for wheels (and other typical casino devices) when used in a gaming machine must reflect
   the expected odds of that device. Weightings similar to those sometimes used on reel strips of
   spinning reel gaming machine games, for example using a spinning reel game of the type
   described in the United States patent number 4,448,419 (Telnaes) are not allowed to be applied
25 to wheels. This makes it more difficult to offer large prizes on a wheel without reducing or
   eliminating the advantages of a wheel feature, because the larger the prize, the more effect it
   will have on the overall return to the player of the game. Accordingly, to support a large prize,
   either the chances of the player activating the wheel feature have to be very low or the amount
   of the average wager of the player needs to be high.
30           The methods described in the Australian patent number 711501 are said to address the
   desire of providing a wheel feature that permits relatively small wagers but provides a potential
   for relatively large prizes. Some of the methods may not comply with the regulations for some
   markets. In addition, a disadvantage of having a wheel that provides the potential for winning a
   large or jackpot prize, which can only provide such a win if the player has previously achieved
35 a predefined result on a previous spin of another wheel, is that the large prize can not be
                                                                               10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                      3
   displayed directly on the wheel. The player may therefore not have the feeling that he or she can
   win the large prize with just one spin of the wheel.
            Any reference in this specification to the prior art does not constitute, nor should it be
   considered, an admission that such prior art was widely known or forms part of the common
 5 general knowledge in Australia, or in any other jurisdiction, before the priority fate of any of the
   appended claims.
            Throughout this specification the term "comprise" and variations on this term including
   "comprising" and "comprises" are to be understood to imply the inclusion of a feature, integer,
   step or element, and not to exclude other features, integers, steps or elements.
10
   Summary Of The Invention
   In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a gaming apparatus
   operable to play a game, the gaming apparatus comprising;
15          a display configured to display the game; and
            a game controller configured to:
            display a plurality of segments, each of the plurality segments being allocated a prize
   value, at least two segments of the plurality of segments having a visual area that is larger than
   a visual area of at least one other segment of the plurality of segments, the prize value allocated
20 to the at least one other segment being larger than the prize value allocated to the at least two
   segments;
                      wherein the respective size of each of the plurality of segments is defined by at
            least one marker, such that a segment having the least visual area is defined by a single
            marker and such that the remaining segments of the plurality of segments are
25          respectively defined by a plurality of markers; and
                      wherein the markers are countable, and the total number of markers and the
            respective number of markers associated with each segment is indicative of the
            respective odds of obtaining a prize value associated with the segments; and
            select, from the plurality of segments, at least one selected segment, wherein the
30 probability of selecting one of the plurality of segments is dependent upon the number of
   markers defining each of the segments and the total number of markers.
   In accordance with a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided game controller
   arranged to implement a game, the game controller configured to:
                                                                                10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                       4
             control the operation of the game, the game having a plurality of segments, each of the
    plurality segments being allocated a prize value, at least two segments of the plurality of
    segments having a visual area that is larger than a visual area of at least one other segment of
    the plurality of segments, the prize value allocated to the at least one other segment being larger
  5 than the prize value allocated to the at least two segments;
                       wherein the respective size of each of the plurality of segments is defined by at
             least one marker, such that the segment having the least visual area is defined by a
             single marker and such that the remaining segments of the plurality of segments are
             respectively defined by a plurality of markers; and
10                     wherein the markers are countable, and the total number of markers and the
             respective number of markers associated with each segment are indicative of the
             respective odds of obtaining a prize value associated with the segments; and
             select, from the plurality of segments, at least one selected segment, wherein the
    probability of selecting one of the plurality of segments is dependent upon the number of
15  markers defining each of the segments and the total number of markers.
    In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of gaming
    using a game controller arranged to implement a base game with a plurality of symbols and a
    secondary game, the method comprising:
20           displaying a plurality of segments, each of the plurality segments being allocated a
    prize value, at least two segments of the plurality of segments having a visual area that is larger
    than a visual area of at least one other segment of the plurality of segments, the prize value
    allocated to the at least one other segment being larger than the prize value allocated to the at
    least two segments;
25                     wherein the respective size of each of the plurality of segments is defined by at
             least one marker, such that a segment having the least visual area is defined by a single
             marker and such that the remaining segments of the plurality of segments are
             respectively defined by a plurality of markers; and
                       wherein the markers are countable, and the total number of markers and the
30           respective number of markers associated with each segment is indicative of the
             respective odds of obtaining a prize value associated with the segments; and
             selecting, from the plurality of segments, at least one selected segment, wherein the
    probability of selecting one of the plurality of segments is dependent upon the number of
    markers defining each of the segments and the total number of markers.
35
                                                                                 10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                       5
             Also disclosed is a gaming apparatus operable to play a base game with a plurality of
    symbols, and a secondary game, the gaming apparatus comprising;
             a display configured to display the plurality of symbols of the base game; and
             a game controller configured to:
  5          control the display of a plurality of symbols of the base game on said display;
             award, upon an occurrence of a first trigger event of the base game, play of the
    secondary game;
             control the display a plurality of segments for play of the secondary game, at least a
    plurality of each of the plurality of segments being allocated a prize value, wherein the
10  respective size of each of the plurality of segments is defined by at least one marker, such that
    the segment having the least size is defined by a single marker and such that the remaining of
    the plurality of segments are respectively defined by a plurality of the markers;
             select, from the plurality of segments, at least one selected segment, wherein the
    probability of selecting one of the plurality of segments is dependent upon the number of
15  markers defining each of the segments;
             award, upon a second trigger event of the secondary game, a plurality of further games;
             apply at least a portion of the prize value allocated to the at least one selected segment
    to each of the plurality of further games to influence an outcome of the plurality of further
    games.
20
             A gaming apparatus is also described that comprises a game controller and at least one
    display, the gaming apparatus operable to allow a player to play a game, wherein the game
    controller controls play of the game and controls the at least one display to display play of the
    game, in response to determining a trigger during play of the game, the controller being further
25  arranged to initiate play of a bonus game, the bonus game comprising a selector having at least
    one marker and a plurality of outcome indicating parts, each of the outcome indicating parts
    indicating to a player of the gaming machine an award in a visually appreciable area that is
    available to be selected by the selector, the game controller causing display on the at least one
    display of a selection of at least one outcome indicating part indicated by the at least one
30  marker, and allocating a corresponding award to a player of the gaming machine, wherein a first
    subset of at least one of the outcome indicating parts has a substantially lower probability of
    being selected in comparison to a second subset of at least one outcome indicating part, and
    wherein the visually appreciable area that is available to be selected by the selector of the
    outcome indicating parts in the first subset is substantially less than the visually appreciable
35  area that is available to be selected by the selector for the second subset of at least one outcome
                                                                                 10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                      6
    indicating part; and wherein the game controller is further arranged to set a size of the visually
    appreciable area for each subset of the outcome indicating parts dependent, at least in part, on
    an award value for the subset of the corresponding outcome indicating parts and a return-to
    player percentage.
  5
              In one embodiment, the first subset of at least one of the outcome indicating parts
    results in a substantially larger allocated award, either in terms of value received by a player or
    in terms of cost to an operator of the gaming apparatus, than the second subset of at least one
    outcome indicating part.
10
              In one embodiment, the outcome indicating parts together present an annular or circular
    shape to the player, and wherein the at least one marker one of moves and appears to move
    about the outcome indicating parts and then stops to show a selection of at least one outcome
    indicating part.
15
              In one embodiment, the selector comprises a plurality of illuminable areas located in a
    path extending about the outcome indicating parts, each of the illuminable areas being
    illuminated and darkened in a sequential pattern and wherein an illuminable area represents said
    at least one marker only when it is illuminated.
20
              The outcome indicating parts may each be displayed as a stationary area and the at least
    one marker may be displayed as one of moving and appearing to move relative to the outcome
    indicating parts.
25            In one embodiment the outcome indicating parts are each displayed as a stationary area
    and the at least one marker is displayed as one of moving and appearing to move relative to the
    outcome indicating parts progressively along a path that extends past every one of the plurality
    of outcome indicating parts.
30            Each outcome indicating part may include indicia on it that indicates an award to a
    player.
              In one embodiment, at least one of the outcome indicating parts in the first subset of at
    least one of the outcome indicating parts is displayed so as to be visually distinctive despite
                                                                                10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                         7
    presenting a lesser visually appreciable area than the second subset of at least one outcome
    indicating part.
             In one embodiment, the gaming apparatus includes a further game, wherein the
  5 controller causes the game to be able to be played by a player of the gaming machine only on
    the eventuation of at least one event that is related to play of the further game.
             In one embodiment, the probability of a member of the first subset of at least one of the
    outcome indicating parts is selected by the selector is no higher than approximately 1 in 40 for
10  each selection.
             In one embodiment, the probability of a member of the first subset of at least one of the
    outcome indicating parts is selected by the selector is no higher than approximately 1 in 70 for
    each selection.
15
              In one embodiment, the probability of a member of the first subset of at least one of the
    outcome indicating parts is selected by the selector is no higher than approximately 1 in 20 for
    each selection. The first subset of at least one of the outcome indicating parts may consist of
    two outcome indicating parts.
20
             In one embodiment, the first subset of at least one of the outcome indicating parts is a
    single outcome indicating part.
             In one embodiment, the allocated award that results when an outcome indicating part
25  from the first subset is selected is at least ten times the allocated award that results when the
    second subset of at least one outcome indicating part is selected.
             In one embodiment, the allocated award that results when an outcome indicating part
    from the first subset is selected is at least twenty times the allocated award that results when the
30  second subset of at least one outcome indicating part is selected.
             A gaming apparatus is also described that has a game controller and at least one
    display, the gaming apparatus operable to allow a player to play a game,
             wherein the game controller controls play of the game and controls the at least one
35  display to display play of the game,
                                                                                 10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                      8
            in response to determining a trigger during play of the game, the controller being
   further arranged to initiate play of a bonus game, the bonus game comprising:
            i) a plurality of outcome indicating parts and at least one marker that is locatable in a
   plurality of visually distinct positions that each indicates a selection of an outcome indicating
 5 part in said plurality of outcome indicating parts, the number of said visually distinct positions
   being greater than the number of the plurality of outcome indicating parts, and
            ii) a selection of an outcome indicating part by the at least one marker,
            wherein the probability of the marker being in any one of the plurality of visually
   distinct positions is substantially the same as the probability that would be expected upon a
10 visual inspection of the game, and
            the gaming apparatus allocates a corresponding award to a player of the gaming
   apparatus dependent on play of the game, the award specified by the particular position in said
   plurality of positions that the marker is located in when the selected outcome indicating part
   was selected, at least two distinct awards being awardable when at least one of said outcome
15 indicating parts is selected; and
            wherein the game controller is further arranged to set a size of the visually appreciable
   area for a subset of the outcome indicating parts dependent, at least in part, on an award value
   for the subset of the corresponding outcome indicating parts and a return-to-player percentage.
20          Also disclosed is a game controller and associated computer memory for a gaming
   machine, the game controller operable to control play of a game that is played on a gaming
   machine and to generate control signals for at least one display, wherein when the control
   signals are received by a display, the display displays the game comprising:
            a plurality of outcome indicating parts, wherein the outcome indicating parts are
25 configured so that a plurality of possible outcomes are visually identifiable,
            a bonus game image initiated in response to determining a trigger during play of the
   game, and
            a selection process comprising a selection of at least one of said outcome indicating
   parts,
30          wherein the probability of any one of said outcome indicating parts being shown as
   selected in said selection process is substantially the same as the probability that would be
   expected upon a visual inspection of the plurality of outcome indicating parts and wherein for a
   subset of the plurality of possible outcomes the probability that a member of the subset of the
   plurality of possible outcomes is selected is less than the probability that second subset of at
35 least one outcome indicating part is selected, excluding any outcome indicating part that when
                                                                                10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                      9
   selected by the selector only results in an outcome that is a member of the subset of the plurality
   of possible outcomes; and
            wherein the game controller is further arranged to set a size of the visually appreciable
   area for each subset of the outcome indicating parts dependent, at least in part, on an award
 5 value for the subset of the corresponding outcome indicating parts and a return-to-player
   percentage.
            Also disclosed is a computerized method of providing a game of chance on a gaming
   apparatus, the method comprising:
10          a) controlling play of a game on the gaming apparatus;
            b) causing play of the game to be displayed on at least one display of the gaming
   apparatus; and
            c) causing an award to be awarded to a player of the gaming apparatus dependent on
   play of the game;
15          wherein said controlling play of the game involves:
            i) causing a plurality of possible outcomes to be shown on the at least one display so
   that each said possible outcome occupies a predetermined space on the at least one display,
            ii) selecting one of said plurality of possible outcomes, with each possible outcome
   selected on average across all plays of the game with a probability commensurate with the size
20 of the predetermined space that that possible outcome occupies on the at least one display
   relative to the area occupied by all of said plurality of possible outcomes; and
            wherein at least one possible outcome occupies a visually appreciable smaller space on
   the at least one display than the other possible outcomes; and
            setting a size of the visually appreciable area for each subset of the outcome indicating
25 parts dependent, at least in part, on an award value for the subset of the corresponding outcome
   indicating parts and a return-to-player percentage.
            Further aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the following
   description, given by way of example of preferred embodiments only and with reference to the
30 accompanying drawings.
   Brief Description Of The Drawings
            Figure 1 shows a perspective view of an example gaming machine in which an
35 embodiment of the present invention may be implemented.
                                                                               10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                     10
             Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a control circuit of the gaming machine shown in
    Figure 1.
             Figure 3 shows a screen display of an example of a primary game that may give rise to
    a wheel feature.
  5          Figures 4 and 5 show a first embodiment of a screen display associated with a wheel
    feature.
             Figure 6 shows a screen display associated with a wheel feature in accordance with an
    embodiment of the present invention.
             Figure 7 shows a screen display associated with a further wheel feature.
10           Figure 8 shows a screen display associated with a further wheel feature.
             Figure 9 shows a representation of a further wheel feature.
             Figure 10 shows a screen display associated with a wheel according to a further
    embodiment of the present invention.
             Figure 11 is a flow diagram illustrating operation of a gaming system in accordance
15  with an embodiment of the present invention.
    Description Of Preferred Embodiments
             Referring to Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, a gaming machine generally
20  referenced by arrow 10 is shown. The gaming machine 10 is an example of a gaming machine
    that is suitable to implement an embodiment of the present invention. The architecture of the
    gaming machine 10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which is displayed
    representations of a game 16 that can be played by a player. A mid-trim 20 of the gaming
    machine 10 houses a bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to play the game 16. The mid
25  trim 20 also houses a credit input mechanism 24 including a coin input chute 24A and a bill
    collector 24B. A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example, pay tables and details
    of bonus awards and other information or images relating to the game. A coin tray 30 is
    mounted beneath the console 12 for cash payouts from the gaming machine 10.
30  The display 14 shown in Figure 1 is in the form of a video display unit, particularly a cathode
    ray tube screen device. Alternatively, the display 12 may be a liquid crystal display, plasma
    screen, any other suitable Video Display Unit, or the visible portion of an electromechanical
    device. The top box 26 may also be a display, for example a video display unit, which may be
    the same type as the display 14, or a different type of display.
35
                                                                              10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                     11
   Referring now to Figure 2 of the accompanying drawings, a simplified block diagram of a
   control circuit 32 for the gaming machine 10 is shown. The control circuit 32 includes a
   controller 26 having a processor 24, which is most suitably a computer processor, and
   associated computer readable memory 42. A program 44 stored in memory 42 contains
 5 instructions, that when executed by the processor 24 causes the controller 26 to implement the
   wheel feature of the present invention, optionally also the game 16 (which may be provided
   through a different program and which may be controlled by a separate controller), and drive
   the display 14. A set of sensors 38A are provided with the bank of buttons 22 to allow the
   controller 36 to determine when a player depresses one of the buttons in the bank of buttons 22.
10 One or more further sensor 38B may be provided with the display 14, if the display 14 includes
   touch pads. Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that controller 36 may represent
   either a single device or a plurality of devices, which may be local or remote to each other. The
   processor 34 may be any suitable processor, microcontroller, programmable logic device or
   other suitable device for controlling a gaming machine. In addition, the memory 42 may be
15 local or remote and may formed by multiple memory parts.
   The controller 36 also receives input signals from the credit input mechanism 24 to enable it to
   determine whether or not a player has provided sufficient credit to commence play of the game
   16 and to enable a running total of a players credit to be maintained. The controller 36 also
20 drives a payout mechanism 40, which for example, may be a coin hopper for feeding coins to
   the coin tray 30 to make a pay out to a player when the player wishes to redeem his or her
   credit.
   Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that the gaming machine 10 may include many
25 other components to perform functions such as additional computations, communications and
   monitoring of play. Figure 2 and the associated description herein is provided only to give a
   background to the environment in which the present invention may be implemented.
   Those skilled in the relevant arts will also appreciate that the architecture of the gaming
30 machine 10 is only one example of a large number of possible alternative gaming apparatus
   architectures that may be used with the present invention. By way of example only, a gaming
   apparatus may have an architecture of one or more displays, a user interface, a game controller
   and a transaction handling unit for accepting and paying credits or currency in some form, all
   located together in a single housing or in a plurality of physically connecting housings. This is
35 the architecture of the gaming machine 10. A second example architecture of a gaming
                                                                               10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                     12
   apparatus is to have a display and a user interface located at a separate location from a game
   controller, wherein the game controller communicates with the display and the user interface
   through a fixed wire or wireless communication channel. A third example architecture is to
   have a first and a second display and optionally shared by a plurality of gaming machines. The
 5 second display may be controlled by a separate controller from a controller for the first display,
   the two controllers being in communication with each other.
   In other variations of the architecture of the gaming apparatus that may be used with the present
   invention, the display 14 may be replaced by a mechanical display where a wheel feature
10 according to the present invention is displayed to a player using a separate display. The bank of
   buttons 22 may be omitted and reliance placed entirely on touch pads provided on the display
    14, or vice versa. The credit input mechanism 24 may be a ticket reader, card reader, smart card
   reader, a communication interface with a personal mobile device, or any other type of validation
   device, either in addition to or instead of one or both of the coin input chute 24A and the bill
15 collector 24B. Alternatively, where appropriate for the intended use of the gaming machine, a
   credit input mechanism may be omitted entirely. Similarly the pay out mechanism 40 may be a
   ticked printer, card writer or other suitable device, or may be omitted entirely, with credits, for
   example, being communicated to a central database (not shown). As previously stated, the top
   box 26 may include a display, but it may also be omitted and if a second display is required it
20 may be located separated from the console 12. A gaming machine, irrespective of its
   architecture, is apparatus that allows a player to participate in a game of chance, irrespective of
   whether or not the apparatus requires the player to wager a stake in order to participate in the
   primary game.
25 Figure 3 shows a screen display 50 of an example of a game 16 that may be played on the
   gaming machine 10. The game 16 is a primary game and may be one of several such games that
   may be played using the gaming machine 10. A primary game, as the term is used herein,
   means a game of chance, optionally with a skill component or perceived skill component, that is
   playable on a gaming machine. The term "base game" has a corresponding meaning. Typically,
30 although not necessarily, a player can only participate in a wheel feature of the present
   invention after a trigger event has occurred, the trigger event being related to play of a primary
   game of a gaming machine. The screen display 50 shows the occurrence of a predetermined
   trigger condition giving rise to a bonus feature. A bonus feature is a secondary game that can be
   participated in by the gaming machine 10 (or the player at the gaming machine 10) that is in
35 addition to the primary game. Typically a bonus feature can only be participated in at a certain
                                                                              10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                      13
   time, which may be dictated by play of the primary game. In this case, the trigger condition is
   the occurrence of a display of three scatter symbols 52 on the screen display 50. Upon the
   occurrence of the trigger condition, a bonus feature is awarded, in particular a wheel feature.
 5 Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that the trigger event could be any one of a
   number of trigger events and that multiple trigger events may exist. For example, a trigger event
   may be based on a measure of time, a particular amount of wagering activity on the gaming
   machine 10, or on some activity of a group of gaming machines including the gaming machine
   10. Also, the trigger event may depend at least in part on player tracking information and may
10 be a random or quasi-random event. The trigger event may be a random determination for each
   bet that is made on each gaming machine, where the chance of the wheel feature being triggered
   is dependent upon the size of the bet on the gaming machine 10, it may be a random
   determination for each game played on each gaming machine 10 such that the chance of
   triggering the wheel feature is independent of bet size and the same for each game played, it
15 may be a standard symbol based trigger - for example three or more scatter symbols appearing
   during base game play on one of the gaming machines 10, or it may comprise the appearance of
   other types of symbol based triggers, such as special feature symbols being overlaid over
   standard reel symbols or appearing in the background of standard reel symbols, where certain
   combinations of the special feature symbols trigger the wheel feature. The selection of an event
20 that triggers a wheel feature of the present invention is up to the game designer and many other
   possibilities exist.
   While the preferred form of the invention is a particular form of wheel feature, the wheel
   feature described herein may also be a standalone game, and may also be a base game for
25 another feature game.
   As an example, when the trigger event occurs the screen display 50 is replaced by a screen
   display 54, shown in Figures 4 and 5 of the drawings. The user may be requested to select a
   button "play feature" or similar to initiate the wheel feature. The screen display 54 shows a
30 wheel feature indicator comprising a simulated wheel 56 divided into a number of segments 60,
   62 and with a plurality of chaser lights 58 arranged about the periphery of the wheel 56. The
   plurality of chaser lights 58 operate as part of a selector to select one or more of the segments
   60, with a lit chaser light 58 being a marker to show what segment has been selected. Those
   skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that the selector may take different forms from a
35 plurality of distinct chaser lights. For example, the selector may be an arrow or similar that
                                                                                10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                     14
   travels around the periphery of the wheel 56 in a continuous (or at least in such small steps so as
   to appear continuous) manner, and stop at a location determined by the controller 36. In another
   example, the marker may be the highlighting of segments 60 in some manner, for example by
   changing the colour of the segment 60 or highlighting the periphery of the segment 60 that the
 5 marker is currently pointing to. Parts of segments 60 may be also highlighted in this manner
   where this is required. Equally, the marker may be one or more unlit segments 60. In this way
   the selection may be made to appear like a process of elimination. Although in the preferred
   embodiment the marker travels around the segments 60 so as to sequentially and cyclically
   point to the segments 60, this is not essential and the marker may jump from segment to
10 segment.
            The segments 60 are each of approximately the same size, occupying the same visual
   area and presenting the same area for selection to the markers, plus one segment 62, which is
   much smaller than the remaining segments 60. The size of each segment 60, 62 is selected
   during the design of the game to give the desired return to player, according to the expected
15 frequency of their associated outcome, which is often a prize, being awarded. It is to be noted
   that the outcome indicted by the segment 62 is a prize that is orders of magnitude greater than
   many of the outcomes or prizes on the segments 60.
            The embodiments of the wheel feature indicator 55 shown in the accompanying
   drawings show a traditional circular wheel, with the individual outcome areas being segments
20 of the wheel. However, alternatives to the circular wheel 56 are possible and may be used to
   impart a casually distinctive appearance to the wheel feature. For example, an alternative wheel
   feature indicator may have a generally triangular, rectangular or some other polygon overall
   shape. The chaser lights 58 also need not travel around the periphery of a contiguous shape and
   may intersect parts of the wheel feature indicator, for example by travelling along a path
25 defining a figure eight around and between two circles. However, due to its simplicity, proven
   visual effectiveness and ability to have any sized segment without regard to having to align any
   intersections of outcome areas with vertices of a shape for visual impact, a single circular shape
   represents the preferred form of the invention.
            In the embodiment shown in Figure 4, between seven and ten chaser lights 58 are
30 associated with each segment 60, depending on the particular segment. Conversely, the segment
   62 only has a single chaser light associated with it. Generally, the larger the number of chaser
   lights 58 associated with each segment 60, the smaller the prize (if any) that is awarded should
   the segment be selected and segments that award equal prizes have the same number of chaser
   lights 58 associated with them. However, neither of these are necessary and can be varied by the
35 game designer to achieve a required effect and playing experience.
                                                                              10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                       15
              When the wheel feature is awarded, the chaser lights 58 are lit in a sequential manner to
    simulate movement of a marker around the periphery of the wheel 56. If required, the sequential
    illumination of the chaser lights 58 can be effected in a manner simulating the speeding up of
    the speed of travel of the lit chaser lights 58 around the periphery of the wheel 56, followed by
  5 the chaser lights slowing down and finally stopping. The stopping of the sequential illumination
    of the chaser lights 58 refers to the sequential illumination of the chaser lights 58 ceasing, with
    a single chaser light of the chaser lights 58 remaining illuminated. If the chaser light that
    remains illuminated is that opposite the segment 62, as shown in Figure 5, a prize of 1000
    credits, being the prize indicated by the segment 62, is awarded. Similarly, if the chaser light of
10  the chaser lights 58 that remains illuminated is opposite another segment, then the prize that it is
    indicated by that segment is awarded. In one possible alternative embodiment a chaser light 58
    or other selector may be able to straddle two adjacent segments 60, 62, in which case a double
    prize could be awarded.
              As the 1000 credit prize has only a single chaser light associated with it, in order for the
15  odds of winning the 1000 credit prize to reflect the expected odds of that device on a visual
    inspection, the chance of one particular chaser light 58 being illuminated is one in seventy two,
    or more generally (the number of chaser lights 58 associated with a particular prize) in (the total
    number of chaser lights 58). Therefore, a large prize can be displayed on the wheel 56 while
    still having an acceptable hit rate for the wheel feature and return to player percentage. If, for
20  example, the wheel feature is triggered on average every 100 games then the feature return
    would be 29.028% as shown by Table 1.
    Table 1 - return calculation for the feature wheel shown in Figure 4.
    Prize for each segment         Probability of occurrence          Average Prize Contribution (%)
    1000                            0.013889                          13.889
    50                              0.09722                           4.86
    20                              0.13889                           2.778
    15                              0.1250                            1.875
    15                              0.1250                            1.875
    10                              0.1250                            1.250
    10                              0.1250                            1.250
    5                               0.1250                            0.625
    5                               0.1250                            0.625
                                    1.000                             29.028
25
    This compares favourably with a wheel where all the segments are the same size but there is no
    significantly larger prize offered on the wheel. For example, for a wheel feature having eight
    equally sized segments containing the prize values of 1x150 credits, 1x20 credits, 2x15 credits,
                                                                                10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                     16
   2x10 credits and 2x5 credits and which is also triggered on average once every 100 games, the
   average return to player percentage would be 28.75%.
            It is an advantage of this arrangement that, because the wheel 56 remains stationary, the
   prizes applicable to the segments 60, 62 are always visible to the player, increasing the sense of
 5 anticipation. However, in less preferred embodiments, the wheel 56 may turn and one or more
   stationary markers may be used, or both the wheel and one or more markers may move.
            It will also be appreciated that the top award prize carried by the segment 62 could,
   instead of being a number of credits, be a progressive prize, non-monetary win such as a
   number of free games as described below with reference to Figures 6 and 8, or another special
10 bonus feature, which may include a car, a holiday or any other prize.
            The idea of having a segment much smaller than the others in a wheel game is one way
   of awarding a prize to a player which is of relatively high value. Another way, in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention, will now be described with reference to Figures 6,
   10 and 11.
15          In Figure 6 of the accompanying drawings, a screen display 64 including an
   embodiment of the wheel feature indicator 55 is shown. With reference to the previous
   drawings like reference numerals refer to like parts unless otherwise specified. In this
   embodiment many of the segments 60 of the wheel 56 carry information relating to outcomes
   other than a number of credits that can be awarded in the wheel feature. For example, the
20 outcome achieved by play of the wheel feature may be the awarding of a number of free games,
   where a win in any free game is multiplied by a certain multiplier, or where a particular symbol
   in the free games acts as a substitute symbol. In this embodiment, a free game may be a further
   game such as a reel game. The controller is arranged to select a plurality of symbols from a set
   of symbols and control the display to display the plurality of selected symbols. The display may
25 be similar to the display of Figure 3, for example. Different types of symbols may be used than
   in the display of Figure 3 or the same types of symbols may be utilised. The symbols may be
   "card symbols", for example, enabling a poker-like game to be represented by the display, or
   may by any other type of symbol e.g. fruits symbols, cartoon symbols, other graphical symbols
   or any other symbols. Outcomes of the further game may be determined on the basis of symbol
30 combinations, such as, for example, symbol combinations in lines and/or rows of symbols.
            In this embodiment, an outcome of the game, as indicated by the segment 56 of the
   wheel which is selected as the game outcome, may influence operation of the further game. For
   example, the outcome represented by segment 56A of the wheel designates that one of the
   symbols (the "K" symbol in this example) is "wild" for 15 free games. The game controller is
35 arranged to play 15 free symbol games in which the K symbol is designated wild (i.e. can be
                                                                               10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                     17
   substituted for any symbol which may result in a desired game outcome, such as a "Win"
   outcome). This has the advantage that a prize may be awarded which does not depend only the
   odds provided by the wheel 55, but which also depends on odds that can be offered in the
   further symbol game.
 5          Referring to Figure 10, a further embodiment of the wheel feature indictor 55 in
   accordance with the present invention is shown. With reference to the previous drawings like
   reference numerals refer to like parts unless otherwise specified. In this embodiment, the
   segments of the wheel 55 are of equal size. As with the Figure 6 embodiment, however,
   operation of the wheel 55 may affect operation of a further game, such as a reel game played as
10 one or more of a series of free games. For example, segments 56B of the wheel 55 designate
   that one or more symbols of the further game are "wild". This has the advantage that a prize
   may be awarded which does not depend only on the odds provided by the wheel 55, but which
   also depends upon odds that can be offered in the symbol game. High prizes may therefore be
   awarded via this two stage process, being the wheel game followed by one or more plays of a
15 reel game.
            In the particular embodiment of Figure 10, the wheel games and further reel games are
   generated as a feature of a primary game (such as another symbol game which may generate a
   trigger for the feature, as discussed above). In this embodiment, three free games are awarded
   when the feature is triggered. The wheel is "spun" prior to each free game. If the wheel stops on
20 a symbol, that symbol is WILD for all the remaining free games. If the wheel stops on a "free
   game" segment 56C, further free games (depending upon the number designated) are added to
   the remaining free games. If the wheel stops on a credit prize, that prize is awarded as a bonus,
   and the other free games are then subsequently played. It will be appreciated that this allows for
   the awarding of many prizes, some of which may be relatively high prizes. Spinning the wheel
25 55 before each free game, means that the subsequent free game operation will be affected by the
   spin and, for example, different symbols may be designated wild. This would mean that, in this
   embodiment where the symbol is wild for all the remaining free games a plurality of symbols
   could become wild, increasing opportunities for prizes.
            In this embodiment, the trigger feature awards three free games (three plays of the
30 wheel feature followed by the reel feature). The invention is not limited to the feature game
   comprising three free games. There may be any number of free games.
            A game playing process of this embodiment will now will be summarised with
   reference to Figure 11.
            At step 100, the primary ("base") game is played by selection of symbols from a
35 plurality of available symbols. At step 101 the outcome of the base game is determined.
                                                                              10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                     18
   Depending on the combination of symbols, this may be a "Win", in which case a Win Result
   (step 102) is determined for the player. The player may then have the choice to play again. The
   result may be a "Lose" result, in which case the player will again have the choice whether to
   play again. In some cases (such as in the example described above where a feature game is
 5 generated) a feature may be triggered (step 103) to play the game (wheel game) and further
   game (in this embodiment further symbol selection).
             At step 104 the wheel is spun. At step 105 a wheel outcome is determined. This may be
   any of the outcomes designated by the segments 56 of the wheel of Figure 10. At step 106 the
   reel game is played and symbols are selected. A result is determined at step 107, which may be
10 a win result, for example. Note that at step 106 symbols may be wild so the outcome of the
   game will depend on what has occurred at the wheel spin step 104 and wheel step outcome
   determination step 105.
             At step 108 it is determined whether or not the feature is complete, which will generally
   depend upon how many further free games are available. If the feature is not complete ("NO")
15 then the wheel is spun again at step 104. If the feature is complete ("YES"), then the player has
   the choice whether or not to play the primary game again.
             In the embodiments of Figure 6, 10, 11 the wheel game and further game are generated
   as a feature game of a primary game. The invention is not limited to this. The wheel game and
   further game may be a stand alone game which is not dependent on a primary game.
20           In the embodiment of Figures 6, 10 and 11, the further game is a symbol game, where a
   plurality of symbols are selected from a plurality of available symbols. The further game need
   not be a symbol game, but could be any other type of game.
             As discussed above, a particularly advantageous feature of the Figure 10 embodiment is
   that, if a segment of the wheel is selected that designates a symbol is "wild" in subsequent reel
25 games, then that symbol remains wild for the remaining amount of free games available. Each
   time the wheel is spun, another symbol may be designated wild. The result can therefore be a
   number of wild symbols occurring in subsequent reel games. The invention is not limited to
   this, however. In alternative embodiments, a symbol may be designated wild for only a limited
   number of following reel games e.g. 1, 2 or more reel games. The embodiment shown in Figure
30 6 illustrates another major advantage. If it was required to offer a 1000 credit prize on a wheel
   in which all segments were equally sized, it would be necessary to make all of the segments the
   same size as the segment carrying the 100 credit prize. It would be impossible or at least
   difficult to effectively describe free games and other feature awards offered on the other
   segments because of their small size. In other words, there would not physically be enough
35 room on the segments.
                                                                             10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                      19
            Of course, the segment for the major prize occupies only a small portion of the wheel in
   comparison to other segments. In order to draw attention to the major prize, the segment
   containing the prize may be made to be eye-catching, for example by having a bright red
   background when all other segments have a white or pale coloured background. Also, the major
 5 prize may be located top and centre and will remain there in embodiments of the present
   invention using a selector in the form of chaser lights or similar instead of rotating the wheel 56.
            In Figure 7 of the drawings, a still further embodiment of a screen display 66 of a wheel
   feature indicator 55 is shown. With reference to the previous drawings, like reference numerals
   referring to like parts unless otherwise specified. In this embodiment of the invention, all the
10 segments 60 are of the same size. However, one of the segments 60A has a prize outcome of a
   number of credits, which is larger than the prize outcomes carried by the other segments 60. In
   addition, one of the chaser lights 58A associated with the segment 60A carries a multiplier on it
   which multiplies the number of credits shown on the segment 60A. Therefore, within the
   segment 60A are two possible outcomes, one associated with four chaser lights (in two parts)
15 and indicating a prize of 100 credits and another associated with one chaser light, indicating a
   prize of 1000 credits. The chances of winning the 1000 credits still, however, can reflect the
   probability that would be expected on a visual inspection of the wheel feature indicator 55.
            Accordingly, in this embodiment of the invention, if the last chaser light 58 that
   remains illuminated is the chaser light 58A, then the prize awarded to the player is 100 credits,
20 being the number of credits on the segment 60A multiplied by the multiplier carried on the
   chaser light 58A. Because only the one chaser light 58A associated with the segment 60A
   carried the multiplier, the probability of the top award prize being awarded is lower than the
   probability of any of the remaining prizes. An advantage on selecting the segment 60A with the
   largest outcome for the multiplier is that the value of the multiplier can be reduced. As the
25 multiplier is displayed on a chaser light, the display area is limited. Referring still to Figure 7, if
   a 1000 credit prize was to be awarded through the use of a multiplier on the chaser light 58C,
   then the multiplier would be 200, a three digit number that would need to be printed using
   smaller digits than a two digit number to fit on the chaser light.
            In Figure 8 of the drawings, a screen display 69 of yet a further embodiment of the
30 wheel feature indicator 55 is shown. As in the case of the previous embodiments, like reference
   numerals refer to like parts unless otherwise specified. In this embodiment, like the embodiment
   shown in Figure 7, all the segments 60 are of the same size. In the embodiment shown in Figure
   8, some of the segments of the segments 60 carry an outcome that is a prize in the form of a
   specified number of credits. If a chaser light of the chaser lights 58 that is opposite these
35 segments is the last chaser light illuminated, the outcome is the number of credits indicated on
                                                                               10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                      20
   the segment multiplied by a multiplier value that is carried by that particular chaser light. If the
   last chaser light that is illuminated of the chaser lights 58 is associated with a segment 60
   carrying a number of free games (typically for the primary game), then the prize that is awarded
   is the number of free games on the marked segment 60. Any win occurring during the free
 5 games is then multiplied by the multiplier of the illuminated chaser light 58.
            As in the previous embodiments, a particular chaser light, indicated by the combination
   of the segment 60B and chaser light 58B, provides an award that may be of substantially higher
   value (in this embodiment the value is variable within statistical bounds, due to the prize being
   dependent on play of a primary game) than any of the other outcomes. In the illustrated
10 embodiment, the segment 60B carries an outcome of 25 free games and the chaser light 58B
   carries a multiplier of substantially higher value than any of the other multipliers. If the last
   chaser light 58 that is illuminated is chaser light 58B the player is awarded an outcome of 25
   free games in which any win in the free game series is multiplied by a multiplier of 30. A major
   prize awarded in this way may provide particular excitement to a player that wins the large
15 prize, as the awarding of the large prize is an ongoing exercise spanning 25 games. When this is
   used in combination with a wheel feature, which has proven appeal, the overall result may be
   particularly advantageous.
            The feature wheel indicator 55 shown in Figure 8 has a second major prize, namely
   4000 credits awarded when the chaser light that indicated x20, which is opposite the segments
20 that indicated 200, is the last chaser light of the chaser lights 58 to be illuminated. Due to the
   relatively small area (2 parts in 40) that the major prizes occupy, it is possible with the present
   invention to offer more than one major prize on a feature wheel.
            In an alternative to the embodiments shown in Figures 7 and 8, one or more of the
   chaser lights 58 may indicate a prize that is independent of the segment 60 that it is opposite, if
25 it is opposite any segment 60 at all (the chaser lights 58 that indicate an independent prize may
   be located away from the segments 60). For example one chaser light 58 may have the symbol
   "$" on it and this may be the major prize. In this embodiment it is clear that the chaser lights 58
   that indicate a prize that is independent of any segment 60 are outcome indicating parts, the
   difference being that the chaser light is selected when it is illuminated, in contrast to a segment
30 60 being selected when a marker 58 that is adjacent to the segment 60 is illuminated.
            A further alternative embodiment is shown in Figure 9. An arrow 70 or other marker
   travels continuously around the wheel 56 and an annulus 72 has been located around the wheel
   56, the annulus 72 separated into parts 74 (only one of which is indicated in Figure 9 by a
   reference numeral) marked in a similar or corresponding way to the chaser lights 58 shown in
35 Figure 8. This embodiment may be particularly suited to the use of colour coding to indicate
                                                                                 10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                      21
   prizes. The arrow 70 could then travel around the outer side of the annulus 72 as indicated by
   arrow A in Figure 9, or between the annulus 72 and the wheel 56 to select the combination of
   one of the segments 60 and one part 74 of the annulus 72. Where the feature wheel is not
   circular, the annulus 72 would be replaced by a corresponding different shape. Although neither
 5 the segments 60 nor the parts 74 of the annulus 72 are shown in Figure 9 with indicia (or colour
   coding), they will be marked so that a major prize can be won. For example, the part 74A may
   indicate a major prize in a similar way in which chaser light 58B (see Figure 8) indicated a
   major prize. Of course, the segments 60 shown in Figure 9 need not be all the same size. For
   example the wheel 56 may have small segments 60 that only corresponds to the part 74A in a
10 similar manner to segment 62 only corresponding to a single chaser light (see Figure 5).
             It will be appreciated, that, although the invention has been described with reference to
   the display of the wheel feature being implemented as an electronic simulation of a wheel, the
   display of the wheel feature could be implemented in an electro-mechanical form with a
   stationary wheel (where this is required) and actual chaser lights arrayed about the periphery of
15 the wheel. Alternatively, the wheel feature could be implemented as an electro-mechanical
   wheel with any form of marker, or the wheel may spin itself and the mark remain stationary.
             In the above embodiments, the wheel feature is a traditional circular wheel, with the
   plurality of outcome indicating parts being segments of the wheel. In alternative embodiments,
   the wheel feature may be generally rectangular, triangular, or polygonal in overall shape. In an
20 alternative embodiment, the feature may not be a wheel at all, and could be, for example, a
   series of adjacent segments with an indicator moving between the segments.
             In the above embodiments, where the primary game or further game are wheel games,
   the wheels are shown displaying five rows and three columns. The invention is not limited to
   this arrangement. There may be any number of rows and columns for the primary wheel game
25 and/or the further wheel game.
             The primary game or further game may be emulated as reels or implemented as actual
   reels. In an alternative embodiment, the display may not emulate reels but merely show the
   selected symbols in a non-reel format e.g. presenting them as emulated playing cards, or other
   graphical representations. In this embodiment, each selection of a set of symbols is equivalent
30 to one "spin" of the reels.
             It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
   modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments described
   herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. The
   present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all aspects as illustrative and not
35 restrictive.
                                                                               10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                      22
    Claims
    1.       A gaming apparatus operable to play a game, the gaming apparatus comprising;
             a display configured to display the game; and
  5          a game controller configured to:
             display a plurality of segments, each of the plurality segments being allocated a prize
    value, at least two segments of the plurality of segments having a visual area that is larger than
    a visual area of at least one other segment of the plurality of segments, the prize value allocated
    to the at least one other segment being larger than the prize value allocated to the at least two
10  segments;
                       wherein the respective size of each of the plurality of segments is defined by at
             least one marker, such that a segment having the least visual area is defined by a single
             marker and such that the remaining segments of the plurality of segments are
             respectively defined by a plurality of markers; and
15                     wherein the markers are countable, and the total number of markers and the
             respective number of markers associated with each segment are indicative of the
             respective odds of obtaining a prize value associated with the segments; and
             select, from the plurality of segments, at least one segment, wherein the probability of
    selecting one of the plurality of segments is dependent upon the number of markers defining
20  each of the segments and the total number of markers.
    2.       The gaming apparatus of claim 1, wherein the prize value is at least a wild symbol for
    use in the at least one further game.
25  3.       The gaming apparatus of claim 2, wherein the at least one further game is a symbol
    game.
    4.       The gaming apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to control
    the operation of at least one of the markers to indicate the at least one selected segment.
30
    5.       The gaming apparatus of claim 4, wherein the at least one of the markers is positioned
    about at least a portion of a periphery of the plurality of segments.
                                                                                 10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                     23
   6.       The gaming apparatus of claim 5, wherein the controller is further configured to
   illuminate at least one of the plurality of markers to indicate the selection of the at least one
   selected segment.
 5 7.       The gaming apparatus of claim 6, wherein at least one of the plurality of markers
   includes a multiplier, and wherein when the at least one of the plurality of markers is
   illuminated to indicate the selection of the at least one selected segment, the multiplier is
   applied to the prize value of the at least one selected segment.
10 8.       The gaming apparatus of claim 6, wherein the controller is further configured to
   illuminate the markers in a sequential manner to simulate movement of the at least one of the
   markers about the periphery of the plurality of segments.
   9.       The gaming apparatus of claim 1, wherein the plurality of segments are arranged in the
15 shape of a wheel.
   10.      A game controller arranged to implement a game, the game controller configured to:
            control the operation of the game, the game having a plurality of segments, each of the
   plurality segments being allocated a prize value, at least two segments of the plurality of
20 segments having a visual area that is larger than a visual area of at least one other segment of
   the plurality of segments, the prize value allocated to the at least one other segment being larger
   than the prize value allocated to the at least two segments;
                      wherein the respective size of each of the plurality of segments is defined by at
            least one marker, such that the segment having the least visual area is defined by a
25          single marker and such that the remaining segments of the plurality of segments are
            respectively defined by a plurality of markers; and
                      wherein the markers are countable, and the total number of markers and the
            respective number of markers associated with each segment are indicative of the
            respective odds of obtaining a prize value associated with the segments; and
30          select, from the plurality of segments, at least one selected segment, wherein the
   probability of selecting one of the plurality of segments is dependent upon the number of
   markers defining each of the segments and the total number of markers.
   11.      A method of gaming using a game controller arranged to implement a base game with a
35 plurality of symbols and a secondary game, the method comprising:
                                                                                10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

                                                     24
            displaying a plurality of segments, each of the plurality segments being allocated a
   prize value, at least two segments of the plurality of segments having a visual area that is larger
   than a visual area of at least one other segment of the plurality of segments, the prize value
   allocated to the at least one other segment being larger than the prize value allocated to the at
 5 least two segments;
                     wherein the respective size of each of the plurality of segments is defined by at
            least one marker, such that a segment having the least visual area is defined by a single
            marker and such that the remaining segments of the plurality of segments are
           respectively defined by a plurality of markers; and
10                   wherein the markers are countable, and the total number of markers and the
            respective number of markers associated with each segment is indicative of the
            respective odds of obtaining a prize value associated with the segments; and
            selecting, from the plurality of segments, at least one selected segment, wherein the
   probability of selecting one of the plurality of segments is dependent upon the number of
15 markers defining each of the segments and the total number of markers.
                                                                               10184264_1(GHMaters) P76141.AU.718/04/18

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
