GLYCOSIDASE REGIMEN FOR TREATMENT OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE
Abstract
In various aspects, the invention relates to immune tolerant glycosidase therapy. The invention
provides methods for treating or preventing infectious disease, including chronic viral infections,
and highly contagious infectious agents that present an ongoing challenge for the immune
system. The compositions and treatment regimens find use with other antiviral or antimicrobial
therapies, as well as in conjunction with vaccination to boost effectiveness and/or extend the
duration of protective effect. In certain embodiments, the regimen described herein reduces or
eliminates the need for administration of other traditional antiviral or antimicrobial therapies. In
various embodiments, the invention finds use in immunocompromised patients to boost immune
function.

                                           AUSTRALIA
                                         Patents Act 1990
                            ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                      STANDARD PATENT
Invention title:       GLYCOSIDASE REGIMEN FOR TREATMENT OF INFECTIOUS
                       DISEASE
This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No 2013323472 which is the
Australian national phase entry of PCT/US2013/061966, which claims priority to US patent
application No 61/707,252 filed 28 September 2012. Each of these applications is herein
incorporated by reference in their entireties.
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to us:
                                                  1

       GLYCOSIDASE REGIMEN FOR TREATMENT OF INFECTIOUS DISEASE
                                               PRIORITY
           This Application claims priority to, and the benefit of, US Provisional Application
 5 No. 61/707,252, which was filed September 28, 2012, which is hereby incorporated by
   reference in its entirety.
                                    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention relates to treatment and prevention of disease, and
10 particularly the prevention, treatment and management of infectious disease, including
   chronic and non-chronic viral infections and other infectious disease with a glycosidase
   therapy.
                                           BACKGROUND
15         Patients with chronic infections (such as chronic viral infections such as HIV,
   HSV, hepatitis virus, HPV, etc.) if effectively treated to reverse the disease trajectory or
   disease   state,  still require   long-term disease management.       However, continued
   administration of chemotherapeutic, monoclonal, or cytokine therapies can result in
   pathogen resistance, toxic effects for the patient including immune suppression, loss of
20 effectiveness over time, and can be cost prohibitive for many patients.       For example,
   antiretroviral (ARV) therapy, although successful in slowing the progression of AIDS, has
   transformed the disease into a chronic disease requiring long term treatment, and a basic
   acceptance of the very significant side effects and enormous cost of the drugs. Atun and
   Bateringaya, Building a during response to HIV/AIDS: implications for health systems, J.
25 Acquir Immune Defic. Syndr. 57 Suppl. 2:S91-5 (2011).          A more effective long term
   disease management of such infectious disease requires an active agent that maintains
   effectiveness over time, and which is substantially non-toxic or not immune suppressing
   for the patient, and ideally is cost effective.
                                                   la

           In addition, treating or preventing certain infectious or epidemic illnesses,
   including Influenza, SARS, and the common cold, require long term boosts to the immune
   system to prevent infection, or prevent severe illness.      This is especially true for the
   immune compromised, since available small molecule therapies can exacerbate the
 5 immune deficiency, and vaccines may be only marginally effective.           Such a need is
   particularly high when vaccine is in short supply or unavailable.
           There is a need for effective prevention, treatment and/or management of infectious
   disease, including management of chronic infections, and controlling highly contagious
   infectious diseases.
10
                                   SUMMARY OF INVENTION
           In various aspects, the invention provides compositions and methods for treating or
   preventing infectious disease, including chronic infections, and highly contagious
   infectious agents that present an ongoing challenge for the immune system or public health
15 generally. The compositions and treatment regimens described herein may find use with
   other antiviral or antimicrobial therapies, as well as in conjunction with vaccination (e.g.,
   non-adijuvant-containing vaccination) to boost vaccine effectiveness and/or extend the
   duration of protective effect. The treatment comprises in vivo administration of a
   glycosidase enzyme regimen (e.g., a regimen of one or more glycosidase enzymes) to the
20 patient. In various embodiments, the glycosidase regimen is not targeted by the patient's
   immune system. In various embodiments, the glycosidase regimen provides one or more
   glycosidase enzymes active for removal of one or more terminal glycosyl groups on
   mammalian cells (e.g., immune cells), infected cells, or other glycosylated targets leading
   to immune activation. The glycosidase therapy elicits immune signaling cascades via its
25 action on immune cells. Targeted terminal glycosyl groups may comprise, for example,
   sialosyl, beta-galactosyl, N-acetylgalactosamino, fucosyl, glucosyl, N-acetylilucosamino,
   and mannosyl residues, among others.        Thus, the glycosidase regimen can include, in
   various embodiments, one or more of neuramninidase, galactosidase, N-acetylgalactosidase,
   fucosidase,   glucosidase, N-acetylglucosaminidase,      and mannosidase, among others.
30 Without wishing to be bound by theory, the regimen increases immune signaling by
                                                  2

   removing effective amounts of glycosyl structures (e.g., sialic acid) from the surface of
   immune cells, infected cells, and/or other glycosylated targets.            In this manner, the
   glycosidase regimen orchestrates or programs an effective immune response, allowing
   antigenic    targeting  of   infected   cells  as     well   as   eliciting   proper   levels of
 5 cvtokine/chemokine cascades for therapy. In these or other embodiments, the glycosidase
   enzymes include at least one enzyme specific for a prominent terminal glycosyl residue
   (e.g., neuraminidase and/or galactosidase), and at least one enzyme specific for a
   prominent     penultimate   glycosyl   residue    (e.g.,   beta-galactosidase,    fucosidase, or
   mrannosidase) on the surface of immune cells. In some embodiments, such enzymes act
10 synergistically with neuraminidase.       The regimen does not dysregulate (but instead
   coordinates) the patient's immune system, which is crucial in fighting infectious disease,
   and is effective even in the presence of certain levels of cytotoxic chemotherapies, which
   can have deleterious effects on immune cells.           Further, the regimen is applicable for
   chronic therapy, or repeated therapy, since the agent(s) are not targeted by the immune
15 system in various embodiments.        The regimen in various embodiments avoids excess
   removal of sialic acids or other glycosyl structures from normal cells so that they retain
   normal function.
           In certain embodiments, the glycosidase regimen described herein reduces or
   eliminates the need for administration of other traditional antiviral or antimicrobial
20 therapies.   In various embodiments, the invention finds use in immunocompromised or
   immunosuppressed patients for increasing immune function. The glycosidase regimen in
   various embodiments is not immune targeted, and thus the resulting glycosidase signaling
   can be used for long term therapy.
           In one aspect, the invention provides methods for treating patients having a chronic
25 viral infection through a non-acute regimen of a composition comprising a glycosidase
   fonnulation that is both tolerated by the immune system ("immune tolerant") and sufficient
   for stimulating coordinated immune signaling. The glycosidase composition thus provides
   for immune stimulation, such as through one or more integral immune modulation
   cascades, while avoiding immune targeting of the glycosidase(s), which would otherwise
30 eliminate its effectiveness over time.
                                                  3

           The glycosidase composition and regimen is a cost effective treatment to reverse
   viral disease state or trajectory, and/or to transition to long term disease management. In
   some embodiments, the patient is a symptomatic AIDS patient, and the glycosidase
   composition is provided with, or as an alternative to., ARV therapy, to reverse disease
 5 trajectory. While ARVs can be an effective antiviral treatment, ARV's have the adverse
   effect of suppressing the immune system, an effect harmful particularly for HIV or AIDS
   patients. Thus, consistent immune modulation through the regimen described herein has
   the ability to ameliorate these side effects, while in the long term transitioning to the
   primary disease management. Alternatively or in addition, the glycosidase composition,
10 after amelioration of the condition, allows transition to a cost effective regimen for long
   term disease management, which in some embodiments eliminates the need for chronic
   ARV therapy. The regimen is generally effective for managing chronic viral infections
   such as HIV, HSV, EBV, HAV,         IBV, H CV, HPV, adenovirus, and others.
           In a second aspect, the invention provides methods of treating and/or preventing an
15 infectious disease. In accordance with this aspect, the patient receives a regimen of the
   composition described herein, which provides and maintains effective immune stimulation
   over time, including as a lone or added protection during influenza season, or other
   ongoing infectious disease outbreak or epidemic. In particular embodiments, the invention
   finds use with immunocompromised patients, including the elderly, children, the sick,
20 hospitalized,   and those      with  an    immunodeficiency     disorder   (including   genetic
   immunodeficiencies, drug-induced immunodeficiency, or due to infectious disease such as
   AIDS).    In certain embodiments, the composition and/or regimen acts as an adjuvant to
   enhance vaccine effectiveness, providing for more effective vaccination and/or longer
   duration of a vaccine's protective effect and in some embodiments, allows for vaccine dose
25 sparing.
           In other aspects, the invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising
   at least two of neuraminidase, galactosidase, N-acetylgalactosaminidase,            ficosidase,
   glucosidase,   N-acetylglucosaminidase,      and    mannosidase,   and a pharmaceutically
   acceptable excipient. For example, the composition may comprise neuraminidase and            p
   galactosidase. The glycosidases may be present at, collectively, between about 10 mg to
                                                   4

   10-8 mg.    The composition may be formulated for a variety of administration routes,
   including sublingual delivery.
           In still other aspects, the invention provides a convenient glycosidase dose
   applicator.  The applicator delivers a sufficient number of glycosidase doses for a non
   acute regimen, such as for example, at least one month of loses for reversing viral disease
   trajectory or managing an infectious disease, or for preventing or mitigating infectious
 5 disease, or enhancing vaccine effectiveness.       The applicator maintains stability of the
   composition over the course of the regimen, protecting the composition from exposure to
   possible environmental contamination.      The glycosidase composition is stable over the
   length of time needed to administer the doses in accordance with a regimen described
   herein.
10
                                DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
           FIGURE 1 shows the effect of neuraminidase and complement on the infectivity of
   Vero cells by HSV-1.          The indicated units of complement were incubated with
   neuraminidase and HSV-1. These mixtures were then added to Vero cell and incubated for
15 5 days.     After cell fixation and staining, plaques were counted, with each plaque
   corresponding to one initial infectious viral particle.   Infectivity is expressed as a percent
   of the virus control (virus incubated with cells and without complement or neuraminidase).
           FIGURE 2 shows the effect of neuraminidase and complement on the yield of
   infectious HSV-i in Vero cells. Vero cells were incubated with HSV-I.            These infected
20 cells were then incubated with mixtures containing the indicated units of complement and
   neuraminidase. Controls consisted of infected cells without complement or neuraminidase
   (virus control).  Following a 24-hour incubation, supernatants (containing released virus)
   from the cell cultures were tested for their ability to form plaques. Yield is expressed as a
   percent of the virus control.
25          FIGURE 3 sunmarizes the effects of neuraminidase on the production of cytokines
   in vitro. Cells appropriate for the production and measurement of the respective cytokines
   were incubated in the presence (experimental) or absence (control) of neuraminidase. For

   IL-2, IFN-o, and IFNy, total cellular RNA was extracted and hybridized with a cytokine
   specific radioactive probe and counts per minute were determined.        For TNF-a, optical
   densities were measured in a cell lytic assay. Values for each cytokine are expressed as the
   percent difference from the corresponding saline control. As indicated by the positive
 5 values, all four tested cytokines were stimulated in the presence of neuraminidase relative
   to controls.
                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention provides compositions, methods and treatment regimens for
10 non-acute immune enhancement, which finds application in the treatment of chronic
   infectious disease, including vaccine (e.g., adjuvant-free vaccine) enhancement.
           In one aspect, the invention comprises administering an in vivo regimen of one or
   more glycosidase enzymes to a patient having an infectious disease. The in vivo regimen
   stimulates immune signaling through removal of effective amounts of glycosides, notably
15 sialic acids in some embodiments, from the surface of immune cells or other targets, and
   avoids excess removal of glycosides including sialic acid from normal cells. The regimen
   allows persistent antigenic targeting of infected cells by the elicited immune cascade. In
   some embodiments, the regimen comprises enzymes active for removal of glycosides that
   are prevalent on virally infected cells, and which in various embodiments are terminal or
20 penultimate glycosides. In some embodiments, the regimen comprises neuraminidase and
   a second glycosidase specific for the removal of a prevalent penultimate glycosyl residue,
   which can provide a synergistic treatment by avoiding, preventing, or slowing resialylation
   and/or re-capping of the glycosyl chains. The administration regimen, including as adjunct
   therapy and including embodirnents that involve convenient patient dose monitoring, are as
25 described in detail herein. According to this aspect, the effectiveness of the method does
   not critically rely on the identity of the infectious agent or the patient's unique biology,
   unlike many conventional therapies.
           The invention in various embodiments provides for administering regimens of a
   glycosidase composition sufficient for immune stimulation, while also avoiding targeting
                                                  6

   of the glycosidase by the immune system, which might otherwise reduce or eliminate its
   effectiveness.    In certain aspects, the invention further provides glycosidase dosing
   applicators for administering the regimens described herein.
           In some embodiments, the glycosidase composition comprises neuraminidase,
 5 which is an enzyme that hydrolyzes glycosidic linkages of terminal sialic acid residues on
   various glycoconjugates. Neuraminidases are found in manmnalian cells as well as various
   bacterial, fungal, and viral sources. By virtue of their terminal position on carbohydrate
   chains of cell membranes, sialic acids are key regulators of communication between cells
   and of iminune recognition phenomena.              In accordance with the invention, the
10 neuraminidase is formulated, optionally with other glycosidases as described herein, and
   provided as a. regimen of doses that allows it to function as a signaling cascade
   immunomodulator, coordinating the host's immune response to effectively combat
   infectious disease, including HIV and other viral and infectious agents, while not itself
   being (significantly) targeted by the immune system.          In some embodiments, these
15 properties of the composition are improved by proper formulation and/or delivery of the
   glycosidase.
           In various embodiments, and without wishing to be bound by theory, the
   glycosidase therapy enhances immune function at least in part by complement activation.
   For example, when using Herpes simplex (HSV-1) as a model virus, in vitro studies show
20 that incubating proper levels of neuraminidase and complement together significantly
   reduces both the infectivity of Vero cells by HSV-l and the release of free virus from pre
   infected cells relative to controls (FIGS I and 2).
           In various embodiments, and without wishing to be bound by theory, the
   glycosidase therapy enhances immune function at least in part by cytokine stimulation,
25 including, for example, Interleukin-2 (IL-2), interferon alpha (IFN-a), interferon gamma
   (IFN-y), tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a), Interleukin-4 (IL-4), and Interleukin-6 (IL
   6). Using in vitro cell systems, the production of at least four cytokines was stimulated in
   the presence of proper levels of neuraminidase relative to the respective controls. Thus, in
   some embodiments the functions of these cytokines is enhanced by a maintained or
30 perpetual signal cascade of neuraminidase, leading to control of immune stimulation.

           In various embodiments. and without wishing to be bound by theory, the
   glycosidase therapy enhances immune function at least in part by increasing efficiency of
   immune cell interactions. The increased efficiency of these immune cell interactions in the
   presence of proper levels of neuraminidase, as well as other glycosidases, may be due to
 5 the removal of negatively charged sialic acid molecules, resulting in greater cell-to-cell
   contact.    In various embodiments, the gycosidase composition and regimen enhances
   immune function by enhancing cell-mediated cytotoxicity and/or immune cell activation.
           In various embodiments, and without wishing to be bound by theory, the
   glycosidase regimen functions at least in part by increasing exposure of infectious agent,
10 such as virus (e.g., HIV, HSV, EBV, HCV, HPV, adenovirus) and viral infected cells to
   immune mechanisms. In addition to possible complement activation, removal of terminal
   sialic acid residues from gp120 of HIV or HIV-infected cells by neuramninidase may have
   other immune stimulating effects.     Removing terminal sialic acid residues and/or other
   glycans from gpi20/gp        160 of HIV either exposes hidden epitopes or alters the
15 conformation of the glycoprotein such that the virus is more susceptible to attack by
   various components of the host's immune system.          The glycosidase formulation and
   regimen described herein tips the delicate balance between immune defense and viral
   infectivity in favor of the host.
            In various embodiments, without wishing to be bound by theory, the glycosidase
20 regimen, which may comprise one or more of neuraminidase, ri-galactosidase, a
   mannidase, fucosidase (as well as other glycosidase enzymes, including those described
   herein) converts vitamin D binding protein (also known as group specific component, or
   Ge), to an effective macrophage activating factor in vivo, leading to activation of
   macrophages against the patient's infectious disease.      See, for example, U.S. Patent
25 5,326,749, which is hereby incorporated by reference; Yamamoto et al., J immunology
   Vol. 151:2794-2802 (1993).        Vitamin D-binding protein, also known as DBP, is an
   evolutionarily conserved glycoprotein, and is genetically polymorphic. DBP has a relative
   molecular weight of about 52,000, and normally constitutes about 0.5% of the plasma
   protein. The proper dose and regimen of glycosidase as described herein, can lead to
30 effective, consistent, and chronic in vivo macrophage activation against the particular
                                                8

   causative pathogen, including specific targeting of its antigenic state, which is crucial for
   pathogens that constantly change exposed epitopes.      Thus, in vivo administration of the
   glycosidase composition, including convenient sublingual dosing, leads to effective
   macrophage activation against pathogens.
 5          In one aspect, the invention provides a method for treating a patient having a
   chronic viral infection. The method comprises administering a non-acute regimen of an
   immunotolerant and immune signaling glycosidase composition to the patient so as to
   treat, ameliorate, and/or manage said infection. In some embodiments, virus is one that
   integrates with the host genome (e.g., as provirus) or which can become latent, or
10 otherwise escape immune surveillances as to be difficult or impossible to completely
   eliminate. Exemplary viruses include retroviruses (e.g., HIV), herpes simplex viruses (e.g.
   HSV-l or HSV-2), hepatitis viruses (e.g., HAV, HBV, HCV), and adenovirus.            In such
   embodiments, the glycosidase composition and regimen described herein can take the
   place of antiviral chemotherapy or immunotherapy (e.g., cytokine or chemokine therapy,
15 such as interferon, or monoclonal antibody treatment) for long term disease management,
   or can be combined with such therapies to improve outcome, that is, either combined
   simultaneously or in sequence.
            In some embodiments, the patient is HIV positive, and in some embodiments is a
   symptomatic AIDS patient.         HIV infection is a worldwide problem, and various
20 governments have made arrangements for their nationals to have access to antiretroviral
   drugs. In spite of these efforts, sometimes the drugs are not available because of poor
   communication and poor accessibility which results in missed doses by the patients. Also,
   quite often, patients are not able to tolerate these drugs. The present invention provides
   alternatives to antiretroviral drugs in some embodiments, and in other embodiments,
25 provides additional agents to reduce the need for long term use of antiretrovirals or other
   chemotherapeutic or antiviral therapy.
            Thus, in some embodiments, the patient is not undergoing anti-retroviral therapy
   during the glycosidase treatment, for example, because the patient is unable to tolerate the
   anti-retroviral therapy, or such ARV therapy is not available to the patient. The HIV may
30 be any sub-type, such as HIV-1 or HIV-2. In some embodiments, the HIV is resistant to
                                                  9

   anti-retroviral chemotherapy, making the availability of an alternative therapy critical. In
   some embodiments, the glycosidase is administered or initiated after anti-retroviral therapy
   to manage chronic AIDS, thereby providing a more effective and cost-sensitive long-term
   disease management.
 5          The   glycosidase   regimen    may    also   be  administered     with   anti-retroviral
   chemotherapy, for example to help reverse disease trajectory. Once disease trajectory is
   reversed, the glycosidase regimen may be optionally continued for at least one month, at
   least two months, at least four months, at least six months, or at least one year, or at least
   two years, or at least five years, or more, to provide a cost-effective management of the
10 disease. The frequency or daily dose may be adjusted for long term treatment as described
   herein.
            In some embodiments, the immune tolerated glycosidase signaling compensates for
   the loss of CD4 cells, while allowing the host time to recover and replenish its supply of
   these critical cells. In some embodiments, the glycosidase composition allows a subject on
15 antiretroviral therapy to cease antiretroviral therapy for a period of time (e.g., about one to
   six months, or about one to four months, or about one to two months), thereby allowing the
   body to recuperate from the toxic effects of these drugs, while also providing cost
   advantages.     The regimen further allows the immune targeting of the virus and virus
   particles, as well as infected (eg., lysogenic) cells preferentially over host cells. In some
20 embodiments, this "cycle" of AVR and glycosidase treatment is repeated one or more
   times throughout therapy. In still other embodiments, the administration of the glycosidase
   therapy with anti-retroviral therapy prevents some of the dampening of the immune system
   often exhibited by retroviral therapy.         Administration with other chemotherapeutic
   regimens, as described in this paragraph, for other viral infections (e.g., HSV-1 or -2, EBV,
25 HAV, HBV, HCV, HPV, adenovirus) can provide for the same or similar advantages.
            Drugs designed to combat HIV have focused on the various stages of the viral life
   cycle. Some have been designed to block the virus' attachment to the CD4 T cell. Others
   have targeted the various enzymes involved in the assembly stages inside the cell;
   zidovudine (AZT), for example, is a well-known drug which functions to inhibit the
30 activity of reverse transcriptase, an enzyme HIV uses to copy its RNA genome into DNA.
                                                  10

   Some of these synthetic drugs have slowed the progression to AIDS, but none have
   stopped it or eliminated the virus. A major problem has been the high mutation rate of
   HIV, where drugs initially showing some promise become ineffective as the virus changes
   its form to one no longer recognized by the drug. The glycosidase regimen also targets
 5 HIV mutant derivatives allowing for enhancement of ARV as well as other possible
   chemotherapies, to reduce the propensity of mutant virus to circumvent the therapeutic.
            As used herein, the term anti-retroviral therapy refers to active agents (often
   cocktails of active agents) administered to HIV and AIDS patients.           These include, for
   example, therapy comprising entry inhibitors (e.g., maraviroc and/or enfuvirtide), CCR5
10 receptor    antagonists, reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g.,      zidovudine, didanosine,
   zalcitabine, stavudine, foscarnei, and/or larnivudine), protease inhibitors (e.g., ritonavir,
   darunavir, atazanavir, saquinavir), integrase inhibitors (e.g., raltegravir), maturation
   inhibitors (e.g., alpha interferon, bevirimat, and/or vivecon). In some embodiments, the
   retroviral therapy comprises a combination of two nucleoside-analogues and one non
15 nucleoside-analogue or protease inhibitor.        This three drug combination is commonly
   known as a "triple cocktail." Examples include COMBIVIR (zidovudine + lamivudine),
   TRIZIVIR (abacavir + zidovudine 4 lamivudine), KALETRA (lopinavir + ritonavir),
   EPZIC(OM (abacavir 4 lanivudine), TRUVADA (tenofovir + emtricitabine), ATRIPLA
   (efavirenz     +    tenofovir    +     emtricitabine).       Other     combinations     include:
20 tenofovir/emtrici tabine/raltegravir,    tenofovir/emtricitabine/ritonavir,    and   darn avir/
   tenofovir/emitricitabine/ritonavir/atazanavir.
            In some embodiments, the anti-retroviral therapy comprises two nucleoside reverse
   transcriptase inhibitors and one non-nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor.       In some
   embodiments, the ARV therapy comprises Stavudine, Laminvudine, and/or Nevirapine. In
25 some embodiments,        the ARV therapy         comprises Efavirenz.       Such therapies, if
   administered, are employed sparingly, or to reduce initial disease trajectory, before
   transitioning to long-term glycosidase treatment.       Such long term disease management
   with glycosidase therapy elicits an immune cascade against free virus, including mutant
   virus, and infected cells.
                                                   11

           The regimen described herein in various embodiments is suitable for treating
   patients in various stages of AIDS. In some embodiments, the patient's CD4 count at the
   start of the regimen is less than about 500 cells per mm      For example, the patient's CD4
   count at the start of the regimen may be between about 200 and about 400. The patient's
 5 CD4 count at the start of the regimen may be less than about 400, less than about 350, less
   than about 300, less than about 200, less than about 100, or less than about 50. In some
   embodiments, where the CD4 count is less than 400, antiretroviral therapy is administered,
   either alone or with the glycosidase composition, and the glycosidase composition is used
   for long term care once the CD4 count is normalized (e.g., above about 400 or above about
10 500 or above about 800). In some embodiments, the patient may continue to have a below
   normal CD4 count, but the glycosidase composition helps the immune system function
   with this impairment.     In still other embodiments, the patient has a low CD4 count as
   described, and the glycosidase composition is administered without retroviral therapy,
   allowing the CD4 count to normalize in the long term.
15          In some embodiments, the patient's viral load at the start of the regimen is above
   about 10,000 per ml. For example, the viral load at the start of the regimen may be at least
   about 25,000 per ml, at least about 40,000 per ml, at least about 50,000 per ml, at least
   about 75,000 per ml, at least about 100,000 per ml, at least about 500,000 per ml, at least
   about I million per ml, or at least about 5 million per ml,       In some embodiments, the
20 patient receives antiretroviral therapy to bring the viral load to less than about 50,000 per
   ml, or less than 10,000 per ml, or to undetectable, and then transitioning to glycosidase
   treatment as the long term care. In some embodiments, the combination of antiretroviral
   therapy and glycosidase allows for faster or more complete reduction in the viral load.
           In some embodiments, the benefit of glycosidase therapy is discernable at least in
25 part through an evaluation of the well being of the patient, including mood and mental
   state, appetite, energy level, secondary infections/complications, hair growth, and other
   symptoms of improving overall health. Such benefits may or may not be discernable with
   conventional quantitation of AIDS treatment, such as CD4 level or viral titers.
           This glycosidase regimen described herein is applicable to other chronic viral
30 infections.   For example, in some embodiments, the patient has a chronic viral infection
                                                 12

   selected from a herpes simplex virus infection (e.g., HSV-1 or HSV-2), Epstein-Bar Virus
   infection (e.g., mononucleosis), cytomegalovirus infection, varicella zoster virus infection,
   hepatitis A, B. or C. adenovirus infection, or human papilloma virus infection. In some
   embodiments, the patient is diagnosed with chronic fatigue syndrome. The glycosidase
 5 composition treats and/or prevents flare-ups of the disease and reduces viral load, and in
   some embodiments, takes the place of conventional antiviral strategies such as cytokine
   and/or chemokine therapies (e.g., interferon or interleukin) or small molecule antivirals
   (e.g., acyclovir, valaccilovir, famiciclovir).  Alternatively, the glycosidase composition is
   administered for long term management, once the viral infection is under control by
10 conventional therapy (e.g., interferon or snall molecule virus inhibitor or monoclonal
   antibody therapeutic).     In some embodiments, the regimen reduces or eliminates viral
   lesions such as cold sores, and/or prevents their reoccurrence.
            For example, in some embodiments, the patient has an HSV or varicella zoster
   virus infection, and in some embodiments may have shingles.            In accordance with the
15 invention, the patient may not receive antiviral drugs such as acyclovir, valacielovir and/or
   famciclovir, or in other embodiments, the glycosidase regimen is administered after the
   failure of conventional antivirals to ameliorate or eliminate the infection or symptoms
   thereof, or after conventional antivirals are rules by virtue of the patient's ability to tolerate
   these drugs.
20          In still other embodiments, the patient has hepatitis C infection, and receives
   interferon therapy.    In such embodiments, the glycosidase regimen may be provided to
   replace ineffective INF therapy, for example, once the therapy loses effectiveness or is not
   tolerated by the patient.     In other embodiments, the glycosidase regimen is provided
   alongside interferon therapy to boost its effectiveness.        The glycosidase regimen can
25 facilitate the proper integration of interferon or antibody therapy for an effective immune
   response.
            In a second aspect, the invention provides methods of treating and/or preventing an
   infectious disease, other than a chronic viral infection described above.                In some
   embodiments, the infectious disease is a persistent or recurrent bacterial infection, such as
30 that associated with pneumonia, bronchitis, sinusitis, vaginitis, enteritis, colitis, sepsis, or
                                                  13

   urinary tract infection. The regimen is further effective against persistent or recurrent ear,
   eye, nose and/or throat infection. While the identity of the causative infectious agent is not
   necessarily crucial, exemplary bacterial agents for which the invention may be effective
   include    species     of Mycobacterium     (including   tuberculosis),  Pseudomonas     (e.g.,
 5 Psuedomonas aeruginosa, as may occur in association with cystic fibrosis), Haemophilus
   (e.g.,  Haemophilus infuenzae), Moraxella,           Chlamvdia,    Neisseria.,  Streptococcus,
   Staphylococcus       (including MRSA),    Bordetella,   Yersinia,   and  others.     In  some
   embodiments, the glycosidase regimen is administered after at least one round of antibiotic
   therapy has failed to ameliorate or eliminate the infection.      In some embodiments, the
10 glycosidase regimen is administered alongside antibiotic therapy, to enhance its effects,
   and reduce the potential for development of resistant bacteria. Exemplary antibiotics in
   these embodiments include an aminoglycoside, a carbapenum,                a cephalosporin, a
   macrolide, a penicillin (e.g., beta lactam), a quinolone (e.g., a fluoroquinolone such as
   ciprofloxacin), a sulfonamide, or a tetracycline, or combinations of the above.
15          In still other embodiments, the glycosidase regimen is effective against fungal or
   parasitic infections, which may be chronic, persistent, or recurring.          Such infections
   include Candidiasis (e.g., yeast vaginitis), malaria, trypanosomi asis, Aspergillus infection,
   toxoplasma, and Giiardiasis.       The regimen may be administered after unsuccessful
   chemotherapy or antimicrobial treatment, or may be administered alongside the treatment
20 to increase the rate of successful treatment, including elimination of the infectious agent or
   symptoms thereof in some embodiments.
           In still other embodiments, the glycosidase regimen is administered for prevention
   of disease, especially where infectious disease is a particular risk, for example, during a
   Flu, SARS, or other outbreak. In accordance with this aspect, the patient receives a non
25 acute regimen of the composition described herein, which provides effective glycosidase
   therapy for a period of time sufficient to span the period of outbreak. For example, the
   regimen can be administered to a patient at risk of contracting Flu, and the regimen
   provides for sustained immune stimulation throughout Flu season (e.g., at least two
   months, at least three months, at least four months, or at least six months). This aspect of
                                                  14

   the invention is useful for other epidemics or outbreaks, including the protection of
   healthcare workers who are constantly exposed to highly contagious agents.
           In particular embodiments, the invention finds use with immunocompromised
   patients, including the elderly, the young, the hospitalized, and patients with an
 5 immunodeficiency condition (eg., resulting from AIDS,              genetic disorder, or drug
   treatment), to boost inmnune function.           In certain embodiments, the glycosidase
   composition and/or regimen acts as a vaccine enhancer, providing for more effective
   vaccination, and/or longer duration of protective effect and in s ome embodiments, allows
   for vaccine dose sparing. In some embodiments, the vaccine is an adjuvant-free vaccine.,
10 with the glycosidase composition acting as the adjuvant. For example, the glycosidase
   composition and regimen may be initiated around the time of receiving a Flu or other
   vaccine (e.g., initiated within one week or three days or one day of receiving a vaccine),
   and the glycosidase regimen continued to lengthen the duration of the vaccine's protective
   effect and/or the level or duration of protective antibody titers.
15         The glycosidase regimen provides one or more glycosidase enzymes active for
   removal of one or more terminal and/or penultimate glycosyl groups on mammalian cells
   (e.g., immune cells and/or virally infected cells). Such terminal and penultimate glycosyl
   groups    include, for example,      sialosyl,  galactosyl,  N-acetylgalactosamino,    fucosyl,
   glucosyl, N-acetylglucosamino, and mannosyl residues.          Thus, the glycosidase regimen
20 can include, in various embodiments, one or more of neuraminidase, galactosidase (e.g., fp
   Galactosidase),        N-acetylgalactosaminidase,        fucosidase,      glucosidase,      N
   acetylglucosaminidase, and mannosidase.
            In some     embodiments,     the glycosidase    regimen comprises      neuraminidase
   treatment. The neuraminidase therapy may employ a neuraminidase or purified fraction
25 having neuraninidase (sialidase) activity, or an active portion or active derivative thereof.
   In some embodiments, the neuraminidase is microbial (e.g., bacterial, viral, parasitic, or
   fungal origin). In still other embodiments, the neuraminidase is mammalian or plant. The
   neuraminidase may be purified from food materials, including microbes that find use in
   foods, including baker's yeast and Lactococcus sp. and Lacrobacillus sp.            In certain
30 embodiments, the neuraminidase is bacterial.         The neuraminidase may be purified or
                                                  15

   isolated from its natural source, or may be recombinant or synthetic (e.g., chemically
   synthesized).    In some embodiments, the neuraminidase is a y-Group B neuraminidase,
   also known as exo-a-sialidase. a-Group B, or acetyl Group B, which cleaves terminal sialic
   acid residues from carbohydrate moieties on the surfaces of host cells and virus. In some
 5 embodirents, the neuraminidase catalyzes the hydrolysis of a-2,3, a-2,6 and/or a-2,8
   glycosidic linkages of terminal sialic acid residues in oligosaccharides, glycolipids and
   colominic acid.
           For example, in various embodiments, the neuraminidase is an endo or exo
   sialidase, for example, catalyzing exo hydrolysis of                 -(2-+6), and/or a-(2-8)
                                                                       a(2-+3),
10 glycosidic linkages of terminal sialic acid residues, or catalyzing endo hydrolysis of
   (2-+8)-a-sialosyl linkages in oligo- or poly(sialic) acid. Exemplary neuraminidase agents
   include any of the well over 100 known neuraminidase enzymes, or active portion or
   derivative thereof. In some embodiments, the neuraminidase is an enzyme from one or
   more of Clostridium perftinges, Arthrobacter ureafdciens. Vibrio choierae, Salmonella
15 tjpimiuriun,      or Streptococcus pneumoniae, or        other whose      activities are well
   characterized. Such neuraminidase enzymes may be purified or isolated from its microbial
   source, or produced recombinantly or synthetically. See Cassidy JT, The Sialic Acids
   V.   Purification and properties of sialidase from Clostridium perLringes. J Biol. Chemi.
   240:9:3501-3506 (1965);      Crennell S.,    et al., Crystal structure of Vibrio cholerae
20 neuraminidase reveals dual lectin-like domains in addition to the catalytic domain.
   Structure 2:535-544 (1994); Uchida et al., Enzymatic properties of neuraminidases from
   Arthrobacter ureafaciens. J Biochem. 106:1086-1089 (1979), and these references are
   hereby incorporated by reference.     When in purified form, the neuraminidase is at least
   10% of the protein component of the composition, at least 25% of the protein component
25 of the composition, 50% of the protein component of the composition, or at least 75% of
   the total protein component, or at least 90% of the total protein component, or at least 95%
   of the total protein component, or at least 99% of the total protein component.
           Exemplary amino acid sequences for neuraminidase proteins include those defined
   by GenBank accession numbers: EIA17609.1, EIAI 7977.1, NP 561469.1, CAA50436.1,
30 (Clostridium per/ringes), AAX22758.1,           BAD66680.2       (Arthrobacter ureaflciens),
                                                  16

   AAW31751.2, AAA27546.1, AEA78761.1 (Vibrio cholerae), 2VWO A (Streptococcus
   pneumoniae), and AAL19864            (Salmonella typhiimurium), which        are each hereby
   incorporated by reference.      'The neuraminidase may comprise an amino acid sequence
   having at least 70%, 80%, 90%, 95%, or more amino acid sequence identity to one or more
 5 of the amino acid sequences defined by E1A17609.1,               EIA17977.1, NP_561469.1,
   CAA50436.1, A-AX22758.1, BAD66680.2, AAW31751.2, AAA27546.1,                     AEA78761.1,
   2VWO_A, and AAL19864.             Additional neuraminidase enzymes are described in U.S.
   Patent 8,012,733, U.S. Patent 6,916,916, U.S. Patent 5,985,859, U.S. Patent 5,830,748, and
   U.S. Patent 4,071,408, which descriptions are hereby incorporated by reference in their
10 entireties.
            Suitable neuraminidases can be obtained from commercial sources.          Exemplai
   neuraminidase enzymes include Sigma Aldrich product numbers N2876, N3001, N5631,
   N2133 (Clostridium perfinges), N7885, N6514 (Vibrio cholerae), N3786, and N8271
   (A rthrobacterureafaciens).
15          Preparation of derivatives or mutants of these or other neuraminidase enzymes may
   be guided by any of the known structures or studies, including those described by: Kim S
   et al., Features and applications of bacterial sialidases, AppI Microbiol Biotechnol. 2011,
   91(1):1-15; Crennell S.J, et al., Crystal structure of a bacterial sialidase (from Salmonella
   typhimurium LT2) shows the same fold as an influenza virus neuraminidase, Proc Natl
20 Acad Sci USA 1993 90(21):9852-6; Chavas LM, Crystal structure of the human cytosolic
   sialidase Neu2: Evidence for the dynamic nature of substrate recognition, .1 Biol Chem.
   2005 280(1):469-75;      Xu G et al, Crystal structure of the NanB sialidase from
   Streptococcus pneumoniae, J Mol Bioi. 2008' 384(2):436-49; Newstead SL, et al., The
   structure of Clostridium perfringens NanI sialidase and its catalytic intermediates, J Biol
25 (hen. 2008 283(14):9080-8; Chan J, et al., Bacterial and viral sialidases: contribution of
   the conserved active site glutamate to catalysis, Biochemistry 2012 51(1):433-41; Chien
   CH, et al., Site-directed mutations of the catalytic and conserved amino acids of the
   neuraminidase gene, nanH, of Clostridium perfringes ATCC 10543, Enzyne Microb.
   Technol. 19(4):267-276      (1996); Christensen and Egebjerg, Cloning, expression and
30 characterization of a sialidase gene from Arthrobacter ureafaciens, Biotechno!. Apple.
                                                  17

   Biochem. 41:225-231 (2005). These references are each hereby incorporated by reference
   in their entireties.
            Neuraminidase activity can generally be described in terms of units (U), by
   determining the amount of sialic acid released from a suitable substrate, under defined
 5 conditions (e.g., pH 5.0 and 37 0 C).    An exemplary substrate is NAN-lactose or bovine
   submaxillary mucin. See Warren L, /Biol. Chiem. 234 1971 (1959).
            In these and other independent embodiments, the glycosidase regimen comprises
   galactosidase     administration,  which    in    some   embodiments     is  p-galactosidase.
   Galactosidase may be co-formulated with neuramindase or other enzyme in embodiments
10 involving two or more glycosidase enzymes.             Alpha- or Beta-galactosyl residues
   (including 1-+3 linked and i->4 linked) act as terminal glycosides on mammalian cells,
   including immune cells, and/or may be penultimate glycosyl residues, and may be linked
   to terminal sialic acids in some instances.     Hakomori, Aberant Glycosylation in Cancer
   Cell Membranes as Focused on Glycolipids: Overview and Perspectives, Cancer Research
15 45, 2405-2414 (1985); Dwek and Brooks, Harnesing Changes in Cellular Glycosylation in
   New Cancer TreatmentSrategies, Current CancerDrug Targets 4:425-442 (2004). Thus,
   galactosidase (e.g., j-galactosidase) may be used independently according to the methods
   described herein, or may be used in conjunction with neuramindase or other glycosidase,
   which in some embodiments, prevents or slows resialylation or re-capping of glycosyl
20 structures, thus rendering the regimen more effective, and supporting less frequent
   administrations and/or lower dosing.
            Exemplary galactosidases are well known and commercially available. For
   example, fp-Galactosidase may be obtained from Escherichia coli, Aspergillus oryzae,
   Kluyveromyces lactis, and Streptococcus pneumoniae, as well as other microbial (e.g.,
25 bacterial or fungal) and biological sources, including mammalian sources. For example, a
   suitable   -galactosidase may be obtained from Sigma-Aldrich catalogue number G5635.
            In these and other independent embodiments, the glycosidase regimen comprises
   N-acetvlgalactosaminidase      administration.     N-acetylgalactosaminidase   may   be   co
   formulated with neuramindase or other enzyme in embodiments involving two or more
30 glycosidase enzymes.      Hakomori, Aberant Glycosylation in Cancer Cell Membranes as
                                                  18

   Focused on Glveolipids: Overview and Perspectives, Cancer Research 45, 2405-2414
   (1985); Dwek and Brooks, Harnesing Changes in Cellular Glycosylation in New Cancer
   Treatment     Strategies,    Current Cancer Drug         Targets 4:425-442      (2004).     N
   acetylgalactosaminidase may be used independently according to the methods described
 5 herein, or may be used in conjunction with neuramindase or other glycosidase, which in
   some embodiments, prevents or slows resialylation or recapping of glycosyl chains.
           Exemplary     N-acetlgalactosaminidases      are   well   known   and    commercially
   available. For example, -N-acetylgailactosaminidase may be obtained from Bacillus sp., as
   well as other microbial (e.g., bacterial or fungal) and biological sources, including
10 mammalian sources.          For example, a suitable f-N-acetylgalactosaminidase        may be
   obtained from Sigma-Aldrich catalogue number A2464.
           In these and other independent embodiments, the glycosidase regimen comprises
   fucosidase administration, which is some embodiments is a-fucosidase. Fucosidase may
   be co-formulated with neuramindase or other enzyme in embodiments involving two or
15 more     glycosidase      enzymes    (e.g.,  co-formulated     with   galactosidase     or  N
   acetylgalactosaminidase).      Fucosyl residues (including al->2 linked, al-43 linked, and
   al-4 linked) act as terminal glycosides on mammalian cells, including immune cells,
   and/or may be penultimate glycosyl residues, and may be linked to terminal sialic acids in
   some instances. Hakomori, Aberant Glycosylation in Cancer Cell Membranes as Focused
20 on Glycolipids: Overview and Perspectives, CDancer Research 45, 2405-2414 (1985);
   Dwek and Brooks, Hiarnesing Changes in Cellular Glycosylation in New Cancer Treatment
   Strategies, Current Cancer Drug Targets 4:425-442 (2004).           Thus, fucosidase (e.g., a
   fucosidase) may be used independently according to the methods described herein, or may
   be used in conjunction with neuramindase, which in some embodiments, prevents or slows
25 resialylation re-capping of glycosyl chains, thus rendering the regimen more effective, and
   supporting less frequent administrations and/or lower dosing.
           Exemplary ficosidase enzymes are well known and commercially available. For
   example, a-fucosidase may be obtained from Xanthonionas sp. (e.g., nanihotis), as well as
   other microbial e.g., bacterial or fingal) and biological sources, including mamnmalian
                                                  19

   sources.   For example, a suitable a-fucosidase may be obtained from Sigma-Aldrich
   catalogue numbers F3023 and F1924.
           In these and other independent embodiments, the glycosidase regimen comprises
   glucosidase administration, which in some embodiments is a-glucosidase.        Glucosidase
 5 may be co-formulated with neuramindase or other enzyme in embodiments involving two
   or more glycosidase enzymes (e.g., co-formulated with neuraminidase, mannosidase, or N
   acetylglucosaminidase).   Glycosyl residues (including al-+2 linked, al -3     linked, and
   al-+4 linked) act as terminal glycosides on mamualian cells, including immune cells,
   and/or in some instances may be internal glycosyl residues.            Hakomori, Aberant
10 GlycosYlation in Cancer Cell Membranes as Focused on Glycolipids: Overview and
   Pespectives, Cancer Research 45, 2405-2414 (1985); Dwek and Brooks, Hlarnesing
   Changes in Cellular Glycosylati on in New Cancer Treatment Strategies, Current Cancer
   Drug Targets 4:425-442 (2004).       Thus, glucosidase (e.g., a-glucosidase) may be used
   independently according to the methods described herein, or may be used in conjunction
15 with neuramindase, mannosidase, or other glycosidase, which in some embodiments,
   prevents or slows resialylation re-capping of glycosvl chains, thus rendering the regimen
   more effective, and supporting less frequent administrations and/or lower dosing.
           Exemplary glucosidase enzymes are well known and commercially available. For
   example, a-glucosidase may be obtained from Sacchronyces cerevisiae, Aspergillus niger,
20 or Bacillus slearohermnophilus, as well as other microbial (e.g., bacterial or fungal) and
   biological sources (including food sources such as rice), and including mammalian
   sources.   For example, a suitable a-glucosidase may be obtained from Sigma-Aldrich
   catalogue numbers (5003, G0660, 70797, 49291, G9259, and G3651.
           In these and other independent embodiments, the glycosidase regimen comprises
25 N-acetylglucosaminidase     administration,   which    is  some    embodiments    is   -N
   acetylglucosaminidase.        N-acetviglucosaminidase     may    be   co-formulated   with
   neuramindase or other enzyme in embodiments involving two or more glycosidase
   enzymes (e.g., co-formulated with neuraminidase, mannosidase, and/or glucosidase). N
   acetylglucosamine residues (including    PI --+4 linked, PI--+6 linked, and others) act as
30 terminal glycosides on mammalian cells, including immune cells, and/or in some instances
                                                20

   may be penultimate or internal glycosyl residues.        Hakomori, Aberant Glycosylation in
   Cancer Cell Membranes as Focused on Glycolipids: Overview and Perspectives, Cancer
   Research 45, 2405-2414 (1985); Dwek and Brooks, Harnesing Changes in Cellular
   Glvcosvlation in New Cancer Treatment Strategies. Current Cancer Drug Targets 4:425
 5 442 (2004).     Thus, N-acetylglucosaminidase (e.g.,     p-N-acetylglucosaminidase)    may be
   used independently according to the methods described herein, or may be used in
   conjunction     with    neuramindase,    mannosidase,    or  glucosidase,   which    in  some
   embodiments, prevents or slows resialylation re-capping of glycosyl chains, thus rendering
   the regimen more effective, and supporting less frequent administrations and/or lower
10 dosing.
            Exemplary N-acetylglucosaminidase enzymes are well known and commercially
   available. For example, j-N-acetylglucosaminidase may be obtained from Streptococcus
   pneunoniae and Canavaliaensijtrmis, as well as other microbial (e.g., bacterial or fungal)
   and biological sources (including food sources), and including mammalian sources. For
15 example, a suitable       p-N-acetylglucosaminidase    may be obtained from Sigma-Aldrich
   catalogue numbers A2264 and A6803.
            In these and other independent embodiments, the glycosidase regimen comprises
   mannosidase administration, which in some embodiments is a-mannosidase. Mannosidase
   may be co-formulated with neuramindase or other enzyme in embodiments involving two
20 or more glycosidase enzymes (e.g., co-formulated with neuraminidase, glucosidase, and/or
   N-acetylglucosaminidase).       Mannosyl residues (including al ---+2 linked, al ---+3 linked,
   al ---+6 linked, 31 ->4 linked, and others) act as terminal glycosides on mammalian cells,
   including immune cells, and/or in some instances may be penultimate or internal glycosyl
   residues.    Hakomori, Aberant Glycosylation in Cancer Cell Membranes as Focused on
25 Glycolipids: Overview and Perspectives, Cancer Research 45, 2405-2414 (1985); Dwek
   and Brooks, Harnesing Changes in Cellular Glycosylation in New Cancer Treatment
   Strategies, Current Cancer Drug Targets 4:425-442 (2004). Thus, mannosidase (e.g., a
   mannosidase) may be used independently according to the methods described herein, or
   may      be   used     in   conjunction    with    neuramindase,   glucosidase,   and/or   IN
30 acetylglucosaminidase, which in some embodiments, prevents or slows resialylation re
                                                   21

   capping of glycosyl chains, thus rendering the regimen more effective, and supporting less
   frequent administrations and/or lower dosing.
           Exemplary mannosidase enzymes are well known and connercially available. For
   example, mannosidasc may be obtained from Canavaliaen/bfris (a) or Helix pomatia (P),
 5 as well as other microbial (e.g., bacterial or fungal) and biological sources (including food
   sources), and including mammalian sources. For example, a suitable mannosidase may be
   obtained from Sigma-Aldrich catalogue numbers My257 or M9400.
           Administration of effective amounts of formulated glycosidase to a human or
   animal aids in the prevention or elimination of infectious disease symptoms through
10 modulation of the immune function and/or direct action on the infected cells or other
   tissues or cells involved in the pathology. The glycosidase enzymes are administered at a
   dose and frequency so as to exhibit a reduction in symptoms or pathology, without
   impacting normal cellular functions. The dose and/or frequency of administration in some
   embodiments is a dose and/or frequency that does not cause prolonged joint discomfort or
15 malaise (e.g., a general feeling of discomfort).       Where  joint or general discomfort is
   experienced by the patient, the patient may adjust the dose or frequency of administration
   until the discomfort subsides or normalizes. For example, where the patient experiences
   discomfort, the patient may skip one, two, or three days of dosing, and/or subtract one or
   two daily doses from the regimen, and/or increase the timing between doses, until the
20 discomfort subsides or normalizes.        Thus, the patient finds the highest dose and/or
   frequency of administration that induces no prolonged joint discomfort, or minimal
   discomfort. In some embodiments where the amount of dose is controllable, for example
   using a metered dose applicator, the dose may be reduced but the schedule maintained.
   Thus, each patient can tailor the dose as needed given the state of the patient's unique
25 biology, disease or immune system condition, by finding the highest dose/frequency that
   does not induce prolonged joint discomfort or malaise.          In practice, the glycosidase
   formulation may be administered at less than approximately 10-2 or less than about 10- mg
   per dosage unit to a human or animal.        In certain embodiments, the glycosidase(s) are
   administered at between approximately 10-' mg to 10-rmg. In still other embodiments, the
30 dose of glycosidase is between approximately 1-        mug and 100   g,    i0mg and 10 mug,

   10' mg and 10" mg, or is approximately 10- mg. In some embodiments, the total daily
   dose does not exceed about 103 mg per subject, or in some embodiments, does not exceed
   from about 5 x 10      to 10~4 mg. Generally, patients exhibiting immune suppression (such
   as those receiving ARVs) may require higher doses within the range of 10- or 10-3 mg.
 5         While certain glycosidases, including neuraminidases, can have a tendency to form
   homodimers (e.g.,     trimers, tetramers), in various embodiments the glycosidase(s) are
   formulated (e.g., diluted) to be present as a monomer and/or dimer, with substantially no
   higher aggregates as determinable by size exclusion chromatography (SEC).
           The glycosidase(s) may be formulated as an aqueous formulation, including for
10 sublingual, nasal, or buccal delivery.     In some embodiments, the aqueous formulation
   comprises saline.    In some embodiments, the formulation has the ionic strength of from
   about 0.5 to about 2% saline, such as the ionic strength of about 0.9% saline.      In some
   embodiments, the glycosidase(s) are formulated in normal saline (e.g., about 0.9% saline).
   Other conventional carriers for sublingual, nasal, or buccal delivery may also be employed.
15 The glycosidase(s) may be further formulated with a preservative, which may be an
   aromatic or phenolic preservative. For example, the preservative in some embodiments is
   phenol.    For example, in some embodiments neuraminidase, optionally with other
   glycosidases, is formulated in 0.05 to 0.5% phenol, or comparable amounts of similar
   acting preservative, for example. In some embodiments, the activity of the neuraminidase
20 and potentially other glycosidases is increased by the presence of phenol, such as at least
   0.2%, 0.3%, or 0.4% phenol.         In some embodiments the neuraminidase (e.g., Sigma
   Aldrich catalogue numbers N2876, N3001, N5631, N2133, N7885, N6514, N3786,
   N8271) is incubated in a solution containing from about 0.2% to about 1% phenol (e.g.,
   from 0.2 to 0.6% phenol, or about 0.4% phenol), and then diluted to or brought to the final
25 formulation, which may contain from 0.05% to about 0.2% phenol. In some embodiments,
   such "activation" of the neuraminidase allows the active agent to be administered in lower
   doses to avoid immune targeting, while maintaining the proper level of activity.
           For illustration, neuraminidase and optionally with other glycosidase enzyme(s),
   can be mixed with 0.9% saline, and filter sterilized, and allowed to stand at room
30 temperature for from 10 minutes to five hours (e.g., about 30 minutes to about three hours).
                                                 23

   After the incubation at room temperature, phenol saline is added to give a final phenol
   concentration of about 0.1% in 0.9% saline solution. The solution is stored at 40 C.
           Alternatively, neuraminidase and optionally other glycosidase enzyme(s) is mixed
   with about 0.4% phenol saline. This solution is filter sterilized, and allowed to stand at
 5 room temperature for from 5 minutes to about 5 hours (e.g., about 30 minutes, about one
   hour, or about three hours).        After the incubation at room temperature, the final
   concentration is brought to about 0.1% phenol, 0.9% saline. The solution is stored at 4' C.
           The glycosidase formulation may be administered by a variety of routes, including
   sublingual,   nasal, port, subdermal,    gavage, intraocular, intravenous, intramuscular,
10 subcutaneous, transdermal, and buccal.      In various embodiments, the glycosidases are
   administered sublingually. In some embodiments in which the glycosidase is administered
   sublingually, the neuraminidase is held tinder the tongue for from about one to about five
   minutes, and preferably for about 3, about 4, or about 5 minutes.         The patient should
   refrain from speaking during this time.     The patient should not eat or drink within 15
15 minutes of administration.
           In accordance with aspects of the invention, regimens of glycosidase enzyme(s) are
   administered on average from 2 to 6 times per day for at least two weeks or at least one
   month, especially for the immune compromised             or advanced cases.        The daily
   administrations should be substantially evenly spaced, but in various embodiments are
20 spaced by about 15 minutes to 5 hours. For example, doses may be spaced by about 15
   minutes, about 30 minutes, about 1 hour, about 2 hours, or about 3 hours. For example, the
   glycosidase formulation may be administered on average from 2 to 8 times per day for at
   least about two months, at least about four months, or at least about five months, or at least
   about six months.     In some embodiments, the glycosidase formulation is administered
25 about 2, about 3, or about 4 times per day over at least one month, two months, three
   months, four months, five months, or six months. Generally, the glycosidase formulation
   is administered at a dose and frequency so as to be effective in reducing the infectious
   disease pathology or stimulating the immune system, without exhibiting substantial
   prolonged joint discomfort or malaise. Where the patient does experience joint or general
30 discomfort, the patient adjusts the dose and/or frequency (e.g., skips one, two or three days
                                                 24

   of neuraminidase dosing, or reduces the daily dose by one or two administrations), until
   the discomfort subsides or normalizes.      Thus, the administration regimen is suspended
   during times of joint discomfot in some embodiments.
           For example, the first day of treatment may begin with about eight doses, the first
 5 three to five taken in the first one or two hours, with the remainder approximately evenly
   spaced throughout the day. The patient may then be treated with about four doses per day,
   with periodic monitoring of the malignancy. Even where the malignancy is undetectable,
   the patient may remain on a regimen of 2 to 7 doses per day, as adjusted from time to time
   based on the appearance of joint discomfort or malaise.
10         Therapy may be initiated as described above. However, in some embodiments, the
   glycosidase regimen is an alternative to these conventional therapies.               In some
   embodiments, the patient is subsequently treated chronically with about one dose per day,
   for at least about six months, or at least about one year, or at least about two years, or at
   least about five years, or more, or is selected or prescribed for such chronic treatment.
15 This subsequent chronic treatment in some embodiments is with the absence of
   chemotherapeutic or other therapy to reduce the likelihood of recurrence or disease
   progression. Chronic glycosidase treatment, for example, to prevent disease recurrence or
   relapse, may be administered I or 2 times per day.
            In some embodiments, the patient is instructed to monitor joint stiffness or malaise.
20 Such conditions suggest that glycosidase treatment should be adjusted. The adjustment
   may include skipping one or two days or up to one week of dosing, or alternatively
   lowering the dose by one or two administrations per day, until the symptoms clear. Other
   molecular assays could be used to the same effect, although joint stiffness or discomfort
   provides an ease of patient compliance.       Thus, over the course of the regimen, the
25 glycosidase dose can be easily adjusted per patient, and thus maintained chronically for
   optimal care.
            In still other aspects of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical
   composition comprising a delivery vehicle for administering a single glycosidase dose
   upon demand, and where the vehicle contains a fill glycosidase regimen of at least 50
30 doses, or at least 100 doses, at least 150 doses, or at least 200 doses.        Each dose of
                                                25

   glycosidase administered is an amount of up to about 10-               mg glycosidase and
   pharmaceutically inert ingredients as already described. The pharmaceutical composition
   may comprise at least two of neuraminidase, galactosidase, N -acetylgalactosaminidase,
   fucosidase,     glucosidase,   N-acetylglucosaminidase,      and    mannosidase,    and     a
 5 pharmaceutically-acceptable excipienit.     For example, the composition may comprise
   neuraminidase and     B-galactosidase.   The glycosidases may be present at, collectively,
   between about 10- mg to 10- mg, or according to the doses disclosed above.               The
   composition may be formulated for a variety of administration routes as disclosed herein,
   including sublingual delivery.
10         In   various   embodiments,    the   treatment  regimen   involves   the partitional
   administration of an amount not to exceed approximately 10- mg of glycosidase, although,
   in certain cases, the total amount of glycosidase administered in any one day may exceed
   this limit.
           The glycosidase formulation can be administered in a variety of routes and forms.
15 For example, the glycosidase can be administered as a solid where the enzymes are
   embedded or admixed in a biodegradable or biocrodable matrix. The matrix can be a time
   release matrix. These matrices are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The
   glycosidase can be administered by injection or by sublingual route. In one embodiment,
   the vehicle is an aqueous solution that is contained within an inert container. In another
20 variation, the composition is in the form of a suppository.         The liquid form of the
   composition can be injected subcutaneously, intramuscularly or intravenously. In addition,
   the composition can be administered through the mucosal membranes such as nasal
   membranes.
           In certain embodiments, the glycosidase composition is administered via a drug
25 applicator, the applicator comprising at least 100 doses of the composition, or at least 150
   doses, or at least 200 doses.     In various embodiments, the applicator is for sublingual,
   nasal, transdermal, time release sub-dermal, intraocular, gavage, port, subcutaneous, oral,
   or buccal delivery. For example, the applicator is for sublingual delivery.
           In some embodiments, the applicator delivers a metered dose, that can be adjusted
30 by the patient as needed.
                                                  26

           The applicator preferably dispenses doses in a manner that maintains aseptic
   conditions of the remaining doses. By way of non-limiting examples, the applicator can be
   any of those that are described in US Patents 4,830,284; 4,565,302; 5,011,046; 5,147,087;
   5,893,484; 6,877,672; 6,886.,556, and 7,201,296, which are each hereby incorporated by
 5 reference in their entireties.  For instance, the applicator can be an atomizing or dosing
   pump, which can ensure that the medium present in the area between the pump cylinder
   and the discharge opening does not dry or is not otherwise altered by ambient influences.
   See US Patent 4,830,284 which is hereby incorporated by reference.                     In some
   embodiments, the applicator employs a 0.2pm filter to maintain aseptic contents.
10 Additionally, the applicator can dispense doses in a single-stroke discharge.              Such
   applicators are described in US Patent 5,893,484, which is hereby incorporated by
   reference.   The applicator may be configured for nasal delivery, dernal delivery, throat
   delivery, or sublingual delivery.     In some embodiments, the applicator allows for an
   actuatable dosing mechanism, which permits monitoring of precise doses and therefore
15 largely eliminates incorrect dosing with respect to the number of doses and/or the duration
   dosing.    See US Patent 4,565,302, which is hereby incorporated by reference.          In some
   embodiments, the applicator delivers a dose in from 50 to 100         1I,such as the applicators
   described in, for example, US Patent 6,886,556. which is hereby incorporated by reference.
20                                          EXAMPLES
   Example 1: Effect on HSV-1 infectivity
           Using I-ISV-1 as model virus, in vitro studies were initiated to determine the effect
   of neuraminidase and complement on viral infectivity and release from Vero cells. For
   infectivity studies, combinations of complement, virus and neuraminidase were incubated
25 together, then added to Vero cells and incubated further.          Following cell fixation and
   staining, the virus-forming plaques in the cells were counted.             Results showed that
   incubating the virus with neuraminidase and complement together significantly (70 - 80%)
   reduced the virus' infectivity of Vero cells relative to controls (FIG I).
                                                  27

            For Viral release studies, Vero cells were first infected with HSV-1.   These cells
   were then incubated with various concentrations of complement and neuraminidase.
   Supernatants from the cell cultures were tested for plaque-forming ability, indicative of
   virus released from the cells. Results showed that, in the presence of both neuraminidase
 5 and complement, the release of free virus was greatly decreased (70 - 80%) relative to
   controls (FIG 2).      These results indicate that a combination of neuraminidase and
   complement effectively reduced both the infectivity of Vero cells by HSV-1 and the
   release of free virus from pre-infected cells.
    FJa pe-ffect on Cytokine Release
10          The effect of neuraminidase on the production of certain cytokines in vitro was
   investigated. Cytokines are chemical messengers secreted by activated lymphocytes in
   response to infection.    Any given cytokine, either alone or in combination with other
   cvtokines, can have multiple effects on immune function. Initerleukin-2 (IL-2), interferon
   alpha (IFN-a), interferon gamma (IFN-y and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-a) are
15 important cytokines involved in host defense against viruses. IL-2, TNF-a and IFN-y are
   produced by the T-helper (THi)      subset of T cells and are therefore associated with the
   inflammatory process. IL-2 and IFN-y together activate macrophages, which are important
   immune cells that engulf and digest pathogens phagocytosiss), and also serve as antigen
   presenting cells to T lymphocytes. IL-2 and IFN-y also enhance the cytotoxicity of natural
20 killer (NK) cells in clearing virally-infected cells. IFN-y also enhances the expression of
   major histocornpatibility complex (MIC) class I and 11 molecules on antigen-presenting
   cells, thereby inducing CD4+ and CD8+ cytolytic cells involved in viral clearance. IFN-y
   also combines with TNF-a to stimulate NiK cells.         IFN-a inhibits viral replication by
   blocking the transcription of early viral proteins.
25          These cytokines were studied in vitro using cell systems, incubation conditions and
   other procedures appropriate for the production and measurement of the respective
   molecules.     Experimental samples containing neuraminidase were compared to saline
   controls.   FIG 3 summarizes the results obtained when cells treated with neuraminidase
   were tested for the production of IL-2, IFN-a, IFN-,, and TNF-a. The production of all
30 four cytokines was stimulated using the therapeutic dose of neuraminidase relative to the
                                                  28

  respective controls.     It is reasonable to expect that the functions of these cytokines
  discussed above could be enhanced by neuraminidase in an in vivo system, and would
  have anti-viral effects in patients.
5
                                               29

                                            CLAIMS
I.       A method for treating a patient having a chronic viral infection, comprising:
         administering a non-acute regimen of an immunotolerant and immune-signaling
glycosidase composition to the patient so as to treat, ameliorate, and/or manage said
infection.
2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the patient is HIV positive.
3.       The method of claim 2, wherein the patient has AIDS.
4.       The method of any one of claims I to 3, wherein the patient is not undergoing
antiviral chemotherapy, and/or the HIV is resistant to antiviral therapy.
5.       The method of claim 3, wherein the regimen is initiated after antiviral therapy to
manage chronic AIDS.
6.       The method of clairn 3, wherein the composition is administered with antiviral
therapy to reverse disease trajectory, and optionally continued for at least six months, or at
least one year, or at least two years, or at least five years to manage the infection optionally
without ARV treatment.
7.       The method of any one of claims I to 6, wherein the patient's CD4 count at the
start of said regimen is less than 500.
8.       The method of claim 7., wherein the patient's CD4 count at the start of said regimen
is between 200 and 400.
9.       The method of claim 7., wherein the patient's CD4 count at the start of said regimen
is less than 400, less than 350, less than 300, less than 200, less than 100, or less than 50.
10.      The method of any one of claims 2 to 9., wherein the viral load at the start of said
regimen is above 10,000 per ml.
                                                30

11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the viral load at the start of said regimen is at
least 25,000 per ml, at least 40,000 per ml, at least 50,000 per ml, at least 75,000 per ml, at
least 100,000 per ml, at least 500,000 per ml, at least I million per ml, or at least 5 million
per ml.
12.     The method of claim 1, wherein the patient has a chronic viral infection selected
from a herpes simplex virus infection, varicella zoster virus infection, hepatitis A, B, or C,
adenovirus infection, or human papilloma virus infection.
13.     The method of claim 12, wherein the patient has shingles.
14.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the glycosidase regimen
comprises administration of neuraminidase.
15.     The method of claim 14, further comprising administration of one or more of
galactosidase, N-acetylgalactosidase, fucosidase, glucosidase, N-acetylglucosaminidase,
and mannosidase.
16.     A method for treating a patient having a persistent or recurrent bacterial infection,
comprising, administering a regimen of glycosidase to the patient.
17.     The method of claim 16, wherein the bacterial infection is associated with
pneumonia, bronchitis, sinusitis, enteritis, colitis, sepsis, or urinary tract infection.
18.     The method of claim 16, wherein the bacterial infection is a persistent or recurrent
ear, eye, nose and/or throat infection.
19.     The method of any one of claims 16 to 18, wherein the bacteria is a species of
Mycobacterium,      Pseudomonas,      Haemophilus,        Moraxella,     Chlamydia,      Neisseria,
Streptococcus, Staphylococcus, Bordeteila, or Yersinia.
20.     The method of claim 19, wherein the bacteria is Mycobacteriuin tuberculosis.
                                               31

21.     The method of anv one of claims 16 to 20, wherein the glycosidase regimen is
administered after at least one round of antibiotic therapy has failed to ameliorate or
eliminate the infection.
22.     The method of any one of claims 14 to 18, wherein the glycosidase regimen is
administered alongside antibiotic therapy.
23.     The method of claim 20, wherein the antibiotic therapy is with one or more of an
aminoglycoside, a carbapenum, a cephalosporin, a macrolide, a beta lactam, a quinolone, a
sulfonamide, or a tetracycline.
24.     The method of any one of claims 16 to 23, wherein the glycosidase regimen
comprises administration of neuraminidase.
25.     The method of claim 24, further comprising administration of one or more of
galactosidase, N-acetylgalactosidase, fucosidase, glucosidase, N-acetylglucosaminidase,
and mannosidase.
26.     A method for treating a fingal or parasitic infection, comprising, administering a
glycosidase regimen to a patient in need thereof.
27.     The method of claim 26, wherein the infection is candidiasis.
28.     The method of claim 26, wherein the infection is malaria or trypanosomiasis.
29.     The method of any one of claims 26 to 28, wherein the glycosidase regimen
comprises administration of neuraminidase.
30.     The method of claim 29, further comprising administration of one or more of
galactosidase, N-acetylgalactosidase, fucosidase, glucosidase, N-acetylglucosaminidase,
and mannosidase.
31.     A method for enhancing vaccination, comprising administering a regimen of an
immune-signaling glycosidase to the patient, the regimen starting before, during, or after
vaccination.
32.     The method of claim 31, wherein the vaccine is an adjuvant-free vaccine.
                                             32

33.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 32, wherein the glycosidase is administered
by a route selected from sublingual, nasal, port, subderm'al, gavage, intraocular,
intravenous, intramuscular, subcutaneous, transdermal, and buccal.
34.      The method of claim 33. wherein the glycosidase is administered sublingually.
35.      The method of any one of claims 31 to 34, wherein the glycosidase regimen
comprises administration of neuraminidase.
36.      The method of claim 35, further comprising administration of one or more of
galactosidase, N-acetylgalactosidase, fucosidase, glucosidase, N-acetylglucosaminidase,
and mannosidase.
37.      The method of any one of claims I to 36, wherein the glycosidase is a glycosidase
of biological origin, or a derivative or active moiety thereof, which maintains
immunomodulating activity.
38.      The method of claim 35 or 36, wherein the glycosidase is from a biological source
or is synthetic.
39.      The method of any one of claims 1 to 38, wherein the glycosidase is administered
on average from 2 to 6 times per day for at least one month.
40.      The method of claim 39, wherein the glycosidase is administered on average from
2 to 6 times per day for at least two months, at least four months, or at least six months.
41.      The method of claim 39, wherein the patient is subsequently treated chronically
with about one dose per day, for at least six months, or at least one year, or at least two
years, or at least five years, or more.
42.      A drug applicator for administration of a glycosidase composition, the applicator
comprising at least 100 doses of the neuraminidase composition.
                                              33

43.     The drug applicator of claim 42, wherein the applicator is for sublingual, nasal,
transdermal, time release sub-dermal, intraocular, gavage, port, subcutaneous, oral, or
buccal delivery.
44.     The drug applicator of claim 42, wherein the applicator is for sublingual delivery.
45.     The drug applicator of any one of claims 42 to 44, wherein the applicator dispenses
doses in a manner that maintains aseptic conditions of the remaining doses.
46.     The drug applicator of claim 45, wherein the applicator delivers a dose in from 50
to 100 pul.
47.     The drug applicator of any one of claims 42 to 46, wherein the glycosidase
comprises neuraminidase.
48.     The drug applicator of any one of claims 42 to 46, wherein the glycosidase
comprises at least two of neuraminidase, galactosidase, N-acetylgalactosidase, fucosidase,
glucosidase, N-acetylglucosaminidase, and mannosidase.
                                             34

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
