                       ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
       Therapy systems for treating a patient are disclosed. Representative therapy
systems include an implantable pulse generator, a signal delivery device electrically
coupled to the pulse generator, and a remote control in electrical communication with
the implantable pulse generator. The pulse generator can have a computer-readable
medium containing instructions for performing a process that comprises collecting the
patient status and stimulation parameter; analyzing the collected patient status and
stimulation parameter; and establishing a preference baseline containing a preferred
stimulation parameter corresponding to a particular patient status.

WO 2010/093720                                    PCT/US2010/023787
                                1/7
          100
               1111
                        1103    102
 106                            10'103
                                           - - SC
  104          113
                    108      .)        101
     SERVER                126
     SYSTEM
               114
                          FIG. 1

           SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DELIVERING NEURAL THERAPY
                            CORRELATED WITH PATIENT STATUS
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]          The present application claims priority to the following U.S. Provisional
Applications, each of which is incorporated herein by reference: 61/151,464, filed
February 10, 2009, and 61/224,032, filed July 8, 2009.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]          The present disclosure relates generally to systems and methods for
delivering neural therapy correlated with patient status.
BACKGROUND
[0003]           Neurological stimulation or modulation systems have been developed to
treat pain, movement disorders, functional disorders, spasticity and various other
medical conditions.          Implantable neurological stimulation systems may include an
implantable pulse generator and one or more leads that deliver electrical pulses to
neurological or muscle tissue. In many cases, a physician or caregiver may need to set
a variety of stimulation parameters or programs for the patient, which may correspond
to different postures, activities, or comfort levels that are assumed to be suitable for the
patient.     Generally, spinal cord stimulators provide the patient with many different
stimulation programs, which are initially set up by the physician or caregiver with patient
feedback. The initial setup typically occurs immediately after implant. The patient then
uses a patient remote control to change between these programs when the patient's
posture, activity, or comfort level has changed.       However, in many cases, the preset
stimulation levels established at implant may not be suitable for the patient due to slight
changes in the lead after implant, scar tissue build-up around the lead after implant, or
due to changes in pain patterns over time. These changes may require the patient to
routinely adjust the stimulation settings, which requires office visits by the patient.
Accordingly, there is a need for improved devices and techniques for customizing a
66245-8012. US02/LEGAL1 7560032.1

patient's stimulation parameters and automatically adjusting stimulation levels for
different patient needs.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0004]       Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of a therapy system for providing relief
from chronic pain to a patient in accordance with embodiments of the present
disclosure.
[0005]       Figure 2 is a functional block diagram illustrating logic components of a
pulse generator suitable for use in the therapy system of Figure 1 in accordance with
embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0006]       Figure 3 is a block diagram illustrating software modules of the pulse
generator in Figure 2 in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0007]       Figure 4 is a database schema illustrating an organization of a treatment
profile in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0008]       Figure 5 is a flow diagram illustrating a method for stimulating and blocking
neuronal tissues in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure.
[0009]       Figure 6 is a flow diagram illustrating a method for establishing patient
preferences during a learning phase in accordance with embodiments of the present
disclosure.
[0010]       Figures 7A-7C graphically illustrate impedance characteristics that may be
correlated with patient state in accordance with further embodiments of the present
disclosure.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0011]       Specific details of several embodiments of this disclosure are described
below with reference to implantable spinal cord stimulators for stimulating neural
structures, and methods for controllably stimulating a target neural site of a patient. As
used herein, the terms "stimulating" and "stimulation" refer generally to signals applied
to a patient to elicit a neural response. Unless otherwise specified, the signals may
have an inhibitory or facilitatory effect on the target neural population. As used herein,
                                                -2-

the term "stimulator" applies generally to a device that generates and/or directs
stimulation signals. Although selected embodiments are described below with respect
to stimulating the dorsal column, dorsal root, dorsal root entry zone and/or other
regions of the spinal column to control pain, the implantable stimulators may in some
instances be used for stimulating other neurological structures, and/or other tissue
(e.g., muscle tissue). Several embodiments can have configurations, components or
procedures different than those described in this section, and other embodiments may
eliminate particular components or procedures.         A person of ordinary skill in the
relevant art, therefore, will understand that the invention may have other embodiments
with additional elements, and/or may have other embodiments without several of the
features shown and described below with reference to Figures 1-7C.
[0012]       Several embodiments of the disclosure are directed to spinal cord
stimulation devices (e.g., implantable pulse generators) that have an embedded control
algorithm configured to monitor one or more physiological or physical signals from one
or more sensors. The sensors can be inside or outside of the implantable device e.g. a
spinal cord stimulation       device.   The sensors      can include, for example, an
accelerometer, a gyroscope, a blood pressure sensor, an impedance sensor, a thoracic
impedance sensor, a heart rate monitor, a respiration rate monitor, a temperature
sensor, and/or other suitable sensors. The control algorithm can have two phases - a
learning phase and an automatic operation phase, as described in more detail below.
In general terms, the control algorithm collects sensor data and correlates it with
patient-selected signal delivery data during the learning phase.       In the automatic
operation phase, the control algorithm receives sensor data and directs the signal
delivery based on the correlation established during the learning phase.
[0013]        In a representative implementation, the spinal cord stimulation device is
implanted into a patient. A physician, a device company representative, and/or other
authorized personnel can program the spinal cord stimulation device by setting up one
or more stimulation programs for the patient and allowing the patient to adjust
stimulation parameters including, for example, an amplitude, a pulse width, a
frequency, and/or other suitable parameters in the individual programs.       Once the
programs are established, the patient may have the ability to change only a subset of
                                               -3-

parameters in an individual program, e.g., only signal amplitude.        Also, at the initial
setup, the physician or the company representative can initialize the individual sensors
with "normal" or expected values. The physician or the company representative can
also set a confidence interval for the control algorithm, for example, from about 80% to
about 99%, to indicate the end of the learning phase. The physician or the company
representative can also set a delta change threshold for the individual sensors, e.g.,
using 5-10% of the signal average, for detecting abnormal operations of the spinal cord
stimulation device and/or sensor inputs that are outside an expected range, as
described in more detail below.
[0014]       During an embodiment of the learning phase, the individual sensors are
reset and normalized with initial values, and the spinal cord stimulation device is
instructed to start learning by starting the control algorithm. In the learning phase, the
spinal cord stimulation device (e.g., via the control algorithm) can continuously monitor
the patient for a change of operation. The change of operation can include one or any
combination of the following events: (1) a change in a stimulation program, (2) a
change in a stimulation parameter, and/or (3) a delta change sensed by any of the
sensors.   The patient, the physician, or the company representative may cause the
stimulation program and/or the parameters to change.
[0015]       In response to the detected change of operation, the spinal cord
stimulation device and/or the control algorithm can record the program settings, sensor
readings, and/or other operational parameters associated with the change.               For
example, the control algorithm can record the time of day, the patient's body position,
the patient's activity level, the currently active stimulation program and associated
stimulation parameters, and/or other values.         In certain embodiments, the sensor
readings can be obtained from a gyroscope that senses a posture change, from an
accelerometer that measures a change of motion, and/or from an active electrode on a
lead body that measures impedance.            With the recorded data, the spinal cord
stimulation device and/or the control algorithm can build a database to associate the
stimulation program and parameter settings with one or more sensor readings.
[0016]       The database can be populated as the control algorithm learns, by
recording the patient inputs. In the learning phase, the patient is in complete control of
                                               -4-

the spinal cord stimulation device. For example, any time the patient goes to sleep and
uses "Program 2" (which has, e.g., a signal frequency of 80 Hz, a pulse width of 150
psec, and an amplitude of 2.6mA), the control algorithm populates the database with
the time of day (e.g., nighttime), Program 2, and the parameter settings (e.g.,
frequency, pulse width and amplitude).       Over a period of time (e.g., weeks, months,
etc.), the spinal cord stimulation device can collect sufficient data to meet the preset
confidence intervals and enter the automatic operation phase based on certain sensor
readings.
[0017]         During the automatic operation phase or automatic phase, the stimulation
device uses the information in the populated database to set stimulation parameters,
given inputs from one or more sensors.          For example, the spinal cord stimulation
device can enter the automatic phase for at least some body positions (e.g., standing,
sitting, laying, etc., as determined by a gyroscope), the gross time of day (e.g., night
(sleeping program), morning (active program), evening (watching TV program), etc,),
and/or other suitable sensor readings.      As a result, when the patient sits down, for
example, the spinal cord stimulation device automatically changes the patient
stimulation program and/or stimulation parameters to match the patient's preferred
values.     This change is based on information that the patient entered during the
learning phase, rather than on the initial settings entered by the physician or company
representative.
[0018]        The length of time required to meet the confidence intervals may be
patient-dependent. Factors that can influence the required amount of time may include
the patient's level of use of the device, the number of therapy changes needed, and/or
other factors which can vary for each patient depending on the patient's pain and
activity level. In several embodiments, once the spinal cord stimulation device has met
or exceeded the confidence intervals, the control algorithm enters the automatic phase.
Not all conditions must be met before the device can enter the automatic phase. For
example, if the spinal cord stimulation device reaches the preset confidence interval for
the laying down body position during evening hours, then the spinal cord stimulation
device can enter into the automatic phase for these conditions only, without affecting
other conditions. The device can continue to operate in the learning phase or mode to
                                               -5-

collect date for other conditions. In the foregoing examples, identifiers such as "laying
down" and "evening" are used for illustrative purposes. In actuality, the system can
populate the database with raw and/or modified gyroscope data and clock data, without
the need for identifiers.
[0019]       When the spinal cord stimulation device enters the automatic phase, it can
automatically change the stimulation program and/or stimulation parameters for the
patient. In certain embodiments, the spinal cord stimulation device can alert the patient
before automatically making an adjustment by displaying a message on a patient
remote control, by producing a discrete vibration, and/or by utilizing other suitable
means.     In several embodiments, this alert feature may be removed over time or
eliminated entirely.
[0020]       The spinal cord stimulation device can continuously check for a change of
sensor readings, a change in stimulation program, and/or a change in stimulation
parameters that are outside the preset delta change thresholds. If such a change is
detected and is outside expected limits, in certain embodiments, the spinal cord
stimulation device can alert the patient that such a change has occurred.       In certain
cases, e.g. if the lead impedance is out of range indicating a lead failure or otherwise,
the spinal cord stimulation system can notify the physician directly through the central
database, by sending an automatic note (e.g. email, fax, voicemail or otherwise as
appropriate) of the patient status change. For example, such a change can include a
sensor value or a patient-input amplitude that is outside predefined limits, or a
requested program change that was not encountered during the learning phase.             In
response, the patient can override this alert, and the control algorithm can record the
event as a new database entry and start to learn more about this new setting, position,
stimulation, etc. In other embodiments, the patient can turn off the stimulation therapy
and see a physician. The physician can then troubleshoot and plan the next treatment
for the patient. The spinal cord stimulation device can reenter the learning mode to
learn the new programs, settings, etc. and switch to the automatic phase as described
above.
[0021]       Figure 1 schematically illustrates a therapy system 100 for providing relief
from chronic pain in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. The
                                               -6-

therapy system 100 is shown in Figure 1 positioned relative to the general anatomy of a
spinal cord (labeled "SC" in Figure 1) of a patient. As shown in Figure 1, the therapy
system 100 can include a pulse generator 101.         The pulse generator 101 can be
implanted, e.g., subcutaneously, within an abdominal or lower back region of the
patient. The pulse generator 101 can be electrically connected to a signal delivery
device 112.      The signal delivery device 112 can include a lead 102 electrically
connected between the pulse generator 101 and an electrode array 103 implanted in
close proximity to the spinal cord SC. The signal delivery device 112 can include one
or more electrodes or electrode contacts carried by a support substrate.               A
representative electrode array 103 is disclosed in U.S. Patent Application No.
12/104,230, filed April 6, 2008, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its
entirety by reference. In other embodiments, the signal delivery device 112 can have
other configurations. For example, the signal delivery device 112 can include one or
more electrodes (e.g., eight electrodes or sixteen electrodes) spaced apart axially and
positioned in one or two rows along the lead 102, in place of the electrode array 103.
[0022]       The pulse generator 101 is configured to generate and transmit stimulation
signals to the signal delivery device 112. In certain embodiments, the pulse generator
101 can include a logic processor interconnected with a computer-readable medium
containing computer executable instructions, and further connected with input/output
devices (e.g., wired or wireless transceivers), power management circuitry, and/or other
suitable electrical components (not shown in Figure 1), as described in more detail
below with reference to Figure 2. The computer-readable medium can include volatile
and/or nonvolatile media, e.g., read-only memory (ROM), random access memory
(RAM), magnetic disk storage media, optical storage media, flash memory devices,
and/or others. In other embodiments, the pulse generator 101 can also include specific
hardware components having hard-wired logic (e.g., field-programmable gate arrays)
for performing the operations, methods, or processes or with any combination of
programmed data processing components and specific hardware components.
[0023]       In a particular embodiment, the pulse generator 101 includes an embedded
sensing element 126 in electrical communication with the logic processor of the pulse
generator 101.    The sensing element 126 can include at least one of a gyroscope, an
                                               -7-

accelerometer, a laser sensor, a pressure sensor, a temperature sensor, an impedance
sensor, a heart rate monitor, a respiration rate monitor, a clock, and/or other suitable
sensors for measuring the current status and/or physiological indicators of the patient.
Even though the sensing element 126 is shown in Figure 1 as integrated into the pulse
generator 101, in other embodiments, the sensing element 126 can be positioned
remotely from the pulse generator 101 and coupled to the pulse generator 101 with a
suitable link (e.g., a wired or wireless link).    The system 100 can include a single
sensing element 126, or multiple sensing elements 126 depending on factors including
patient condition, patient diagnosis, patient preference and/or practitioner preference.
[0024]       The therapy system 100 can also include a remote control 105 configured
to communicate with and/or control the implantable pulse generator 101.       As shown in
Figure 1, the remote control 105 includes a housing 104 carrying multiple input devices
106 (e.g., push buttons, track wheels, directional keys, etc.), a display 107 (e.g., a
liquid crystal display), and an antenna 108 (e.g., an induction wand).        The remote
control 105 can also include internal circuitry (not shown) configured to produce a
modulated signal and then transmit (via long range telemetry) the modulated signal to
the pulse generator 101. In response to the transmitted signal, the pulse generator 101
can, for example, modulate the received signal into a return signal and transmit the
modulated return signal carrying requested information to the remote control 105
according to a suitable protocol (e.g., frequency shift key, phase shift key, quad phase
shift key, etc), or adjust its operation by changing a stimulation program and/or
stimulation parameters. In certain embodiments, the remote control 105 is configured
as a handheld device. In other embodiments, components of the remote control 105
can have other portable or stationary configurations.
[0025]       Optionally, in certain embodiments, the therapy system 100 can include a
personal computer 110 coupled to the remote control 105 via a communication link 111
(e.g., a USB link, an Ethernet link, a Bluetooth link, etc.). In other embodiments, the
personal computer 110 can be coupled to a network server 114 via a network
connection 113 (e.g., an internet connection, an intranet connection, etc.) In yet other
embodiments, the personal computer 110 and/or the network server 114 may be
                                               -8-

omitted.     In further embodiments, the therapy system 100 can also include routers,
switches, data storage centers, and/or other suitable network components.
[0026]         After implanting the pulse generator 101, a caregiver (e.g., a physician or a
pulse generator company representative) can first configure the pulse generator 101
with an initial set of operating programs and/or parameters using an external
programmer (not shown).        The caregiver may first configure the pulse generator 101
with an initial set of operating parameters for different patient status variables, such as
for different pain areas or types and different patient body positions, patient physical
activity levels, time of day, various physiological indicators of the patient, and/or other
suitable patient status variables. The initial set of operating parameters can include
frequencies, amplitudes, electrode selections for the signal delivery device 112, and/or
other suitable parameters. For example, in one embodiment, the initial set of operating
parameters can include a first amplitude for a first body position (e.g., standing) and a
second amplitude for a second body position (e.g., lying down).                 In another
embodiment, the initial set of operating parameters can also include a first electrode
configuration that relates to a first pain area (e.g. the lower back) and a second
electrode configuration that relates to a second pain area (e.g. the left leg).     In other
embodiments, the initial set of operating parameters can also include other operating
parameters based on the time of day, physiological indicators of the patient, and/or
other suitable process variables. According to the initial set of operating parameters
programmed, the pulse generator 101 can apply therapy signals (e.g., electrical
impulses) to the nerve fibers of the patient, such as to up-regulate (e.g., stimulate or
facilitate ) and/or down-regulate (e.g., block or inhibit) the neural response.
[0027]         One operational difficulty associated with conventional implementations of
the foregoing technique is that the initial set of parameters may not be suitable for the
patient outside of a clinical setting. For example, without being bound by theory, it is
believed that the signal delivery device 112 may shift when the patient is active (e.g.,
when the patient runs, walks, and/or engages in other activities) or when the patient
changes from one body position to another (e.g., among positions such as standing,
sitting, lying down, and/or others). The shifting of the signal delivery device 112 may
render the applied therapy signals less effective for relieving pain, and/or may cause
                                                -9-

patient discomfort.     It is also believed that the patient's perception of pain may be
different at different activity levels. As a result, the initial set of parameters for the
pulse generator 101 may not be effective to achieve and/or maintain treatment efficacy
over an extended period of time and/or over the course of the patient's typical activities.
The patient does have the option of adjusting the stimulation program and/or
parameters with the remote control 105 (e.g., configured as a handheld device), within
the preset values done at implant. However, the adjustment process using the remote
control 105 may be cumbersome, restrictive, and/or time-consuming.
[0028]       To overcome the above described operational difficulties, the presently
disclosed therapy system 100 can be configured to (1) establish patient selections
(e.g., preferences) during an            initial period   (e.g., a learning period); and   (2)
subsequently automatically adjust the stimulation parameters based, at least in part, on
(a) the patient preferences learned during the initial period and (b) the current status
(received through the sensors) of the patient. The patient preferences may include
patient-selected or patient-preferred values of suitable stimulation parameters and may
be referred to collectively as a preference baseline. Once the patient preferences are
established, the pulse generator 101               can automatically adjust the stimulation
parameters provided to the electrode array 103 in response to a change in the patient's
activity level, body position and/or other variable to improve and/or maintain treatment
efficacy, without further input from the patient.
[0029]        During   the    initial   (learning)   period,   the pulse generator   101 can
continuously monitor the current status of the patient (via the sensing element 126)
and/or the operation of the pulse generator 101 for a change. For example, in certain
embodiments, the pulse generator 101 can sense a change when the patient changes
at least one of a stimulation program (e.g., from a "day" program to a "night" program"),
a stimulation parameter (e.g., an amplitude and/or a frequency of stimulation), and/or
other suitable parameters.            In certain embodiments, the patient can request or
implement an increase or decrease in the amplitude of the applied therapy signals
using the remote control 105, and the pulse generator 101 records the patient's change
and/or any adjustments to the amplitude.            In other embodiments, the pulse generator
101 can sense a change of operation under other suitable conditions.
                                                    -10-

[00301        When the pulse generator 101 senses a change of operation, the pulse
generator 101 can record the values provided by other sensors.         For example, the
pulse generator 101 can record an indication of the current body position and/or
orientation of the patient with a gyroscopic sensor to determine whether the patient is
standing or lying down.     The pulse generator 101 can sense the patient's current
activity level with an accelerometer to determine a change in the movement of the
patient and/or can sense the patient's blood pressure, thoracic impedance, and/or
other suitable physiological indicators.
[0031]       Based on the foregoing recorded measurements, the pulse generator 101
can establish the patient preferences. The pulse generator 101 can correlate at least
one of the patient's indicated changes, the output of the pulse generator 101, with at
least one of the current body position, the current activity level, and/or other
physiological indicators of the patient. For example, in a particular embodiment, the
pulse generator 101 can correlate the amplitude of the applied therapy signals with a
patient's body position in two dimensions to generate a first preferred amplitude for the
stimulation parameters when the patient is standing and a second preferred amplitude
when the patient is lying down.        In certain embodiments, each of the preferred
amplitudes can be an arithmetic mean of multiple measurements corresponding to
each body position, respectively. In other embodiments, the preferred amplitudes can
be a median value, a geometric median value, a harmonic mean, a quadratic mean, a
weighted mean (e.g., based on time of a day), and/or other values derived from the
measurements.
[0032]       In further embodiments, the pulse generator 101 can correlate several
parameters of the applied stimulation parameters with the patient status in three, four,
five, and/or other numbers of sensor inputs, which may correspond to patient activity
levels, physiological parameters, and/or other suitable parameters.     For example, the
pulse generator 101 can correlate the stimulation parameters with certain values of
both the body position and the activity level of the patient.     As a result, the pulse
generator 101 may calculate the preferred amplitude values as shown in the following
table:
                                              -11-

                                                Position            Activity level
         First selected (e.g., preferred)       Standing            Mobile
         amplitude
         Second selected (e.g., preferred)      Standing            Immobile
         amplitude
        Third selected (e.g., preferred)        Lying down          Immobile
         amplitude
Even though particular values of the patient's position and activity level are used in the
above example, in other examples, the pulse generator 101 can use other values of the
patient's position (e.g., sitting) and/or activity level (e.g., walking, running, etc.). In yet
further embodiments, the pulse generator 101 can use other patient parameters (e.g.
thoracic impedance, heart rate, etc).
[0033]        In certain embodiments, the initial (learning) period can be a predetermined
time period     (e.g., 2-5 weeks) set by the caregiver. In other embodiments, the initial
period can be determined by the measurements recorded and stored in the pulse
generator 101.      For example, the initial period can expire when the derived first and
second preferred amplitudes have reached a confidence level of at least 80% or
another suitable value.     In further embodiments, the patient and/or the caregiver can
terminate the initial period irrespective of an elapsed time or the current confidence
level of the first and second preferred amplitudes and reset the pulse generator 101
with most recent parameters and/or other suitable parameters.
[0034]        Once the patient preferences are established (e.g., once the learning
phase is complete), the pulse generator 101 can automatically adjust the stimulation
parameters based on the sensed measurements.                  For example, when the pulse
generator 101 receives an indication that the patient is currently standing, the pulse
generator 101 can automatically adjust the stimulation parameters (e.g., an amplitude)
based on a corresponding value of the preferred amplitude in the database for the
standing position. The patient does not have to manually operate the remote control
105 in order to adjust the applied stimulation parameters.               As a result, several
                                                 -12-

embodiments of the therapy system 100 are less cumbersome, time-consuming, and/or
restrictive to operate than are conventional techniques.
[0035]        After the initial period expires, the pulse generator 101 can continue
recording adjustment inputs from the patient regarding the operating parameters of the
pulse generator 101, the current values of the generated stimulation parameters,
and/or the current status of the patient as described above. The pulse generator 101
can periodically (e.g., weekly, biweekly, etc.) or continuously update (e.g., refine) the
patient preferences based on these newly recorded measurements.                   In other
embodiments, the process of further updating the preferences can be omitted.
[0036]        In yet further embodiments, if the pulse generator 101 detects a large
change in the patient's status, the pulse generator 101 can output an alarm to the
patient and/or the caregiver indicating that an additional assessment is needed.        In
other examples, the patient and/or the caregiver can decide when to reestablish patient
preferences.
[0037]        Several embodiments of the therapy system 100 can improve treatment
efficiency for the patient.    Instead of estimating the applied therapy signals for each
patient status, several embodiments of the therapy system 100 allow customization of
the applied therapy signals based on previous measurements of the applied therapy
signals, thus improving the efficacy of the treatment and/or reducing or eliminating the
need for the patient to manually adjust stimulation settings. In certain embodiments,
the therapy system 100 can also provide multiple stimulation levels to individually
correspond to different patient statuses measured by the sensing element 126.          For
example, if the sensing element 126 indicates that the patient's motion exceeds a first
threshold, a first stimulation level may be used.       If the patient's motion exceeds a
second threshold greater than the first threshold, a second stimulation level may be
used. The caregiver and/or the patient may select any desired number of stimulation
levels and/or thresholds of patient status.
[0038]        Even though the therapy system 100 is described above as establishing
the patient preferences via the implanted pulse generator 101, in other embodiments,
this function can be performed with additional support from other devices.             For
example, the pulse generator 101 can transfer the recorded measurements to the
                                               -13-

optional personal computer 110 and/or the network server 114, and the personal
computer 110 and/or the network server 114 can establish the patient preferences. In
yet further embodiments, the patient may establish additional programs for the pulse
generator 101, and the caregiver may have override capability over these additional
programs.
[0039]        Figure 2 is a functional block diagram illustrating components of the pulse
generator 101 of Figure 1 in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure.           As
shown in Figure 2, the pulse generator 101 can include a radio 118 coupled to an
antenna 108, and a processor 120 coupled to an input/output component 124 and a
memory 122.        In other embodiments, the pulse generator 101 can also include a
battery, a power management circuit, or other suitable electronic and/or mechanical
components.
[0040]       The radio 118 can include a frequency modulator, an amplitude modulator,
and/or other suitable circuitry for modulating inductive protocols. The processor 120 is
configured to provide control signals to and receive data from the radio 118. In certain
embodiments, the processor 120 can include a microprocessor, a field-programmable
gate array, and/or other suitable logic components.            In other embodiments, the
processor 120 may also include a detector or a decoder with associated software
and/or firmware to perform detection/decoding functions and process received signals.
The memory 122 can include volatile and/or nonvolatile media (e.g., ROM, RAM,
magnetic disk storage media, optical storage media, flash memory devices, and/or
other suitable storage media).       The memory 122 can be configured to store data
received from, as well as instructions for, the processor 120.           The input/output
component 124 can include logic components (e.g., a MODEM driver) that receive and
interpret input from the remote control 105 (Figure 1) as well as hardware components
(e.g., a vibrator) that output information to the patient.
[0041]        Figure 3 is a block diagram showing software modules of the pulse
generator 101 of Figure 2. Each module is a computer program written as source code
in a conventional programming language (e.g., the C++               or Java programming
languages) and is presented for execution by a CPU of the pulse generator 101 as
object or byte codes. The various implementations of the source code and object and
                                                -14-

byte codes can be held on a computer-readable storage medium such as the memory
122.
[0042]        As shown Figure 3, the pulse generator 101 can include three basic
software modules, which functionally define the primary operations performed by the
pulse generator 101: a database module 151,            an analysis module 153, and a
processing module 156. In the described embodiment, the processor 120 executes all
of these modules in the pulse generator 101.        However, in other embodiments, these
modules can also be executed in a distributed computing environment. The module
functions are further described below beginning with reference to Figures 5 and 6.
[0043]        As described above, the patient preferences are established during the
initial or learning period. The pulse generator 101 receives an initially collected sensor
data set 157 representing patient measurements collected from the implantable pulse
generator 101 (Figure 1) during the initial period, as discussed in more detail below
with reference to Figure 5. The initially collected sensor data set 157 can be forwarded
to the database module 151 for storage in the patient records, located at the memory
122. During subsequent, on-going monitoring of the patient status, the pulse generator
101 periodically records a subsequently collected sensor data set 158, which is also
forwarded to the database module 151 for storage.
[0044]        The database module 151 is configured to organize the individual patient
records stored in the memory 122 and provide the facilities for efficiently storing and
accessing the collected sensor data sets 157 and 158 and patient data maintained in
those records.      Examples of suitable database schemes for storing the collected
sensor data sets 157 and 158 in a patient record are described below with reference to
Figure 4. Any of a variety of suitable database organizations can be utilized, including
a flat file system, hierarchical database, relational database, or distributed database,
such as those provided by database vendors, including Oracle Corporation of Redwood
Shores, California.
[0045]        The processing module 156 processes the initially collected sensor data
set 157 stored in the patient records to produce the patient preferences 152. The
patient preferences 152 include a set of preference measurements 159 (e.g., body
positions, the gross time of day, and/or other suitable sensor readings), which can be
                                               -15-

either directly measured or indirectly derived from patient information.     The patient
preferences 152 can be used to adjust the operating parameters for the pulse
generator 101 and to monitor patient status on a continuous, ongoing basis.
[0046]       On a periodic basis (or as needed or requested), the processing module
156 reassesses and updates the patient preferences 152. The database module 151
can receive the subsequently collected sensor data set 158 from the pulse generator
101 (Figure 1) subsequent to the initial period. The processing module 156 re
assimilates the additional collected data set into new patient preferences 152. The
operations performed by the processing module 156 are described in more detail below
with reference to Figures 5 and 6.
[0047]       The analysis module 153 analyzes the subsequently collected sensor data
set 158 stored in the patient records in the memory 122. The analysis module 153
monitors patient status and makes an automated determination in the form of a patient
status indicator 154.    Subsequently collected sensor data sets 158 are periodically
received from pulse generator 101 and maintained by the database module 151 in the
memory 122. Through the use of this collected information, the analysis module 153
can continuously follow the patient status and can recognize any trends in the collected
information that might warrant medical intervention. The analytic operations performed
by the analysis module 153 are described in more detail below with reference to
Figures 5 and 6. The feedback module 155 can provide feedback to the patient based,
at least in part, on the patient status indicator 154. For example, the feedback module
155 may cause the pulse generator 101 to vibrate, to beep, and/or to output a warning
message on the display 107 of the remote control 105 (Figure 1).
[0048]       Figure 4 is a database schema illustrating an organization of a patient
preference record 175 stored as a part of a patient record in the memory 122 of the
pulse generator 101 of Figure 2. The patient preference record 175 corresponds to the
patient preferences 152 (Figure 3). In the illustrated embodiment, only the information
pertaining to the set of preference measurements in the patient preferences 152 are
shown for purposes of clarity.        For example, as shown in Figure 4, the patient
preference record 175 can include the following information: stimulation amplitude 176,
frequency 177, electrode contact information 178, posture 179, activity level 180, blood
                                               -16-

pressure 181, and time of day 182.         In other embodiments, the patient preference
record 175 can also include patient profile information, historical data, and/or other
pertinent data (not shown). During the initial (learning) phase, multiple preferences 175
are collected for corresponding combinations of the foregoing parameters.
[0049]         Figure 5 is a flow diagram showing a method 200 for providing signals
(e.g., blocking signals) to neuronal tissues in accordance with an embodiment of the
present disclosure. In the illustrated embodiment, the method 200 can include two
phases: (1) collecting data and processing patient preferences (e.g., in a learning
phase, block 204), and (2) automatically applying stimulation based on the patient
preferences, including updating the preferences as needed (block 210). The method
200 can be implemented as a conventional computer program for execution by the
pulse generator 101 (Figure 1).     Even though the method 200 is described below with
reference to the therapy system 100 of Figure 1, the method 200 can also be practiced
in other suitable systems for stimulating neuronal tissues.
[0050]        As shown in Figure 5, the method 200 can include programming the pulse
generator 101 (Figure 1) with an initial set of operating parameters (block 202). The
initial set of operating parameters can include a plurality of programs corresponding to
various patient statuses.      For example, the initial set of operating parameters may
include a first program corresponding to the patient standing and a second program
corresponding to the patient lying down.            The first and second programs can
individually include an amplitude, a frequency, an electrode contact arrangement,
and/or other suitable operating parameters for providing the therapy signals to the
patient. In certain embodiments, the programs are customizable. For example, the
caregiver and/or the patient may create additional programs and/or modify existing
programs to suit a particular need.
[0051]        The method 200 can also include establishing a preference or profile for
the patient during an initial period (block 204) e.g., during a learning phase.       The
preference can include preference values for the operating parameters derived from
recorded values for a particular patient status.       For example, the preference may
include a first preferred value for the stimulation amplitude when the patient is standing
and a second preferred value when the patient is lying down. The preferences may
                                               -17-

also include baseline blood pressure, thoracic impedance, and/or other physiological
indicators that give information about the patient status. Details of establishing the
patient preferences are described in more detail below with reference to Figure 6.
[0052]      The method 200 can further include using the data from the patient
preferences to automatically adjust the therapy applied to patient, e.g., during an
automated operation phase. This phase can include monitoring a patient status (block
206). In one embodiment, monitoring a patient status includes determining the current
body position of the patient with a gyroscope and indicating whether the patient is
standing or lying down.     In other embodiments, monitoring a patient status can also
include sensing the patient's current activity level, e.g., with an accelerometer.      In
further embodiments, monitoring a patient status can include measuring the blood
pressure, and/or other suitable physiological parameters of the patient. In yet further
embodiments, monitoring a patient status can include accepting a patient input using,
for example, the remote control 105. Although such an input may not be required of
the patient in light of the automatic operation of the system, the system can receive
patient inputs that may override or facilitate the automatic operation.
[0053]      The method 200 can also include determining whether a change in the
patient status has exceeded a preset threshold (block 208), e.g., the delta threshold
change, described previously.       For example, the determination can be based on
determining whether a subsequent measurement (e.g., lead impedance) exceeds a
baseline value for a particular patient status (e.g., standing) by a certain percentage
(e.g., 20%) or a preselected value (e.g., 4000 ohms).            In other examples, the
determination can also be based on other suitable criteria. The determination can be
performed weekly, bi-weekly, at other periodic intervals, or on an as needed basis.
[0054]       If the change in the patient status exceeds the preset threshold, the
method 200 includes determining whether reprogramming is necessary (block 209). In
one embodiment, the pulse generator 101 can provide a warning signal to the patient
indicating that the caregiver should perform a checkup.          The caregiver can then
determine whether the signal delivery device 114 (Figure 1) requires any physical
adjustment. If so, then the caregiver may readjust the signal delivery device 114, and
the process may revert to the initial programming stage at block 202.         If not, the
                                               -18-

process can revert to establishing the patient preferences at block 204 and purging or
overwriting at least a portion of the existing patient preferences.
[0055]       If the change in the patient status does not exceed the preset threshold,
the method 200 can adjust the stimulation based on the measured patient status and
the preferences in a closed-loop fashion (block 210). In one embodiment, adjusting the
stimulation can include selecting a setpoint for an operating parameter (e.g., the
stimulation amplitude) of the pulse generator 101 based on the preference value for a
particular patient status. For example, the setpoint for the stimulation amplitude can be
set to the preferred value or can be offset by a bias factor selected by the patient
and/or the caregiver. In other embodiments, adjusting the stimulation can also include
accepting input from the patient for increasing or decreasing the current stimulation
level. In any of these embodiments, block 210 can include directing a change in the
stimulation applied to the patient, based on the preference established in block 204.
[0056]       The method 200 can also include updating the preferences after the initial
period (block 212). For example, updating the preferences can include re-assimilating
subsequent measurements for the patient status and/or values of the therapy signals.
The method 200 can further include determining whether the process should continue
(block 214). If so, the process reverts to monitoring the patient status at block 206. If
not, the process ends. The updating can be performed weekly, bi-weekly, in other
periodic intervals, or continuously.
[0057]       Figure 6 is a flow diagram showing a method 204 for establishing patient
preferences in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure, e.g., during
the learning phase described above. As shown in Figure 6, the method 204 can
include at least one of monitoring the stimulation output from the pulse generator 101
(block 216), monitoring a patient status (block 218), and recording a patient input (block
220). The method 204 can also include correlating the monitored patient status to the
monitored stimulation output (block 222). The stimulation output can be categorized
based on readings from the sensing element 126. In one example, the stimulation
output can be categorized based on whether a gyroscopic reading from the sensing
element 126 exceeds a predetermined threshold indicating the patient is standing, or
below the predetermined threshold indicating the patient is lying down. The stimulation
                                               -19-

output corresponding to the patient as standing (or lying down) can then be calculated
to derive the preference value for the particular patient status.     In other examples,
multiple thresholds and/or patient position values corresponding to the thresholds may
be used.    In further examples, the stimulation output can be categorized based on
other suitable patient statuses.     The method 204 can further include storing the
correlated patient measurements as patient records (block 224) as shown in Figure 4 in
the memory 122 (Figure 2) of the pulse generator 101.
[0058]       The learning phase and/or the automatic operation phase can have other
characteristics and/or other interrelationships in other embodiments.     For example, in
one such embodiment, the         method 200 can       include prioritizing the patient's
preferences during the learning phase and storing this information for later use. In a
particular example, the method 200 can include ordering the patient preferences by the
frequency with which each preference is requested by the patient, and/or the duration
that the preferred parameter value is in use. If the patient chooses "Program 4" most
often when lying down, but then chooses "Program 2," "Program 3" and "Program 1" in
descending order, the method can include storing this information. Later (e.g., during
the automatic operation phase), if the patient manually overrides the now-default
selection of "Program 4," the method can include presenting the patient with a
preference-ordered list of next-best options, based on the information gathered during
the learning phase. The options can be presented in a variety of suitable manners,
including a textual list or a graphical representation.      Accordingly, if the patient
becomes dissatisfied with the program selected as a result of the learning phase, the
method can automatically provide likely backup program selections, without requiring
the patient to reconsider every possible program as an option.        This can allow the
patient to more quickly zero in on an effective new program if the existing program
becomes less satisfactory, which may result e.g., if the implanted lead shifts or
migrates.
[0059]       In another embodiment, the method 200 can implement the foregoing
preference tracking without necessarily making a clear distinction between a learning
phase and an operation phase. Instead, both phases can be executed simultaneously.
For example, the method 200 can include tracking patient preferences for a sliding
                                              -20-

period of time (e.g., one week or two weeks), and continuously updating the signal
delivery parameters and patient prioritization of programs. When the patient manually
overrides the automatically delivered program, the method can provide a prioritized list
of alternate programs, as discussed above. The list can be weighted by the frequency
with which each program is selected and/or the duration each program is in use, as
discussed above.       In other embodiments, the list can be weighted in other manners.
For example, the most recent patient selection can receive the highest priority.
[0060]        In still further embodiments, the foregoing meshed learning/operation
phases can be implemented without tracking a prioritized list of patient preferences.
Instead, the method can include continuously updating the applied signal delivery
parameters based on feedback collected over a period of time (e.g., the past week, two
weeks, or other period).       If the patient does not frequently provide manual input or
feedback, the signal delivery parameters can remain generally static.        If the patient
frequently updates the parameters, the method can adjust the signal delivery
parameters accordingly, using an appropriate weighting scheme (e.g., greater weight
given to the most recent patient request).
[0061]        As described above, one or more impedance sensors can be used during
the learning phase to correlate patient status (e.g., patient posture and/or activity level)
with the patient's preferred stimulation parameters (e.g., therapy signal strength). The
same impedance sensor or sensors can subsequently be used to identify changes in
patient state, in response to which the system can automatically adjust the operating
parameters with which the therapeutic signals are applied. Figures 7A-7C graphically
illustrate representative embodiments in accordance with which impedance information
may be used to control system operation.
[0062]        Beginning with Figure 7A, the patient may be implanted with a lead 702
having multiple contacts 719 (illustrated as first-eighth contacts 719a-719h) arranged
along a lengthwise axis of the lead 702.        Particular contacts 719 or combinations of
contacts 719 form part of a therapy delivery circuit, which also includes the patient's
tissue, and via which the stimulation signals provide a therapeutic effect to the patient.
In addition to facilitating delivery of the therapeutic signals, the circuit (e.g., the
impedance of the circuit) can be used to identify patient status and/or changes in the
                                                -21-

patient status. In a particular example shown in Figure 7A, circuit impedance is plotted
as a function of the contact identifier (a, b, c ... h) for multiple patient postures. When
the patient assumes a first posture, the impedance can be characterized by a first
impedance profile 731, and when the patient assumes a second posture different than
the first posture, the impedance can be characterized by a second impedance profile
732. During the learning phase, the system can correlate patient preferred stimulation
parameters with patient posture, as identified by the profiles 731 and 732. During the
automatic operation phase, the system can identify a patient posture by matching,
approximately matching, or otherwise linking measured impedance profiles with profiles
obtained and stored during the learning phase. The system can then automatically
apply patient-preferred signal strengths to each of the contacts 719a-719h (or subsets
of contacts) in a manner that corresponds to the preferred values established during
the learning phase.      The foregoing arrangement can be used for any number of
postures, positions, and/or other patient states in accordance with a variety of
embodiments of the disclosure.
[0063]        Figure 7B illustrates an overall impedance profile 733 as a function of
contact identifier, at a particular point in time for a particular patient position. As shown
in Figure 7B, the overall impedance profile 733 includes a capacitive component 734a
and a resistive component 734b. Each of these components may have different values
depending upon the particular location along the lead 702 (Figure 7A) at which the
impedance is detected or estimated.            This information can be used, alone or in
conjunction with other information, to identify patient status.             For example, the
resistance and/or capacitance associated with a particular contact may be a function of
the proximity of the contact to the patient's soft tissue, bone structure, and/or cerebral
spinal fluid.    In a particular example, the resistive component 734b of the overall
impedance profile 733 may have a shape different than the capacitive component
734a, as shown in Figure 7B, depending upon factors that include the nature of the
adjacent tissue. Accordingly, the system can correlate the capacitive and resistive
profiles, and/or differences between the capacitive and resistive profiles to identify
patient status, such as patient posture. In one example, the impedance profile shown
in Figure 7B may correspond to the patient standing, as opposed to sitting.               The
impedance profile can have other shapes, depending upon the location and orientation
                                                 -22-

of the lead 702 within the patient's body.     In any of these embodiments, during the
learning phase, the system can correlate patient preferences with capacitive and/or
resistive profiles, and/or differences between the profiles, with different profiles
corresponding to different patient statuses.       After the learning phase has been
completed, the system can automatically implement patient-preferred stimulation
parameters based on the profiles determined from impedance inputs received from the
lead 702.
[0064]       In still further embodiments, the impedance (e.g., overall impedance,
resistance, and/or capacitance) can also be tracked as a function of time to identify
patient status. For example, Figure 7C illustrates impedance as a function of time for a
representative one of the contacts 719 shown in Figure 7A. Line 735a indicates the
impedance changing at a moderate rate, which may indicate that the patient is
gradually moving from one position to another (e.g., bending).        Line 735b may be
correlated with a relatively slow or zero change in patient position, which can
correspond to a different activity undertaken by the patient (e.g., sleeping). Line 735c
indicates that the patient is rapidly changing posture in a cyclic manner, which can
correspond to yet another patient activity (e.g., walking, running or jumping). The rate
of change of the impedance function can be determined using suitable differentiation or
other slope-determining techniques.     The system can automatically correlate patient
preferences with the status information identified by the impedance characteristics
shown in Figure 7C during a learning phase, and can then automatically implement the
patient preferences during an automatic operation phase, based on impedance
characteristics received from the lead 702.
[0065]       In particular embodiments described above, the impedance characteristics
are identified via contacts that also provide the therapy signal.        The impedance
characteristics can be determined from a therapy signal, or from a separate signal
applied to the therapy contacts.       In other embodiments, contacts that are not
concurrently providing therapy, and/or other contacts (e.g., dedicated sensors), can be
used to identify appropriate impedance values.           Representative techniques for
detecting impedance via implanted leads are disclosed in U.S. Application No.
12/499,769, filed on July 8, 2009 and incorporated herein by reference.          In other
                                             -23-

embodiments, impedance measurements can be used in manners other than those
described above.       For example, the patient may have multiple leads or other
arrangements in which impedance sensors are remote from each other, and the
impedance profile information can be collected from the multiple leads/sensors.
Profiles may be stored in a lookup table, profile bank or other suitable storage medium.
The patient status can correspond to positions and/or activities other than those
described above e.g., squatting, lying down on the patient's left side, lying down on the
patient's right side, among others.         In still further embodiments, the foregoing
impedance profile information may be used in contexts other than spinal cord
stimulation, e.g., peripheral nerve stimulation therapy, or cardiac therapy.
[0066]       Several embodiments of the systems and methods described above with
reference to Figures 7A-7C were described in the context of profiles associated with a
single longitudinally-extending lead.     In other embodiments, the profiles can be
established for axes other than a longitudinal axis, and/or for multiple axes.         For
example, the electrode array 103 shown in Figure 1, and/or an arrangement of multiple
leads placed side-by-side, can be used to establish lateral profiles or a two-dimensional
map of impedance information.
[0067]       Several embodiments of the methods discussed above can improve patient
comfort by allowing customization of the applied therapy signals. For example, the
customization    can    include  generating   patient preferences     based on   previous
measurements of the patient's preferences. The patient's comfort is further enhanced
because several embodiments of the methods include detecting the patient's status
and automatically adjusting a stimulation level of the applied therapy signals based on
the patient preferences without patient input. The foregoing arrangement can reduce
patient workload by automatically tracking the patient's stimulation preferences and
automatically adjusting the applied stimulation parameters accordingly.        In at least
some embodiments, the process of adjusting the applied stimulation parameters based
on   patient preferences is performed        at the patient's implanted device.       This
arrangement can reduce or eliminate the need for the patient to interact with any
device other than the implant and the patient programmer.
                                               -24-

[00681       From the foregoing, it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of the
disclosure have been described herein for purposes of illustration, but that various
modifications may be made without deviating from the disclosure.            For example, in
certain embodiments, the pulse generator 101 can include a plurality of integrated and
remote sensing elements. Certain aspects of the disclosure described in the context of
particular embodiments may be combined or eliminated in other embodiments.              For
example, in certain embodiments, the remote control 105 may be omitted, and the
personal computer      110 may be operatively coupled to the antenna 108 for
communicating with the pulse generator 101.         Further, while advantages associated
with certain embodiments have been described in the context of those embodiments,
other embodiments may also exhibit such advantages, and not all embodiments need
necessarily exhibit such advantages to fall within the scope of the disclosure.
Accordingly, the invention can include other embodiments not explicitly described or
shown herein.
[0069]       Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises"
and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
integers or steps.
[0070]       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of
the common general knowledge in Australia.
                                              -25-

                                           CLAIMS
       1.      A computer-implemented method for automatically adjusting stimulation
delivered to a patient, the method comprising:
       generating an ordered listing of patient preferences for stimulation parameters;
       delivering an electrical therapy signal to the patient via an implantable signal
               delivery device, in accordance with a first set of stimulation parameters
               having a first ranking in the ordered listing; and
       in response to an input, automatically delivering the electrical therapy signal in
               accordance with a second set of stimulation parameters having a second
               ranking lower than the first ranking.
       2.      The method of claim 1 wherein generating the ordered listing is based on
a frequency of requests by the patient for individual patient preferences.
       3.      The method of claim 1 wherein generating the ordered listing is based on
a duration of use of individual patient preferences.
       4.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
       establishing a preference baseline including the patient preferences,
       wherein the patient preferences have patient preferred values of the stimulation
               parameters, and
       wherein the ordered listing is a ranked listing according to the patient preferred
               values.
       5.      The method of claim 1 wherein delivering the electrical therapy to the
patient includes delivering the electrical therapy to a spinal cord region of the patient.
       6.      The method of claim 1 wherein the input corresponds to an override input
of the delivered electrical therapy signal, wherein the override input is provided by the
patient.
                                                -26-

        7.     The method of claim 1 wherein the input corresponds to a change in a
value of a particular patient status, wherein the value is an impedance value measured
via the implantable signal delivery device.
        8.     The method of claim 7 wherein the change in the value of the particular
patient status corresponds to the impedance value falling below or exceeding a
threshold value.
        9.     The method of claim 1 wherein the first set of stimulation parameters
includes an identity of a first contact of the signal delivery device, and wherein the
second set of stimulation parameters includes an identity of a second contact of the
signal delivery device.
        10.    The method of claim 9 wherein the first contact is positioned to deliver the
electrical therapy signal having the first set of stimulation parameters to treat a first pain
area, and wherein the second contact is positioned to deliver the electrical therapy
signal having the second set of stimulation parameters to treat a second pain area.
        11.    The method of claim 1 wherein the first set of stimulation parameters
includes a first amplitude, and wherein the second set of stimulation parameters
includes a second amplitude different than the first amplitude.
        12.    A therapy system for treating a patient, the system comprising:
        a signal delivery device having a plurality of contacts; and
        an implantable pulse generator electrically coupleable to the signal delivery
               device to apply therapy signals to the patient, wherein the implantable
               pulse generator includes a          computer-readable   medium     containing
               instructions that, when executed, cause the therapy system to:
               generate    an ordered listing of patient preferences for stimulation
                       parameters;
               deliver an electrical therapy signal to the patient, via the signal delivery
                      device, with a first set of stimulation parameters, wherein the first
                                                -27-

                       set of stimulation parameters has a first ranking in the ordered
                       listing; and
                in response to an input, automatically adjust the electrical therapy signal
                       in accordance with a second set of stimulation parameters having
                       a second ranking lower than the first ranking.
        13.    The system of claim 12 wherein generating the ordered listing is based on
at least one of (a) a frequency of requests by the patient for individual patient
preferences, or (b) a duration of use of the individual patient preferences.
        14.    The system of claim 12 wherein the input corresponds to a change in
value of a particular patient status, and wherein the value is an impedance value
measured via the signal delivery device.
        15.    The system of claim 12 wherein the instructions, when executed, further
cause the therapy system to:
        establish a preference baseline including the patient preferences,
        wherein the patient preferences have patient preferred values of the stimulation
                parameters correlated with corresponding values of patient status, and
        wherein the ordered listing is a ranked listing according to the patient preferred
               values.
        16.    The system of claim 12 wherein delivering the electrical therapy to the
patient includes delivering the electrical therapy to a spinal cord region of the patient,
and wherein the first set of stimulation parameters includes an identity of a first contact
of the signal delivery device, and the second set of stimulation parameters includes an
identity of a second contact of the signal delivery device, the first and second contacts
being positioned to treat lower back pain.
                                              -28-

       17.     A computer-implemented method for automatically adjusting stimulation
delivered to a patient, the method comprising:
       establishing a preference baseline including an ordered listing of patient
               preferences, wherein the patient preferences have patient-preferred
               values of stimulation parameters correlated with corresponding values of
               patient status;
       delivering an electrical therapy signal, via an implantable signal delivery device,
               in accordance with a first set of stimulation parameters, wherein the first
               set of stimulation parameters is based on the preference baseline and
               has a first ranking on the ordered listing;
       monitoring a value of a particular patient status;
       in response to an input and a change in the value of the particular patient status,
               automatically delivering the electrical therapy signal in accordance with a
               second set of stimulation parameters having a second ranking lower than
               the first ranking.
       18.     The computer-implemented method of claim 17 wherein the input is
provided by the patient and is an override of the delivery of the electrical therapy signal
having the first set of stimulation parameters.
       19.     The computer-implemented method of claim 18, further comprising:
       prior to delivering the electrical therapy signal in accordance with the second set
               of stimulation parameters, presenting at least a portion of the ordered
               listing to the patient.
       20.     The computer-implemented method of claim 17 wherein monitoring the
value of the particular patient status includes measuring an impedance value via the
implantable signal delivery device, and wherein the change in the value corresponds to
the impedance value falling below of exceeding a threshold value.
                                               -29-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
