ABSTRACT
          The invention proposes a portion capsule for producing a beverage, having a
capsule body with a capsule base and a filling side, with a cavity for accommodating a
pulverulent or liquid beverage base being formed between the capsule base and the filling
side, with a filter element being arranged between the beverage base and the capsule base,
and with the filter element comprising a non-woven which is arranged in the region of the
capsule base.
(Figure 1)

                                   1/4
                               1
                          6
                                                      2
                      3a                            1 00, 101
                             3               7
  Fig. 1
                                                    8
                     9          14        12
                F'-                                       13b
                                     2              ---   1 3a
                  7A                                      15
                                                       -106
         Fig--11                                          10
                                      18 17    19        0,0
                 3'    3  7 16
                               107
 Fig. 2
                3a.
                         3,                             100o, 101
                     27     20         21   19    3
Fig. 3                         107

                                                1
PORTION CAPSULE AND METHOD FOR PRODUCING A BEVERAGE USING A
PORTION CAPSULE
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]          The present invention relates to a portion capsule for producing a beverage,
having a capsule body with a capsule base and a filling side, with a cavity for
accommodating a pulverulent or liquid beverage base being formed between the capsule
base and the filling side, and with a filter element being arranged between the beverage
base and the capsule base.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]          Portion capsules of this kind are generally known from the prior art. By way
of example, documents EP 1792850 BI, EP 1344722 Al and US 2003/0172813 Al
disclose portion capsules of this generic type for preparing coffee and espresso.
[0003]          Portion capsules of this kind for producing a beverage are preferably in the
form of a truncated cone or cylinder and are produced, for example, from a thermoformed
plastic film or using a plastic injection molding process. Said portion capsules usually have
an open filling side with a collar edge onto which a cover film or foil is sealed or
adhesively bonded, a closed capsule base, with a particle screen which is supported against
the capsule base being arranged between the beverage base and the capsule base. These
screens are either injection molded from a thermoplastic or are thermoformed or stamped
from a plastic film.
[0004]          For the purpose of preparing a coffee beverage, the portion capsule is
inserted into a brewing chamber of a preparation appliance. After or during the closing
process of the brewing chamber, the capsule is preferably opened on its closed base side by
means of an opening mandrel which is arranged in the brewing chamber and, after the
brewing chamber is sealed off, the filling side of the portion capsule, which filling side is
sealed off by a sealing film or foil, is tapped by means of a puncturing means. Preparation
liquid, preferably hot water, is then delivered into the portion capsule under pressure. The

                                                 2
preparation liquid flows through the beverage base and extracts and/or dissolves the
substances, which are required for producing the beverage, from the beverage base. For the
purpose of preparing an espresso, for example a brewing water pressure of up to 20 bar
acts on the coffee powder for the purpose of extracting the essential oils. This pressure also
acts on the particle screen which is situated between the coffee powder and the capsule
base and in front of the punctured capsule outlet.
[0005]           A disadvantage of the screens which are produced using a plastic injection
molding process or using a thermoforming or stamping process is, however, that the
openings in the screen holes have to be smaller than the smallest coffee particles in order to
retain the coffee particles. Since a certain proportion of dust is necessarily produced in a
coffee grinding process, coffee particles pass through if the screen holes are too big or the
screens are blocked if the screen holes are too small, in particular at high pressures.
Furthermore, corresponding supporting elements which act against the capsule base are
required beneath the screens in order to absorb the brewing water pressures of up to 20 bar
and to prevent deformation of the screens as a result of the high brewing water pressure
(together with a high brewing water temperature). These supporting elements
disadvantageously require additional material to be used, particularly in the case of screen
arrangements produced using an injection molding process, as a result of which the
production costs rise.
[0006]           Therefore, the prior art discloses portion capsules with screen arrangements
which are intended to avoid these disadvantages. US 2778739, EP 1710173 Al and US
5352765 disclose portion capsules having screen arrangements which consist of a screen
support with relatively large passage openings, with these openings being covered by a
filter material. A disadvantage of these arrangements is that additional costs for material
and manufacture are incurred for forming such screen arrangements since they consist of a
stable screen support and the filter material which is arranged on the screen support.
[0007]           Both in the case of screens with screen holes and in the case of screen
arrangements with an additional filter material, it is necessary to ensure that the ready
beverage which passes through the screen arrangement can flow to a capsule outflow
opening, that is to say a free space for the discharge of a beverage has to be provided

                                                3
between the capsule base and the screen arrangement. In addition, screen arrangements of
this kind take up their own proportion of space in the portion capsule, this leading to an
increase in the volume of the capsule and thus necessarily likewise to additional material
being used.
[0008]          The object of the present invention was therefore to provide a portion
capsule having a filter arrangement, which portion capsule is less expensive to
manufacture in comparison to the prior art and in which the disadvantages described in
connection with the prior art are avoided at the same time.
[0009]          This object is achieved by a portion capsule for producing a beverage,
having a capsule body with a capsule base and a filling side, with a cavity for
accommodating a pulverulent or liquid beverage base being formed between the capsule
base and the filling side, with a filter element being arranged between the beverage base
and the capsule base, and with the filter element comprising a non-woven which is
arranged in the region of the capsule base.
[0010]          In comparison to the prior art, the portion capsule according to the invention
has the advantage that a simple and cost-effective filter non-woven is used as the filter
screen. A complicated plastic injection molding process or a thermoforming or stamping
process for producing the screens can therefore be saved. The production costs are
therefore considerably lowered. In addition, a supporting structure is not required since the
non-woven is supported directly on the capsule base. In addition, a filter non-woven has
the advantage over the plastic filters known from the prior art that it has a considerably
larger liquid inlet surface. Furthermore, transverse flow of liquid (parallel to the plane of
main extent of the filter plane) is made possible, as a result of which improved mixing and
outflow behavior is achieved. It has also been found that the risk of the screens becoming
blocked is considerably reduced or virtually eliminated when a filter non-woven is used.
Surprisingly, the filter non-woven has proven to be resistant to blockage both in the case of
a beverage preparation with a preparation liquid which is under a comparatively low
pressure and in the case of a beverage preparation with a preparation liquid which is under
a comparatively high pressure. Furthermore, a transverse flow of liquid in the filter non
woven is always reliably maintained and outflow of the liquids entering the filter non-

                                                4
woven to an outflow opening is always reliably ensured. In spite of this, a so-called
"crema", that is to say foam, forms on the beverage, in particular the espresso. The portion
capsule within the meaning of the present invention comprises a preferably hermetically
sealed portion capsule. This means that the beverage or food product powder, for example
coffee powder, soup powder or tea, located in the portion capsule is sealed off from the
environment in a substantially aroma-tight manner before the extraction process. However,
the portion capsule does not have to be hermetically sealed, but rather can also be provided
in a hermetically sealed package prior to use, said package then being opened, for example
manually.
[0011]           A non-woven within the meaning of the invention is an unordered, non
woven structure comprising fibers, in particular plastic fibers. A non-woven within the
meaning of the invention preferably does not contain any paper or paper-like materials.
[0012]           According to a further embodiment of the present invention, provision is
made for the non-woven to comprise a non-woven material which is produced from fine
plastic fibers, for example fine polyester fibers, and, in particular, is a random fiber non
woven and/or a fiber-oriented non-woven. The non-woven preferably has a mass per unit
area (also called the grammage or the basis weight) of between 40 and 100 grams per
square meter, particularly preferably of between 60 and 80 grams per square meter, and
very particularly preferably of substantially 70 grams per square meter. The filter element
or the non-woven preferably has a thickness of between 0.2 and 0.8 millimeters,
particularly preferably of between 0.3 and 0.35 millimeters, and very particularly
preferably of substantially 0.32 millimeters. The non-woven is formed in such a way that
air permeability of the non-woven is preferably between 1000 and 3000 1/(m 2 s),
particularly preferably between 1500 and 2500 1/(m 2 s), and very particularly preferably
substantially 2000 1/(m2 s) at a pressure of 100 pascal. It has surprisingly and unforeseeably
been found that optimum results in terms of extraction efficiency, mixing and outflow
behavior and also blockage resistance can be achieved with non-wovens of this kind and
that the "crema" is formed in spite of this.
[0013]           The non-woven is preferably arranged on the base of the capsule such that it
rests on as large a surface area as possible. The non-woven is particularly preferably sealed

                                                  5
to the base, in particular by ultrasound. The non-woven is further preferably stretched
before it is attached to the capsule, in particular to the capsule base, in order to improve the
abutment against the base.
[0014]           When the capsule is opened by a perforation means, it is advantageous if
this perforation means moves the non-woven away from the capsule base and thus
stretches or additionally stretches said non-woven. In this case, the perforation means can
enter or penetrate the non-woven. The non-woven is preferably larger than the capsule base
on which it rests, so that the non-woven protrudes to some extent at the edge.
[0015]           According to a further subject matter or a further embodiment of the present
invention, the filter element has a felt structure. Said felt structure is, in particular, a needle
felt structure. The filter element preferably consists of at least one felt structure and a
support structure, in particular a woven structure, with the felt structure, at least a
subsection of the volume, particularly preferably comprising the support structure. The felt
structure preferably extends over the entire cross section of the support structure, but
particularly preferably only over a subregion of the height. The felt structure is preferably
connected to the support structure in an interlocking, force-fitting and/or cohesive manner.
The filter element preferably has two or more felt structures which are preferably separated
from one another by the support structure. The thickness of the two felt structures can be
the same or different. A felt structure which faces the powder or tea is preferably thinner
than the felt structure which faces the capsule base, or vice versa. The surface of the felt
structure is preferably treated, for example thermally treated, in order to fix, for example,
loose fibers. The filter element which has a felt structure is preferably only inserted into the
capsule, in particular onto the base thereof. However, the filter element can also be
connected to the capsule, in particular to the base thereof, in particular in a cohesive
manner. During perforation, the perforation means can enter this filter element. A plurality
of filter elements, which have one or more felt structures and a support structure, are
preferably arranged one above the other in the capsule, possibly in a manner connected to
one another.
[0016]           A filter element with a felt structure has the advantage that no "crema" is
formed on a coffee, espresso or the like, and that no bubbles are formed on a tea.

                                                 6
[0017]           A filter element which has a support structure, in particular a woven
structure, and a felt structure is produced, for example, by a woven structure comprising
longitudinal and transverse threads being provided. In order to construct a felt, in particular
a needle felt, fiber units of 0.8 - 7 dtex are preferably selected. The individual fibers are
connected to one another to form a felt and/or are anchored in the support structure
preferably by the needling production process. In this case, needles with inverse barbs are
inserted into and pulled out of the prelaid fiber packet at high speed. On account of the
inverse barbs, the fibers are interwoven with one another and/or with the support woven by
means of a large number of loops which are produced.
[0018]           The support element having one or more felt structures preferably has a
mass per unit area (also called the grammage or the basis weight) of between 100 and 800
grams per square meter, particularly preferably of between 200 and 650 grams per square
meter, and very particularly preferably of substantially 150-250 grams per square meter for
producing tea and 600-700 grams per square meter for producing coffee, espresso or the
like. The filter element or the non-woven preferably has a thickness of between 0.8 and 3.3
millimeters, particularly preferably of between 1.1 and 3.0 millimeters, and very
particularly preferably of 1.2-1.4 millimeters for producing tea and 2.6-3.0 for producing
coffee.
[0019]           According to a further subject matter or a further embodiment of the present
invention, provision is made for the filter element to comprise an open-pore sponge and/or
an open-pore foam which is arranged in the region of the capsule base. It has been
surprisingly and unforeseeably found that the abovementioned advantages over the prior
art, for example the lower production costs, the resistance to blockage, the transverse flow
of liquid and also the improved mixing and outflow behavior, can be achieved in the same
way with a filter element which is in the form of an open-pore sponge and/or a filter
element which is in the form of an open-pore foam. In particular, the non-woven, the open
pore sponge and the open-pore foam each have a microporosity which allows the
transverse flow of liquid and therefore makes resistance to blockage possible. The sponge
comprises, for example, a reticulated polyurethane foam.

                                                  7
[0020]           The filter element, that is to say, for example, the non-woven, the felt, the
sponge or the foam, is preferably simply inserted into the capsule body and then either
rests loosely on the capsule base or is connected to said capsule base and/or to the side wall
of the capsule, in particular by welding, for example using ultrasound, before the capsule
body is filled with the beverage base. The capsule body is preferably in the form of a
truncated cone or cylinder and is, for example, produced from plastic, a natural material
and/or a biologically degradable material comprising a thermoformed plastic film or using
a plastic injection molding process. The capsule body preferably has, on the filling side, a
collar edge onto which a cover film or foil is sealed or adhesively bonded. As an
alternative, it is feasible for the capsule body and a capsule cover to be connected to one
another by means of a mechanical method. The base of the portion capsule is preferably
closed and is preferably first perforated in the brewing chamber by means of a perforation
means for producing an outflow opening, said perforation means acting on the portion
capsule base from the outside. However, another feasible alternative would be for the base
of the portion capsule to already be provided with an outlet opening at the factory, said
outlet opening preferably being sealed off by means of a sealing film or foil. The sealing
film or foil can be perforated, for example, by means of the perforation means or can be
pulled off from the capsule base by hand. The filter non-woven is preferably tear-resistant.
The sealing film or foil is preferably a plastic film which has at least one barrier layer, for
example a metal layer, in particular an aluminum layer. The plastic film preferably has a
"peel-off layer" on its side which faces the capsule, in order to be able to remove the
plastic film from the capsule base with comparative ease.
[0021]           The outlet opening is preferably provided in such a size that it can
accommodate a perforation means, which may be present, in a contact-free manner. The
outlet opening is particularly preferably provided in such a size that it exhibits no
appreciable pressure loss when the ready beverage flows out, in particular that there is no
appreciable swirling of the ready beverage, which could lead to air entering the beverage
and therefore to the formation of foam.
[0022]           According to a further subject matter or a further embodiment of the present
invention, provision is made for the filter element to be elastic and to be arranged and/or
attached, at least in its edge region, in the region of the capsule base. When the capsule

                                                 8
base is pierced by an external perforation means, the filter element can, when contact is
made with the perforation means, yield or be stretched, on account of its elasticity, in such
a way that perforation of the filter element is prevented. This eliminates the risk of the
filter element being perforated by the perforation means and beverage substance being
washed out of the portion capsule without being filtered. A fixed spacing between the filter
element and the capsule base, as is known from the prior art, is not necessary since this
distance is automatically created by the perforation means. Furthermore, a collection tank
for the beverage liquid which passes through the filter element is produced beneath the
filter element in this way.
[0023]          According to a further subject matter or a further embodiment of the present
invention, provision is made for the filter element to be stretched, tapped and/or pierced by
the perforation means.
[0024]          According to a further subject matter or a further embodiment of the present
invention, provision is made for the filter element to be arranged in the cavity in the
portion capsule and to rest on a side of the capsule base which faces the filling side. The
production costs for the portion capsule are advantageously considerably reduced since the
filter element is simply inserted only loosely into the portion capsule. The filter element is
preferably fixed by the beverage substance which, when the portion capsule is filled, is
arranged on the filter element and therefore firmly holds the filter element.
[0025]          According to a further subject matter or a further embodiment of the present
invention, provision is made for the diameter of the filter element to be greater than the
diameter of the capsule base. When the portion capsule is filled with beverage substance,
the filter element is advantageously pressed against the base region, with the protruding
edge region necessarily fitting tightly against a side wall region of the portion capsule and
projecting in the direction of the filling side or being bent in the direction of the filling
side. This has the advantage that, when a central region of the filter element is lifted off
from the base as a result of mechanical contact with the perforation means which enters the
base region from the outside, the edge region slips down in the direction of the capsule
base and in the direction of the central region, and therefore no beverage substance flows,
in an unfiltered state, around the filter element in the direction of the outlet opening past

                                                  9
the edge of the filter element. This makes it possible, in particular, for the filter element to
be lifted off from the capsule base even in the case of a non-elastic filter element, without
the filter effect being adversely affected. In the case of an elastic filter element, lifting off
of the central region is at least assisted without adversely affecting the filter effect by the
slipping edge region of the filter element since it is feasible to combine stretching and
slipping of the filter element in the event of perforation of the capsule base too.
[0026]           According to a further subject matter or a further embodiment of the present
invention, provision is made for the filter element to have an edge region which projects
substantially in the direction of the filling side and/or is bent in the direction of the filling
side. In this way, it is likewise possible to achieve the above-described advantages
according to which the edge region slips in the direction of the capsule base or in the
direction of the central region as soon as the filter element is raised in the central region.
[0027]           According to a further embodiment of the present invention, provision is
made for the edge region to extend at least partially along a side wall region of the capsule
body, with the side wall region extending between the filling side and the capsule base.
The edge region is advantageously pressed against the side wall region by the beverage
substance when the portion capsule is filled, as a result of which an improved sealing effect
is achieved between the side wall region and the filter element. Particularly in the case of
the above-described slipping of the filter element, this prevents brewing water flowing
around the filter element without obstruction.
[0028]           According to a further embodiment of the present invention, provision is
made for the filter element to completely or only partially cover the capsule base. In
particular, it is sufficient for the filter element to be arranged solely in the region of the
perforation or in the region of an outlet opening in the capsule base.
[0029]           According to a further embodiment of the present invention, provision is
made for the filter element to be attached to the capsule base, with the filter element
preferably being attached to the capsule base in a cohesive manner, in particular by sealing.
This advantageously prevents the filter element from slipping. This attachment is
preferably carried out by means of ultrasonic welding.

                                                 10
[0030]           According to a further embodiment of the present invention, provision is
made for the filter element to be attached to the capsule base in an edge region of the
capsule base, and/or for the filter element to be attached to the side wall region in an edge
region of the filter element. This advantageously prevents the filter element from slipping
down and increases the sealing effect between the capsule body and the filter element, but
with it further being made possible to lift off the filter element in its central region at the
same time. In this case, the filter element is preferably elastic.
[0031]           According to a further embodiment of the present invention, provision is
made for the capsule base to have a protrusion in a direction opposing the filling side. The
protrusion advantageously serves to accommodate the perforation means, so that when the
perforation means punctures the capsule base, the capsule base is perforated in the region
of the protrusion but the perforation means then remains in the cavity in the protrusion.
This prevents perforation of the filter element. In particular, it is not necessary for the filter
element to be lifted off by the perforation means in this embodiment. Nevertheless, the
filter element can be designed to be lifted off by the perforation means in order to preclude
accidental perforation in any case.
[0032]           According to a further subject matter or a further embodiment of the present
invention, provision is made for the filter element to be formed in such a way that, when
the capsule base is perforated by an external perforation means, the filter element is at least
partially lifted off from the capsule base. This effectively prevents perforation of the filter
element by the perforation means.
[0033]           According to a further embodiment of the present invention, provision is
made for the filter element to lift off from the capsule base only in a central region and to
continue to rest on the capsule base or remain attached to the capsule base in the edge
region of the capsule base. This advantageously prevents the filter element from slipping
and increases the sealing effect between the capsule body and the filter element, but with it
further being made possible to lift off the filter element in its central region at the same
time. In this case, the filter element is preferably elastic.

                                                11
[0034]          According to a further subject matter or a further embodiment of the present
invention, provision is made for the filter element to be formed in such a way that, when
the capsule base is perforated by an external perforation means, the filter element lifts off
from the capsule base in the central region of said filter element and an edge region of the
filter element, which edge region previously projected in the direction of the filling side,
moves at least partially in the direction of the capsule base. In this way, it is possible to
achieve the above-described advantages according to which the edge region slips in the
direction of the capsule base or in the direction of the central region as soon as the filter
non-woven is raised by the perforation means in the central region, and therefore no
beverage substance flows, in an unfiltered state, past the edge of the filter element around
the filter element in the direction of the outlet opening.
[0035]          According to a further subject matter or a further embodiment of the present
invention, provision is made for the filter element to have a material reservoir. A material
reservoir advantageously makes it possible for the filter element to lift off from the capsule
base in the central region of said filter element, even though the filter element, in its edge
region, is connected firmly (in particular in a cohesive manner) to the capsule base and is
substantially non-elastic. The material reservoir comprises, in particular, a corrugated or
folded region in the filter element, said region being partially smoothed when the central
region is lifted off from the capsule base by the perforation means. This ensures that, when
the capsule base is perforated by an external perforation means, the filter element lifts off
from the capsule base in the central region of said filter element and material of the filter
element moves from the material reservoir in the direction of the central region, so that the
surface of the filter element, which surface increases in size as a result of the lifting
process, is compensated for by material from the material reservoir.
[0036]          According to a further embodiment of the present invention, provision is
made for the capsule base to have a predetermined breaking point which is intended to tear
open as a result of mechanical contact with an external perforation means, with the
predetermined breaking point preferably having a plurality of lines of weakness which are
arranged in a star shape around a central point of the capsule base. The capsule base
preferably has a reduced material thickness along the lines of weakness and/or is
perforated along the lines of weakness. Perforation of the capsule base is advantageously

                                                12
assisted by implementing the predetermined breaking point. This also has the advantage
that a less sharp perforation spike for perforating the capsule base can be used, and
therefore the risk of damage to the filter element when the filter element is lifted off by the
perforation spike is reduced. In particular, a blunt perforation means is now sufficient for
perforating the capsule base.
[0037]           According to a further embodiment, the capsule base permanently has an
outlet opening which is preferably sealed off by a film or foil, with the film or foil
particularly preferably having a pull-off tab for pulling off the film or foil by hand.
Perforation of the capsule base by means of an external perforation means is
advantageously unnecessary in this case. Before the portion capsule is inserted into the
brewing chamber, the film or foil is simply pulled off the capsule base by means of the
pull-off tab and the brewing process can be started. Combining a prefabricated and
therefore comparatively large outlet opening with a filter element comprising non-woven,
felt, in particular needle felt, foam or sponge material has the advantage that the beverage
liquid does not flow out of the outlet opening under high pressure and therefore the
formation of foam ("crema"), in particular when producing an americano or tea, is
prevented.
[0038]           A further subject matter of the present invention is a method for producing
the capsule according to the invention, wherein the filter element is cut out of a fabric web
and inserted into the capsule. The cut-out filter element is preferably transported at least a
certain distance by the blade, in particular a concave blade, which cuts it out. The cut-out
filter element is preferably transported further by a sonotrode, which is required for
ultrasonic welding, and/or pressed against the capsule, in particular the base thereof
[0039]           A further subject matter of the present invention is a method for producing a
beverage using a portion capsule, wherein the portion capsule is provided in a first method
step, wherein the capsule base is perforated by means of an external perforation means in a
second method step, and wherein the filter element is at least partially spaced apart from
the capsule base in a third method step. In the third method step, the filter element is
preferably raised from the capsule base by the perforation means in such a way that it is
spaced apart from the perforated capsule base. In this case, the capsule base is perforated in

                                                13
the region of a central point, and therefore the filter element is simultaneously raised
mainly in its central region, while it continues to preferably rest on the capsule base or
remains attached to the capsule base in the edge region of said filter element. In this way,
the sealing effect between the capsule body and the filter element is not adversely affected
by the central region being raised.
[0040]          According to a further embodiment of the present invention, provision is
made for the filter element to be at least partially stretched when the central region is
spaced apart from the capsule base. This makes it possible to attach the edge region of the
filter element to the capsule base in a cohesive manner, it nevertheless being possible for
the filter element to be lifted off from the capsule base in the central region. The
advantages of a maximum sealing effect are combined with the advantages of the rising
filter element as a result.
[0041]          According to a further embodiment of the present invention, provision is
made for an edge region of the filter element which projects in the direction of the filling
side to move in the direction of the capsule base when the central region is spaced apart
from the capsule base during the third method step. This prevents the beverage liquid
moving, in an unfiltered state, in the direction of the outlet opening when the central region
is raised from the capsule base.
[0042]          According to a further embodiment of the present invention, provision is
made, when the central region is spaced apart from the capsule base during the third
method step, for material of the filter element to move out of the material reservoir in the
direction of the capsule base, with, in particular, a corrugated or folded region of the filter
element being at least partially smoothed. This likewise makes it possible for the edge
region of the filter element to be attached to the capsule base in a cohesive manner, it
nevertheless being possible for the filter element to be lifted off from the capsule base in
the central region. The material reservoir preferably extends around the central region of
the filter element.

                                                14
[0043]           A further subject matter of the present invention is the use of a portion
capsule for producing a beverage, preferably for producing a coffee, cocoa, tea and/or milk
beverage.
[0044]           The statements made in relation to one subject matter of the present
invention apply to the other subjects in equal measure, and vice versa.
[0045]           Exemplary embodiments of the invention are illustrated in the figures and
explained in greater detail in the following description. The figures are described merely
by way of example and do not restrict the general concept of the invention. The description
applies to all the subjects of the present invention in equal measure.
[0046]           Figure 1 shows a longitudinal section through a portion capsule according
to a first embodiment of the present invention, which portion capsule is designed for the
purpose of preparing an espresso.
[0047]           Figure 2 shows a longitudinal section through a portion capsule, which is
situated in a closed brewing chamber, according to the first embodiment of the present
invention.
[0048]           Figure 3 shows a longitudinal section through a portion capsule, which is
situated in a closed brewing chamber, according to a second exemplary embodiment of the
present invention.
[0049]           Figures 4a, 4b show schematic sectional views through a portion capsule
according to a third embodiment of the present invention.
[0050]           Figures 5a, 5b show schematic sectional views through a portion capsule
according to a fourth embodiment of the present invention.
[0051]           Figures 6a, 6b show schematic sectional views through a portion capsule
according to a fifth embodiment of the present invention.

                                                 15
[0052]           Figures 7a, 7b show schematic sectional views through a portion capsule
according to a sixth embodiment of the present invention.
[0053]           Figures 8a, 8b show schematic plan views of a capsule base of a portion
capsule according to a seventh embodiment of the present invention.
[0054]           Figure 9 shows a sectional view of a portion capsule according to an eighth
embodiment of the present invention.
[0055]           Figure 10 shows a perforation means which enters the filter element.
[0056]           Figure 11 shows a perforation means which penetrates the filter element.
[0057]           Figures 12a-c show different embodiments of the filter element comprising
felt, in particular needle felt.
[0058]           In the various figures, identical parts are always provided with the same
reference symbols and therefore also will be generally cited or mentioned only once in
each case.
[0059]           Figure 1 illustrates a first embodiment of the portion capsule 1 according to
the invention. The portion capsule 1 comprises a capsule body 2 in the form of a truncated
cone, having a closed capsule base 3 and having a collar edge 5 which is arranged on the
filling side 4 of said capsule body and to which a cover film or foil 6 is welded or
adhesively bonded. Therefore, a cavity 100, which is preferably sealed off in an air- and
aroma-tight manner, is formed between the capsule base 3 and the cover film or foil 6, said
cavity being filled with a pulverulent or granular beverage substance 101. In this case, the
beverage substance 101 comprises, for example, coffee, cocoa, tea and/or milk powder (or
granules). A filter element 7 comprising a non-woven filter or a sponge or foam filter is
arranged on the inner side 3a of closed capsule body base 3, that is to say within the cavity
100. The filter element 7 is situated either loosely on the inner side 3a of the capsule base 3
or is firmly, that is to say preferably cohesively, connected to the inner side 3a of the
capsule body base 3. In the second variant, the filter element 7 is attached in a cohesive
manner to the capsule base 3, in particular only in an edge region 3' of the capsule base 3.

                                                16
The non-woven preferably comprises a non-woven material which is produced from fine
polyester fibers. The fibers are particularly preferably thermally connected to one another
by means of a calender, for example a large number of extruded polyester fibers are
arranged one on the other and next to one another and then consolidated (flat-calendered)
by means of heated rollers. The non-woven material comprises random fiber and/or fiber
oriented non-woven material. The non-woven preferably has a mass per unit area (also
called the grammage or the basis weight) of between 40 and 100 grams per square meter,
particularly preferably of between 60 and 80 grams per square meter, and very particularly
preferably of substantially 70 grams per square meter. The filter element or the non-woven
preferably has a thickness of between 0.20 and 0.8 millimeters, particularly preferably of
between 0.25 and 0.39 millimeters, and very particularly preferably of substantially 0.32
millimeters. The non-woven is formed in such a way that air permeability of the non
woven is preferably between 1000 and 3000 1/(m 2 s), particularly preferably between 1500
and 2500 1/(m 2 s), and very particularly preferably substantially 2000 1/(m 2 s), at a pressure
of 100 pascal. The non-woven is further preferably formed in such a way that the breaking
strength is substantially 110 newtons per 5 centimeters in the longitudinal direction and
substantially 67 newtons per 5 centimeters in the transverse direction, with the breaking
extension being substantially 30 percent in the longitudinal direction and substantially 38
percent in the transverse direction.
[0060]          Figure 2 illustrates a portion capsule 1 according to the first embodiment,
which is illustrated in figure 1, of the present invention, with the portion capsule 1 in figure
2 being arranged in a closed brewing chamber 8. The brewing chamber 8 consists of a first
brewing chamber element 9 and a second brewing chamber element 10, with the first
brewing chamber element 9 being provided for the purpose of inserting the portion capsule
1 such that it can move in relation to the second brewing chamber element 10, or vice
versa. A seal 11 is arranged between the two brewing chamber elements 9, 10. The first
brewing chamber element 9 substantially consists of a closing piston 12 with puncturing
elements 13a, 13b for opening the cover film or foil 6 of the portion capsule 1, a
preparation liquid supply means 14 and the seal 11. The second brewing chamber element
10 substantially consists of a brewing chamber bell 15 which partially surrounds the
portion capsule 1 and has an opening mandrel 16 which is arranged on the base of the
brewing chamber bell 15 and is provided with discharge grooves 17, and a beverage

                                                17
discharge means 18. For the purpose of accommodating the portion capsule 1, the brewing
chamber 8 is in an open state (not illustrated), in which the first and the second brewing
chamber element 9, 10 are spaced apart from one another in order to ensure supply of the
portion capsule 1, and in the illustrated closed state, in which a preparation process for
producing a beverage using the portion capsule 1 can be carried out. In the closed state, the
brewing chamber 8 is sealed off in a pressure-tight manner. When the brewing chamber 8
is moved from the open state to the depicted closed state, the cover film or foil 6 is pierced
by the puncturing elements 13a, 13b, so that preparation liquid, in particular hot brewing
water, passes through the preparation liquid supply means 14 under pressure and into the
cavity 100 in the portion capsule 1. Furthermore, when the brewing chamber 8 is closed,
the capsule base 3 is perforated by the perforation means, which is in the form of an
opening mandrel 16, and therefore an outlet opening 107 is produced in the portion capsule
1, it being possible for the produced beverage liquid to leave the portion capsule 1 in the
direction of the beverage discharge means 18 through said outlet opening. In order to assist
delivery of the beverage liquid, the opening mandrel 16 is provided with the discharge
grooves 17 on its casing surface. In the illustration, the base 3 of the portion capsule 1,
which is located in the brewing chamber 9, 10, is pierced by the opening mandrel 16 of the
second brewing chamber element, but the filter element 7, which is situated above the
puncturing point, is slightly raised by the puncturing spike 19 of the opening mandrel 16
but not pierced. This is achieved, in particular, by the central region 7" not being
cohesively connected to the capsule base 3 but the filter element 7 being cohesively
connected to the capsule base 3 only in the edge region 3' of the capsule base 3, so that it is
raised only from the capsule base 3 as a result of the mechanical contact with the spike of
the opening mandrel 16 and therefore remains unperforated (that is to say is not perforated
by the opening mandrel 16). The capsule base 3 and the filter element 7 remain in contact
with one another and, in particular, cohesively connected to one another in the edge region
3' of the capsule base 3 and in the edge region 7' of the filter element 7, and therefore no
beverage substance 101 enters the beverage discharge means 18 around the filter element
7. The capsule base 3 optionally has, at its central point 106 in which the capsule base 3 is
perforated by the opening mandrel 16, a predetermined breaking point 104, and therefore a
comparatively blunt opening mandrel 16 is sufficient for perforating the capsule base 3 and
therefore the risk of the filter element 7 also being accidently perforated by the opening
mandrel 16 is eliminated.

                                                  18
[0061]          Figure 3 illustrates a portion capsule 1 according to a second embodiment
of the present invention, with the second embodiment substantially resembling the first
embodiment, which is illustrated in figure 2, and likewise illustrating the portion capsule 1
in a closed brewing chamber 8. However, in contrast to the first embodiment, the portion
capsule base 3 has, in the puncturing region of the opening mandrel 16, a protrusion 21
which is directed toward a recess 20 in the brewing chamber base 3a (the protrusion 21 is
therefore directed in a direction which opposes the filling side 4) and which the opening
mandrel 16 enters, without piercing the filter element 7 in the process. Therefore, it is, in
particular, not necessary to lift off the filter element 7 from the capsule base 3. In order to
produce the beverage, the brewing chamber 8 is closed again after the portion capsule 1 is
inserted into the brewing chamber 8. During the closing process, the cover film or foil 6 of
the portion capsule 1 is perforated by means of the puncturing means 13a, 13b and, after
the first and the second brewing chamber element 9, 10 are brought together and sealed (by
means of the seal 11), brewing water is made available via the liquid inlet 6. The opening
mandrel 16 likewise makes an opening in the base 3 of the portion capsule 1 during the
closing process of the brewing chamber. The thickness and the tear strength of the filter
element 7, which is situated above the puncturing point, are matched to the penetration
depth of the puncturing spike 19 of the opening mandrel 16, and therefore the filter
element 7 is not pierced. As an alternative, the filter element 7 is situated above the
protrusion 21 of the capsule base 3, which protrusion is situated in the recess in the
brewing bell base 23, and the opening mandrel 16 enters only the protrusion 21 of the
capsule base 3 and does not reach the filter element 7. The liquid, for example hot water
when coffee is being produced, then flows into the capsule 1. In the capsule, this liquid
flows through the beverage base 101 and extracts and/or dissolves the substances, which
are required to produce the beverage, from the beverage base 101. The flow of the liquid in
the beverage base 101 is illustrated by reference symbol 22. The resulting beverage then
flows through the filter element 7 which is arranged between the beverage base 101 and
the capsule base 3, this preventing constituents of the beverage base 101 entering the
resulting beverage in particulate form and further entering a collection vessel, for example
a cup or pot, via the opening made in the capsule base 3 by the opening mandrel 16 and via
the discharge grooves 17 in the opening mandrel 16.

                                                19
[0062]           Figures 4a and 4b illustrate schematic sectional views through a portion
capsule 1 according to a third embodiment of the present invention, the third embodiment
substantially resembling the first embodiment, which is illustrated in figures 1 and 2, with
the filter element 7 being elastic. Figure 4a illustrates the portion capsule 1 in its starting
position, while figure 4b illustrates said portion capsule in a state in which it is perforated
by the perforation means 16 (the portion capsule 1 is located in a brewing chamber 8 (not
illustrated further) in figure 4b). When mechanical contact is made with the perforation
means 16, the filter element 7 is, in its central region 7", stretched in the direction of the
inlet side 4 on account of the elastic design of the filter element 7, without being perforated
or torn by the perforation means 16. The filter element 7' remains firmly or cohesively
connected to the capsule base 3 in the edge region of the capsule base 3', and therefore no
beverage substance 101 passes from the cavity 100 in the direction of the outlet opening
107, which is produced by the perforation means 16, past the filter element 7.
[0063]           Figures 5a and 5b illustrate schematic sectional views through a portion
capsule 1 according to a fourth embodiment of the present invention, with the fourth
embodiment being substantially identical to the third embodiment, which is illustrated in
figures 4a and 4b. However, in this case, the filter element 7 is non-elastic and is raised
virtually entirely from the capsule base 3 by the perforation means 16. Since the base area
of the filter element 7 does not change in the process, the edge regions 7' of the filter
element slide inward, that is to say in the direction of the central point 106 of the capsule
base 3'.
[0064]           Figures 6a and 6b illustrate schematic sectional views through a portion
capsule 1 according to a fifth embodiment of the present invention, with the fifth
embodiment substantially resembling the sixth embodiment, which is illustrated in figures
5a and 5b. The filter element 7 is, in particular, flexible and has a base area which is larger
than the base area of the capsule base 3. This leads to the edge region 7' of the filter
element 7 fitting tightly against a lower part of the side wall region 102 of the capsule body
2, which extends from the collar edge 5 to the capsule base 3, in the starting state of the
portion capsule 1 as illustrated in figure 6a. If the capsule base 3 is now perforated by the
perforation means 16 and the filter element 7 is raised, in its central region 7", from the
capsule base 3 by the perforation means 16, the edge region 7' of the filter element 7

                                                20
moves in the direction of the capsule base 3. This ensures that the edge region 3' of the
capsule base 3 always remains covered by the filter element 7 and therefore no beverage
substance 101 passes, in an unfiltered state, in the direction of the discharge means 18 past
the filter element 7.
[0065]           Figures 7a and 7b illustrate sectional views through a portion capsule 1
according to a sixth embodiment of the present invention. The sixth embodiment
substantially resembles the fourth embodiment, which is illustrated in figures 5a and 5b,
with the filter element 7 having a material reservoir 103. The material reservoir 103
comprises a corrugated region 103', that is to say a region in which excess material of the
filter element 7 is gathered. If the central region 7" is now raised from the capsule base 3
by the perforation means 16, traction forces act on the material reservoir 103, as a result of
which the corrugated region 103' is at least partially smoothed and therefore sufficient
material is available for the central region 7" to be raised to a sufficient extent and for
tearing or perforation of the filter element 7 to be prevented.
[0066]           Figures 8a and 8b illustrate a view of a capsule base 3 of a portion capsule
1 according to a seventh embodiment of the present invention, said seventh embodiment
substantially resembling the first embodiment, which is illustrated in figures 1 and 2, with
the portion capsule 1 being illustrated from "the bottom" in figure 8. This view shows the
optional predetermined breaking point 104 which comprises three lines 105 of weakness
which are arranged in the form of a star and in the radial direction around the central point
106 on the capsule base 3. The capsule base 3 has a reduced material thickness and/or the
capsule base 3 is pre-perforated along the lines 105 of weakness in order to assist
perforation in the brewing chamber 8. In order to retain the aroma of the beverage
substance 101 even if the pre-perforated capsule base 3 is stored for a relatively long
period of time, the capsule base 3 is preferably sealed with a film or foil 108, which can be
perforated or pulled off by hand, at least in the region of the predetermined breaking point
104. The film or foil 108 sticks, for example, to the outer side of the capsule base 3 and is
provided with a pull-off tab 109 which does not stick to the capsule base 3 and at which the
film or foil 108 can be pulled off by hand. An exemplary embodiment with lines 105 of
weakness in the form of perforations in the capsule base 3 and also with a film or foil 108
is illustrated in figure 8b.

                                                 21
[0067]           Figure 9 illustrates a sectional view of a portion capsule 1 according to an
eighth embodiment of the present invention. The eighth embodiment substantially
resembles the first embodiment, which is illustrated in figure 1, with the portion capsules 1
of the eighth embodiment being equipped with a permanent outlet opening 107 in the
capsule base 3, said outlet opening being sealed by the film or foil 108 in the starting state.
Therefore, the portion capsule 1 does not have predetermined breaking points. In this case,
the film or foil 108 likewise has the pull-off tab 109 for pulling off the film or foil 108 by
hand. The capsule base 3 is not perforated by means of an external perforation means 16.
Instead, before the portion capsule 1 is inserted into the brewing chamber 8, the film or foil
108 is simply pulled off from the capsule base 3 by means of the pull-off tab 109 and the
brewing process can then be started directly and without perforation of the capsule base 3.
[0068]           Figures 10 and 11 show a further embodiment of the present invention. In
the present case, the filter element 7 is designed such that the perforation means 16, when
it penetrates the capsule, stretches, taps (figure 10) and/or pierces the filter element, that is
to say the filter element is cohesively connected, for example, to the base of the capsule at
least in sections, is intended to rest as far as possible over a large area of the base and/or is
stretched.
[0069]           Figures 12a-c show different embodiments of a filter element 7 with a felt
structure 7.1, in particular a needle felt structure. This filter element 7 preferably has a
support structure 7.2, for example a woven structure. A felt structure 7.1 is arranged on
and/or in this woven structure 7.2 over the entire surface which faces the coffee powder or
tea, and for example connected to said woven structure by needle felting, as illustrated in
figure 12a.
[0070]           The embodiment according to figure 12b has two felt structures 7.1 and 7.3
which are each arranged on and/or in the support structure. The two structures preferably
extend over the entire cross section, that is to say, in this case, the entire circular surface, of
the filter element. The felt structures 7.1 and 7.3 can be of identical or different thickness.
The felt structure 7.1 is preferably thinner than the layer 7.3, or vice versa. The support
layer is thus offset in relation to the center, based on the thickness, of the filter element.
The structures 7.1 and 7.3 can be produced from different materials or the same material.

                                                22
These relate not only to the substance from which they are produced but also the thread
diameter and/or the thread length from which the felt structures are manufactured. A
support structure 7.2 is provided between the two structures 7.1 and 7.3, said support
structure not containing a felt structure or only a small felt structure and preferably
permitting transverse flow.
[0071]          Figure 12c shows yet another embodiment of a filter element with a felt
structure. In the present case, two filter elements 7 with a felt structure are arranged one
above the other, as has been described, for example, according to figures 12a and b. The
filter elements 7 can only lie one on the other or be connected to one another. However, the
filter elements 7 can also comprise only felt, without a support structure.
[0072]          All the filter elements with a felt structure have the advantage that they
exhibit a low level of pressure loss and that the pressure falls along the filter element with
a shallow gradient. As a result, coffee without crema, that is to say foam, or tea without
foam can be produced for example. The filter elements with a felt structure are preferably
inserted only into the capsule. The filter element with the felt structure preferably has a
larger diameter than the base of the capsule, and therefore it presses against the wall of the
capsule in the edge region.
[0073]          The filter element with a felt structure is preferably produced from PET, in
particular completely.

                                   23
List of reference symbols
1          Portion capsule
2          Capsule body
3          Capsule base
3a         Inner side of the capsule base
3'         Edge region of the capsule base
4          Filling side
5          Collar edge
6          Cover film or foil
7          Filter element
7'         Edge region of the filter element
7"         Central region of the filter element
7.1        Felt structure, needle felt structure
7.2        Support structure
7.3        Felt structure, needle felt structure
8          Brewing chamber
9          First brewing chamber element
10         Second brewing chamber element
11         Seal
12         Closing piston
13a                 Puncturing element
13b                 Puncturing element
14         Preparation liquid supply means
15         Brewing bell
16         Opening mandrel
17         Discharge grooves
18         Discharge means
19         Puncturing spike
20         Recess
21         Protrusion
22         Preparation liquid flow
23         Brewing bell base
100                 Cavity
101                 Beverage base
102                 Side wall region
103                 Material reservoir
103'                Corrugated or folded region
104                 Predetermined breaking point
105                 Lines of weakness
106                 Central point
107                 Outlet opening
108                 Film or foil
109                 Pull-off tab

                                              24
[0074]          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
integers or steps.
[0075]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not
be taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part
of the common general knowledge.
[0076]          This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
<removed-apn> which is a divisional of Australian Application 2014203212. The full
disclosure of <removed-apn>and AU 2014203212 are incorporated herein by reference.

                                            25
CLAIMS
1.       A portion capsule for producing a beverage, having a capsule body with a
capsule base and a filling side, with a cavity for accommodating a pulverulent or
liquid beverage base being formed between the capsule base and the filling side,
and with a filter element being arranged between the beverage base and the capsule
base, wherein the filter element comprises a non-woven which is arranged in the
region of the capsule base.
2.       The portion capsule as claimed in claim 1, wherein the non-woven
comprises a non-woven material which is produced from fine polyester fibers,
and/or wherein the non-woven has a mass per unit area of between 40 and 100
grams per square meter, preferably of between 60 and 80 grams per square meter
and particularly preferably of substantially 70 grams per square meter, and/or
wherein the non-woven has a thickness of between 0.20 and 0.8 millimeters,
preferably of between 0.25 and 0.39 millimeters and particularly preferably of
substantially 0.32 millimeters,       and/or wherein the non-woven has an air
permeability of between 1000 and 3000 1/(m 2 s), preferably of between 1500 and
2500 1/(m2 s) and particularly preferably substantially of 2000 1/(m2 s) at a pressure
of 100 pascal.
3.       The portion capsule as claimed in claim 1 or as claimed in the preamble of
claim 1, wherein the filter element comprises an open-pore sponge and/or an open
pore foam and/or a felt structure, preferably a needle felt structure, which is
preferably provided on or in a support structure, with the filter element being
arranged in the region of the capsule base.
4.       The portion capsule as claimed in claim 3, wherein the filter element has
two felt structures, preferably needle felt structures, which are preferably separated
from one another by a support structure.
5.       The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims or as claimed
in the preamble of claim 1, wherein the filter element is elastic and is arranged, at
least in its edge region, in the region of the capsule base.
3652518v1

                                          26
6.       The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims or as claimed
in the preamble of claim 1, wherein the filter element is sealed, in particular
ultrasonically sealed and preferably stretched, at the base of the capsule.
7.       The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims or as claimed
in the preamble of claim 1, wherein the filter element is arranged in the cavity and
rests on a side of the capsule base which faces the filling side.
8.       The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims or as claimed
in the preamble of claim 1, wherein the diameter of the filter element is greater
than the diameter of the capsule base.
9.       The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims or as claimed
in the preamble of claim 1, wherein the filter element has an edge region which
projects substantially in the direction of the filling side and/or is bent in the
direction of the filling side.
10.      The portion capsule as claimed in claim 9, wherein the edge region extends
at least partially along a side wall region of the capsule body, with the side wall
region extending between the filling side and the capsule base.
11.      The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein the
filter element completely or only partially covers the capsule base.
12.      The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein the
filter element is attached to the capsule base, with the filter element preferably
being attached to the capsule base in a cohesive manner.
13.      The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein the
filter element is attached to the capsule base in an edge region of the capsule base,
and/or wherein the filter element is attached to the side wall region in an edge
region of the filter element.
14.      The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein the
capsule base has a protrusion in a direction opposing the filling side.
3652518v1

                                            27
15.      The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein the
capsule base is formed in such a way that, when the capsule base is perforated by
an external perforation means, the filter element remains unperforated.
16.      The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims or as claimed
in the preamble of claim 1, wherein the filter element is formed in such a way that,
when the capsule base is perforated by an external perforation means, the filter
element is at least partially lifted off from the capsule base.
17.      The portion capsule as claimed in claim 16, wherein the filter element lifts
off from the capsule base only in a central region and continues to rest on the
capsule base or remains attached to the capsule base in the edge region of the
capsule base.
18.      The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims or as claimed
in the preamble of claim 1, wherein the filter element is formed in such a way that,
when the capsule base is perforated by an external perforation means, the filter
element lifts off from the capsule base in the central region of said filter element
and an edge region of the filter element, which edge region previously projected in
the direction of the filling side, moves at least partially in the direction of the
capsule base.
19.      The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims or as claimed
in the preamble of claim 1, wherein the filter element has a material reservoir.
20.      The portion capsule as claimed in claim 19, wherein the filter element has a
corrugated or folded region which functions as the material reservoir.
21.      The portion capsule as claimed in either of claims 19 and 20, wherein the
filter element is formed in such a way that, when the capsule base is perforated by
an external perforation means, the filter element lifts off from the capsule base in
the central region of said filter element and material of the filter element from the
material reservoir moves in the direction of the central region.
22.      The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims or as claimed
in the preamble of claim 1, wherein the filter element is formed and attached to the
3652518v1

                                           28
capsule base in such a way that, when the capsule base is perforated by an external
perforation means, the filter element is tapped and/or pierced.
23.      The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein the
capsule base has a predetermined breaking point which is intended to tear open as
a result of mechanical contact with an external perforation means.
24.      The portion capsule as claimed in claim 23, wherein the predetermined
breaking point has a plurality of lines of weakness which are arranged in a star
shape around a central point of the capsule base, wherein the capsule base has a
reduced material thickness and/or is perforated along the lines of weakness.
25.      The portion capsule as claimed in one of the preceding claims, wherein the
capsule base has an outlet opening which is preferably sealed off by a film or foil,
with the film or foil particularly preferably having a pull-off tab for pulling off the
film or foil by hand.
26.      A method for producing a portion capsule, wherein the filter element is cut
out of a strip and, preferably by the blade, inserted into the capsule and there fitted
to the base, preferably sealed to said base, and then the powder or the tea is filled
onto the filter element and the capsule is then sealed off by a cover film or foil.
27.      A method for producing a beverage using a portion capsule as claimed in
one of the preceding claims, wherein the portion capsule is provided in a first
method step, wherein the capsule base is perforated by means of an external
perforation means in a second method step, and wherein the filter element is at
least partially spaced apart from the capsule base in a third method step.
28.      The method as claimed in claim 27, wherein, in the third method step, the
filter element is spaced apart from the capsule base only in a central region and
continues to rest on the capsule base or remains attached to the capsule base in the
edge region of the capsule base.
29.      The method as claimed in either of claims 27 and 28, wherein the filter
element is at least partially stretched when the central region is spaced apart from
the capsule base.
3652518v1

                                          29
30.     The method as claimed in one of claims 27 to 29, wherein an edge region
of the filter element which projects in the direction of the filling side moves in the
direction of the capsule base when the central region is spaced apart from the
capsule base during the third method step.
31.     The method as claimed in one of claims 27 to 30, wherein, when the central
region is spaced apart from the capsule base during the third method step, material
of the filter element moves out of the material reservoir in the direction of the
capsule base, with, in particular, a corrugated or folded region of the filter element
being at least partially smoothed.
32.     The use of a portion capsule as claimed in one of claims 1 to 22 for
producing a beverage, preferably for producing a coffee, cocoa, tea and/or milk
beverage.
3652518v1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
