                                           ABSTRACT
   A method of assembling an inhaler comprising a dose counter is disclosed. The
   method comprises assembling the dose counter by:
 5              attaching one end of a tape to a stock bobbin, the tape having dosing
   indicia;
                stowing the tape on the stock bobbin,
                securing a tape reel shaft to a distal end of the tape,
                mounting the tape stock bobbin and the tape reel shaft onto separate
10              shafts of the dose counter of the inhaler, and
                winding the tape onto the tape reel shaft; and
         wherein the dose counter so assembled is inserted into the inhaler.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                                      - 1
          DOSE COUNTERS FOR INHALERS, INHALERS AND SHAFTS
                                                   THEREOF
                The present disclosure              accompanies   a divisional application of
 5 AU<removed-apn>, the contents of which are incorporated herein in its entirety by
   reference.
                The present invention relates to dose counters for inhalers, inhalers and
   shafts thereof, and methods of assembly thereof. The invention is particularly
   applicable to metered dose inhalers including dry power medicament inhalers,
10 breath-actuated inhalers and manually operated metered dose medicament
   inhalers.
                Metered              dose inhalers   can  comprise  a  medicament-containing
   pressurised canister containing a mixture of active drug and propellant. Such
   canisters are usually formed from a deep-drawn aluminium cup having a
15 crimped lid which carries a metering valve assembly. The metering valve
   assembly is provided with a protruding valve stem which, in use, is inserted as
   a push fit into a stem block in an actuator body of an inhaler having a drug
   delivery outlet. In order to actuate a manually operable inhaler, the user applies
   by hand a compressive force to a closed end of the canister - the internal
20 components of the metering valve assembly are spring-loaded so that a
   compressive force of approximately 15 to 3 ON is required to activate the
   device in some typical circumstances. In response to this compressive force the
   canister moves axially with respect to the valve stem and the axial movement is
   sufficient to actuate the metering valve and cause a metered quantity of the
25 drug and the propellant to be expelled through the valve stem. This is then
   released into a mouthpiece of the inhaler via a nozzle in the stem block, such
   that a user inhaling through the outlet of the inhaler will receive a metered dose
   of the drug.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 2
                A drawback of self-administration from an inhaler is that it is difficult
   to determine how much active drug and/or propellant are left in the inhaler, if
   any, especially of the active drug, and this is potentially hazardous for the user
   since dosing becomes unreliable and backup devices are not always available.
 5              Inhalers incorporating dose counters have therefore become known.
                WO 98/280733 discloses an inhaler having a ratchet mechanism for
   driving a tape drive dose counter. A shaft onto which tape is wound has a
   friction clutch or spring for restraining the shaft against reverse rotation.
                EP-A- 1486227 discloses an inhaler for dry powered medicament
10 having a ratchet mechanism for a tape dose counter which is operated when a
   mouthpiece of the inhaler is closed. Due to the way in which the mouthpiece is
   opened and closed, and actuation pawl of the device which is mounted on a
   yoke, travels a known long stroke of consistent length as the mouthpiece is
   opened and closed.
15              WO 2008/1 19552 discloses a metered-dose inhaler which is suitable
   for breath-operated applications and operates with a known and constant
   canister stroke length of 3.04mm +/- 0.255mm. A stock bobbin of the counter,
   from which a tape is unwound, rotates on a shaft having a split pin intended to
   hold the stock bobbin taut.
20              More recently, it has become desirable to improve dose counters further
   and, in particular, it is felt that it would be useful to provide extremely accurate
   dose counters for manually-operated canister-type metered-dose inhalers.
   Unfortunately, in these inhalers, it has been found that, in the course of making
   the present invention, the stroke length of the canister in use is, to a very large
25 extent, controlled on each dose by operation of the user. Therefore, the stroke
   length is highly variable and it is found to be extremely difficult to provide a
   highly reliable dose counter for these applications. The dose counter must not
   count a dose when the canister has not fired since this might wrongly indicate
   to the user that a dose has been applied and, if done repeatedly, the user would
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                               - 3
   throw away the canister or whole device before it is really time to change the
   device. Additionally, the canister must not fire without the dose counter
   counting because the user may then apply another dose thinking that the
   canister has not fired and, if this is done repeatedly, the active drug and/or
 5 propellant may run out whilst the user thinks the device is still suitable for use
   according to the counter. It has also been found to be fairly difficult to
   assemble some known inhaler devices and the dose counters therefor.
   Additionally, it is felt desirable to improve upon inhalers by making them
   easily usable after they have been washed with water. Some dose counters may
10 not keep a particularly reliable count, such as if they are dropped onto a hard
   surface, for example.
                An embodiment of the disclosure may alleviate at least to a certain
   extent one or more of the problems of the prior art.
                The disclosure provides a method of assembling an inhaler comprising
15 a dose counter, the method comprising:
                assembling the dose counter by:
                attaching one end of a tape to a stock bobbin, the tape having dosing
   indicia;
                stowing the tape on the stock bobbin,
20              securing a tape reel shaft to a distal end of the tape,
                mounting the tape stock bobbin and the tape reel shaft onto separate
                shafts of the dose counter of the inhaler, and
                winding the tape onto the tape reel shaft; and
         wherein the dose counter so assembled is inserted into the inhaler.
25              The tape may further comprise tape positioning indicia and the method
   may comprise stowing the tape on the tape stock bobbin while monitoring for
   the tape positioning indicia with a sensor. The sensor may be a camera or laser
   scanner.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 4
                The method may further comprise transmitting data relating to the tape
   positioning indicia, by the sensor, to a computer controller. The method may
   further comprise winding the tape, by a motor, onto the tape stock bobbin.
                The method may further comprise logging details of the tape in a
 5 stocking system data store, the details including a number of tape positioning
   indicia on the tape.
                The disclosure also provides a tape system for a dose counter for an
   inhaler, the tape system having an elongate tape structure, and dosing indicia
   located on the tape structure, wherein a first end of the tape is attached to a
10 stock bobbin and a second end of the tape is fixed to a tape reel shaft, and
   wherein the tape is wound onto both the stock bobbin and tape reel shaft before
   the inhaler is fully assembled.
                The dosing indicia may comprise numbers printed on the tape. The
   system may further comprise tape positioning indicia. The tape positioning
15 indicia may comprise a series of lines that are each formed across the tape. The
   system may further comprise a tape size marker located on the tape structure
   that symbolizes a total number of dosing indicia on the tape. The tape size
   marker may be positioned between one end of the tape and the tape positioning
   indicia. The tape positioning indicia may be positioned between one end of the
20 tape and the dosing indicia. The system may further comprise priming indicia.
   The priming indicia may be positioned between the dosing indicia and the
   second end of the tape.
                The inhaler may comprise a counter viewing window. The tape may be
   wound onto the tape reel shaft such that the priming indicia on the tape
25 structure is to be aligned with the window on the inhaler when the inhaler is
   fully assembled.
                The disclosure also provides an inhaler comprising a tape system as set
   forth above.
                The inhaler may contain a dry powder medicament. The inhaler may
30 comprise a pressurised medicament-containing canister.
                Also disclosed herein is a dose counter for a metered dose inhaler
   having a body arranged to retain a medicament canister of predetermined
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                           - 5
   configuration for movement of the canister relative thereto; the dose counter
   comprising:
                an incremental counting system for counting doses, the incremental
   counting system having a main body, an actuator arranged to be driven in
 5 response to canister motion and to drive an incremental output member in
   response to canister motion, the actuator and incremental output member being
   configured to have predetermined canister fire and count configurations in a
   canister fire sequence, the canister fire configuration being determined by a
   position of the actuator relative to a datum at which the canister fires
10 medicament and the count configuration being determined by a position of the
   actuator relative to the datum at which the incremental count system makes an
   incremental count, wherein the actuator is arranged to reach a position thereof
   in the count configuration at or after a position thereof in the canister fire
   configuration.
15              This arrangement has been found to be highly advantageous since it
   provides an extremely accurate dose counter which is suitable for use with
   manually operated metered dose inhalers. It has been found that dose counters
   with these features have a failure rate of less than 50 failed counts per million
   full canister activation depressions. It has been unexpectedly found in the that
20 highly reliable counting can be achieved with the dose counter counting at or
   soon after the point at which the canister fires. It has been discovered by the
   present inventors that momentum and motion involved in firing the canister,
   and in some embodiments a slight reduction in canister back pressure on the
   user at the time of canister firing, can very reliably result in additional further
25 motion past the count point.
                The actuator and incremental counting system may be arranged such
   that the actuator is displaced less than 1 mm, typically 0.25 to 0.75 mm, more
   preferably about 0.4 to 0.6 mm, relative to the body between its location in the
   count and fire configurations, about 0.48 mm being preferred. The canister,
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                           - 6
   which can move substantially in line with the actuator, can reliably move this
   additional distance so as to achieve very reliable counting.
                The incremental count system may comprise a ratchet mechanism and
   the incremental output member may comprise a ratchet wheel having a
 5 plurality of circumferentially spaced teeth arranged to engage the actuator.
                The actuator may comprise an actuator pawl arranged to engage on
   teeth of the ratchet wheel. The actuator pawl may be arranged to be connected
   to or integral with an actuator pin arranged to engage and be depressed by a
   medicament canister bottom flange. The actuator pawl may be generally U
10 shaped having two parallel arms arranged to pull on a central pawl member
   arranged substantially perpendicular thereto. This provides a very reliable
   actuator pawl which can reliably pull on the teeth of the ratchet wheel.
                The incremental count system may include a tape counter having tape
   with incremental dose indicia located thereon, the tape being positioned on a
15 tape stock bobbin and being arranged to unwind therefrom.
                The actuator and incremental output member may be arranged to
   provide a start configuration at which the actuator is spaced from the ratchet
   output member, a reset configuration at which the actuator is brought into
   engagement with the incremental output member during a canister fire
20 sequence, and an end configuration at which the actuator disengages from the
   ratchet output during a canister fire sequence.
                The actuator may be arranged to be located about 1.5 to 2.0 mm, from
   its location in the fire configuration, when in the start configuration, about 1.80
   mm being preferred.
25              The actuator may be arranged to be located about 1.0 to 1.2 mm, from
   its location in the fire configuration, when in the reset configuration, about 1.1
   1 mm being preferred.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                                   - 7
                The actuator may be arranged to be located about 1.1 to 1.3 mm, from
   its location in the fire configuration, when in the end configuration, about 1.18
   mm being preferred.
                These            arrangements provide  extremely reliable dose counting,
 5 especially with manually operated canister type metered dose inhalers.
                The main body may include a formation for forcing the actuator to
   disengage from the incremental output member when the actuator is moved
   past the end configuration. The formation may comprise a bumped up portion
   of an otherwise generally straight surface against which the actuator engages
10 and along which it is arranged to slide during a canister firing sequence.
                The dose counter may include a counter pawl, the counter pawl having
   a tooth arranged to engage the incremental output member, the tooth and
   incremental output member being arranged to permit one way only incremental
   relative motion therebetween. When the incremental output member comprises
15 a ratchet wheel, the tooth can therefore serve as an anti-back drive tooth for the
   ratchet wheel, thereby permitting only one way motion or rotation thereof.
                The counter pawl may be substantially fixedly mounted on the main
   body of the incremental count system and the counter pawl may be arranged to
   be capable of repeatedly engaging equi-spaced teeth of the incremental output
20 member in anti-back drive interlock configurations as the counter is operated.
   The counter pawl may be positioned so that the incremental output member is
   halfway, or substantially halfway moved from one anti-back drive interlock
   configuration to the next when the actuator and incremental output member are
   in the end configuration thereof. This is highly advantageous in that it
25 minimises the risk of double counting or non-counting by the dose counter.
                Also disclosed herein is an inhaler comprising a main body arranged to
   retain a medicament canister of predetermined configuration and a dose
   counter mounted in the main body, the dose counter being as set out in at least
   one other aspect as disclosed herein.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                          - 8
                The inhaler main body may include a canister receiving portion and a
   separate counter chamber, the dose counter being located within the main body
   thereof, the incremental output member and actuator thereof inside the counter
   chamber, the main body of the inhaler having wall surfaces separating the
 5 canister-receiving portion and the counter chamber, the wall surfaces being
   provided with a communication aperture, an actuation member extending
   through the communication aperture to transmit canister motion to the actuator.
              Also disclosed herein is an inhaler for metered dose inhalation, the
   inhaler comprising a main body having a canister housing arranged to retain a
10 medicament canister for motion therein, and a dose counter, the dose counter
   having an actuation member having at least a portion thereof located in the
   canister housing for operation by movement of a medicament canister, wherein
   the canister housing has an inner wall, and a first inner wall canister support
   formation located directly adjacent the actuation member. This is highly
15 advantageous in that the first inner wall canister support formation can prevent
   a canister from rocking too much relative to the main body of the inhaler. Since
   the canister may operate the actuation member of the dose counter, this
   substantially improves dose counting and avoids counter errors.
                The canister housing may have a longitudinal axis which passes
20 through a central outlet port thereof, the central outlet port being arranged to
   mate with an outer canister fire stem of a medicament canister, the inner wall
   canister support formation, the actuation member and the outlet port lying in a
   common plane coincident with the longitudinal axis. Accordingly, this
   construction may prevent the canister from rocking towards the position of the
25 dose counter actuation member, thereby minimising errors in counting.
                The canister housing may have a further inner canister wall support
   formation located on the inner wall opposite, or substantially opposite, the
   actuation member. Accordingly, the canister may be supported against rocking
   motion away from the actuator member so as to minimise count errors.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                              - 9
                The canister housing may be generally straight and tubular and may
   have an arrangement in which each said inner wall support formation
   comprises a rail extending longitudinally along the inner wall.
                Each said rail may be stepped, in that it may have a first portion located
 5 towards a medicine outlet end or stem block of the canister housing which
   extends inwardly a first distance from a main surface of the inner wall and a
   second portion located toward an opposite end of the canister chamber which
   extends inwardly a second, smaller distance from the main surface of the inner
   wall. This may therefore enable easy insertion of a canister into the canister
10 housing such that a canister can be lined up gradually in step wise function as it
   is inserted into the canister housing.
                The inhaler may include additional canister support rails which are
   spaced around an inner periphery of the inner wall of the canister housing and
   which extend longitudinally therealong.
15              At least one of the additional rails may extend a constant distance
   inwardly from the main surface of the inner wall.
                At least one of the additional rails may be formed with a similar
   configuration to the first inner wall canister support formation.
                The dose counter may, apart from said at least a portion of the actuation
20 member, be located in a counter chamber separate from the canister housing,
   the actuation member comprising a pin extending through an aperture in a wall
   which separates the counter chamber and the canister housing.
                Also disclosed herein is an inhaler for inhaling medicaments having:
                a body for retaining a medicament store; the body including a dose
25 counter, the dose counter having a moveable actuator and a return spring for
   the actuator, the return spring having a generally cylindrical and annular end;
   the body having a support formation therein for supporting said end of the
   return spring, the support formation comprising a shelf onto which said end is
   engageable and a recess below the shelf.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 10
                This shelf and recess arrangement is highly advantageous since it
   allows a tool (such as manual or mechanical tweezers) to be used to place the
   return spring of the actuator onto the shelf with the tool then being withdrawn
   at least partially via the recess.
 5              The shelf may be U-shaped.
                The support formation may include a U-shaped upstanding wall
   extending around the U-shaped shelf, the shelf and upstanding wall thereby
   forming a step and riser of a stepped arrangement.
                The recess below the shelf may also be U-shaped.
10              At least one chamfered surface may be provided at an entrance to the
   shelf. This may assist in inserting the actuator and return spring into position.
                Also disclosed herein is a method of assembly of the inhaler which
   includes the step of locating said end of said spring on the shelf with an
   assembly tool and then withdrawing the assembly tool at least partly via the
15 recess. This assembly method is highly advantageous compared to
   prior art methods in which spring insertion has been difficult and in which
   withdrawal of the tool has sometimes accidentally withdrawn the spring again.
                The cylindrical and annular end of the spring may be movable in a
   direction transverse to its cylindrical extent into the shelf while being located
20 thereon.
                Also disclosed herein is an inhaler for inhaling medicament, the inhaler
   having: a body for retaining a medicament store; and a dose counter, the dose
   counter having a moveable actuator and a chassis mounted on the body; the
   chassis being heat staked in position on the body.
25              This is highly advantageous in that the chassis can be very accurately
   positioned and held firmly in place, thereby further improving counting
   accuracy compare to prior art arrangements in which some movement of the
   chassis relative to the body may be tolerated in snap-fit connections.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 11
                The chassis may have at least one of a pin or aperture heat staked to a
   respective aperture or pin of the body.
                The chassis may have a ratchet counter output member mounted
   thereon.
 5              The ratchet counter output member may comprise a ratchet wheel
   arranged to reel in incrementally a dose meter tape having a dosage indicia
   located thereon.
                Also disclosed herein is a method of assembling the inhaler in
   accordance with the preceding aspect, the method including the step of heat
10 staking the chassis onto the body. The step of heat staking is highly
   advantageous in fixedly positioning the chassis onto the body in order to
   achieve highly accurate dose counting in the assembled inhaler.
                The method of assembly may include mounting a spring-returned
   ratchet actuator in the body before heat staking the chassis in place.
15              The method may include pre-assembling the chassis with a dose meter
   tape prior to the step of heat staking the chassis in place.
                The method may include attaching a dose meter cover onto the body
   after the heat staking step. The cover may be welded onto the body or may in
   some embodiments be glued or otherwise attached in place.
20              Also disclosed herein is an inhaler for inhaling medicament and having
   a body, the body have a main part thereof for retaining a medicament store; and
   a dose counter, the dose counter being located in a dose counter chamber of the
   body which is separated from the main part of the body, the dose counter
   chamber of the body having a dosage display and being perforated so as to
25 permit the evaporation of water or aqueous matter in the dose counter chamber
   into the atmosphere..
                This is high advantageous since it enables the inhaler to be thoroughly
   washed and the dose counting chamber can thereafter dry out fully.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                            - 12
                The display may comprise a mechanical counter display inside the dose
   counter chamber and a window for viewing the mechanical counter display.
   The mechanical counter display may comprise a tape. The perforated dose
   counter chamber may therefore enable reliable washing of the inhaler, if
 5 desired by the user, and may therefore dry out without the display window
   misting up.
                The dose counter chamber may be perforated by a drain hole formed
   through an outer hole of the body. The drain hole may be located at a bottom
   portion of the body of the inhaler, thereby enabling full draining of the inhaler
10 to be encouraged after washing when the inhaler is brought into an upright
   position.
                Also disclosed herein is a dose counter for an inhaler, the dose counter
   having a display tape arranged to be incrementally driven from a tape stock
   bobbin onto an incremental tape take-up drive shaft, the bobbin having an
15 internal bore supported by and for rotation about a support shaft, at least one of
   the bore and support shaft having a protrusion which is resiliently biased into
   frictional engagement with the other of the bore and support shaft with
   longitudinally extending mutual frictional interaction.
                This arrangement may provide good friction for the bobbin, thereby
20 improving tape counter display accuracy and preventing the bobbin from
   unwinding undesirably for example if the inhaler is accidentally dropped.
                The support shaft may be forked and resilient for resiliently biasing the
   support shaft and bore into frictional engagement.
                The support shaft may have two forks, or more in some cases, each
25 having a radially extending protrusion having a friction edge extending
   therealong parallel to a longitudinal axis of the support shaft for frictionally
   engaging the bore of the support shaft with longitudinally extending frictional
   interaction therebetween.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                            - 13
                The bore may be a smooth circularly cylindrical or substantially
   cylindrical bore.
                Each of the above inhalers in accordance with aspects may have a
   medicament canister mounted thereto.
 5              The canister may comprise a pressurised metered dose canister having a
   reciprocally movable stem extending therefrom and movable into a main
   canister portion thereof for releasing a metered dose of medicament under
   pressure, for example by operating a metered dose valve inside the canister
   body. The canister may be operable by pressing by hand on the main canister
10 body.
                In cases in which one or more support rails or inner wall support
   formations are provided, the canister may at all times when within the canister
   chamber have a clearance of about 0.25 to 0.35mm from the first inner wall
   support formation. The clearance may be almost exactly 0.3mm.                   This
15 clearance which may apply to the canister body itself or to the canister once a
   label has been applied, is enough to allow smooth motion of the canister in the
   inhaler while at the same time preventing substantial rocking of the canister
   which could result in inaccurate counting by a dose counter of the inhaler,
   especially when lower face of the canister is arranged to engage an actuator
20 member of the dose counter for counting purposes.
                Also disclosed herein is a method of assembling a dose counter for an
   inhaler comprising:
                providing a tape with dosing indicia thereon;
                providing tape positioning indicia on the tape; and
25              stowing the tape while monitoring for the tape positioning indicia with
   a sensor.
                The method advantageously permits efficient and accurate stowing of
   the tape, e.g. by winding.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 14
                The method may comprise providing the dosing indicia as numbers.
   The method may include providing the tape positioning indicia as one or more
   lines across the tape.
                The stowing may comprise winding the tape onto a bobbin or shaft.
 5              The method may include stopping winding when the positioning indicia
   are in a predetermined position.
                The method may include providing the tape with pixelated indicia at a
   position spaced along the tape from the positioning indicia.
                The method may include providing the tape with a priming dot.
10              Also disclosed herein is a tape system for a dose counter for an inhaler,
   the tape system having a main elongate tape structure, and dosing indicia and
   tape positioning indicia located on the tape structure.
                The tape positioning indicia may comprise at least one line extending
   across the tape structure.
15              The tape system may include a pixelated indicia located on the tape
   structure and spaced from the positioning indicia.
              The tape system may include a priming dot located on the tape structure.
   The positioning indicia may be located between the timing dot and the
   pixelated indicia.
20              The main elongate tape structure may have at least one end thereof
   wound on a bobbin or shaft.
                Also disclosed herein is a method of designing an incremental dose
   counter for an inhaler comprising:
                calculating nominal canister fire and dose counter positions for a dose
25 counter actuator of the inhaler;
                calculating a failure/success rate for dose counters built to tolerance
   levels for counting each fire of inhalers in which the dose counter actuators
   may be applied; and selecting a tolerance level to result in said failure/success
   rate to be at or below/above a predetermined value.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                            - 15
                This is highly advantageous in that it allows an efficient and accurate
   prediction of the reliability of a series of inhaler counters made in accordance
   with the design.
                The method may include selecting the failure/success rate as a failure
 5 rate of no more than one in 50 million.
                The method may include setting an average count position for dose
   counters built to the tolerances to be at or after an average fire position thereof
   during canister firing motion.
                The method may include setting the average count position to be about
10 0.4 to 0.6 mm after the average fire position, such as about 0.48 mm after.
                The method may include setting tolerances for the standard deviation of
   the fire position in dose counters built to the tolerances to be about 0.12 to
   0.16mm, such as about 0.14 1mm.
15              The method may include setting tolerances for the standard deviation of
   the count positions in dose counters built to the tolerances to be about 0.07 to
   0.09mm, such as about 0.08mm.
                Also disclosed herein is a computer implemented method of designing
   an incremental dose counter for an inhaler which includes a method as set out
20 in the last preceding. The computer implemented method may include any of
   the optional features set out above.
                Also disclosed herein is a method of manufacturing in a production run
   a series            of incremental  dose counters  for inhalers   which   comprises
   manufacturing the series of dose counters in accordance with a method of
25 designing as set out above in at least one previous aspect.
                Also disclosed herein is a method of manufacturing a series of
   incremental dose counters for inhalers, which comprises manufacturing the
   dose counters with nominal canister fire and dose count positions of a dose
   counter actuator relative to a dose counter chassis (or inhaler main body), and
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 16
   which includes building the dose counters with the average dose count position
   in the series being, in canister fire process, at or after the average canister fire
   position in the series.
                The method may include building the dose counters with the average
 5 dose count position in the series about 0.4 to 0.6mm after the average fire
   position in the series, such as about 0.48mm.
                The method may include building the dose counters with the standard
   deviation of the fire positions in the series at about 0.12 to 0.16mm, such as
   about 0.14.mm.
10              The method may include building the dose counters with the standard
   deviation of the dose count positions in the series at about 0.07 to 0.09mm,
   such as about 0.08mm.
                Also disclosed herein is a method of manufacturing a series of inhalers
   which includes performing a method as set out in at least one previous aspect
15 and fitting each dose counter in the series of incremental dose counters to a
   corresponding main body of an inhaler.
                These aspects advantageously provide for the production run of a series
   of inhalers and dose counters which count reliably in operation.
                Also disclosed herein is an incremental dose counter for a metered dose
20 inhaler having a body arranged to retain a canister for movement of the canister
   relative thereto, the incremental dose counter having a main body, an actuator
   arranged to be driven and to drive an incremental output member in a count
   direction in response to canister motion, the actuator being configured to
   restrict motion of the output member in a direction opposite to the count
25 direction. This advantageously enables an inhaler dose counter to keep a
   reliable count of remaining doses even if dropped or otherwise jolted.
                The output member may comprise a ratchet wheel.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                            - 17
                The actuator may comprise a pawl, and the ratchet wheel and pawl may
   be arranged to permit only one-way ratcheting motion of the wheel relative to
   the pawl.
                The dose counter may include an anti-back drive member fixed to the
 5 main body.
                When in a rest position of the dose counter, the ratchet wheel may be
   capable of adopting a configuration in which a back surface of one tooth
   thereof engages the anti-back drive member and the pawl is spaced from an
   adjacent back surface of another tooth of the ratchet wheel without positive
10 drive/blocking engagement between the pawl and wheel.
                The incremental counting system may in at least one previously
   mentioned aspect be arranged to move the counter display incrementally in a
   first direction from a first station to a second station in response to actuation
   input, wherein a regulator is provided which is arranged to act upon the counter
15 display at the first station to regulate motion of the counter display at the first
   station to incremental movements.
                Also disclosed herein is a dose counter for an inhaler, the dose counter
   having a counter display arranged to indicate dosage information, a drive
20 system arranged to move the counter display incrementally in a first direction
   from a first station to a second station in response to actuation input, wherein a
   regulator is provided which is arranged to act upon the counter display at the
   first station to regulate motion of the counter display at the first station to
   incremental movements.
25              The regulator is advantageous in that it helps prevent unwanted motion
   of the counter display if the counter is dropped.
                Preferably, the counter comprises a tape.
                Preferably, the tape has dose counter indicia displayed thereon. The
   first station may comprise a region of the dose counter where tape is held
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 18
   which is located before a display location, such as a display window, for the
   counter indicia.
                The first station may comprise a first shaft, the tape being arranged on
   the first shaft and to unwind therefrom upon movement of the counter display.
 5              The first shaft may be mounted for rotation relative to a substantially
   rotationally fixed element of the dose counter.
                The regulator may comprise at least one projection which is arranged
   on one of the first shaft and the substantially rotationally fixed element and to
   engage incrementally with one or more formations on the other of the first
10 shaft and the substantially rotationally fixed element.
                At least two said projections may be provided. Exactly two said
   projections maybe provided.
                Each projection may comprise a radiused surface.
                The at least one projection may be located on the substantially fixed
15 element which may comprise a fixed shaft which is fixed to a main body of the
   dose counter, the first shaft being rotationally mounted to the fixed shaft.
                Preferably, the fixed shaft has at least two resiliently flexible legs (or
   forks). Each leg may have at least one said projection formed in an outwardly
   facing direction thereon, said one or more formations being formed on an
20 inwardly facing engagement surface of the first shaft, said at least one
   projection being arranged to resiliently engage said one or more formations.
   Preferably, a series of said formations are provided. And even number of said
   formations may be provided. Eight to twelve of said formations may be
   provided. In one embodiment, ten said formations are provided.
25              Each said formation may comprise a concavity formed on an
   engagement surface. Each concavity may comprise a radiused surface wall
   portion which preferably merges on at least one side thereof into a flat wall
   portion surface. The engagement surface may include a series of said
   concavities, and convex wall portions of the engagement surface may be
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                            -  19
   formed between each adjacent two said concavities, each said convex wall
   portion comprising a convex radiused wall portion.
                Each convex radiused wall portion of each convex wall portion may be
   connected by said flat wall portion surfaces to each adjacent concavity.
 5              The fixed shaft may comprise a split pin with fork legs and each
   projection may be located on a said fork leg.
                The first shaft may comprise a substantially hollow bobbin.
                Said at least one formation may be located on an inner surface of the
   bobbin. In other embodiments it may be located on an outer surface thereof.
10 Said engagement surface may extend partially along said bobbin, a remainder
   of or another part of the respective inner or outer surface having a generally
   smooth journal portion along at least a portion thereof.
                The drive system may comprise a tooth ratchet wheel arranged to act
   upon a second shaft which is located at the second station, the second shaft
15 being rotatable to wind the tape onto the second shaft.
                The second shaft may be located on a main body of the dose counter
   spaced from and parallel to the first shaft.
                The ratchet wheel may be fixed to the second shaft and arranged to
   rotate therewith. The ratchet wheel may be secured to an end of the second
20 shaft and aligned coaxially with the second shaft.
                The dose counter may include anti-back drive system which is arranged
   to restrict motion of the second shaft. The anti-back drive system may include a
   substantially fixed tooth arranged to act upon teeth of the ratchet wheel.
                Also disclosed herein is a shaft for holding counter tape in a dose
25 counter for an inhaler, the shaft having an engagement surface including
   incrementally spaced formations located around a periphery thereof, the
   formations comprising a series of curved concavities and convex portions.
                The shaft may comprise a hollow bobbin.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 20
                The engagement surface may be a generally cylindrical inwardly
   directed surface.
                The engagement surface may include a flat surface wall portion joining
   each concavity and convex wall portion.
 5              Each concavity may comprise a radiused wall portion.
                Each convex wall portion may comprise a radiused wall portion.
                Said concavities may be regularly spaced around a longitudinal axis of
   the shaft.
                Said convex wall portions may be regularly             spaced around a
10 longitudinal axis of the shaft.
                In some embodiments there may be from eight to twelve said
                concavities and/or concavities regularly spaced around a longitudinal
15 axis thereof.
                One embodiment includes ten said concavities and/or convex wall
   portions regularly spaced around a longitudinal axis of the shaft.
                Also disclosed herein is a shaft and counter tape assembly for use in a
   dose counter for an inhaler, the assembly comprising a rotatable shaft and a
20 counter tape which is wound around the shaft and is adapted to unwind
   therefrom upon inhaler actuation, the shaft having an engagement surface
   which includes incrementally spaced formations located around a periphery
   thereof.
                Also disclosed herein is an inhaler for the inhalation of medication and
25 the like, the inhaler including a dose counter as in the second to last preceding
   aspect.
                A preferred construction consists of a manually operated metered dose
   inhaler including a dose counter chamber including a dose display tape driven
   by a ratchet wheel which is driven in turn by an actuator pawl actuated by
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 21
   movement of a canister, the tape unwinding from a stock bobbin during use of
   the inhaler, a rotation regulator being provided for the stock bobbin and
   comprising a wavelike engagement surface with concavities which engage
   against control elements in the form of protrusions on resilient forks of a split
 5 pin thereby permitting incremental unwinding of the stock bobbin yet resisting
   excessive rotation if the inhaler is dropped onto a hard surface.
                The present invention may be carried out in various ways and preferred
   embodiment of a dose counter, shaft, inhaler and methods of assembly, design
   and manufacture will now be described with reference to the accompanying
10 drawings in which:
                Figure 1 is an isometric view of a main body of a preferred embodiment
   of an inhaler in accordance with the invention together with a mouthpiece cap
   therefor;
                Figure 2 is a top plan view of the components as shown in Figure 1;
15 Figure 3A is a section on the plane 3A-3A in Figure 2;
                Figure 3B is a view corresponding to Figure 3A but with a dose counter
   fitted to the main body of the inhaler;
                Figure 4A is an exploded view of the inhaler main body, mouthpiece
   cap, dose counter and a dose counter window;
20              Figure 4B is a view in the direction 4B in Figure 4C of a spring retainer
   of the dose counter;
                Figure 4C is a top view of the spring retainer of Figure 4B;
                Figure 5 is a bottom view of the assembled inhaler main body,
   mouthpiece cap, dose counter and dose counter window;
25              Figures 6A, 6B, 6C, 6D, 6E, 6F, 6G and 6H are various views of dose
   counter components of the inhaler;
                Figures 7A and 7B are sectional views showing canister clearance
   inside the main body of the inhaler;
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 22
                Figure 7C is a further sectional view similar to that of Figure 7B but
   with the canister removed;
                Figure 7D is a top plan view of the inhaler main body;
                Figures 8A, 8B, 8C and 8D show the inhaler main body and dose
 5 counter components during assembly thereof;
                Figure 9 shows a sectional side view of a datum line for an actuator
   pawl of the dose counter;
                Figures 10A, 1OB, 1OC, 1OD, 1OE and 1OF show various side views of
   positions and configurations of the actuator pawl, a ratchet wheel, and a count
10 pawl;
                Figure 11 shows distributions for tolerances of start, reset, fire, count
   and end positions for the actuator of the dose counter;
                Figure 12 is an enlarged version of part of Figure 4A;
                Figure 13 shows an end portion of a tape of the dose counter;
15              Figure 14 shows a computer system for designing the dose counter;
                Figure 15 is an isometric view of a stock bobbin used in a modification
   of the inhaler of Figures I to 14;
                Figure 16 shows an end view of the stock bobbin of Figure 15;
                Figure 17 is a section through a longitudinal axis of the stock bobbin of
20 Figures 15 and 16;
                Figures 18A to 18C are views of the stock bobbin of Figures 15 to 17
   mounted in the dose counter chassis of Figures 1 to 14, with the control
   elements of the forks of the second shaft (or split pin) having a profile slightly
   different to that in Figure 6F, with the forks in a compressed configuration;
25              Figures 19A to 19C are views equivalent to figures 18A to 18C but
   with the forks in a more expanded configuration due to a different rotational
   position of the stock bobbin;
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 23
                Figure 20 is an isometric view of the chassis assembled and including
   the stock bobbin of Figures 15 to 17 but excluding the tape for reasons of
   clarity;
                Figure 21 is a view of a preferred embodiment of a dry powder inhaler
 5 in accordance with the present invention;
                Figure 22 is an exploded view of the inhaler of Figure 21;
                Figure 23 is a view of a dose counter of the inhaler of Figure 21;
                Figure 24 is an exploded view of the dose counter shown in Figure 23;
                Figure 25 is an exploded view of parts of the inhaler of Figure 21; and
10              Figure 26 is a view of a yoke of the inhaler of Figure 21.
                Figure 1 shows a main body 10 of a manually operated metered dose
   inhaler 12 in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention
   and having a mouthpiece cap 14 securable over a mouthpiece 16 of the main
   body.
15              The main body has a canister chamber 18 into which a canister 20
   (Figure 7A) is slideable. The canister 20 has a generally cylindrical main side
   wall 24, joined by a tapered section 26 to a head portion 28 having a
   substantially flat lower face 30 which has an outer annular drive surface 32
   arranged to engage upon and drive an actuation pin 34 of a dose counter 36 as
20 will be described. Extending centrally and axially from the lower face 30 is a
   valve stem 38 which is arranged to sealingly engage in a valve stem block 40
   of the main body 10 of the inhaler 12. The valve stem block 40 has a
   passageway 42 leading to a nozzle 44 for directing the contents of the canister
   20, namely active drug and propellant, towards an air outlet 46 of the inhaler
25 main body 12. It will be appreciated that due to gaps 48 between the canister
   20 and an inner wall 50 of the main body 10 of the inhaler 12 an open top 52 of
   the main body 10 forms an air inlet into the inhaler 12 communicating via air
   passageway 54 with the air outlet 46, such that canister contents exiting nozzle
   44 mix with air being sucked by the user through the air passageway 54 in
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                            - 24
   order to pass together through the air outlet and into the mouth of the user (not
   shown).
                The dose counter 36 will now be described. The dose counter 36
   includes an actuation pin 34 biased upwardly from underneath by a return
 5 spring 56 once installed in the main body 10. As best shown in Figures 4 A, 6H
   and 8 A, the pin 34 has side surfaces 58, 60 arranged to slide between
   corresponding guide surfaces 62, 64 located in a dose counter chamber 66 of
   the main body 10, as well as an end stop surface 68 arranged to engage a
   corresponding end stop 70 formed in the dose counter chamber 66 to limit
10 upward movement of the pin 34. The pin 34 has a top part 72 which is
   circularly cylindrical and extends through an aperture 74 formed through a
   separator wall 76 which separates the canister chamber 18 from the dose
   counter chamber 66. The top part 72 of the pin 34 has a flat top surface 78
   which is arranged to engage the outer annular drive surface 32 of the canister
15 20.
                The actuation pin 34 is integrally formed with a drive or actuator pawl
   80. The actuator pawl 80 has a generally inverted U-shape configuration,
   having two mutually spaced and parallel arms 82, 84 extending from a base
   portion of the actuation pin 34, each holding at respective distal ends 88 thereof
20 opposite ends of a pawl tooth member 90 which extends in a direction
   substantially perpendicular to the arms 82, 84, so as to provide what may be
   considered a "saddle" drive for pulling on each of the 11 drive teeth 92 of a
   ratchet wheel 94 of an incremental drive system 96 or ratchet mechanism 96 of
   the dose counter 36. As shown for example in Figure 1OB, the pawl tooth
25 member 90 has a sharp lower longitudinal side edge 98 arranged to engage the
   drive teeth 92, the edge-to-surface contact provided by this engagement
   providing very accurate positioning of the actuator pawl 80 and resultant
   rotational positioning of the ratchet wheel 94.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                         - 25
                The dose counter 36 also has a chassis preassembly 100 which, as
   shown in Figures 4A and 6A, includes a chassis 102 having a first shaft 104
   receiving the ratchet wheel 94 which is secured to a tape reel shaft 106, and a
   second shaft (or split pin) 108 which is parallel to and spaced from the first
 5 shaft 104 and which slidably and rotationally receives a tape stock bobbin 110.
                As shown in Figure 6B, when the inhaler has not been used at all, the
   majority of a tape 112 is wound on the tape stock bobbin 110 and the tape 1 12
   has a series of regularly spaced numbers 114 displayed therealong to indicate a
   number of remaining doses in the canister 20. As the inhaler is repeatedly used,
10 the ratchet wheel 94 is rotated by the actuator pawl 80 due to operation of the
   actuation pin 34 by the canister 20 and the tape 112 is incrementally and
   gradually wound on to the tape reel shaft 106 from the second shaft 108. The
   tape 112 passes around a tape guide 116 of the chassis 102 enabling the
   numbers 114 to be displayed via a window 118 in a dose counter chamber
15 cover 120 having a dose marker 132 formed or otherwise located thereon.
                As shown in Figures 6A and 6D, the second shaft 108 is forked with
   two forks 124, 126. The forks 124, 126 are biased away from one another. The
   forks have located thereon at diametrically opposed positions on the second
   shaft 108 friction or control elements 128, 130, one on each fork. Each control
20 element extends longitudinally along its respective fork 124, 126 and has a
   longitudinally extending friction surface 132, 134 which extends substantially
   parallel to a longitudinal axis of the second shaft and is adapted to engage
   inside a substantially cylindrical bore 136 inside the tape stock bobbin 110.
   This control arrangement provided between the bore 136 and the control
25 elements 128, 130 provides good rotational control for the tape stock bobbin
   110 such that it does not unwind undesirably such as when the inhaler is
   dropped. The tape force required to unwind the tape stock bobbin 1 10 and
   overcome this friction force is approximately 0.1 N.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                           - 26
                As can be seen in Figure 6D, as well as Figures 6G and 1OA to 1OF, the
   chassis 102 is provided with an anti-back drive tooth 138 or count pawl 138
   which is resiliently and substantially fixedly mounted thereto. As will be
   described below and as can be seen in Figures 1OA to 1OF, when the actuation
 5 pin 34 is depressed fully so as to fire the metered valve (not shown) inside the
   canister 20, the actuator pawl 80 pulls down on one of the teeth 92 of the
   ratchet wheel 94 and rotates the wheel 94 anticlockwise as shown in Figure 6D
   so as to jump one tooth 92 past the count pawl 138, thereby winding the tape
   112 a distance incrementally relative to the dose marker 122 on the dose
10 counter chamber 120 so as to indicate that one dose has been used.
                With reference to Figure 1OB, the teeth of the ratchet wheel 94 have
   tips 143 which are radiused with a 0.1 mm radius between the flat surfaces 140,
   142. The ratchet wheel 94 has a central axis 145 which is 0.11 mm above
   datum plane 220 (Figure 9). A top/nose surface 147 of the anti-back drive tooth
15 138 is located 0.36 mm above the datum plane 220. The distance vertically
   (i.e. transverse to datum plane 220 - Figure 9) between the top nose surface
   147 of the anti-back drive tooth is 0.25 mm from the central axis 145 of the
   wheel 94. Bump surface 144 has a lateral extent of 0.20 mm, with a vertical
   length of a flat 145' thereof being 1 mm, the width of the bump surface being
20 1.22 mm (in the direction of the axis 145), the top 149 of the bump surface 144
   being 3.02 mm vertically below the axis 145, and the flat 145' being spaced a
   distance sideways (i.e. parallel to the datum plane 220) 2.48 mm from the axis
   145. The top surface 78 of the pin 34 (Fig 6H) is 11.20 mm above the datum
   plane 220 (Fig 9) when the actuator pawl 80 and pin 34 are in the start
25 configuration. The length of the valve stem 22 is 11.39 mm and the drive
   surface 32 of the canister 20 is 11.39 mm above the datum plane 220 when the
   canister is at rest waiting to be actuated, such that there is a clearance of 0.19
   mm between the canister 20 and the pin 34 in this configuration.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 27
                Figures 10A and 10B show the actuator pawl 80 and ratchet wheel 94
   and count pawl 138 in a start position in which the flat top 78 of the pin 34 has
   not yet been engaged by the outer annular drive surface 32 of the canister 20 or
   at least has not been pushed down during a canister depression.
 5              In this "start" position, the count pawl 138 engages on a non-return
   back surface 140 of one of the teeth 92 of the ratchet wheel 94. The lower side
   edge 98 of the actuator pawl is a distance "D" (Figure 9) 1.33 mm above datum
   plane 220 which passes through bottom surface or shoulder 41 of valve stem
   block 40, the datum plane 220 being perpendicular to a main axis "X" of the
10 main body 10 of the inhaler 12 which is coaxial with the centre of the valve
   stem block bore 43 and parallel to a direction of sliding of the canister 20 in the
   main body 10 of the inhaler 12 when the canister is fired.
                As shown in Figure 10B, an advantageous feature of the construction is
   that the pawl tooth/actuator 90 acts as a supplementary anti-back drive member
15 when the inhaler 12 is not being used for inhalation. In particular, if the inhaler
   12 is accidentally dropped, resulting in a jolt to the dose counter 36 then, if the
   wheel 94 would try to rotate clockwise (backwards) as shown in Figure 10B,
   the back surface 140 of a tooth will engage and be blocked by the tooth
   member 90 of the pawl 80. Therefore, even if the anti-back drive tooth 138 is
20 temporarily bent or overcome by such a jolt, undesirable backwards rotation of
   the wheel 94 is prevented and, upon the next canister firing sequence, the pawl
   90 will force the wheel 94 to catch up to its correct position so that the dose
   counter 36 continues to provide correct dosage indication.
                Figure 1OC shows a configuration in which the actuator pawl 80 has
25 been depressed with the pin 34 by the canister 20 to a position in which the
   side edge 98 of the pawl tooth member 90 is just engaged with one of the teeth
   92 and will therefore upon any further depression of the pin 34 begin to rotate
   the wheel 94. This is referred to as a "Reset" position or configuration. In this
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                          - 28
   configuration, the lower side edge 98 of the actuator 80 is 0.64 mm above the
   datum plane 220.
                Figure 1OD shows a configuration in which the actuator pawl 80 has
   been moved to a position lower than that shown in Figure 1OC and in which the
 5 metered dose valve (not shown) inside the canister has at this very position
   fired in order to eject active drug and propellant through the nozzle 44. It will
   be noted that in this configuration the count pawl 138 is very slightly spaced
   from the back surface 140 of the same tooth 92 that it was engaging in the
   configuration of Figure 1OD. The configuration shown in Figure 1OD is known
10 as a "Fire" configuration. In this configuration the lower side edge 98 of the
   actuator 80 is 0.47 mm below the datum plane 220.
                Figure 10E shows a further step in the sequence, called a "Count"
   position in which the actuator pawl 80 has rotated the ratchet wheel 94 by the
   distance circumferentially angularly between two of the teeth 92, such that the
15 count pawl 138 has just finished riding along a forward surface 142 of one of
   the teeth 92 and has resiliently jumped over the tooth into engagement with the
   back surface 140 of the next tooth. Accordingly, in this "Count" configuration,
   a sufficiently long stroke movement of the pin 34 has occurred that the tape
   112 of the dose counter 36 will just have counted down one dose. In this
20 configuration, the lower side edge 98 of the actuator is 0.95 mm below the
   datum plane 220. Accordingly, in this position, the actuator 80 generally,
   including edge 98, is 0.48 mm lower than in the fire configuration. It has been
   found that, although the count configuration happens further on than the fire
   configuration, counting is highly reliable, with less than one in 50 failed counts
25 per million. This is at least partially due to momentum effects and to the
   canister releasing some back pressure on the user in some embodiments as its
   internal metering valve fires.
                In the configuration of Figure 1OF, the pawl 80 has been further
   depressed with the pin 34 by the canister 20 to a position in which it is just
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                          - 29
   disengaging from one of the teeth 92 and the actuator pawl 80 is assisted in this
   disengagement by engagement of one of the arms 84 with a bump surface 144
   on the chassis 102 (see Figure 6G) and it will be seen at this point of
   disengagement, which is called an "End" configuration, the count pawl 138 is
 5 positioned exactly halfway or substantially halfway between two of the drive
   teeth 92. This advantageously means therefore that there is a minimum chance
   of any double counting or non-counting, which would be undesirable. In the
   end configuration, the side edge 98 of the actuator is 1.65 mm below the datum
   plane 220. It will be appreciated that any further depression of the actuator
10 pawl 80 and pin 34 past the "End" configuration shown in Figure 1OF will have
   no effect on the position of the tape 112 displayed by the dose counter 36 since
   the actuator pawl 80 is disengaged from the ratchet wheel 94 when it is below
   the position shown in Figure 1OF.
                As shown in Figures 7C and 7D, the inner wall 50 of the main body 10
15 is provided with a two-step support rail 144 which extends longitudinally along
   inside the main body and is located directly adjacent the aperture 74. As
   shown in Figure 7B a diametrically opposed two-step support rail 146 is also
   provided and this diametrically opposed in the sense that a vertical plane (not
   shown) can pass substantially directly through the first rail 144, the aperture
20 74, a central aperture 148 of the valve stem block 40 (in which canister stem 25
   is located) and the second two-step support rail 146. As shown in Figure 7A
   and schematically in Figure 7B, the rails 144, 146 provide a maximum
   clearance between the canister 20 and the rails 144, 146 in a radial direction of
   almost exactly 0.3mm, about 0.25 to 0.35mm being a typical range. This
25 clearance in this plane means that the canister 20 can only rock backwards and
   forwards in this plane towards away from the actuation pin 34. A relatively
   small distance and this therefore prevents the canister wobbling and changing
   the height of the actuation pin 34 so as to undesirably alter the accuracy of the
   dose counter 36. This is therefore highly advantageous.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                           - 30
              The inner wall 50 of the main body 10 is provided with two further two
   step rails 150 as well as two pairs 152, 154 of rails extending different constant
   radial amounts inwardly from the inner wall 50, so as to generally achieve a
   maximum clearance of almost exactly 0.3mm around the canister 20 for all of
 5 the rails 144, 146, 150, 152, 154 spaced around the periphery of the inner wall
   50, in order to prevent undue rocking while still allowing canister motion
   freely inside the inhaler 12. It will be clear from Figure 7C for example that the
   two-step rails have a first portion near an outlet end 156 of the canister
   chamber 18, the first portion having a substantially constant radial or inwardly
10 extending width, a first step 160 leading to a second portion 162 of the rail, the
   second portion 102 having a lesser radial or inwardly extending extent than the
   first portion 156, and finally a second step 164 at which the rail merges into the
   main inner wall 50 main surface.
                A method of assembling the inhaler 12 will now be described.
15              With reference to Figure 8A, the main body 10 of the inhaler 12 is
   formed by two or more plastics mouldings which have been joined together to
   the configuration shown.
                As shown in Figure 8B, the actuator pawl 80 and pin 34 are translated
   forward into position into a pin receiving area 166 in the dose counter chamber
20 66 and the pin 34 and actuator 80 may then be raised until the pin 34 emerges
   through the aperture 74.
                Next, the return spring 56 may be inserted below the pin 34 and a
   generally cylindrical annular lower end 168 of the spring 56 may be moved by
   a tweezer or tweezer-like assembly tool (not shown) into engagement with a
25 shelf 170 of a spring retainer 172 in the dose counter chamber 66. The spring
   retainer 172 is U-shaped and the shelf 170 is U-shaped and has a recess 174
   formed below it. As shown in Figures 4B, 4C and 12 shelf 170 includes three
   chamfer surfaces 176, 178, 180 arranged to assist in moving the lower end of
   the spring 168 into position onto the shelf using the assembly tool (not shown).
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                                    - 31
   Once the lower end of the spring 168 is in place, the assembly tool (not shown)
   can easily be removed at least partly via the recess 174 below the lower end
   168 of the spring 56.
                The tape 112 is attached at one end (not shown) to the tape stock
 5 bobbin 110 and is wound onto the bobbin by a motor 200 (Figure 13) having a
   hexagonal output shaft 202 which engages in a hexagonal socket 204 (Figure
   6B) of the bobbin. During winding, the tape is monitored by a sensor 206,
   which may be in the form of a camera or laser scanner, which feeds data to a
   computer controller 205 for the motor 200. The controller 205 recognises three
10 positioning markers 210 in the form of lines across the tape 112 and stops the
   motor 202 when the tape 112 is nearly fully wound onto the bobbin 110, such
   that the distal end 212 of the tape 112 can be secured, e.g. by adhesive, to the
   tape reel shaft 106. The controller 205 also recognises a pixelated tape size
   marker 214 observed by the sensor 206 and logs in a stocking system data store
15 217 details of the tape 112 such as the number of numbers 114 on the tape,
   such as one hundred and twenty or two hundred numbers 114. Next, the tape
   reel shaft is wound until an appropriate position of the lines 210 at which a
   priming dot 216 will, once the bobbin 110 and reel shaft 106 are slid onto the
   second shaft 108 and second shaft 104, be in a position to be located in the
20 window 118 when the inhaler 12 is fully assembled. In the embodiments, the
   bobbin 110 and reel shaft 106 may be slid onto the shafts 108, 104 before the
   tape 112 is secured to the reel shaft 106 and the reel shaft may then be wound
   to position the priming dot 216.
                Next,          the     assembled dose  counter components of the chassis
25 preassembly 100 shown in Figure 6B may as shown in Figure 8C be inserted
   into the dose counter chamber 66, with pins 182, 184, 186 formed on the main
   body 10 in the dose counter chamber 66 passing through apertures or slots 188,
   190, 192 formed on the chassis 102, such that the pins 182, 184, 186 extend
   through (or at least into) the apertures or slots 188, 190, 192. With the chassis
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                          - 32
   102 being relatively firmly pushed towards the main body 10, the pins 182,
   184, 186 are then heat staked and the chassis 102 is therefore after this held
   very firmly in position in the main body and is unable to move, thereby
   assisting in providing great accuracy for the dose counter 36. Next, as shown in
 5 Figure 8D, the dose counter chamber cover 120 may be fitted over the dose
   counter chamber 66 and may be secured in place such as by welding, with the
   priming dot 216 being displayed through the window.
                The user can, when readying the inhaler 12 for first use, prime the
   inhaler by depressing the canister 20 three times which will bring the first
10 number 1 14 on the tape into display through the window 1 18 in place of the
   priming dot 216, the number 1 14 shown in Figure 8D being "200", thereby
   indicating that 200 doses are remaining to be dispensed from the canister 20
   and inhaler 12.
                As shown in Figure 8D, and in Figure 5, an open drain hole 194 is
15 provided at the bottom of the dose counter chamber 66 by a substantially
   semicircular cut-out or recess formation 196 in a lower surface 198 of the main
   body 10 of the inhaler. Accordingly, if the user (not shown) should decide to
   wash the main body 10 of the inhaler, for example after encountering an
   unhygienic situation or simply as a matter of choice, the drain hole 194 allows
20 initial draining of water from inside the dose counter chamber 66 and also
   thereafter evaporation of water or any aqueous matter in the dose counter
   chamber 66 so that the window 118 does not mist up undesirably.
                Figure 14 shows a computer system 230 for designing the dose counter
   36 and in particular for calculating distributions representative of average
25 positions and standard deviations in a production series of inhalers of the start,
   reset, fire, count and end positions of the actuator lower side edge 98 relative to
   the datum plane 220 (Figure 9) and therefore of the actuator pawl 80 generally
   relative to the ratchet wheel 94, chassis 102 and, when the inhaler 12 is fully
   assembled, the main body 10 of the inhaler 12. The computer system 230
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                         - 33
   includes a data store 232, a CPU 234, an input device 236 (such as a keyboard
   or communication port) and an output device 238 (such as a communications
   port, display screen and/or printer). A user may enter data via the input device
   236 which may be used by the CPU 234 in a mathematical calculation to
 5 predict count failure rates when the various dose counters are to be built in a
   series with dose counter positions set with given averages and standard
   deviations and taking into account any momentum/inertia effects and metering
   valve user-back-pressure reduction effect which will occur upon canister firing
   of a given type of canister. The computer system 230 is thus mathematically
10 used to design the distributions. For the inhaler 12 described herein with the
   dose counter 36 and canister 20, the distributions are designed as shown in
   Figure 11. The x axis shows distance of the lower side surface 98 of the
   actuator 80 above the datum plane 220 and the y axis is representative of the
   distribution. Thus, curve 240 shows that the start configuration has an average
15 1.33 mm above the datum plane 200 (standard deviation is 0.1 mm), curve 242
   shows that the reset configuration has an average of 0.64 mm above the datum
   plane 220 (standard deviation is 0.082 mm), curve 244 shows the fire
   configuration has an average 0.47 mm below the datum plane 220 (standard
   deviation is 0.141 mm), curve 246 shows the count configuration has an
20 average 0.95 mm below the datum plane 220 (standard deviation is 0.080 mm),
   and curve 248 shows the end configuration has an average of 1.65 mm below
   the datum plane 220 (standard deviation is 0.144 mm).
                Figures 15 to 20 show a preferred embodiment, which is a modified
   version of the embodiment described with reference to Figures 1 to 14. In these
25 drawings, the same reference numerals have been used to those in the earlier
   drawings to denote the equivalent components. The inhaler 12 is the same as
   that in Figures 1 to 14 apart from the following modifications.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                               - 34
                First, it can be seen that there is a modification in that the drive teeth 92
   of the ratchet wheel 94 have a different profile to that in Figures I to 14. There
   are also only nine ratchet teeth 94 in this embodiment instead of eleven.
                Additionally, as shown in Figures 18C and 19C, the control elements
 5 128, 130 on the forks 124, 126 of the second shaft 108 have a tapered profile
   which is different to the profile of the control elements 128, 130 shown in
   Figure 6F. Either profile can be used in the embodiment of Figures 15 to 20
   however.
                Furthermore, as shown in Figure 15, the tape stock bobbin 110 has an
10 inwardly facing generally cylindrical engagement surface 300 with a wavelike
   form extending partially therealong. The engagement surface 300 has a cross
   section 301 perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the stock bobbin 110
   which is constant therealong. This cross-section 301 can be seen in Figure 16
   and consists of a series of ten regularly spaced concavities 302 and ten convex
15 wall portions 304. The convex wall portions 304 are equi-spaced between the
   concavities 302. Each concavity 302 has a radius of 0.2 mm. Each convex wall
   portion 304 also has a radius of 0.2 mm. Finally, the cross section 301 also
   includes flat wall portions 306 between all of the radiused wall portions of the
   concavities 302 and convex wall portions 304. The geometry of the cross
20 section 301 is therefore defined by the radii of the concavities 302 and convex
   wall portions 304, the flat wall portions 306 and the fact that there are ten
   concavities 302 and convex wall portions 304.
                The minor diameter of the engagement surface 300, i.e. between the
   tips of opposite convex wall portions 304, is 2.46 mm. The major diameter of
25 the engagement surface 300, i.e. between the outermost portions of the
   concavities 302, is 2.70 mm. The undeformed tip to tip maximum diameter of
   the forks 124, 126 of the split pin (the second shaft) 108, i.e. in the region of
   the maximum radial extent of the control elements 128, 130, is 3.1 millimetres
   and it will therefore be appreciated that the forks 124, 126 are resiliently
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 35
   compressed once the stock bobbin 110 has been assembled onto the split pin
    108 in all rotational configurations of the stock bobbin 1 10 relative to the split
   pin 108. The minimum gap between the forks 124, 126 in the plane of the cross
   sections of Figures 18C and 19C is 1 mm when the split pin 108 is in the
 5 undeformed, pre-inserted state. When the split pin 108 is at maximum
   compression, as shown in Figures 18A to 18C when the control elements 128,
    130 are shown to be engaged on top of the convex wall portions 304, the gap
   308 between the tips 310, 312 of the forks 124, 126 is 0.36 mm. On the other
   hand, when the split pin 108 is at minimum compression (once inserted into the
10 stock bobbin) as shown in Figures 19A to 19C, when the control elements 128,
    130 rest in the concavities 302, the gap between the tips 310, 312 of the forks
    124, 126 is 0.6 mm. The control elements 128, 130 are outwardly radiused with
   a radius also of 0.2 mm such that they can just rest on the concavities 302 with
   full surface contact (at least at an axial location on the split pin where the
15 tapered control elements are at their maximum radial extent), without rattling
   in, locking onto or failing to fit in the concavities 302. The radii of the control
   elements 128, 130 is therefore preferably substantially the same as the radii of
   the concavities 302
                It will be appreciated that whereas Figures 18B and 19B are end views
20 along the coaxial axis of the stock bobbin 110 and split pin 108, Figures 18A
   and 19A are cross-sections. Figure 19A is a section on the plane A-A'            in
   Figure 19C and Figure 18A is a section at the same plane, but of course with
   the stock bobbin 110 rotated relative to the split pin 108.
                As the inhaler 12 is used and the ratchet wheel 94 rotates in order to
25 count used doses, the stock bobbin rotates incrementally through rotational
   positions in which rotation is resisted, i.e. due to increasing compression of the
   split pin 108 at such rotational positions, and rotational positions in which
   rotation is promoted, i.e. due to decreasing compression of the split pin 108 at
   such rotational positions and this may involve a click forward of the stock
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                         - 36
   bobbin 1 10 to the next position equivalent to that in Figures 19A to 19C in
   which the control elements 128, 130 of the split pin art located in the
   concavities 302. This functionality firstly allows the stock bobbin to unwind
   during use as required, but also prevents the tape 112 from loosening during
 5 transit if the inhaler 12 is dropped, such as onto a hard surface. This is highly
   advantageous, since the tape 11 is prevented from moving to a position in
   which it will give an incorrect reading regarding the number of doses in the
   canister.
                During compression and expansion of the forks in the radial direction
10 between the two configurations shown in Figures 18C and 19C, the forks 124,
   126 rotate about a point 316 on the split pin where the forks 124, 126 come
   together. This rotational action means that there is a camming action between
   the forks 124, 126 and the engagement surface 300 without significant friction
   but, nevertheless, the resilient forces provided by the regulator formed by the
15 engagement surface 300 and forks 124, 126 are able to regulate unwinding of
   the tape such that it does not easily occur during transit or if the inhaler 12 is
   dropped. It has been found during testing that a force of 0.3 to 0.4 N needs to
   be applied to the tape 1 12 to overcome the regulator at the stock bobbin 110.
   0.32 N is achieved with the control elements 128 having the profile shown in
20 Fig 19C and 0.38 N is achieved with the profile of the control elements 128
   altered to be as shown as described with reference to Fig 6F. These forces are
   substantially higher than the 0.1 N force mentioned above and undesirable
   movement of the tape is substantially avoided even if the inhaler is dropped
   onto a hard surface. The modified arrangement of Figures 15 to 20 does not
25 provide this force "constantly" such that there is overall not an undesirably
   high friction of the tape 112 as it passes over the other components of the dose
   counter because, due to the incremental nature of the resilient forces at the
   regulator, the tape 112 can incrementally relax as it slides over the stationary
   chassis components.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                             - 37
                Instead of having ten concavities 302 and convex wall portions 304,
   other numbers may be used, such as 8 or 12. However, it is preferred to have
   an even number, especially since two control elements 128, 130 are provided,
   so that all of the control elements            128, 130 will expand and contract
 5 simultaneously. However, other arrangements are envisaged with 3 or more
   forks and the number of concavities/convex wall portions may be maintained
   as an integer divisible by the number of forks to maintain a system with
   simultaneous expansion/contraction. For example, the use of 9, 12 or 15
   concavities/convex wall portions with 3 forks is envisaged.
10              Instead of having the engagement surface 300 on the inside of the stock
   bobbin 110, it could be placed on the outside of the stock bobbin 110 so as to
   be engaged by flexible external legs/pawls or similar.
                It will be noted that the regulator provided by the engagement surface
   300 and forks 124, 126 does not only allow rotation of the stock bobbin in one
15 direction as is the case with the ratchet wheel 94. Rotation in both directions is
   possible, i.e. forwards and backwards. This means that during assembly, the
   stock bobbin 110 can be wound backwards during or after fitting the bobbin
   100, shaft 106 and tape 112 onto the carriage 102, if desired.
                The stock bobbin 110 and the carriage 102 including the split pin 108
20 are both moulded of polypropylene material.
                It will be seen from Figure 16 that the cross-sectional shape 301 is not
   symmetrical within the hexagonal socket 204. This has enabled the hexagonal
   socket 204 to be maintained at a useful size while still allowing the desired size
   and geometry of the cross section 301 to fit without interfering with the
25 hexagonal shape of the hexagonal socket 204 and also permits moulding to
   work during manufacture.
                As shown in Figure 17, the stock bobbin 110 has a series of four
   circumferential ribs 330 inside it and a spaced therealong. These hold the stock
   bobbin 110 on the correct side of the mould tool during moulding.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                          - 38
                FIGS. 21 and 22 show a preferred embodiment of an inhaler 510 for
   dispensing a dry-powdered medicament in metered doses for patient inhalation.
   The inhaler 510 is as disclosed in Figures 1 to 16 of EP- A- 1330280, the
   contents of which are hereby fully incorporated herein by reference, but with
 5 the stock bobbin 110 and second shaft 108 of the dose counter 516 modified so
   as to be as in Figs 15 to 20 hereof. Thus, the dry powder inhaler 510 generally
   includes a housing 518, and an assembly 512 received in the housing (see FIG.
   21). The housing 518 includes a case 520 having an open end 522 and a
   mouthpiece 524 (Fig 25) for patient inhalation, a cap 526 secured to and
10 closing the open end 522 of the case 520, and a cover 528 pivotally mounted to
   the case 520 for covering the mouthpiece 524. As shown in Fig 22, the inhaler
   510 also includes an actuation spring 569, first yoke 566 with opening 572,
   bellows 540 with crown 574, a reservoir 514, second yoke 568 with hopper
   542 and dose counter 516 mounted thereto, and
15 case 520 has transparent window 5130 thereon for viewing dose counter tape
   indicia 5128. The dose metering system also includes two cams 570 mounted
   on the mouthpiece cover 528 and movable with the cover 528 between open
   and closed positions. The cams 570 each include an opening 580 for allowing
   outwardly extending hinges 582 of the case 520 to pass therethrough and be
20 received in first recesses 584 of the cover 528. The cams 570 also include
   bosses 586 extending outwardly and received in second recesses 588 of the
   cover 528, such that the cover 528 pivots about the hinges 582 and the cams
   570 move with the cover 528 about the hinges 582. As described in EP-A
    1330280, cams 570 act upon cam followers 578 to move second yoke 568 up
25 and down and thereby operate dose counter by engagement of pawl 5138 on
   the second yoke 568 with teeth 5136. Remaining components of the inhaler are
   provided as in and operate as described in EP-A- 1330280.
                The dose counting system 516 therefore includes a ribbon or tape 5128
   (Figs 23 & 24), having successive numbers or other suitable indicia printed
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                           - 39
   thereon, in alignment with a transparent window 5130 provided in the housing
   18 (see Fig 22). The dose counting system 516 includes the rotatable stock
   bobbin 110 (as described above), an indexing spool 5134 rotatable in a single
   direction, and the ribbon 5128 rolled and received on the bobbin 110 and having
 5 a first end 5127 secured to the spool 5134, wherein the ribbon 5128 unrolls from
   the bobbin 110 so that the indicia are successively displayed as the spool 5134 is
   rotated or advanced. In Figs 23 and 24 the wavelike engagement surface 300 of
   the bobbin 110 is not shown for the purposes of clarity.
                The spool 134 is arranged to rotate upon movement of the yokes 566,
10 568 to effect delivery of a dose of medicament from reservoir 514, such that
   the number on the ribbon 5128 is advanced to indicate that another dose has
   been dispensed by the inhaler 510. The ribbon 5128 can be arranged such that
   the numbers, or other suitable indicia, increase or decrease upon rotation of the
   spool 5134. For example, the ribbon 5128 can be arranged such that the
15 numbers, or other suitable indicia, decrease upon rotation of the spool 5134 to
   indicate the number of doses remaining in the inhaler 510. Alternatively, the
   ribbon 5128 can be arranged such that the numbers, or other suitable indicia,
   increase upon rotation of the spool 5134 to indicate the number of doses
   dispensed by the inhaler 10.
20              The indexing spool 5134 includes radially extending teeth 5136, which
   are engaged by pawl 5138 extending from a cam follower 578 of the second
   yoke 568 upon movement of the yoke to rotate, or advance, the indexing spool
   5134. More particularly, the pawl 5138 is shaped and arranged such that it
   engages the teeth 5136 and advances the indexing spool 5134 only upon the
25 mouthpiece cover 528 being closed and the yokes 566, 568 moved back
   towards the cap 526 of the housing 518.
                The dose counting system 516 also includes a chassis 5140 that secures
   the dose counting system to the hopper 542 and includes shafts 108, 5144 for
   receiving the bobbin 1 10 and the indexing spool 5134. As described above
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                            - 40
   with reference to Figures 15 to 20, the bobbin shaft 108 is forked and includes
   radially projecting nubs 5146 for creating a resilient resistance to rotation of
   the bobbin 110 on the shaft 108 by engaging with the wavelike engagement
   surface 300 inside the bobbin 1 10. A clutch spring 5148 is received on the end
 5 of the indexing spool 5134 and locked to the chassis 5140 to allow rotation of
   the spool 5134 in only a single direction.
                Various modifications may be made to the embodiments shown and
   described above without departing from the scope of the invention as defined
   by the accompanying claims as interpreted under patent law.
10              In the claims which follow and in the preceding summary except where
   the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprising" is used in the sense of "including", that is,
   the features as above may be associated with further features in various
   embodiments.
15
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                              - 41
   CLAIMS:
   1.           A method of assembling an inhaler comprising a dose counter, the
   method comprising:
 5       assembling the dose counter by:
                attaching one end of a tape to a stock bobbin, the tape having dosing
   indicia;
                stowing the tape on the stock bobbin,
                securing a tape reel shaft to a distal end of the tape,
10              mounting the tape stock bobbin and the tape reel shaft onto separate
                shafts of the dose counter of the inhaler, and
                winding the tape onto the tape reel shaft; and
         wherein the dose counter so assembled is inserted into the inhaler.
15 2.           The method according to claim 1 wherein the tape further comprises
   tape positioning indicia and the method comprises stowing the tape on the tape
   stock bobbin while monitoring for the tape positioning indicia with a sensor.
   3.           The method according to any one of claims 2 wherein the sensor is a
20 camera or laser scanner.
   4.           The method according to any one of claims 2 or 3 further comprising
   transmitting data relating to the tape positioning indicia, by the sensor, to a
   computer controller.
25
   5.           The method according to claim 4 further comprising winding the tape,
   by a motor, onto the tape stock bobbin.
   6.           The method of claim 1 further comprising logging details of the tape in
30 a stocking system data store, the details including a number of tape positioning
   indicia on the tape.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                           - 42
   7.           A tape system for a dose counter for an inhaler, the tape system having
   an elongate tape structure, and dosing indicia located on the tape structure,
   wherein a first end of the tape is attached to a stock bobbin and a second end of
   the tape is fixed to a tape reel shaft, and wherein the tape is wound onto both
 5 the stock bobbin and tape reel shaft before the inhaler is fully assembled.
   8.           The tape system of claim 7, wherein the dosing indicia comprise
   numbers printed on the tape.
10 9.           The tape system according to claims 7 or 8 further comprising tape
   positioning indicia.
   10.          The tape system according to claim 9 wherein the tape positioning
   indicia comprise a series of lines that are each formed across the tape.
15
   11.          The tape system according to any one of claims 7 to 10 further
   comprising a tape size marker located on the tape structure that symbolizes a
   total number of dosing indicia on the tape.
20 12.          The tape system of claim 11, wherein the tape size marker is positioned
   between one end of the tape and the tape positioning indicia.
   13.          The tape system according to any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein the
   tape positioning indicia are positioned between one end of the tape and the
25 dosing indicia.
   14.          The tape system according to any one of claims 7 to 13, further
   comprising priming indicia.
30 15.          The tape system according to claim 14 wherein the priming indicia is
   positioned between the dosing indicia and the second end of the tape.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

                                                   - 43
   16.          The tape system according to any one claims 14 or 15 wherein the
   inhaler comprises a counter viewing window and wherein the tape is wound
   onto the tape reel shaft such that the priming indicia on the tape structure is to
   be aligned with the window on the inhaler when the inhaler is fully assembled.
 5
   17.          An inhaler comprising a tape system according to any one of claims 7
   to 16.
   18.          The         inhaler according    to claim   17  containing  a dry powder
10 medicament.
   19.          The         inhaler    according to   claim  17  comprising  a  pressurised
   medicament-containing canister.
   10477911_1 (GHMatters) P91747.AU.13

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
