                                                  21
USE OF LOCATION LULLS TO FACILITATE IDENTIFYING AND
RECORDING VIDEO CAPTURE LOCATION
ABSTRACT
         A method and system to facilitate identifying and recording capture location of recorded
video. A computing system determines multiple locations where a video camera has been
substantially stationary over time, such as by tracking location of the video camera itself or by
evaluating where supplemental device carried with the video camera has been substantially
stationary over time. The computing system then outputs, for presentation to the videographer or
another user, a location-selection prompt that specifies the multiple determined locations as
candidate capture-locations for a video that was captured by the video camera. Further, the
computing system receives, in response to the location-selection prompt, data that represents a
user selection of one of the specified locations. The computing system then records the selected
location as capture-location metadata for the video, such as capture-location data integrated with
the video or in a database relationship with the video.
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                  1
USE OF LOCATION LULLS TO FACILITATE IDENTIFYING AND
RECORDING VIDEO CAPTURE LOCATION
REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2015267355, filed on 20 May 2015, the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 14/288,019, filed May 27, 2014,
the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In addition, the entirety of U.S. Patent
Application No. 14/288,027, filed May 27, 2014, is also hereby incorporated by reference.
Background
[0002] Unless otherwise indicated herein, the materials described in this section are not prior art
to the claims in this disclosure and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.
[0003] In news production, it is common to have videographers capture video in the field and to
transfer that video to a newsroom for use. In practice, the captured video could be transferred as
a live video feed to the newsroom, where the video could be broadcast in real-time, edited,
and/or stored for later use. Alternatively or additionally, the captured video could be stored and
perhaps edited in the field and subsequently transferred to the newsroom for further processing,
broadcast, and storage.
[0004] As a newsroom accumulates such captured videos, it would be useful for the videos to be
indexed in a meaningful manner, to facilitate later searching for desired footage. One way to do
this would be to record for each video an indication of location where the video was captured.
Provided with such location information, news production personnel could then conveniently
search through an archive of video data for video that was captured at a particular location.
Unfortunately, however, given the fast-paced nature of typical news production, it may be
difficult to reliably record such location information for captured video. Consequently, an
improvement is desired.
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                   2
Summary of Invention
[0004a] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome, or at least ameliorate
one or more disadvantages of existing arrangements.
[0005] Disclosed herein is a method and system to facilitate identifying and recording capture
location of video. The disclosed method and system can be usefully applied in the context of
news production as discussed above, but can also apply in other contexts, such as to facilitate
managing of personal or family video archives and/or managing of video recordings uploaded to
social media systems or cloud storage systems for instance.
[0006] In news production, a videographer may move from location to location to capture video
for various news stories. In practice, for instance, the videographer may travel in a motor vehicle
to various locations, transporting a video camera and associated equipment, along with other
news production staff. Once the videographer arrives at each location where the videographer is
to capture video, the videographer would then typically exit the vehicle and remove the video
camera, and operate the video camera to capture video at that location. Further, as noted above,
the captured video could be transferred to a newsroom as a live feed, or the captured video could
be stored and later uploaded to the newsroom for use.
[0007] As a videographer travels with a video camera between news locations, the videographer
and video camera would be in a state of motion, possibly at substantial speeds of the type
associated with movement of a motor vehicle or the like, such as over 10 miles per hour,
notwithstanding momentary stops for traffic signals or the like. Upon reaching a location where
the videographer is to capture video, the videographer and video camera may then slow down or
stop moving for period of time as the videographer records video. There, the videographer may
operate the video camera on a tripod in a fixed location, in which case the videographer and
video camera would be essentially still during the recording process. Alternatively, the
videographer may hold the video camera by hand as the videographer walks slowly throughout
the news location, perhaps at a walking speed on the order of 3 to 6 miles per hour. At such
locations, the videographer and video camera may thus be considered to be substantially
stationary, as they are not moving more than a predefined threshold rate of speed at that time,
such as not more than 6 miles per hour for example.
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                   3
[0008] The present method and system leverage the fact that a videographer and video camera
are often substantially stationary at news locations or at other video capture locations, to help
identify and record video capture locations for particular video recordings. In accordance with
the disclosure, for instance, when a videographer or other user is reviewing or processing a video
captured by the video camera, a computing system may present to the videographer or other user
a list of locations where the video camera has been substantially stationary and may then receive
in response from the videographer or other user a selection of at least one of the presented
locations as a capture location for the video. The computing system may then record that
location as capture-location metadata for the video, such as by meta-tagging the video with the
capture location and/or by recording the capture location in a database relationship with the
video.
[0009] More particularly in accordance with the disclosure, a computing system will determine
multiple locations where a video camera has been substantially stationary over time, such as by
tracking location of the video camera itself or by evaluating where a supplemental device carried
with the video camera has been substantially stationary over time. The computing system will
then output, for presentation to the videographer or another user, a location-selection prompt that
specifies the multiple determined locations as candidate capture-locations for a video that was
captured by the video camera. Further, the computing system will receive, in response to the
location-selection prompt, data that represents a user selection of one of the specified locations.
In turn, the computing system will then record the selected location as capture-location metadata
for the captured video.
[0010] In practice, the computing system may include at least one processor, at least one data
storage, and program instructions stored in the at least one data storage and executable by the at
least one processor to carry out these functions. Further, the computing system may take the
form of a single computing device, such as a portable computer or a server, that carries out the
various indicated functions. Alternatively, the computing device may comprise multiple
computing devices that work together to carry out the indicated functions. For instance, the
computing system may include a supplemental device that tracks location and identifies
locations as "location lulls" where there is less than a predefined threshold extent of movement.
Further, the computing system may separately include a remote server, such as a newsroom
server, that receives the captured video and a list of the identified location lulls and that presents
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                   4
the location-selection prompt, receives the input representing the user selection of a capture
location, and records the selected capture location as metadata for the video. Other arrangements
are possible as well.
[0011] Thus, in a particular implementation, the disclosed method may involve a computing
system receiving video data that represents video captured by a video camera operated by a
videographer. Further, the method may involve the computing system receiving, from a
supplemental device associated with the videographer, a set of location data that specifies a
plurality of location lulls of the supplemental device, where the plurality of location lulls of the
supplemental device correspond with location lulls of the video camera operated by the
videographer. The method may then involve the computing system determining, based on the
location data, locations corresponding with the specified location lulls and outputting a location
selection prompt that specifies the determined locations, to allow user selection of one of the
determined locations as a capture location of the received video. In turn, the method may then
involve the computing system receiving, in response to the location-selection prompt, data
representing user selection of one of the locations specified by the location-selection prompt, and
recording the selected location as capture-location metadata for the received video data. In
practice, the computing system may be a news-production computing system, including least one
processor, such as a newsroom server, or may take other forms.
[0011 a] In one aspect of the disclosure, there is provided a method of establishing capture
location metadata for captured video, the method comprising: receiving, into a computing
system, video data representing video captured by a video camera; determining by the computing
system a geographic location where the video camera has been substantially stationary, wherein
determining the geographic location where the video camera has been substantially stationary is
based on (i) tracking geographic locations of the video camera over time, (ii) identifying, based
on the tracking, an instance where the video camera did not move more than a predefined
threshold extent per unit time, and (iii) determining as the geographic location a location
corresponding with the identified instance; and responsive to at least the determining of the
geographic location, recording by the computing system the determined geographic location as
capture-location metadata for the video.
[001 1b] In another aspect of the disclosure, there is provided a method comprising: receiving,
into a computing system, video data representing video captured by a video camera operated by
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                    5
a videographer, wherein the computing system comprises at least one processor; receiving, into
the computing system, from a supplemental device associated with the videographer, a set of
location data that specifies a location lull of the supplemental device, wherein the location lull of
the supplemental device corresponds with a location lull of the video camera operated by the
videographer; determining, by the computing system, based on the location data, a location
corresponding with the specified location lull; and recording, by the computing system,
determined location as capture-location metadata for the received video data.
[0011 c] In another aspect of the disclosure, there is provided a computing system comprising: at
least one processor; at least one data storage; and program instructions stored in the at least one
data storage and executable by the at least one processor to carry out functions comprising:
receiving video data representing video captured by a video camera, determining a geographic
location where the video camera has been substantially stationary, wherein determining the
geographic location where the video camera has been substantially stationary is based on (i)
tracking geographic locations of the video camera over time, (ii) identifying, based on the
tracking, an instance where the video camera did not move more than a predefined threshold
extent per unit time, and (iii) determining as the geographic location a location corresponding
with the identified instance, and responsive to at least the determining of the geographic location,
recording the determined geographic location as capture-location metadata for the video.
[0012] These as well as other aspects, advantages, and alternatives will become apparent to those
of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description, with reference where
appropriate to the accompanying drawings. Further, it should be understood that the descriptions
provided in this summary and below are intended to illustrate the invention by way of example
only and not by way of limitation.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0013] Figure 1 is a simplified block diagram of an example arrangement for implementing the
present method.
[0014] Figure 2 is a flow chart depicting example functions that can be carried out in accordance
with the method.
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                    6
[0015] Figure 3 is a simplified block diagram of another example arrangement for implementing
the method.
[0016] Figure 4 is another flow chart depicting example functions that can be carried out in
accordance with the method.
[0017] Figure 5 is a simplified block diagram of an example computing system for implementing
the method.
Description of Embodiments
[0018] Referring to the drawings, as noted above, Figure 1 is a simplified block diagram
depicting an example arrangement for implementing the present method. As shown, the example
arrangement includes a video camera 12, a computing system 14, and a user 16. In practice, the
user 16 may be a videographer who operates the video camera 12 or may be another individual,
such as another news production staff person for instance. The computing system 14 may then
comprise one or more computing devices, such as portable computing devices and/or servers.
Further, although the computing system 14 is shown separate from the video camera 14, it may
also be feasible to incorporate part or all of the computing system with the video camera itself.
[0019] In the arrangement shown, the computing system 14 is arranged to receive, or otherwise
have access to, video captured by the video camera and to thus hold video data 18 representing
the captured video. Further, the computing system is arranged to hold metadata 20 for the video,
with the metadata being integrated with the video as header data or the like, or stored separately
but in a database relationship with the video.
[0020] As illustrated, the computing system is arranged to interact with the user, such as to
present the user with a location-prompt that specifies various locations determined to be location
lulls of the video camera, and to receive from the user a selection of one of the specified
locations as a capture location for a video recorded by the video camera. Further, the computing
system is arranged to record the selected location as a capture-location metadata for the video.
[0021] As such, Figure 1 conceptually illustrates the computing system as including a location
lull detector 24, a location-lull selector 26, and a metadata recorder 28, which could be provided
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                   7
as separate or integrated modules by at least one programmed processor or in another
arrangement. In this arrangement, the location-lull detector 24 functions to determine location
lulls of the video camera, as locations where the video camera has been substantially stationary
over time. The location-lull selector 26 then functions to provide a location-selection prompt
specifying locations corresponding with the determined location lulls, and to receive input
representing user selection of one of the specified locations as a capture location of a video
captured by the video camera. Further, the metadata recorder 28 functions to record the selected
location as a capture location of the captured video, such as by recording corresponding location
data in the video or video file or in a database relationship with the video.
[0022] Figure 2 is next a flow chart depicting functions that can be carried out by a computing
system such as this in accordance with the present method, to identify and record capture
location of a video captured by the video camera. In practice, these functions could be carried
out after the video camera captures the video, such as upon review of the captured video by the
videographer or other user.
[0023] As shown in Figure 2, at step 28, the computing system determines a plurality of
locations where the video camera has been substantially stationary, as location lulls of the video
camera. At step 30, the computing system then outputs a location-selection prompt specifying
the plurality of locations as candidate capture-locations for the captured video. In turn, at step
32, the computing system receives, in response to the location-selection prompt, user input
selecting one of the specified locations. At step 34, the computing system then records the
selected location as capture-location metadata for the captured video.
[0024] In practice, the step of determining the plurality of location lulls of the video camera
could take various forms, taking into consideration a number of metrics. By way of example,
this step could involve tracking the location of the video camera over time, identifying based on
the tracking, instances where the video camera did not move more than a predefined threshold
extent per unit time, and determining locations corresponding with those identified instances.
[0025] More particularly, the computing system may periodically determine a location of the
video camera and may thereby establish and store a sequence of location data points representing
location of the video camera over time, including for each location data point a corresponding
timestamp indicating date and time that the video camera was at the indicated location. While
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                   8
establishing this sequence of location data points, or after doing so, the computing system may
then analyze the sequence in search of subsets of location data points representing location that
did not change at more than a predefined threshold rate, and thus representing instances where
the video camera was substantially stationary. The computing system may then determine for
each such group of location data points a corresponding geographic location, such as a location
that is a geometric average of the location data points, and deem each such location to be one of
the location lulls. For each such location lull, the computing system may thus record in data
storage an indication of a corresponding location and timestamp.
[0026] For this purpose, the computing system could periodically determine the location of the
video camera by determining the location of a supplemental device expected to be near the video
camera, such as a cell phone or other such device registered to and thus likely to be carried by a
videographer who operates the video camera. In this way, the location of the supplemental
device would serve as a proxy or representation of the location of the video camera, given that
the supplemental device is likely to be co-located with the video camera, even though at times
the supplemental device may not be actually co-located with the video camera. Alternatively,
the computing system could more directly track the location of the video camera itself.
[0027] Further, the location data points established as a representation of location of the video
camera over time could take various forms and be determined in various ways, and could be
evaluated in various ways to identify location lulls. By way of example, the location data points
could be geographic location coordinates, such as latitude and longitude coordinates for instance,
determined by use of a satellite-based positioning system, such as the Global Positioning System
(GPS). For instance, a supplemental device such as a cell phone carried by the videographer
could include a GPS module and could be arranged to periodically determine and record its
geographic location coordinates as location data points. The cell phone or another computing
device could then evaluate those geographic locations to identify as location lulls locations
where the geographic location did not change more than a predefined threshold extent per unit
time.
[0028] As another example, the location data points could be locations designated within, or
determined by coverage of, a cellular wireless communication network. For instance, the
videographer's cell phone could be arranged to periodically determine and record as location
data points the base station coverage areas in which the cell phone is located and perhaps round
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                   9
trip signal delays indicating distance of the cell phone from those base stations. The cell phone
or another computing device may then evaluate that data to identify as location lulls locations
where the cellular coverage did not change more than a threshold extent per unit time, optimally
determining and recording geographic location coordinates corresponding with each such
location.
[0029] To identify instances where the location did not change more than a threshold extent per
unit time, the computing system may comb through the sequence of location data points,
comparing sequential points and sequential groups of points, to determine whether the location
indicated by those points did not change more than a predefined threshold extent. If the points
are recorded periodically, such a determination could then be deemed a determination that the
location as indicated by the group of points did not change more than a threshold extent per unit
time, and thus that there was an absence of movement more than a predefined threshold extent
per unit time. Through this process, the computing system could deem the video camera to have
been substantially stationary in response to the computing system determining that location of
the video camera did not change at more than a predefined threshold rate for at least a designated
period of time, such for at least five or ten minutes, reasonably indicating that the video camera
was likely substantially stationary for more than just a moment. As such, the computing system
could disregard instances where the video camera was just briefly stationary, as may occur when
a motor vehicle transporting the video camera stops in traffic or at traffic lights for instance.
[0030] Furthermore, in determining whether the video camera was moving more than a threshold
extent per unit time, the computing system could consider metrics from one or more other
sensors as well. Such sensors could similarly be integrated with the video camera or provided in
a supplemental device such as a cell phone carried by the videographer for instance.
[0031] By way of example, an accelerometer could provide measures of acceleration and
deceleration over time, and the computing system could deem those measures to indicate
movement associated with being in a motor vehicle or rather to indicate lack of such movement
and perhaps being substantially stationary. As another example, a battery temperature sensor
could provide measures of battery temperature over time, and the computing system could deem
sufficient change in such temperature to indicate substantial movement, as may result from
moving between indoors and outdoors or the like, and could deem the absence of such change to
indicate lack of such movement and perhaps being substantially stationary. Further, as still
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                  10
another example, a pressure sensor could provide measures of pressure over time, and the
computing system could deem a sufficient change in pressure to indicate substantial movement,
as may result from moving between areas of different levels of pressure, and could deem the
absence of such change to indicate lack of movement and perhaps being substantially stationary.
Other examples are possible as well.
[0032] In line with the discussion above, once the computing system has determined locations
representing location lulls of the video camera, the computing system may present the
videographer or another user with a prompt that specifies those locations as candidate capture
locations and may receive from the user a selection of one of the specified locations to be
recorded as capture-location metadata for a video captured by the camera. In practice, for
instance, this could occur when the videographer or another user is reviewing video footage
captured by the camera, such as in the field or at a newsroom. At that time, the user could enter
into the computing system a relevant time range, or the computing system could automatically
select a relevant time range, such as the past day or week for instance, and the computing system
may then present the user with a prompt specifying locations representing determined location
lulls of the video camera in that time period.
[0033] In practice, the computing system may interact with the user through a graphical user
interface, such as through a Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) interface for instance.
Through that interface, the computing system may output a representation of the video captured
by the video camera and may allow a user to view and select all or a portion of the video as the
video recording at issue. For instance, the interface may incorporate a media player that plays
the captured video and may include controls selectable by the user to cause the computing
system to play designated portions of the video and to receive user input demarcating start and
end points defining the video recording at issue. Further, through the interface, the computing
system may prompt the user to designate a relevant time period for consideration of location
lulls, such as by presenting a calendar and/or clock object through which the user can designate
beginning and end times for the time period at issue. The computing system may then present on
the interface the prompt specifying the locations representing determined location lulls of the
video camera in that time period and may receive the user selection of one of the specified
locations.
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                   11
[0034] Optimally, the location prompt will specify the locations in a manner that is readily
understandable by the user, rather than as geographic location coordinates. Thus, if the
computing system has stored the set of locations as latitude/longitude coordinates, the computing
system may refer to mapping data to programmatically translate those location coordinates into a
more user-understandable form. By way of example, the computing system could translate the
location coordinates into a graphical map of a region with pin-markers, balloons, or other
graphical objects illustrating the various determined locations on the map, and the computing
system may present the resulting map graphic as a graphical user interface and receive input
representing user clicking or other selection of one of the illustrated locations. Further, as
another example, the computing system could translate the location coordinates to city and street
addresses, names of points of interest, or other user-understandable form and could present a
drop-down list from which the user could then readily select one of the specified locations.
[0035] Once the computing system thus receives from the user a selection of one of the specified
locations, the computing system may then record the selected location as capture-location
metadata for the video recording at issue. As noted above, the computing system may do this in
various ways. By way of example, the computing system may record the selected location as
capture-location metadata within a file representing the video itself, or separately but in a
database relationship with the video. For instance, the computing system may store a data file
representing the video recording at issue and may write to a header or other portion of that data
file a specification of the selected location as a capture location of the video. Alternatively or
additionally, the computing system may store a data file representing the video recording at issue
and may write to a database a relationship between that data file and the capture location. In
either case, recording the capture location of the video may then allow subsequent searching for
the video based on the recorded capture location.
[0036] As noted above, the computing system that carries out these functions could be provided
as a single computing device or distributed among multiple devices. Further, part or all of the
computing system could be co-located with the video camera and videographer or could be
provided remotely, possibly accessible over a web interface or the like.
[0037] In one example implementation, for instance, the computing system could be provided
fully in the form of one or more computing devices local to the videographer and the video
camera. For instance, the videographer may have a cell phone that the videographer keeps in his
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                   12
or her pocket and perhaps a portable computer (e.g., computer server) such as a notebook
computer or tablet computer that the videographer brings with to news locations, and the cell
phone and portable computer may be programmed to run one or more applications that cause
them to carry out functions described herein. Further, the cell phone, portable computer, and
video camera may be configured to communicate with each other through wired and/or wireless
links in accordance with any agreed protocol.
[0038] In that arrangement, the videographer's cell phone may track its own location over time
as representative of location of the video camera over time and may determine the location lulls
as discussed above and perhaps transmit to the portable computer specifications of the
determined location lulls, possibly taking into account various sensor metrics as discussed above.
Alternatively, the cell phone may track its location over time and transmit raw location data
points to the portable computer, and the portable computer may determine the location lulls as
discussed above.
[0039] Further, the videographer's cell phone and/or portable computer may receive from the
video camera video data representing a video captured by the video camera. For instance,
through communication with the video camera, the cell phone and/or portable computer may
receive a data file representing the captured video or may receive a real-time video stream. The
cell phone and/or portable computer may then present the video to a user via a display screen,
receive user selection of all or a portion of the video, and record in data storage the selected
video as the captured video at issue.
[0040] Still further, the cell phone and/or portable computer may receive from the user a
designation of a relevant time period and may present to the user a location-selection prompt
specifying the locations representing location lulls determined for that time period and receive
from the user a selection of one of the specified locations as capture location for the video at
issue. In turn, the cell phone and/or portable computer may then record the selected location as
capture-location metadata for the video, and/or may transmit to another computing device data
that correlates the capture location with the video.
[0041] In another example implementation, illustrated by Figure 3, the computing system could
include a remote server 36, such as a newsroom server, and a supplemental device such as a cell
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                   13
phone 38 or other device carried by the videographer, and a portable computer 40 that the
videographer uses in the field to interact with the remote server.
[0042] In that arrangement, the cell phone may track its location over time and may evaluate the
location data and identify location lulls representing location lulls of the video camera. At some
point after the videographer uses the video camera to capture video, the videographer may then
use the portable computer to log into the remote server and, through a web interface or other
interface provided by the remote server, to upload the resulting video data to the remote server.
Further, the remote server may obtain from the cell phone the determined location lulls and carry
out other functions described herein, including providing the location-prompt, receiving user
selection of a capture location, and recording the selected location as capture-metadata for a
designated video recorded by the video camera.
[0043] In this scenario, when the videographer (as operator of the video camera) logs into the
remote server, the remote server may determine an identity of the videographer based on that
login, such as based on a username provided by the videographer, and the remote server may
then programmatically correlate that videographer identity with an identity of the videographer's
cell phone, such as a phone number or other address at which the server can remotely access the
cell phone.
[0044] The remote server may then establish or make use of established communication with
that particular cell phone and request and receive from the cell phone a report of the determined
location lulls. For instance, the remote server may communicate with the cell phone through an
existing data session that the server has with the cell phone, or the remote server may
communicate with the cell phone in other ways, such as by Short Message Service messaging
(e.g., Wireless Application Protocol push messaging), and may programmatically transmit to the
cell phone a request for the location data representing the determined location lulls and receive
from the cell phone, in response to the request, the location data. Through this process, the cell
phone may be considered the device that determines the location lulls. Alternatively, the remote
server may be considered the device that determines the location lulls, by receiving the location
data that specifies the location lulls and reading that received data.
[0045] Further, through the web interface or other interface that the remote server has with the
videographer, the remote server may output for presentation to the videographer the uploaded
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                   14
video and receive from the videographer a selection of all or part of the video as the video at
issue and of a relevant time period.
[0046] In addition, through the interface, the remote server may output for presentation to the
videographer a location-selection prompt specifying locations representing the video camera
location lulls determined for that time period, and receive from the videographer a selection of at
least one of the specified locations as a capture location of the video at issue. In practice, this
output of the location-selection prompt could be output of an HTML page or the like that defines
the prompt, and the videographer's portable computer may render that page for presentation to
the videographer. Through interaction with that rendered page, the videographer may then select
one of the specified locations, and the portable computer may responsively transmit to the
remote server, in an HTTP POST message for instance, data that represents the user selected
capture location.
[0047] In turn, the remote server may then record the selected location as capture-location
metadata for the video at issue. In particular, the remote server may record the selected location
as capture-location metadata in a video file representing the video at issue, and/or the remote
server may record the selected location as capture-location metadata in a database relationship
with such a video file.
[0048] Figure 4 is next another flow chart depicting functions that can be carried out in
accordance with the present method, to identify and record capture location of a video captured
by the video camera. Although various steps are shown in a particular order in this figure, it will
be understood that variations are possible. For instance, certain steps could be carried out in
different order or in parallel with other steps.
[0049] As shown in Figure 4, at step 42, a computing system receives video data representing
video captured by a video camera operated by a videographer. Further, at step 44, the computing
system receives, from a supplemental device associated with the videographer, such as a cell
phone or other device registered to and thus likely to be carried by the videographer, a set of
location data that specifies a plurality of location lulls of the supplemental device, the plurality of
location lulls of the supplemental device corresponding with location lulls of the video camera
operated by the videographer.
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                  15
[0050] In line with the discussion above, for instance, the computing system may receive the
video data through a first communication session with the videographer, such as through a
communication session with a portable computer operated by the videographer. Further,
responsive to that first communication session being with the videographer, the computing
system may determine which supplemental device is associated with the videographer and may
establish a second communication session with the determined supplemental device and receive
the location data from the supplemental device through that established second communication
session.
[0051] At step 46, the computing system determines, based on the location data, locations
corresponding with the specified location lulls. At step 48, the computing system then outputs a
location-selection prompt specifying the determined locations, to allow user selection of one of
the determined locations as a capture location of the received video. Furhter, at step 50, the
computing system receives, in response to the location-selection prompt, data representing user
selection of one of the locations specified by the location-selection prompt.
[0052] For instance, again in line with the discussion above, the computing system may output
the location-selection prompt in the first communication session with the videographer. Further,
the computing system may then receive in the first communication session the data representing
the user selection of one of the locations specified by the location-selection prompt.
[0053] At step 52, the computing system then records the selected location as capture-location
metadata for the received video data, such as by recording the selected location as capture
location metadata in the video data and/or by recording the selected location as capture-location
metadata separate from the video data but in a database relationship with the video data.
[0054] Finally, Figure 5 is a simplified block diagram depicting components of an example
computing system operable to carry out the present method. As shown in the figure, the example
computing system includes one or more processors 54, one or more data storage units 56, and
one or more input/output modules 58, all of which may be communicatively linked together by a
system bus, network, and/or other connection mechanism 60.
[0055] Processor(s) 54 may comprise one or more general purpose processors (e.g.,
microprocessors) and/or one or more special purpose processors (e.g., application specific
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                   16
integrated circuits). Data storage unit(s) 56 may then comprise one or more volatile and/or non
volatile storage units, such as magnetic, optical, or flash storage, and may be integrated in whole
or in part with processor(s) 54. Further, input/output module(s) 58 may comprise one or more
user interface modules for providing output to a user and receiving input from a user, and/or one
or more communication interface modules such as wireless or wired network communication
interfaces to facilitate communication with one or more other devices as described above.
[0056] As shown, data storage unit(s) 56 hold video data 18 and metadata 20 as discussed above.
Further, data storage unit(s) hold program instructions 62, which are executable by processor(s)
54 to carry out various functions described herein. For instance, the program instructions may be
executable by the processor(s) to (i) determine a plurality of locations where a video camera has
been substantially stationary, (ii) output a location-selection prompt specifying the determined
plurality of locations as candidate capture-locations for a video captured by the video camera,
(iii) receive, in response to the location-selection prompt, data that represents a user selection of
one of the specified locations, and (iv) record the selected location as capture-location metadata
for the captured video.
[0057] Exemplary embodiments have been described above. Those skilled in the art will
understand, however, that changes and modifications may be made to these embodiments
without departing from the true scope and spirit of the invention.
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                  17
CLAIMS
1.      A method of establishing capture-location metadata for captured video, the method
comprising:
         receiving, into a computing system, video data representing video captured by a video
camera;
         determining by the computing system a geographic location where the video camera has
been substantially stationary, wherein determining the geographic location where the video
camera has been substantially stationary is based on (i) tracking geographic locations of the
video camera over time, (ii) identifying, based on the tracking, an instance where the video
camera did not move more than a predefined threshold extent per unit time, and (iii) determining
as the geographic location a location corresponding with the identified instance; and
         responsive to at least the determining of the geographic location, recording by the
computing system the determined geographic location as capture-location metadata for the
video.
2.      The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving into the computing system user-input
confirming the determined geographic location as a capture location for the video, wherein the
recording of the determined geographic location as capture-location metadata for the video is
additionally responsive to the user-input confirming the determined geographic location as the
capture location for the video.
3.      The method of claim 1, wherein tracking geographic locations of the video camera over
time comprises tracking geographic locations over time of a supplemental device associated with
an operator of the video camera.
4.      The method of claim 3, where tracking geographic locations of the supplemental device is
based on satellite-based positioning.
5.      The method of claim 3, wherein the computing system comprises the supplemental device.
6.      The method of claim 3, wherein the supplemental device is a cell phone.
7.      The method of claim 1, wherein the captured video is news video.
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                  18
8.      The method of claim 1, further comprising the tracking and identifying.
9.      The method of claim 1, wherein identifying, based on the tracking, the instance where the
video camera did not move more than a predefined threshold extent per unit time is based on
sensor data selected from the group consisting of accelerometer data, battery temperature sensor
data, and pressure sensor data.
10.     The method of claim 1, wherein recording by the computing system the determined
geographic location as capture-location metadata for the video comprises a function selected
from the group consisting of (i) recording the determined geographic location as capture-location
metadata in the video data and (ii) recording the selected location as capture-location metadata
separate from the video data but in a database relationship with the video data.
11.     The method of claim 10, wherein recording the determined geographic location as capture
location metadata in the video data comprises writing the determined geographic location to a
file header.
12.     A method comprising:
         receiving, into a computing system, video data representing video captured by a video
camera operated by a videographer, wherein the computing system comprises at least one
processor;
         receiving, into the computing system, from a supplemental device associated with the
videographer, a set of location data that specifies a location lull of the supplemental device,
wherein the location lull of the supplemental device corresponds with a location lull of the video
camera operated by the videographer;
         determining, by the computing system, based on the location data, a location
corresponding with the specified location lull; and
         recording, by the computing system, determined location as capture-location metadata for
the received video data.
13.     The method of claim 12, further comprising:
         outputting, by the computing system, a location-selection prompt specifying the
determined location, and receiving user input designating the specified location as capture
location for the video.
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                   19
14.     The method of claim 12, wherein receiving the video data comprises receiving the video
data through a first communication session with the videographer, and wherein receiving the
location data from the supplemental device associated the videographer comprises:
         responsive to the first communication session being with the videographer, (i)
determining which supplemental device is associated with the videographer, and (ii) establishing
a second communication session with the determined supplemental device; and
         receiving the location data from the supplemental device through the established second
communication session.
15.     The method of claim 14, wherein the supplemental device is a cell phone.
16.     The method of claim 14, wherein the location lull defines absence of movement more than
a predefined threshold extent per unit time.
17.     The method of claim 12, wherein recording, by the computing system, the selected location
as capture-location metadata for the received video data comprises a function selected from the
group consisting of (i) recording the selected location as capture-location metadata in the video
data and (ii) recording the selected location as capture-location metadata separate from the video
data but in a database relationship with the video data.
18.    A computing system comprising:
         at least one processor;
         at least one data storage; and
         program instructions stored in the at least one data storage and executable by the at least
one processor to carry out functions comprising:
         receiving video data representing video captured by a video camera,
         determining a geographic location where the video camera has been substantially
stationary, wherein determining the geographic location where the video camera has been
substantially stationary is based on (i) tracking geographic locations of the video camera over
time, (ii) identifying, based on the tracking, an instance where the video camera did not move
more than a predefined threshold extent per unit time, and (iii) determining as the geographic
location a location corresponding with the identified instance, and
         responsive to at least the determining of the geographic location, recording the
determined geographic location as capture-location metadata for the video.
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                 20
19.     The computing system of claim 18,
         wherein the computing system further comprises a supplemental device separate from the
video camera,
         wherein tracking geographic locations of the video camera over time comprises tracking
geographic locations of the supplemental device over time, and
         wherein identifying, based on the tracking, an instance where the video camera did not
move more than a predefined threshold extent per unit time comprises identifying, based on the
tracking of geographic locations of the supplemental device over time, an instance where the
supplemental device did not move more than the predefined threshold extent per unit time.
20.     The computing system of claim 18, wherein recording the determined geographic location
as the capture-location metadata for the received video data comprises an operation selected
from the group consisting of (i) recording the determined geographic location as capture-location
metadata in the video data and (ii) recording the determined geographic location as capture
location metadata separate from the video data but in a database relationship with the video data.
                              Tribune Broadcasting Company, LLC
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON
1AIAAAAA 1

                                                       <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                                                                             14
 VIDEO
CAMERA   12
                                            VIDEO
     VIDEO                                                   METADATA
                                     18     DATA        20
                                                                                       1/5
                  USER           LOCATION           LOCATION
                                                                      METADATA
              INTERACTION          LULL               LULL
                                                                      RECORDER
                                 DETECTOR     26    SELECTOR     28
                            24
16
                             COMPUTING SYSTEM

                             2/5
<removed-date>
                 DETERMINE A PLURALITY OF
              LOCATIONS WHERE VIDEO CAMERA
<removed-apn>
                 HAS BEEN SUBSTANTIALLY
              STATIONARY, AS LOCATION LULLS
                                                28
                   OF THE VIDEO CAMERA
                OUTPUT A LOCATION-SELECTION
              PROMPT SPECIFYING THE PLURALITY
                 OF LOCATIONS AS CANDIDATE
                 CAPTURE-LOCATIONS FOR THE      30
                      CAPTURED VIDEO
                RECEIVE, IN RESPONSE TO THE
                LOCATION-SELECTION PROMPT,
              USER INPUT SELECTING ONE OF THE
                    SPECIFIED LOCATIONS         32
              RECORD THE SELECTED LOCATION
              AS CAPTURE-LOCATION METADATA
                  FOR THE CAPTURED VIDEO        34

                                      <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
12
  VIDEO
 CAMERA
                                       SERVER
            CELL
           PHONE
                                                36
      16           38
                              40                                   3/5
                   COMPUTER        NEWSROOM

                               4/5
<removed-date>
               RECEIVE VIDEO DATA REPRESENTING
               VIDEO CAPTURED BY A VIDEO CAMERA
                  OPERATED BY A VIDEOGRAPHER
                                                      42
                  RECEIVE, FROM A SUPPLEMENTAL
<removed-apn>
                   DEVICE ASSOCIATED WITH THE
              VIDEOGRAPHER, A SET OF LOCATION DATA
                  THAT SPECIFIES A PLURALITY OF
               LOCATION LULLS OF THE SUPPLEMENTAL
                DEVICE, THE PLURALITY OF LOCATION
                                                      44
               LULLS CORRESPONDING WITH LOCATION
               LULLS OF THE VIDEO CAMERA OPERATED
                      BY THE VIDEOGRAPHER
               DETERMINE, BASED ON THE LOCATION
              DATA, LOCATIONS CORRESPONDING WITH
                 THE SPECIFIED LOCATION LULLS
                                                      46
                  OUTPUT A LOCATION-SELECTION
               PROMPT SPECIFYING THE DETERMINED
              LOCATIONS, TO ALLOW USER SELECTION
              OF ONE OF THE DETERMINED LOCATIONS
                 AS A CAPTURE LOCATION OF THE         48
                         RECEIVED VIDEO
              RECEIVE, IN RESPONSE TO THE LOCATION-
              SELECTION PROMPT, DATA REPRESENTING
                  USER SELECTION OF ONE OF THE
              LOCATIONS SPECIFIED BY THE LOCATION-
                                                      50
                         SELECTION PROMPT
               RECORD THE SELECTED LOCATION AS
              CAPTURE-LOCATION METADATA FOR THE
                     RECEIVED VIDEO DATA
                                                      52

                                                   <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
                                         INPUT/OUTPUT
          PROCESSOR(S)
     54                                    MODULE(S)
                                    58
                                                             60
                                                        62
                                                                                5/5
               VIDEO                            PROGRAM
               DATA           METADATA        INSTRUCTIONS
          18             20
56
      DATA STORAGE

