                                       Abstract
       Pharmaceutical  composition comprising    erythrocytes encapsulating   a PLP
dependent enzyme and its cofactor.
       The invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition containing a PLP
dependent enzyme and optionally its cofactor, pyridoxal phosphate (PLP), and/or a
phosphate or non-phosphate precursor of PLP, its use as a drug, its production method
and a therapeutic treatment method related to it. The pharmaceutical composition
comprises erythrocytes and a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle, the erythrocytes
encapsulating the PLP-dependent enzyme. The         PLP-dependent enzyme may be
methioninase, tyrosine phenol-lyase, tyrosine aminotransferase or cystathionine beta
synthase.

                                                   1
         Pharmaceutical composition comprising erythrocytes encapsulating a PLP
                               dependent enzyme and its cofactor
            The invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition containing a PLP
   dependent enzyme, for example methioninase, and optionally its cofactor, pyridoxal
 5 phosphate (PLP or P5P), and/or a phosphate or non-phosphate precursor of PLP, to its
   use as a drug, to its production method and to a therapeutic treatment method relating to
   it.
            This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015217045, the entire
   content of which is incorporated herein by reference.
10          Pyridoxal phosphate (PLP), a derivative of vitamin B6, is a cofactor used for a
   large variety of enzymes. Called herein "PLP enzymes" for PLP-dependent enzymes, they
   form a group of about 145 distinct enzymes involved for most of them in metabolic
   pathways for transforming amino acids. The reaction catalyzed by these enzymes
   includes decarboxylations, transaminations or further removal reactions (Percudani and
15 Perrachi, EMBO reports Vol. 4 no. 9, 2003).
            Because of the large number of enzymes belonging to the group of PLP enzymes
   and of reactions catalyzed by the latter, their potential use in human therapeutics has
   been investigated. From among the different opportunities for therapeutic intervention
   associated with PLP enzymes, their use in the treatment of cancer and of cardiovascular
20 pathologies has been the subject of many studies (EI-Sayed and Shindia "Targets in gene
   therapy" Prof. Yongping You ed., 2011). More particularly, methioninase would be of
   interest for depleting plasma methionine and inducing apoptosis of auxotrophic tumoral
   cells for this amino acid. It was shown that many human tumoral cells were incapable of
   proliferating when methionine is replaced with its precursor homocysteine while normal
25 cells have the capability of proliferating in such a medium. This dependency on
   methionine was notably observed for cell lines derived from breast, lung, colon, kidney,
   bladder, melanoma and glioblastoma cancers (Durando et al., Bull Cancer 2008; 95 (1):
   69-76).
          In spite of the therapeutic interest of the PLP enzymes, development of treatment
30 based on an administration via a systemic route of these enzymes comes up against
   significant limitations:
          *    the PLP enzymes are mainly obtained from prokaryotic organisms and are
              therefore strongly immunogenic in the case of administration to humans

                                                     2
          *    their half-life in plasma is short, requiring resorting to frequent administrations or
              to large doses in order to be able to obtain sufficient activity
          *    the low bioavailability of the PLP cofactor in plasma causes a rapid drop of their
              activity after administration.
 5        These limitations were widely described in the case of methioninase. Sun et al.
   have produced a recombinant methioninase in the Escherichia coli bacterium from the
   gene coding for the enzyme extracted from the Pseudomonas putida bacterium. The
   thereby obtained enzyme called rMETase was injected intravenously to immunodeficient
   mice. Twenty four hours after injection, the plasma activity of the enzyme, determined in
10 vitro without adding PLP, was undetectable, indicating its short action period (Sun et al.
   Cancer Research 63, 8377-8383, 2003).
          A year later, the same team published the results of administration of rMETase in
   macaques (Yang et al. Clinical Cancer Research Vol. 10, 2131-2138, 2004). In this study,
   rMETase doses of 1,000, 2,000 and 4,000 units/kg were administered intravenously to six
15 monkeys. A second injection was performed 28 days after the first and caused in two
   monkeys an anaphylactic shock causing the death of one of the two animals. The
   immunogenicity of rMETase            moreover caused the development of anti-rMETase
   antibodies of the IgG type (a majority) and of the IgM type for the majority of the treated
   animals (four out of six). The neutralizing nature of these antibodies was demonstrated in
20 vitro.
          In order to overcome the short half-life and immunogenicity limitations of their
   methioninase, the same authors then proposed resorting to pegylation of their enzyme.
   The grafting of PEG groups is a known technique for increasing the half-life and reducing
   the immunogenicity of therapeutic proteins. Activated PEG derivatives were put into the
25 presence of rMETase in order to obtain PEG-rMETase. This modification of the enzyme
   caused an increase in the half-life in mice from 2 h for the free enzyme to 38 h for the
   PEG-rMETase. This significant increase in half-life is accompanied with a reduction in
   immunogenicity (Sun et al. Cancer Research 63, 8377-8383, 2003).
          If pegylation partly met the problems of half-life and immunogenicity, a major
30 problem of PLP enzymes remains: the low bioavailability of the cofactor in the plasma.
   The PLP enzymes are catalytically active in the presence of their cofactor, PLP, this is
   then referred to as a holoenzyme. After injection, the holoenzyme is rapidly converted into
   an inactive apoenzyme because of the loss of the PLP cofactor.

                                                   3
           PLP brought in an exogenous way is rapidly unavailable for the enzyme, the plasma
   half-life of the free PLP only being about 15 minutes. This phenomenon                       was
   demonstrated in the case of the PLP enzyme, tyrosine phenol-lyase (TPL). Elmer et al.
   (Cancer Research 38; 3663-3667, 1978) purified TPL and injected it into normal mice.
 5 Five hours after the injection, blood samples were taken in order to assay the activity of
   the TPL. This activity assay was carried out according to two conditions: a portion of the
   samples were assayed without adding PLP, the other portion was assayed with addition of
   an optimal amount of PLP in the reaction mixture for the assay (both of these conditions
   reflecting the actually measured activity in plasma and the potential activity of the enzyme
10 if it had access to its PLP cofactor). The comparison of the obtained results shows that
   only 7% of the potential activity of the TPL is actually measured in the plasma. The same
   test was conducted with a group of mice, wherein, concomitantly to the injection of TPL, a
   large amount of PLP was administered, and then re-injections of PLP were carried out
   every hour. In this scenario, the comparison of the assay results shows that 37% of the
15 potential activity is actually measured in the plasma. Co-administration of PLP therefore
   gave the possibility of improving in a limited way the activity of TPL in plasma. However,
   PLP provided in an exogenous way is rapidly unavailable for TPL, the plasma half-life of
   free PLP being of about 15 minutes. Therefore, the rise in the plasma level of PLP by
   repeated injections of PLP in solution is not feasible. Elmer et al. proposed provision of
20 PLP in a prolonged way over time via an implant consisting of spermaceti and groundnut
   oil injected via an intramuscular route at the hip. Nevertheless, this solution was not found
   to be convincing, it does not manage to re-establish the activity actually measured in
   plasma beyond 25% of the potential activity and it does not improve in a statistically
   significant way the anti-tumoral effect of TPL in mice implanted with a melanoma B-16
25 tumor. Similar observations were made with methioninase. Sun et al. (Cancer Research
   63, 8377-8383, 2003) ascertain that in vitro, the holoenzyme PLP-rMETase is relatively
   stable but that in vivo, this complex is rapidly dissociated leading to a loss of activity of the
   rMETase. The authors further show that the methionine depletion duration obtained with
   rMETase as well as with PEG-rMETase may be improved by a PLP supplement via the
30 implantation of a PLP pump (a pump continuously administering PLP). Nevertheless, this
   continuous administration device will invariably be confronted with the problem of the low
   bioavailability of PLP in plasma.
           Therefore, although the therapeutic potential of the PLP enzymes has been the
   subject of much research work, in particular having led for methioninase to conducting

                                                    4
   pilot clinical trials, no demonstration of the clinical efficiency of these enzymes was able to
   be provided.
          Thus, with the purpose of utilizing the therapeutic potential of PLP enzymes, it
   would be advantageous to have a solution allowing these enzymes to be maintained in
 5 the presence of an optimum and available amount of PLP.
            Various methods have been described for allowing incorporation of active
   ingredients in erythrocytes. Among these methods, the so-called lysis-resealing technique
   is the most widespread. This technique comprises three alternatives, which are hypotonic
   dialysis, hypotonic <preswelling n and hypotonic dilution, all based on the difference in
10 osmotic pressure between the inside and the outside of the erythrocytes. These
   alternatives have in common the five following steps: packed Red Blood Cells are washed
   and centrifuged one or several times with a physiological buffer, the erythrocytes are put
   into contact with a hypotonic liquid medium resulting in the opening of pores in the
   erythrocyte membrane, the active ingredient enters the erythrocytes, the pores are closed
15 (< resealed n) by means of a hypertonic buffer, confining the active ingredient inside the
   erythrocytes, and the latter are then suspended in a preservation solution. Hypotonic
   dialysis technique is the most interesting technique and has been the subject of industrial
   developments. The one described in EP 1 773 452 is the most performing at the present
   time, it has the advantage of being reproducible and of improving the encapsulation rate
20 of the active ingredient.
            The encapsulation of enzymes in erythrocytes, with view to limiting the risks
   related to immunogenicity of the enzyme, to extending its half-life, was already proposed
   in research work which was the subject of scientific publications. Encapsulation of an
   enzyme, L-asparaginase, was described in EP 1 773 452, as well as arginine deiminase
25 in EP 1 874 341.
            The previous studies do not relate to an enzyme requiring a cofactorand do not
   tackle the complexity related to the kinetics of a PLP enzyme and of its PLP cofactor.
            An objective of the invention is to provide a pharmaceutical composition containing
   a PLP enzyme, which allows limitation of the risks related to the immunogenicity of the
30 enzyme, extension of its half-life, while putting the enzyme in the presence of an optimal
   and available amount of its PLP cofactor.
            The object of the invention is thus a suspension of erythrocytes in a
   pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle or a pharmaceutical                  composition comprising
   erythrocytes and a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle, the erythrocytes encapsulating a

                                                 5
   PLP enzyme. This will be hereafter referred to as a composition in order to equally refer to
   the suspension and the pharmaceutical composition. By < encapsulating ) is meant that
   the active ingredient (enzyme and optionally cofactor and/or other molecule) is essentially
   or totally present inside. < Essentially )) means that a minority proportion of the active
 5 ingredient may nevertheless be found trapped in the membrane.
           The composition notably contains from 0.01 to 30, preferably from 0.05 to 10 mg of
   PLP enzyme per ml of red blood cells.
           According to a first embodiment, the PLP enzyme is methioninase, further called,
   inter alia, L-methioninase, Methionine Gamma Lyase MGL, number EC 4.4.1.11,
10 CAS number 42616-25-1. In order to be aware of the methioninase sources which may be
   used according to the invention, mention may notably be made to the publication El Sayed
   A, Applied Microbiol. Biotechnol. (2010) 86: 445-467.
           According to a second embodiment, the PLP enzyme is Tyrosine Phenol-Lyase or
   TPL, EC 4.1.99.2, CAS 9059-31-8. Reference may be made to H. Kumagai et al., J. Biol.
15 Chem. 245, 7: 1767-72 and 245, 7: 1773-7.
           According to a third embodiment, the PLP enzyme is tyrosine aminotransferase
   (hTATase), EC 2.6.1.5, CAS 9014-55-5. Reference may be made to R. Rettenmeier et al.,
   Nucleic Acids Res. 1990, 18, 13: 3583-61.
            According to a fourth embodiment, the PLP enzyme is cystathionine beta
20 synthethase or synthase, EC 4.2.1.22, CAS 9023-99-8. Reference may be made to J.
   Kraus et al., J. Biol. Chem. 1978, 253, 18: 6523-8.
           The composition may further comprise the cofactor of the enzyme, i.e. PLP, and/or
   a precursor thereof, which may be a non-phosphate precursor, such as a non-phosphate
   form of vitamin B6, and/or a phosphate precursor such as pyridoxine phosphate (PNP).
25         Vitamin    B6 exists in different forms, either phosphate or non-phosphate.
   Pyridoxine phosphate (PNP), pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) and pyridoxamine phosphate
   (PMP) are the phosphate forms thereof. The corresponding non-phosphate forms are
   pyridoxine (PN), pyridoxal (PL), and pyridoxamine (PM). The non-phosphate forms of
   vitamin B6 may cross the erythrocyte membrane, which the phosphate forms can only
30 cross with difficulty. According to the predominant route (as described by Anderson et al.
   J. Clin. Invest. 1971, Vol. 50, 1901-1909), pyridoxine (PN) is transformed inside the
   erythrocytes into PNP under the effect of PN-kinase, PNP is then transformed into PLP
   under the effect of PNP-oxidase. The PLP may then be transformed into pyridoxal (PL)
   under the effect of PLP-phosphatase and the PL may leave the erythrocytes. It is easily

                                                   6
   understood that the provided precursor is able to undergo transformations in the
   erythrocytes during the preparation method or during the storage of the composition.
            By a non-phosphate form of vitamin B6, will be meant here one of the three
   "vitamers" of vitamin B6 or a mixture of two or three vitamers: PL, PN and PM. The PN
 5 form is preferred. They may also be in the form of a salt.
            The composition comprises PLP encapsulated in erythrocytes. The PLP may be
   provided during the encapsulation procedure or be totally or partly obtained in the
   erythrocytes from its precursor. The PLP either present or formed may be associated with
   the enzyme. The composition may therefore comprise the corresponding holoenzyme, for
10 example methioninase-PLP. Under these conditions, the half-life of the active enzyme, as
   observed for example with the duration of the plasma depletion of its substrate, is
   considerably increased. The composition according to the invention notably gives the
   possibility of preserving enzymatic activity beyond 24 hours after administration, notably at
   or beyond 1, 5, 10 or 15 days. By enzymatic activity is notably meant a depletion of more
15 than 20, 30, 40 or 50% of the substrate in the plasma.
            In an embodiment, the composition therefore comprises pyridoxal phosphate
   (PLP) and/or a non-phosphate form of vitamin B6 and/or a phosphate precursor,
   pyridoxine phosphate (PNP) and/or pyridoxamine phosphate (PMP).
            According to a feature, PNP and/or PMP is encapsulated inside the erythrocytes
20 within the composition. This precursor may be co-encapsulated with the enzyme or be
   totally or partly obtained in the erythrocytes from its own precursor.
            The composition notably comprises from about 0.05 to about 600, notably from
   about 0.5 to about 100, preferably from about 5 to about 50 pmoles of PLP and/or PNP
   and/or PMP, encapsulated per liter (L) of red blood cells.
25          According to a feature, the composition comprises erythrocytes encapsulating the
   PLP enzyme and PLP and further a non-phosphate PLP precursor, encapsulated in the
   erythrocytes, present inside the erythrocytes or present inside and outside               the
   erythrocytes. This non-phosphate precursor may be PN, PL or PM, preferably PN, or a
   mixture of two or three of these compounds. The non-phosphate precursor may be
30 present inside and/or outside the erythrocytes. The presence of this non-phosphate
   precursor gives the possibility of reaching a remarkably higher intra-erythrocyte PLP level
   than in the absence of this non-phosphate precursor.
            In an embodiment, the composition comprises erythrocytes encapsulating the PLP
   enzyme and in addition PLP and one of its phosphate precursors, PNP, PLP and/or PMP.

                                                  7
   This same composition may further comprise advantageously a non-phosphate precursor,
   notably PN, as this has just been described.
             The compositions according to the invention preferably have a hematocrit greater
   than or equal to 35%, 40% or 45%.
 5         According to an embodiment, the composition comprises erythrocytes and a
   pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle, the erythrocytes encapsulating the PLP enzyme,
   e.g. methioninase, on the one hand, and, vitamin B6 in a non-phosphate form, preferably
   PN, on the other hand, for simultaneous, separate or sequential administration. The
   composition may notably be in the form of a kit, comprising separately the erythrocytes
10 (suspension) and the vitamin B6 in a non-phosphate form, preferably PN (solution).
   According to an embodiment, the pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle is a < preservation
   solution n for erythrocytes, i.e. a solution in which the erythrocytes encapsulating an
   active ingredient are suspended in their suitable form for being stored while awaiting their
   injection. A preservation solution preferably comprises at least one agent promoting
15 preservation of the erythrocytes, notably selected from glucose, dextrose, adenine and
   mannitol. Advantageously, the preservation solution contains inorganic phosphate
   allowing inhibition of the intra-erythrocyte PLP-phosphatase enzyme.
           The preservation solution may be an aqueous solution comprising NaCl, adenine
   and at least one compound from among glucose, dextrose and mannitol. According to a
20 feature, it further comprises an inorganic phosphate.
           The preservation solution may comprise NaCl, adenine and dextrose, preferably
   an AS3 medium. According to a feature, it further comprises an inorganic phosphate.
           The preservation solution may comprise NaCl, adenine, glucose and mannitol,
   preferably a SAG-Mannitol or ADsol medium. According to a feature, it further comprises
25 an inorganic phosphate.
           In particular, the composition or suspension, in a preservation solution, is
   characterized by an extracellular hemoglobin level maintained at a level equal to or less
   than 0.5, in particular 0.3, notably 0.2, preferably 0.15, even better 0.1 g/dl at 72 h and
   preservation at a temperature comprised between 2 and 80C.
30         In particular, the composition or suspension, in a preservation solution, is
   characterized by an extracellular hemoglobin level maintained at a level equal to or less
   than 0.5, in particular 0.3, notably 0.2, preferably 0.15, even better 0.1 g/dl for a period
   comprised between 24 h and 20 days, notably between 24 and 72 h and preservation at a
   temperature comprised between 2 and 8C.

                                                  8
           The extracellular hemoglobin level is advantageously measured by the manual
   reference method described in G. B. Blakney and A. J. Dinwoodie, Clin. Biochem. 8, 96
   102, 1975. Automatic devices also exist which allows this measurement to be made with a
   sensitivity which is specific to them.
 5         In particular, the composition or suspension, in a preservation solution, is
   characterized by a hemolysis rate maintained at equal to or less than 2, notably 1.5,
   preferably 1% at 72 h and preservation at a temperature comprised between 2 and 80C.
           In particular, the composition or suspension, in a preservation solution, is
   characterized by a hemolysis rate maintained at equal to or less than 2, notably 1.5,
10 preferably 1% for a period comprised between 24 h and 20 days, notably between 24 and
   72 h and at a temperature comprised between 2 and 8C.
           In particular, the hematocrit of the suspension is equal to or greater than 35%,
   40%, 45%.
           According to a particular method, the metabolism of vitamin B6 in erythrocytes is
15 modified so as to increase the intra-erythrocyte PLP concentration by increasing the intra
   erythrocyte levels of PN-kinase and PNP-oxidase and/or by reducing the intra-erythrocyte
   level of PLP-phosphatase.
           According to a characteristic, the composition comprises, in addition to the PLP
   enzyme, e.g. methioninase, and to PLP or a precursor thereof, PN-kinase and/or PNP
20 oxidase and/or an agent inhibiting PLP-phosphatase. These enzymes or agents may be
   found encapsulated in the erythrocytes or be found outside and inside the erythrocytes.
           This (these) enzymes or agents may also be administered separately, by notably
   being mixed with the formulation of non-phosphate vitamin B6 when it is separated from
   the suspension of erythrocytes.
25         The object of the invention is thus such compositions for use as a drug.
           The object of the invention is notably a drug giving the possibility of providing to a
   patient in need thereof, a PLP enzyme and its cofactor, under conditions of good
   bioavailability, which means that the enzyme and its cofactor are available for each other
   and in an effective amount so that the enzyme is active and efficient in a therapeutic
30 application. The drug notably aims at depleting or reducing the plasma or circulating
   concentration and/or the concentration at an organ, of a substrate of the enzyme.
           According to a first sub-object, the drug comprises methioninase and allows
   depletion or reduction of the plasmatic or circulating methionine in a patient in need
   thereof. The drug is an anticancer drug, it allows treatment of a cancer, notably a cancer

                                                 9
   comprising tumoral cells auxotrophic for methionine, notably breast, lung, colon, kidney,
   bladder, melanoma and glioblastoma cancers.
           According to a second sub-object, the drug comprises methioninase and allows
   depletion or reduction of the plasmatic or circulating or hepatic homocysteine in a patient
 5 in    need   thereof.   The    drug    allows   treatment     of   homocysteinuria     and/or
   hyperhomocysteinemia and/or associated pathologies, such as a cardiovascular disease,
   of the central nervous system, of the ocular system and/or of the skeleton (EI-Sayed and
   Shindia Targets in gene therapy Prof. Yongping You ed., 2011).
           According to third sub-object of the invention, the drug contains TPL and allows
10 depletion or reduction of the plasmatic or circulating tyrosine in a patient in need thereof.
   The drug is an anticancer drug, it allows treatment of a cancer, notably a cancer
   comprising tumoral cells auxotrophic for tyrosine, notably melanoma.
           According to a fourth sub-object of the invention, the drug contains hTATase and
   allows depletion or reduction of the plasmatic or circulating and/or hepatic tyrosine in a
15 patient in need thereof. The drug allows treatment of a rare disease related to a deficiency
   in this PLP enzyme, notably the Richner-Hanhart syndrome (tyrosinemia of type 1l).
           According to a fifth sub-object of the invention, the drug contains cystathionine
   beta-synthase and allows depletion or reduction of the plasmatic or circulating and/or
   hepatic homocysteine in a patient in need thereof. The drug allows treatment of
20 homocysteinuria and/or hyperhomocysteinemia and/or associated pathologies, such as a
   cardiovascular disease, a disease of the central nervous system, a disease of the ocular
   system and/or a disease of the skeleton.
           The invention also relates to a method for preparing a pharmaceutical composition
   comprising    erythrocytes   encapsulating    a   PLP    enzyme,     e.g.  methioninase,    a
25 pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle, and pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) and optionally a
   phosphate or non-phosphate PLP precursor, a method comprising the following steps:
   optionally, and preferably, a pellet of red blood cells is washed and centrifuged one or
   several times with a physiological buffer; the erythrocyte suspension is put into contact
   with a hypotonic liquid medium resulting in the opening of pores in the erythrocyte
30 membrane; the erythrocyte suspension is then put into contact with the PLP enzyme, e.g.
   methioninase, before and after opening the pores; the PLP enzyme, e.g. methioninase,
   enters the erythrocytes; the pores are closed by means of an isotonic or hypertonic,
   advantageously hypertonic buffer, and a suspension of resealed erythrocytes containing
   the PLP enzyme, e.g. methioninase, is collected; optionally the erythrocyte suspension is

                                                   10
   incubated for removing the most fragile erythrocytes; the erythrocyte suspension is
   washed and conditioned with a preservation solution; a method wherein:
           - PLP and/or, if present, a PLP phosphate precursor, is co-encapsulated with the
   PLP enzyme, e.g. methioninase,
 5         - if present, the non-phosphate PLP precursor is added to the suspension of
   erythrocytes before and/or after opening the pores, and/or
           - if present, the non-phosphate PLP precursor is added during incubation or to the
   preservation solution.
           Preferably, some PLP is co-encapsulated with the PLP enzyme and at least one
10 non-phosphate precursor, such as PN, PL and/or PM, is added to the erythrocyte
   suspension before and/or after opening the pores, and/or during incubation and/or to the
   preservation solution. Preferably, the non-phosphate precursor is PN.
           The erythrocyte suspension is put into contact with a hypotonic liquid medium
   resulting in the opening of pores in the erythrocyte membrane. It is seen that there exist
15 three alternatives in the lysis-resealing technique, which are hypotonic dialysis, hypotonic
   preswelling and hypotonic dilution, all based on the difference in osmotic pressure
   between the inside and the outside of the erythrocytes. Hypotonic dialysis is preferred.
           The     suspension     of  erythrocytes     encapsulating the PLP    enzyme,     e.g.
   methioninase, and optionally PLP and/or a PLP precursor, is notably able to be obtained
20 with the following method:
   1 - suspending a pellet of erythrocytes in an isotonic solution at a hematocrit level equal
   to or greater than 65%, cooling between +1 and +80C,
   2 - a lysis procedure, at a temperature maintained between +1 and +80C, comprising the
   passing of the suspension of erythrocytes at a hematocrit level equal or greater than 65%
25 and of a cooled hypotonic lysis solution between +1 and +80C, into a dialysis device, such
   as a coil or a dialysis cartridge (the cartridge is preferred);
   3 - an encapsulation procedure by adding, preferably gradually, the active ingredient(s) to
   be encapsulated (notably in a solution made up beforehand) into the suspension before or
   during lysis, at a temperature maintained between +1 and +80C; and
30 4 - a resealing procedure conducted in the presence of an isotonic or hypertonic,
   advantageously hypertonic solution, at a higher temperature, notably comprised between
   +30 and +420C.
           In a preferred alternative, inspiration may be drawn from the method described in
   WO-A-2006/016247 (EP 1 773 452):

                                                    11
             1 - suspending a pellet of erythrocytes in an isotonic solution at a hematocrit level
   equal to or greater than 65%, cooling between +1 and +80C,
            2 - measuring osmotic fragility from a sample of erythrocytes from this same
   pellet,
 5          3 - a lysis procedure, at a temperature maintained between +1 and +80C,
   comprising the passing of the suspension of erythrocytes at a hematocrit level equal to or
   greater than 65% and of a hypotonic lysis solution cooled between +1 and +80C, into a
   dialysis device, such as a coil or a dialysis cartridge (the cartridge is preferred); the lysis
   parameters being adjusted according to the osmotic fragility measured earlier; notably,
10 depending on the measured osmotic fragility, the flow of the erythrocyte suspension
   passing into the dialysis device is adjusted or the osmolarity of the lysis solution is
   adjusted; and
            4 - a procedure for encapsulation by adding, preferably gradually, the active
   ingredient(s) to be encapsulated (notably in a solution made beforehand) in the
15 suspension before and during lysis, at a temperature maintained between +1 and +80C;
   and
            5 - a resealing procedure conducted in the presence of an isotonic or hypertonic,
   advantageously hypertonic solution, at a higher temperature, notably comprised between
   +30 and +420C.
20          Notably, for dialysis, the pellet of erythrocytes is suspended in an isotonic solution
   with a high hematocrit level, equal to or greater than 65%, and preferably equal to or
   greater than 70%, and this suspension is cooled between +1 and +80C, preferably
   between +2 and +60C, typically around +40C. According to a particular method, the
   hematocrit level is comprised between 65 and 80%, preferably between 70 and 80%.
25          When it is measured, the osmotic fragility is advantageously measured on
   erythrocytes just before the lysis step, in the presence or in the absence, preferably in the
   presence of the active ingredient(s) to be encapsulated. The erythrocytes or the
   suspension containing them are advantageously at a temperature close to, or identical
   with the temperature selected for lysis. According to another advantageous feature of the
30 invention, the conducted measurement of the osmotic fragility is rapidly utilized, i.e. the
   lysis procedure is carried out in a short time after taking the sample. Preferably, this lapse
   of time between the sampling and beginning of lysis is less than or equal to 30 minutes,
   still better less than or equal to 25 and even to 20 minutes.

                                                   12
           As regards to how to conduct the lysis-resealing procedure with measurement and
   taking into account of the osmotic fragility, one skilled in the art may refer for more details
   to WO-A-2006/016247. This document is incorporated herein by reference.
           An enhancement of the encapsulation techniques was described in FR 1 354 204
 5 filed on May   7 th, 2013, to which one skilled in the art may refer and which is incorporated
   herein by reference. Thus, according to an embodiment, the erythrocytes encapsulating
   the active ingredients, i.e. the PLP enzyme, e.g. methioninase, and optionally one or
   several other active ingredients such as PLP and/or a PLP precursor, are obtained by a
   method comprising the encapsulation of the active ingredient inside erythrocytes by lysis
10 resealing, the obtaining of a suspension or of a pellet comprising erythrocytes
   incorporating the active ingredient and a solution with an osmolality greater than or equal
   to 280 mOsmol/kg, in particular between about 280 and about 380 mOsmol/kg, preferably
   between about 290 and about 330 mOsmol/kg, the incubation of the pellet or of the
   suspension as such or after adding an incubation solution, at an osmolality greater than or
15 equal to 280 mOsmol/kg, in particular between about 280 and about 380 mOsmol/kg,
   preferably between about 290 and about 330 mOsmol/kg. Incubation is notably carried out
   for a period greater than or equal to 30 minutes, in particular greater than or equal to 1h. It
   is then proceeded with removal of the liquid medium of the incubated solution and the
   erythrocytes obtained are suspended in a solution allowing injection of the suspension into
20 a patient, preferably a preservation solution allowing injection of the suspension into a
   patient. The indicated osmolality is that of the solution in which the erythrocytes are
   suspended or in a pellet at the relevant moment.
           According to a particular method, a non-phosphate PLP precursor, notably a
   non-phosphate form of vitamin B6 is provided during the production or storage method or
25 in the final formulation. This compound may for example be incorporated into the
   incubation solution or into the preservation solution, or further into the formulation before
   injection when a pre-injection dilution is carried out.
           According to a feature, notably 0.1 to 250, preferably from 1 to 50 mM of PN
   and/or of PL and/or of PM are provided during the production or storage method or in the
30 final formulation. As described above, a fraction of these non-phosphate derivatives of
   vitamin B6 will be converted into PLP in the red blood cells.
            By < stabilized erythrocyte suspension n, is notably meant a suspension having an
   extracellular hemoglobin content which remains less than or equal to 0.2 g/dl until its use

                                                  13
   in humans, the latter may intervene notably from 1 to 72 hours after producing the
   erythrocyte batch incorporating the active ingredient.
           By < ready-to-use stabilized erythrocyte suspension n, is meant the stabilized
   suspension in a solution allowing injection into a patient, notably in a preservation
 5 solution. Its hematocrit is generally equal to or greater than 35%, 40% or 45%.
           By < erythrocyte pellet n, is meant a concentrate or concentration of erythrocytes
   collected after separating the erythrocytes of the liquid medium in which they were
   suspended previously. The separation may be ensured by filtration or by centrifugation.
   Centrifugation is the means generally used for such a separation. A pellet comprises a
10 certain proportion of liquid medium. Generally, the pellet has a hematocrit comprised
   between 70 and 85%.
           By ((incubation solution n, is meant the solution in which the erythrocytes
   encapsulating an active ingredient are present during the incubation step. The incubation
   may be accomplished over a large range of hematocrits, notably between 10 and 85% of
15 hematocrit.
           By ((fragile erythrocytes n, are meant the erythrocytes stemming from the
   incorporation procedure which may, once suspended in a preservation solution, be lyzed
   when the suspension is preserved between 2 and 80C, notably after 1 to 72 h.
           By ((initial hematocrit n, is meant the hematocrit before cell loss due to lysis of the
20 fragile erythrocytes during incubation.
           The method may notably comprise the following steps:
   (a) encapsulation of the active ingredient(s) to be encapsulated (PLP enzyme, e.g.
   methioninase, and optionally PLP and/or a PLP precursor) inside erythrocytes, comprising
   the putting of the erythrocytes into contact with a hypotonic medium (allowing opening of
25 pores in the membrane of the erythrocytes), the contacting with the active ingredient (for
   allowing it to enter the erythrocytes), the resealing of the erythrocytes, notably by means
   of an isotonic or hypertonic medium, advantageously hypertonic,
   (b) obtaining or preparing a suspension or pellet comprising erythrocytes incorporating the
   active ingredient and a solution with an osmolality greater than or equal to 280
30 mOsmol/kg, in particular between about 280 and about 380 mOsmol/kg, preferably
   between about 290 and about 330 mOsmol/kg,
   (c) incubating the pellet or the suspension of step (b) as such or after adding an
   incubation solution, at an osmolality greater than or equal to 280 mOsmol/kg, in particular
   between about 280 and about 380 mOsmol/kg, preferably between about 290 and about

                                                   14
   330 mOsmol/kg, for a period greater than or equal to 30 minutes, notably greater than or
   equal to 1h,
   (d) removing the liquid medium of the incubated suspension of step (c),
   (e) suspending the erythrocytes obtained under (d) into a solution allowing injection of the
 5 suspension into a patient, preferably a preservation solution allowing injection of the
   suspension into a patient.
           The vitamin B6 in the non-phosphate form may be added during the encapsulation
   step, in step (a) or during the incubation in step (c) or further in the preservation solution.
           According to a first method, the step following the encapsulation by lysis-resealing,
10 notably step (b), includes at least 1 washing cycle, preferably 2 or 3 washing cycles, by
   dilution of the obtained suspension or pellet in the lysis-resealing step or step (a) in a
   solution, at an osmolality greater than equal to 280 mOsmol/kg, in particular between
   about 280 and about 380 mOsmol/kg, preferably between about 290 and about 330
   mOsmol/kg, and then obtaining a pellet of erythrocytes or a suspension. This pellet or this
15 suspension comprises erythrocytes incorporating the active ingredient and a solution with
   an osmolality greater than or equal to 280 mOsmol/kg, in particular between about 280
   and about 380 mOsmol/kg, preferably between about 290 and about 330 mOsmol/kg. The
   following steps, e.g. (c), (d) and (e) are then applied.
           According to a second method, in the lysis-resealing step or step (a), resealing of
20 the erythrocytes by means of an isotonic or hypertonic medium produces the suspension
   of erythrocytes which may then be subject to incubation, e.g. the suspension of step (b), in
   a solution with an osmolality greater than or equal to 280 mOsmol/kg, in particular
   between about 280 and about 380 mOsmol/kg, preferably between about 290 and about
   330 mOsmol/kg. In other words, the lysis-resealing step or step (a) includes a step for
25 resealing the erythrocytes wherein the suspended erythrocytes encapsulating an active
   ingredient are mixed with an isotonic or hypertonic resealing solution, advantageously
   hypertonic, producing a suspension of erythrocytes with an osmolality greater than or
   equal to 280 mOsmol/kg, in particular between about 280 and about 380 mOsmol/kg,
   preferably between about 290 and about 330 mOsmol/kg. In this method, the incubation
30 step or step (c) comprises incubation of the suspension stemming from the resealing. The
   incubation is carried out for a period greater than or equal to 30 minutes, notably greater
   than or equal to 1h. The following steps, e.g. (d) and (e) are then applied.
           The steps following the lysis-resealing, e.g. (b) to (e), are conducted under
   conditions resulting in the lysis of fragile erythrocytes, or of a majority of them, notably

                                                    15
   more than 50, 60, 70, 80 or 90%, or more. To do this, it is possible to act on the incubation
   period, the incubation temperature and on the osmolality of the solution in which the
   erythrocytes are suspended. The higher the osmolality, the longer the incubation time may
   be. Thus the lower the osmolality, the shorter may be the incubation in order to obtain the
 5 same effect. Also, the higher the temperature, the shorter the incubation time may be, and
   vice versa. One or several washing cycles will then allow removal of cell debris and
   extracellular hemoglobin, as well as the extracellular active ingredient.
             According to the invention, a washing cycle comprises the dilution of the
   suspension or pellet of erythrocytes, and then the separation between the erythrocytes
10 and the washing solution. Preferably, a washing step comprises preferably 2 or 3 dilution
   separation cycles. The separation may be achieved by any suitable means, such as
   filtration and centrifugation. Centrifugation is preferred.
             Incubation is not limited by the hematocrit of the suspension. In this way, a
   suspension having an initial hematocrit generally comprised between 10 and 85%, notably
15 between 40 and 80% may be incubated. This is rather referred to as a pellet from 70%
   and as a suspension below this value.
             The removal step or step (d) aims at removing the liquid portion of the suspension
   or of the incubated pellet, in order to notably remove cell debris and the extracellular
   hemoglobin, as well as consequently the extracellular active ingredient.
20           According to a first method for the removal step or step (d), separation, notably
   centrifugation is carried out, this being notably applicable to a suspension. This separation
   may be followed by one or several, for example 2 or 3, washing cycles, by dilution in an
   isotonic solution, and then separation, notably by centrifugation.
             According to a second method for the removal step or step (d), dilution before
25 separation notably centrifugation is carried out, this being applicable to a suspension or to
   a pellet. The dilution may notably be carried out with an isotonic washing solution or with a
   preservation solution.
             The final step or step (e) consists of preparing the final suspension such that it
   may be administered to the patient, without any other treatment.
30           According to a first method for this step, a dilution of the erythrocyte pellet from the
   removal step or step (d) is carried out with the injection solution, notably the preservation
   solution.
             According to a second method for this step, one or several cycles for washing the
   erythrocyte pellet stemming from the removal step or step (d) is carried out with the

                                                   16
   injection solution, notably the preservation solution, by dilution followed by separation.
   After washing, the erythrocytes are re-suspended in the injection solution, notably the
   preservation solution.
           The method of the invention may further comprise one, several or the totality of the
 5 following features:
   - the incubation step or step (c) is carried out at a temperature comprised between about
   2 and about 390C, over sufficient time for ensuring lysis of fragile erythrocytes;
   - the incubation step or step (c) is carried out at a low temperature, notably comprised
   between about 2 and about 100C, in particular between about 2 and about 80C, and lasts
10 for about 1 h to about 72 h, notably from about 6 h to about 48 h, preferably from about 19
   h to about 30 h;
   - the incubation step or step (c) is conducted at a higher temperature comprised between
   about 20 and about 390C, notably at room temperature (25          0C ± 5 0C) and lasts for about
   30 min to about 10 h, notably from about 1 h to about 6 h, preferably from about 2 h to
15 about 4 h; it is possible to operate at an even higher temperature than room temperature,
   but this may have a negative impact on the cell yield, P50 and/or the 2,3-DPG content;
   - in the incubation step or step (c), the suspension is at an initial hematocrit comprised
   between 10 and 85%, notably between 40 and 80%; a pellet from separation, having for
   example a hematocrit between 70 and about 85%, or a diluted pellet having a hematocrit
20 comprised between about 40 and 70% may be incubated;
   - the incubation step comprises stirring of the suspension;
   - the incubation step does not comprise any stirring;
   - as a solution for washing and/or incubation, a metered aqueous NaCl solution is used for
   obtaining the desired osmolality; as an example, a solution may thus comprise 0.9% of
25 NaCl; this solution may also comprise, notably in addition to NaCl, glucose, notably
   glucose    monohydrate,      monosodium       phosphate     dihydrate,    disodium   phosphate
   dodecahydrate; as an example, a composition comprises: 0.9% of NaCl, 0.2% of glucose
   monohydrate, 0.034% of monosodium phosphate dihydrate, 0.2% of disodium phosphate
   dodecahydrate;
30 - the washing in the final step or step (e) is carried out with the preservation solution;
   - the osmolality of the solution (liquid portion) in the ready-to-use suspension or which
   may be injected into the patient is comprised between about 280 and about 380
   mOsmol/kg, preferably between about 290 and about 330 mOsmol/kg;

                                                 17
   - the hematocrit of the ready-to-use suspension or which may be injected into the patient
   is equal to or greater than 35%, 40% or 45%;
   - all the steps for washing, incubation are carried out with the preservation solution;
   - the washing solution of step (b) and/or the washing solution of step (e) and the
 5 preservation solution are of the same composition and comprise compound(s) promoting
   preservation of the erythrocytes;
   - the preservation solution (and the washing solution(s) or the incubation solutions if
   necessary) is an aqueous solution comprising NaCl, adenine and at least one compound
   from among glucose, dextrose and mannitol;
10 - the preservation solution (and the washing or incubation solution(s) if necessary)
   comprises NaCl, adenine and dextrose, preferably an AS3 medium;
   - the preservation solution (and the washing or incubation solution(s), if necessary)
   comprise NaCl, adenine, glucose and mannitol, preferably a SAG-Mannitol or ADsol
   medium.
15          The methods according to the invention notably comprise the following step:
   (a) encapsulating an active ingredient inside erythrocytes, comprising the contacting with
   a hypotonic medium allowing opening of pores in the membrane of the erythrocytes, the
   contacting with the active ingredient in order to allow its entry into the erythrocytes, the
   resealing of the erythrocytes by means of an isotonic or hypertonic medium. It should be
20 noted that the active ingredient may be present in the suspension of erythrocytes before
   the lysis of the latter, or further be added during lysis or after lysis, but always before
   resealing. In an embodiment of this step (a), the method comprises the following sub
   steps:
   (al) having a suspension of erythrocytes at a hematocrit equal to or greater than 60 or
25 65%,
   (a2) measuring the osmotic fragility of the erythrocytes in this suspension,
   (a3) a procedure for lysis and internalization of the active ingredient(s), comprising the
   passing of the erythrocyte suspension into a dialysis device, notably a dialysis cartridge,
   counter to a lysis solution, adjusting the flow of the erythrocyte suspension or adjusting
30 the flow rate of the lysis solution or adjusting the osmolarity of the lysis solution,
   depending on the osmotic fragility measured under (a2),
    (a4) a procedure for resealing the erythrocytes.
            Another object of the invention is a therapeutic treatment method intended to
   provide a patient in need thereof, with a PLP enzyme and its cofactor, under conditions of

                                                  18
   good bioavailability, which means that the enzyme and its cofactor are available for each
   other and in an effective amount so that the enzyme is active and efficient in a therapeutic
   application. This method notably aims at depleting or reducing the plasmatic or circulating
   concentration and/or the concentration at an organ, of a substrate of the enzyme. This
 5 method comprises the administration of an effective amount of a composition according to
   the invention or the use of a kit according to the invention.
           According to a first sub-object, the invention is a therapeutic treatment method
   allowing depletion or reduction of plasmatic or circulating methionine in a patient in need
   thereof. This method comprises the administration of an effective amount of a composition
10 according to the invention or the use of a kit according to the invention, comprising
   methioninase and its cofactor. The method is a method for treating cancer, notably a
   cancer comprising tumoral cells auxotrophic for methionine, notably breast, lung, colon,
   kidney, bladder, melanoma and glioblastoma cancers.
           According to a second sub-object, the invention is a therapeutic treatment method
15 allowing depletion or reduction in plasmatic or circulating or hepatic homocysteine in a
   patient in need thereof. This method comprises the administration of an effective amount
   of a composition according to the invention or the use of a kit according to the invention,
   comprising methioninase and its cofactor. The method is a method for treating
   homocysteinuria and/or a hyperhomocysteinemia and/or pathologies associated with
20 hyperhomocysteinemia, such as a cardiovascular disease, a disease of the central
   nervous system, a disease of the ocular system and/or a disease of the skeleton.
           According to a third sub-object of the invention, the invention is a therapeutic
   treatment method allowing depletion or reduction in the plasmatic or circulating tyrosine in
   a patient in need thereof. This method comprises the administration of an effective
25 amount of a composition according to the invention or the use of a kit according to the
   invention, comprising TPL and its cofactor. The method is a method for treating a cancer,
   notably a cancer comprising tumoral cells auxotrophic for tyrosine, notably melanomas.
           According to a fourth sub-object of the invention, the invention is a therapeutic
   treatment method allowing depletion or reduction of the plasmatic or circulating and/or
30 hepatic tyrosine in a patient in need thereof. This method comprises the administration of
   an effective amount of a composition according to the invention or the use of a kit
   according to the invention, comprising hTATase and its cofactor. The method is a method
   for treating a rare disease related to a deficiency of this PLP enzyme, notably the Richner
   Hanhart syndrome (tyrosinemia of type 1l).

                                                  19
           According to a fifth sub-object of the invention, the invention is a therapeutic
   treatment method allowing depletion or reduction in plasmatic or circulating and/or hepatic
   homocysteine in a patient in need thereof. This method comprises the administration of an
   effective amount of a composition according to the invention or the use of a kit according
 5 to the invention, comprising cystathionine beta-synthase and its cofactor. The method is a
   method for treating homocysteinuria and/or hyperhomocysteinemia and/or pathologies
   associated with hyperhomocysteinemia, such as a cardiovascular disease, a disease of
   the central nervous system, a disease of the ocular system and/or a disease of the
   skeleton.
10          The composition used in these therapeutic applications may further comprise the
   cofactor of this PLP enzyme, i.e. PLP, and/or a precursor thereof, which may be a non
   phosphate precursor, such as a non-phosphate form of vitamin B6, and/or a phosphate
   precursor, such as pyridoxine phosphate (PNP). The composition may also comprise PN
   kinase, PNP-oxidase, an agent inhibiting PLP-phosphatase. More generally the treatment
15 method may comprise the administration of a composition or a kit as described above.
            One administer to the patient per month of treatment,         one or several doses,
   notably one or two, representing50 to 300 ml of suspension or composition with a
   hematocrit greater than or equal to 35%, 40% or 45%,in one or several injections. They
   are notably administered by intravenous or intra-arterial injection, notably by perfusion.
20         Alternatively, an effective amount of a composition comprising erythrocytes
   encapsulating the PLP enzyme, e.g. methioninase, and an effective amount of a solution
   containing a non-phosphate form of vitamin B6, preferably PN are administered
   separately to the same patient. This non-phosphate form of vitamin B6 may be
   administered by injection, either simultaneously or separately with the suspension of
25 erythrocytes or via any other route, notably an oral route.
            In a first embodiment, a suspension of erythrocytes encapsulating the active
   ingredient(s), prepared within 1 and 72 h, notably for between 10 and 72 h before injection
   is injected to the patient. This suspension has a hematocrit equal to or greater than 35%,
   40% or 45%. It is found in a preservation solution. The extracellular hemoglobin level is
30 equal to or less than 0.5, in particular 0.3, notably 0.2, preferably 0.15, still better 0.1 g/dl,
   and/or the hemolysis level equal to or less than 2, notably 1.5, preferably 1%. The
   suspension is not washed or subject to a similar operation before injection.
           Another object of the invention is a process for producing methioninase, under
   purified form, and with high yield, comprising the steps of:

                                                 20
   (a) culturing bacteria transformed to produce methioninase, centrifugation of the culture
   and recovering of the pellet,
   (b) suspending the pellet in a lysis buffer and lysis of the bacteria cells, centrifugation and
   recovery of the supernatant,
 5 (c) treating the supernatant with a precipitating agent, precipitation and recovery of the
   pellet,
   (d) applying to the pellet two rounds of crystallization or precipitation using PEG at a
   temperature comprised between about 25 and 40        0C, recovering the pellet,
   (e) suspending the pellet in a solubilization buffer (for example [25mM Tris ; 0.5mM P5P;
10 0.5mg/mL beta mercapto ethanol ; pH 7.5]) and subjecting to two rounds of anion
   exchange chromatography, recovering a solution of methioninase,
   (f) submitting the solution of methioninase to a polishing step by chromatography,
   recovery of a purified methioninase solution.
           In a preferred embodiment, use is made of the methioninase coding sequence of
15 Pseudomas putida. This sequence may be optimized in order to adapt the sequence to
   the production strain. The production strain is preferably E. coli, such as strain HMS174.
   An expression vector containing the methioninase sequence, preferably the optimized
   one, is used to transform the producing strain, and a producing clone may be selected.
   Then production of methioninase using this clone is performed in a fermenter under usual
20 conditions.
           Preferably, the pellet of step (a) is resuspended in the lysis buffer (for example
   [100mM Sodium phosphate; 4.4mM EDTA; 3.3mM P5P; 1mM DTT; pH 7.6]) (7mL per
   gram of wet weight). Preferably, lysis is made by high pressure homogenization,
   advantageously in several steps, preferably 3 steps of high pressure homogenization.
25 Typical temperature is maintained about 100C before each step of homogenization
   (between 9 to 12'C). Preferably, after lysis and before centrifugation, the cell lysate is
   submitted to clarifying using a cationic coagulant, preferably polyethyleneimine (PEI).
   Typical PEI concentration may be between about 0.05 and about 0.5% (V/V), in particular
   between about 0.1 and about 0.3% preferably about 0.2%.
30         Precipitation at step (c) may be performed with ammonium sulfate, typically at
   about 60% saturation. Preferably, before this precipitation, the supernatant is filtered on
   an about 0.2 pm membrane.
           At step (d), PEG is preferably PEG-6000. Its final concentration may be between
   about 5 and about 25% (W/V), in particular between about 5 and about 15%. The first

                                                  21
   round may preferably be performed in the presence of ammonium sulfate. Typically,
   ammonium sulfate may be at about 10% saturation (between 9 to 11%). Typically, PEG
   may be at about 10% final concentration. The second round may preferably be performed
   in the presence of an inorganic salt, typically an alkaline metal salt such as sodium
 5 chloride or potassium chloride, preferably sodium chloride. The salt may be at a final
   concentration of about 0.20 M(between 0.19 and 0.21). Typically, PEG may be at about
   12% final concentration. Temperature may be comprised between about 25 and about 35
   0C, in particular between about 28 and about 32 C, typically about 300C.
           At step (e) chromatography may be performed on DEAE sepharose. Preferably,
10 before chromatography, the resuspended pellet or sediment may be submitted to passage
   through an about 0.45 pm filter.
           At step (f), polishing is performed to remove remaining residual contaminants such
   as   endotoxins,     HCP    and    DNA.  It may     be  performed   using  a Q    membrane
   chromatography.
15         The purified methioninase may then be concentrated and diafiltered. Conservation
   may be made through freeze-drying and storage at about -80 0 C.The invention will now be
   described in more detail by means of embodiments taken as non-limiting examples and
   with reference to the drawing wherein:
           Fig. 1: Description of the method for purifying MGL, according to the method
20 described in EP 0 978 560 and according to the improved method described in the
   present application. The modifications brought to the method described in patent EP 0
   978 560 B1 relate to the steps located after the precipitation step with ammonium sulfate.
           Figs. 2 and 3. Comparison of the intra-erythrocyte concentrations (fig. 2) and
   extracellular concentrations (fig. 3) of PLP after incubation of a RC-MGL-PLP suspension
25 with pyridoxine (PN) at different concentrations. The RC-MGL-PLP suspension, incubated
   for 3h and 24h at room temperature in the absence of pyridoxine (0 mM) has a basal PLP
   level of about 3.9 pM. The incubation of the suspensions with 2 mM and 4 mM pyridoxine
   gives the possibility of increasing the intra-erythrocyte PLP concentration to 8 pM after 3 h
   of incubation (pale grey bars) and gives the possibility of attaining considerably higher
30 levels (11pM and 14 pM respectively) after 24 h of incubation (dark grey bars).
           Fig. 4. Pharmacokinetics of red corpuscles (RCs) loaded with a complex MGL
   PLP. The RC-MGL-PLP2             product is obtained by lysis-resealing of a suspension
   containing 3 mg/ml of MGL and -30 pM of PLP. The RC-MGL-PLP3 product is obtained
   by lysis-resealing of a suspension containing 3 mg/ml of MGL and -125 pM of PLP. The

                                                 22
   RC-MGL-PLP4 product is obtained by lysis-resealing of a suspension containing 5 mg/ml
   of MGL and 33 pM of PLP. The RC-MGL-PLP5 product is obtained by lysis-resealing of a
   suspension containing 6 mg/ml of MGL and 100 pM of PLP. Fluorescent labeling of the
   products (CFSE)      allows traceability of the      RCs in vivo. The products injected
 5 intravenously to the mice CD1 (8 ml/kg for the products RC-MGL-PLP2, RC-MGL-PLP3
   and RC-MGL-PLP5 and 10 ml/kg for the product RC-MGL-PLP4) have excellent stability
   with a survival rate of the injected RCs greater than 75% at 120h, i.e. 5 days after their
   administration. For the RC-MGL-PLP4 product, the survival rate is reduced to less than
   75% after -10 days.
10         Fig. 5. Pharmacodynamics of the free MGL enzyme. The MGL enzyme was
   diluted by means of a potassium phosphate solution supplemented with 10 pM of P5P in
   order to obtain two injectable products (MGL-L1 and MGL-L2). These products were
   made so as to obtain 1) the same enzyme concentration as the product RC-MGL-PLP2,
   i.e. 0.45 mg/ml of MGL and 2) a concentration twice greater than the product RC-MGL
15 PLP2, i.e. 0.90 mg/ml of MGL. Both products are administered intravenously (IV) to CD1
   mice (8 ml/kg) with supplementation IV of pyridoxine 6 h after the injection. The plasma L
   methionine level is measured by HPLC-MS-MS. The L-Met level in non-treated CD1 was
   evaluated to be 68pM. These products MGL-L1 and MGL-L2 both lead to rapid depletion
   within 15 min after their administration but not long lasting over time.
20         Fig. 6. Pharmacodynamics of the RC-MGL-PLPs over short times. The product
   RC-MGL-PLP2 is obtained by lysis-resealing of a suspension containing 3 mg/ml of MGL
   and -30 pM of PLP. The product RC-MGL-PLP3 is obtained by lysis-resealing of a
   suspension containing 3 mg/ml of MGL and             -125 pM of PLP. Both products are
   administered intravenously (IV) to CD1 mice (8 ml/kg) with IV supplementation of
25 pyridoxine 6 h after administration for the mice receiving RC-MGL-PLP2. The plasma L
   methionine level is measured by HPLC-MS-MS. The L-Met level in untreated CD1s was
   evaluated to be 82 pM. Both products RC-MGL-PLP2 and RC-MGL-PLP3 lead to rapid
   depletion 15 min after their administration reducing the L-Met level to 15.0 ± 3.6 pM and
   22.7 ± 1.5 pM respectively and then maintaining more moderate depletion at 35 pM but
30 stable between 48h and 120h.
           Fig. 7. Pharmacodynamics of the RC-MGL-PLPs over long periods. The product
   RC-MGL-PLP4 (0.5 mg/ml) is obtained by lysis-resealing of a suspension containing 5
   mg/ml of MGL and 33 pM of PLP. The product is administered intravenously (IV) to CD1
   mice (10 ml/kg) with IV supplementation of pyridoxine 6 h after administration for the mice

                                                    23
   receiving RC-MGL-PLP4. The plasma L-methionine level is measured by HPLC-MS-MS.
   The L-Met level in untreated CD1s was evaluated to be 68 pM. The product RC-MGL
   PLP4 leads to rapid depletion 15 min after administration reducing the L-Met level to -10
   pM and then maintaining more moderate depletion at -25 pM but stable between 24 h
 5 and 48 h so as to then gradually return to the control values 12 days after injection.
           Fig. 8. Residual activity of circulating PLP enzymes. The enzyme MGL was diluted
   by means of a potassium phosphate solution supplemented with 10 pM of P5P in order to
   obtain the injectable product MGL-L2. The product RC-MGL-PLP2 is obtained by lysis
   resealing of a suspension containing 3 mg/ml of MGL and -30 pM of PLP. The product
10 RC-MGL-PLP3 is obtained by lysis-resealing of a suspension containing 3 mg/ml of MGL
   and -125 pM of PLP. The product RC-MGL-PLP4 is obtained by lysis-resealing of a
   suspension containing 5 mg/ml of MGL and 33 pM of PLP. The product RC-MGL-PLP5 is
   obtained by lysis-resealing of a suspension containing 6 mg/ml of MGL and 100 pM of
   PLP. The products are injected intravenously to CD1 mice (8 ml/kg for the products MGL
15 L2, RC-MGL-PLP2, RC-MGL-PLP3 and RC-MGL-PLP5 and 10 ml/kg for the product RC
   MGL-PLP4). The residual activity of the injected MGL enzyme (total RCs) is determined
   by a measurement of the NH3 produced by MGL according to the method described in
   Example 4.
           Example 1. Method for obtaining and characterizing Methionine Gamma
20 Lyase (MGL)
           Production of the strain and isolation of a hyper-producing clone: the natural
   sequence of MGL of Pseudomonas putida (GenBank: D88554.1) was optimized by
   modifying rare codons (in order to adapt the sequence stemming from P. putida to the
   production strain Escherichia coli). Other changes have been made to improve the context
25 of translation initiation. Finally, silent mutations were performed to remove three elements
   that are part of a putative bacterial promoter in the coding sequence (box -35, box -10 and
   a binding site of a transcription factor in position 56). The production strain E. coli
   HMS174 (DE3) was transformed with the expression vector pGTPc502_MGL (promoter
   T7) containing the optimized sequence and a producing clone was selected. The
30 producing clone is pre-cultivated in a GY medium + 0.5% glucose + kanamycin for 6-8 h
   (pre-culture 1) and 16 h (pre-culture 2) at 37C.
           Fermentation: the production is then achieved in a fermenter with GY medium,
   with stirring, controlled pressure and pH from the pre-culture 2 at an optical density of
   0.02. The growth phase (at 37 'C) takes place until an optical density of 10 is obtained

                                                  24
   and the expression induction is achieved at 280C by adding 1 mM IPTG into the culture
   medium. the cell sediment is harvested 20 h after induction in two phases: the cell broth is
   concentrated 5-10 times after passing over a 500 kDa hollow fiber and then cell pellet is
   recovered by centrifugation at 15900 x gand then stored at -20'C.
 5         Purification: The cell pellet is thawed and suspended in lysis buffer (7v / w). Lysis
   is performed at 10'C in three steps by high pressure homogenization (one step at 1000
   bars, and then two steps at 600 bars). The cell lysate then undergoes clarification at 10'C
   by adding 0.2% PEI and centrifugation at 15900 x g. The soluble fraction is then sterilized
   by 0.2pm before precipitation with ammonium sulfate (60% saturation) at 60C, over 20 h.
10 Two crystallization steps are carried out on the re-solubilized sediment using solubilization
   buffer, the first crystallization step is realized by addition of PEG-6000 at 10% (final
   concentration) and ammonium sulfate at 10% saturation, and the second crystallization is
   then performed by addition of PEG-6000 at 12% final concentration and 0.2M NaCl (final
   concentration) at 300C. The pellets containing the MGL protein are harvested at each
15 stage after centrifugation at 15900 x g. The pellet containing the MGL protein is re
   suspended in a solubilization buffer and passed over a 0.45 pm filter before being subject
   to two anion exchange chromatographies (DEAE sepharose FF). The purified protein is
   then subject to a polishing step and passed over a Q membrane chromatography capsule
   for removing the different contaminants (endotoxins, HCP host cell protein, residual DNA).
20 Finally, the purified MGL protein is concentrated at 40 mg/ml and diafiltered in formulation
   buffer using a 10 kDa cut-off tangential flow filtration cassette. Substance is then aliquoted
   at ~ 50mg of protein per vial, eventually freeze-dried under controlled pressure and
   temperature, and stored at -800C. .
           Characterization: The specific activity of the enzyme is determined by measuring
25 the produced NH3 as described in example 4. The purity is determined by SDS-PAGE.
   The PLP level after being taken up in water was evaluated according to the method
   described in example 5. The osmolarity is measured with an osmometer (Micro
   Osmometer Loser Type 15) .
           The following table summarizes the main characteristics of one produced batch of
30 MGL:

                                                     25
                               MGL of P. putida
                               Freeze-dried (amount per tube: 49.2mg).
   Formulation                 Characteristics after being taken up in 625 uL of water:
                               78.7 mg/ml, -622 pM of PLP, 50 mM of Na phosphate, pH 7.2,
                               Osmolarity 300 mOsmol/kg.
   Specific activity           13.2 IU/mg
   Purity                      >98%
               Discussion of the production method. The method for purifying the MGL
    described in Example 1 is established on the basis of the method detailed in patent EP 0
    978 560 B1 and of the associated publication (Takakura et al., Appl Microbiol Biotechnol
 5  2006). This selection is explained by the simplicity and the robustness of the
    crystallization step which is described as being particularly practical and easily adaptable
    to large scale productions according to the authors. This step is based on the use of
    PEG6000 and of ammonium sulfate after heating the MGL solution obtained after the
    lysis/clarification and removal of impurities by adding PEG6000/ammonium sulfate steps.
10  The other notable point of this step is the possibility of rapidly obtaining a high purity level
    during the step for removing the impurities by achieving centrifugation following the
    treatment of the MGL solution with PEG6000. The impurities are again found in the
    centrifugation pellet, the MGL being in majority found in solution in the supernatant.
    Because of this purity, the passing of the MGL solution in a single chromatography step
15  over an anion exchanger column (DEAE), associated with a purification step by gel
    filtration on a sephacryl S200 HR column, gives the possibility of obtaining a purified
    protein.
               Upon setting into place the patented method for small scale tests, it appeared that
    the obtained results were not able to be reproduced. According to patent EP 0 978 560
20  B1,      at   the  end    of   the  step   for    removing   the   impurities (treatment    with
    PEG6000/ammonium sulfate and centrifugation), the MGL enzyme is in majority found in
    the soluble fraction, centrifugation causing removal of the impurities in the pellet. During
    small scale tests conducted according to the described method in EP 0 978 560 B1, the
    MGL protein is again in majority found (-80%) in the centrifugation pellet. The table below
25  lists the percentage of MGL evaluated by densitometry on SDS-PAGE gel in soluble
    fractions.

                                                    26
                                          MGL percentage in
                      Purification                                    Average
                                           the soluble fraction
                Test no. 1                         11%
                                                                         17%
                Test no. 2                         23%
            This unexpected result therefore led to optimization of the patented method by: 1)
   operating from the centrifugation pellet containing MGL, 2) carrying out two successive
   crystallization steps for improving the removal of the impurities after loading on a DEAE
 5 column, 3) optimizing chromatography on a DEAE column.
            For this last step, it is found that the DEAE sepharose FF resin is finally not a
   sufficiently strong exchanger in the tested buffer and pH conditions. After different
   additional optimization tests, the selection was finally directed to 1) replacement of the
   phosphate buffer used in the initial method with Tris buffer pH 7.6 for improving the
10 robustness of the method and 2) carrying out a second passage on DEAE in order to
   substantially improve the endotoxin level and the protein purity without any loss of MGL
   (0.8 EU/mg according to Takakura et al., 2006 versus 0.57 EU/mg for the modified
   method).
            Finally, in order to obtain a method compatible with the requirements for large
15 scale GMP production, a polishing step on a membrane Q was added in order to reduce
   the residual endotoxins and HCP levels. This final step of polishing avoids the
   implementation of the S200 gel filtration chromatography which is a difficult step to be
   used in production        processes at an industrial scale (cost and        duration   of the
   chromatography).
20          The different purification steps of the method from EP 0 978 560 B1 as well as of
   the method of the present application are given in fig. 1.
            The following table gives the possibility of checking that the provided adaptations
   have led to obtaining a purification method with a yield at least equivalent to the one
   described in the initial method.
                                       Patent EP 978 560 B1           Method of the application
                Step                Amount of          Yield (%)    Amount of         Yield (%)
                                    enzyme (g)                      enzyme (g)
         Solubilised pellet             125               100            70              100
           before DEAE
     Concentrated solution$             80                 64            46               65
25   post sephacryl S-200 HR (EP 978 560) or post Membrane Q (method of the invention).

                                                27
            Example 2. Co-encapsulation of MGL and PLP in murine erythrocytes.
            Whole blood of CD1 mice (Charles River) is centrifuged at 1000 x g, for 10 min, at
   40C  in order to remove the plasma and buffy coat. The RCs are washed three times with
 5 0.9% NaCl (v:v). The freeze-dried MGL is re-suspended in water at a concentration of
   78.7 mg/ml and added to the erythrocyte suspension in order to obtain a final suspension
   with a hematocrit of 70%, containing different concentrations of MGL and of the PLP. The
   suspension was then loaded on a hemodialyzer at a flow rate of 120 ml/h and dialyzed
   against a hypotonic solution at a flow rate of 15 ml/min as a counter-current. The
10 suspension was then resealed with a hypertonic solution and then incubated for 30 min at
   370C. After three washes in 0.9% NaCl, 0.2% glucose, the suspension was taken up in a
   preservation solution SAG-Mannitol supplemented with 6% BSA. The obtained products
   are characterized at DO (within the 2h following their preparation) and at D1 (i.e. after
    -18h-24h of preservation at 2-80C). The hematologic characteristics are obtained with a
15 veterinary automaton (Sysmex, PocH-100iV).
            Results:
            In the different studies mentioned hereafter, the MGL activity in the finished
   products is assayed with the method described in example 4 against an external
   calibration range of MGL in aqueous solution. These results, combined with explanatory
20 studies, show that MGL activity in the finished products increases with the amount of
   enzyme introduced into the method and that it is easily possible to encapsulate up to 32
   IU of MGL per ml of finished product while maintaining good stability.
            In another study, three murine finished products RC-MGL-PLP1, RC-MGL-PLP2
   and RC-MGL-PLP3 were prepared according to the following methods:
25 -   RC-MGL-PLP1: co-encapsulation of MGL and of PLP from a suspension containing 3
       mg/ml of MGL and -30 pM of PLP. The final product was taken up in SAG-Mannitol,
       6% BSA supplemented with final 10 pM PLP.
   -   RC-MGL-PLP2: co-encapsulation of MGL and of PLP from a suspension containing 3
       mg/ml of MGL and -30 pM of PLP. The finished product was taken up in SAG-Mannitol
30     6% BSA.
   -   RC-MGL-PLP3: this product stems from a co-encapsulation of MGL and PLP from a
       suspension containing 3 mg/ml of MGL and -124 pM of PLP. The final product was
      taken up in SAG-Mannitol 6% BSA.

                                                   28
              In a third study, a murine finished product RC-MGL-PLP4 was prepared from a
      new batch of MGL according to the following methods:
              -        RC-MGL-PLP4: co-encapsulation of MGL and the PLP from a suspension
      containing 5 mg/ml of MGL and -35 pM of PLP. The finished product was taken up in
 5    SAG-Mannitol 6% BSA.
              Finally in a fourth study, a murine product RC-MGL-PLP5 was prepared from a
      third batch of MGL according to the following methods:
              -        RC-MGL-PLP5: co-encapsulation of MGL and PLP from a suspension
      containing 6 mg/ml of MGL and -100 pM of PLP. The finished product was taken up in
10    SAG-Mannitol 6% BSA.
              The hematologic and biochemical characteristics of the three finished products at
      DO (after their preparation) are detailed in the table below. The encapsulation yields are
      satisfactory and vary from 18.6% to 30.5%.
                                                   RC-        RC-      RC-      RC-        RC
                                                   MGL-       MGL-     MGL-     MGL-       MGL
                                                   PLP1       PLP2     PLP3     PLP4       PLP5
               Hematocrit (%)                      50.0      49.6      50.0     50.0       50.0
              Corpuscle volume (fl)                46.3      46.5      46.8     42.4       45.6
   Hematol    Corpuscle hemoglobin (g/dl)          24.7      24.0      24.2     27.4       25.1
   ogical      RC concentration (106/pl)           6.5       6.9       6.6      7.2        6.0
   data       Total hemoglobin (g/dl)               14.8      15.4     15.0     16.6       13.8
               Extracellular Hb (g/dl)             0.1       0.1       0.1      0.2        0.05
               Intra-erythrocyte concentration of
                                                   0.97       0.94     0.79     1.01       1.36
               MGL (mg/ml of RC)
               Intra-erythrocyte activity of MGL
                                                   12.8       12.4     8.8      5.0        8.6
               (lU/ml of RC)*
               Extracellular activity (%)          0.92%     0.97%     1.32%    1.18%      2.23%
               Intracellular activity (%)          99.08%    99.03%    98.68%   98.82%     97.77%
               Encapsulation yield of MGL (%)       18.6%    30.5%     22.6%    19.4%      22.7%
               Intra-erythrocyte concentration of
                                                   ND         13.4     71.4     10.2       ND
               PLP (pmol/1 of RC)
   PLP         Intracellular PLP fraction (%)      ND         99.5     98.7     98.1       ND

                                                 29
            Extracellular PLP fraction (%)       ND      0.5     1.3       1.92      ND
            PLP encapsulation yield (%)          ND      44.8    57.4      30.7      ND
   *Calculated from the specific activity of each batch.
            Example 3. Production of human RCs encapsulating Methionine Gamma
   Lyase and PLP according to the industrial method
            A pouch of leukocyte-depleted human RCs (provided by the "Etablissement
 5 Frangais du Sang") is subject to a cycle of three washes with 0.9% NaCl (washer Cobe
   2991). The freeze-dried MGL is re-suspended with 0.7% NaCl and added to the
   erythrocyte suspension in order to obtain a final suspension with a hematocrit of 70%,
   containing 3 mg/ml of MGL and -30 pM of PLP (stemming from the formulation of MGL).
   The suspension is homogenized and it is proceeded with encapsulation according to the
10 method described in EP 1 773 452. The suspension from the resealing is then incubated
   for 3h at room temperature in order to remove the most fragile RCs. The suspension is
   washed three times with a 0.9% NaCl, 0.2% glucose solution (washer Cobe 2991) and
   then re-suspended with 80 ml of preservation solution (AS-3). The encapsulated MGL
   level is assayed like in Example 4.
15
                                                                 JO      JI      J7
     Hematocrit (%)                                              52.0    51.6    52.7
     Corpuscle volume (fl)                                       91.0    92.0    88.0
     Corpuscle hemoglobin (g/dl)                                 30.3    29.8    31.6
     RC concentration     (106 /pl)                              6.00    5.92    5.98
     Total hemoglobin (g/dl)                                     16.4    16.2     16.6
     Extracellular Hb (g/dl)                                     0.119   0.197   0.280
     Osmotic fragility (g/I)                                     1.17
     Hemolysis (%)                                               0.7%    1.2%     1.7%
     Total MGL concentration (mg/ml)                             0.36    0.35
     MGL supernatant concentration (mg/ml)                       0.01    0.01
     MGL intra-erythrocyte concentration (mg/ml, 100% Ht)        0.68    0.67
     Extracellular activity (%)                                  1.3%    1.4%
     Intracellular activity (%)                                  98.7%   98.6%
     Encapsulation yield (%)                                     19.7%

                                                          30
               Example 4. Assay of encapsulated MGL in the RCs
               The assay of the MGL activity in cell suspensions (total RCs) and in the
   supernatants is based on a measurement of NH3 produced by MGL. The NH3 ions are
 5 assayed indirectly by enzymatic action of glutamate dehydrogenase (GLDH) according to
   the kit marketed by Roche Diagnostics (11877984).
         Preparation of the standards: MGL standards at different concentrations were
   prepared in matrices (total or supernatant RCs) or in an aqueous solution.
         >     For standards in an aqueous solution, MGL is prepared at concentrations varying
10             from 0 to 12 pg/ml in the presence of 20 pM PLP in a phosphate buffer 100 mM at
               a pH of 7.2.
         >     For total RC matrix standards, 10 pl of RC-LR are lysed with 90 pl of a solution
               containing 260 pM of PLP and of MGL at concentrations varying from 0 to 100
               pg/ml. The "total RC" standards are then diluted 20 times with phosphate buffer
15             100 mM, pH 7.2.
         >     For supernatant matrix standards, 10 pl of supernatants of RC-LR are lysed with
               50 pl of a solution containing 6.4 pM of PLP and of MGL at concentrations varying
               from 0 to 20 pg/ml.
         Pre-treatment of the samples: the samples to be assayed (10 pl) are pre-treated in the
20 same way as the standards (addition of PLP and identical dilutions but without addition of
   MGL).
         Assay of MGL: 7.5 pl of standards (STD) or of samples are introduced into the wells of
   a UV plate. 94 pl of reagent R1 (Roche kit) and 56 pl of reagent R2 (Roche kit) containing
   c-ketoglutarate in a buffer solution, NADPH and GLDH are added in order to remove the
25 endogenous NH3 ions of the samples. After 10 min of incubation, 75 pl of L-methionine at
   78.3 mM are introduced and the reaction mixtures are incubated for 30 min. Degradation
   of NADPH into NADP' is continuously tracked by measuring the optical density at 340 nm.
   For the standards and the samples, the value of AOD/min is calculated over the linear
   domain of the O.D. curves obtained at 340 nm. A calibration curve AOD/min = f (MGL
30 concentration or activity in the standards) is then plotted. The regression parameters allow
   determination of the MGL concentration in the samples. This result may be expressed in
   mg/ml or in IU/ml (the specific MGL activity being evaluated for each batch). The intra
   erythrocyte MGL level is obtained by a calculation with the following formula: [MGL]itra.
   erythrocyte =  ([MGL]totai - ([MGL]supernatants x (1- hematocrit/1 00)) / (hematocrit/1 00).

                                                    31
        Example 5. Assay of PLP in blood samples by a HPLC method
           The assay of PLP in cell suspensions (total RCs) and in the supernatants is an
   adaptation of the method described by Van de Kamp et al. Nutrition Research 15, 415
 5 422, 1995. The assay is carried out with RP-HPLC (Shimadzu UFLC) with detection by
   fluorimetry (RF-10AXL instrument, excitation: 300 nm, emission: 400 nm). The PLP
   contained in the samples is extracted with trichloro-acetic acid (TCA) at a final 6%. After
   centrifugation (15,000 x g, 10 min), the supernatants are collected and then diluted in a
   mobile phase A. A 50 pl sample volume is injected on a 5 p C-18 Gemini column, 250 x
10 4.6 mm (Phenomenex). The mobile phase A consists of 33 mM of monobasic potassium
   phosphate, of 8 mM of sodium 1-octanesulfonate supplemented with sodium bisulfite (0.5
   g/i) for intensifying the signal of the PLP and of the mobile phase B, of 33 mM of
   monobasic potassium phosphate and of 17% (v:v) of 2-propanol. The gradient used is the
   mobile phase A (100%) with increasing proportions of mobile phase B: an increase from
15 0% to 8% of B over a period of 8 min. The flow through the column is maintained at
   1ml/min. The PLP concentration in the samples is determined with an external standard
   range of PLPs subject to the same TCA treatment as the samples. The retention time of
   PLP is -3.4 min. The intra-erythrocyte PLP level is obtained by calculation with the
   following formula: [PLP]intra-erythrocyte     -
                                             ([PLP]total - ([PLP~supernatants X (1- hematocrit/100)) /
20 (hematocrit/1 00).
           Example 6. Increase in the PLP level in RCs by co-encapsulation of PLP with
   MGL
           Suspensions of murine RCs are subject to the method for encapsulating MGL and
25 PLP as described in Example 2. The assay of the intracellular PLP is carried out
   according to the method described in Example 5.
           A suspension of human RCs is subject to the method for encapsulating MGL and
   PLP as described in Example 3. Before the incubation step at room temperature, a portion
   of the human RC-MGL-PLPs is sampled in order to carry out an assay of the intracellular
30 PLP according to the method described in Example 5.
           The following table compares the physiological levels of PLP in human or murine
   erythrocytes with the level attained by co-encapsulation of the latter with MGL.

                                                     32
                                                               Human RCs         Murine RCs
                                                               0.11 pM
                                                                                   ~2.4 pM*
   Physiological level of PLP                                  (Natta          &
                                                               Reynolds)         (Fonda)
                                      Conditions        before
                                      dialysis:
   PLP level
   in RC-MGL-PLP1s or                                           ~-3.90 pM         -13.4 pM
   RC-MGL-PLP2s                               3            m
                                               MGL
                                          *     -30 pM PLP
                                      Conditions        before
                                      dialysis:
   PL P levelPPlvl*
                                              3         mg/mI           ~-71.4          pM
   in RC-MGL-PLP3s                        e/1
                                               MGL
                                          *     -125       pM
                                               PLP
   * detail of the calculation: 7.5 nmol/g Hb -2.4 pM (by assuming a CCMH of 32 g/dl).
            Example 7. Demonstration of the increase in the PLP concentration in the
   RC-MGLs by incubation in vitrowith pyridoxine.
 5          A suspension of human RCs is subject to the method for encapsulating MGL as
   described in Example 3. Before the 3 h incubation step, a portion of the RCs is sampled
   and separated into three for volume-volume incubation with pyridoxine at different
   concentrations (0 mM, 2 mM and 4 mM). After homogenization, these suspensions are
   incubated at room temperature (RT). After 3 h and 24 h of incubation, samples of the cell
10 suspensions and of the supernatants (obtained after centrifugation of the suspensions at
   1000 x g, at 40C, for 10 min) are prepared and frozen for a measurement of the PLP
   concentration by HPLC as described in Example 5.
             The obtained results are shown in Figs. 2 and 3.
            In the absence of pyridoxine, the intra-erythrocyte PLP level is 3.9 pM (PLP
15 stemming from the co-encapsulation of MGL and PLP). This PLP concentration remains
   constant after 3 h and 24 h of incubation. A slight decrease in the PLP concentration is

                                                   33
   observed at 24 h and is concomitant with occurrence of extracellular PLP which may be
   explained by hemolysis at the end of the incubation.
            In the presence of pyridoxine (at 2 mM or at 4 mM), the RC-MGLs are enriched in
   PLP with intra-erythrocyte concentrations increased by a factor 2 after 3 h of incubation
 5 (-8 pM of PLP) and by almost a factor 3 after 24 h of incubation with occurrence of a dose
   effect (11 pM and 14 pM for respective pyridoxine concentrations of 2 mM and 4 mM).
   These results show that an incubation of a RC suspension encapsulating a PLP enzyme
   dependent on PLP with pyridoxine (PN) is capable of increasing the intracellular PLP level
   in a long lasting way.
10
            Example 8. Pharmacokinetics of RC encapsulating MGL-PLP in mice.
            The murine products RC-MGL-PLP2, RC-MGL-PLP3, RC-MGL-PLP4 and RC
   MGL-PLP5 are labeled with CFSE (fluorescent) and injected intravenously into CD1 mice.
   After various times (DO + 15 min, D1, D2, D5, for the three products with additionally D14
15 and D28 for the RC-MGL-PLP4 and D14 for the RC-MGL-PLP5 product), the mice are
   sacrificed and the blood is collected on a lithium heparinate tube kept at +40C away from
   light for determining the pharmacokinetics. The proportion of red blood cells labeled with
   CFSE in the whole blood is determined by a flow cytometry method. Five microliters of
   whole blood are diluted in 1ml of PBS 0.5% BSA and each sample is passed in triplicate
20 (counting of 10,000 cells in FL-1; cytometer FC500, Beckman Coulter). The evaluation of
   the survival of red blood cells loaded with MGL is obtained by adding the proportion of
   RCs labeled with CFSE at different times to the proportion of RCs labeled with CFSE at
   TO + 15 min (100% control). The different obtained percentages for each time are copied
   onto a graph (fig. 4) illustrating the proportion of RCs loaded with MGL in circulation
25 versus time.
            The determination of the proportion of RCs marked with CFSE in circulating blood
   at different times shows its excellent stability of the four products in vivo in mice, up to 120
   h post-injection (83.5 ± 0.6 %, 94.7 ± 0.6 %, 87.3 ± 5.6 % and 76.8 ± 1.3 % survival rate,
   respectively). For the product RC-MGL-PLP4, the pharmacokinetic study over 29 days
30 showed that the half-life of the red blood cells encapsulating MGL is -12.6 days.
            Example 9. L-methionine depletion at 24h
            The murine products RC-MGL-PLP1, RC-MGL-PLP2 and RC-MGL-PLP3 prepared
   and characterized as in Example 2 are injected intravenously to CD1 mice at a dose of 8
   ml/kg. After 6 h, -0.09 mg of pyridoxine (i.e. 150 pL of a 2.9 mM pyridoxine hydrochloride

                                                 34
   solution) were injected to mice receiving RC-MGL-PLP2. The L-Met plasma level was
   evaluated at 24h by HPLC-MS-MS (Piraud M. et al., Rapid Commun. Mass Spectrum. 19,
   3287-97, 2005). The following table shows the depletions obtained in the various groups
   of injected mice.
   Administered                                                    L-Met plasma   %       of
                    Methods for providing the PLP co-enzyme
   product                                                         level (pM)     depletion
                      * Feeding                                    82.7 ±22.5
                      * Feeding
   RC-MGL-            * PLP in the finished product (-5 pmol/l,
                                                                   46.3 ±3.5      44%
   PLP1                 RC)
                      * PLP in the preservation solution of the
                        finished product (10 pM)
                      * Feeding
   RC-MGL
   PLP2               * PLP encapsulated in         the   finished 22.3    4.9    73%
              .         product (-13.4 pmol/1 RC)
   +  pyridoxine
                      * IV injection of -0.09 mg of pyridoxine
                      * Feeding
   RC-MGL
                                                    the   finished 29.7 ± 4.6     64%
   PLP3               * PLP encapsulated in
                        product (-71.4 pmol/1 RC)
 5
            The L-Met plasma level was evaluated to be 82.7 ± 22.5 pM in control mice. The
   product RC-MGL-PLP1 containing encapsulated MGL with a low PLP concentration leads
   to 44% depletion of L-Met, 24h after administration of the product. We put forward the
   assumption that the PLP added into the preservation solution of the product is not
10 available for the enzyme MGL since 1) it is in majority bound to the BSA present in the
   preservation solution and 2) it cannot pass through the membrane of the RC.
            The results show that a more consequent provision of PLP in the red corpuscle
   either by IV injection of pyridoxine (RC-MGL-PLP2) or by encapsulation of PLP at a
   stronger concentration gives the possibility of obtaining L-Met depletions -1.5 times
15 greater (73% and 64% depletion respectively).
            Example 10. Pharmacodynamics of RC-MGLs
            The MGL enzyme in its free form is injected intravenously to CD1 mice at a dose
   of 8 ml/kg. Two series of injections were made, the first with an enzyme concentration at

                                                  35
   0.45 mg/ml (product MGL-L1), the second at a twice higher concentration (0.90 mg/ml;
   product MGL-L2). Six hours after injection, -0.09 mg of pyridoxine (i.e. 150 pL of a 2.9
   mM pyridoxine hydrochloride solution) are injected into mice receiving MGL-L1 and MGL
   L2. The L-Met plasma level is evaluated by HPLC-MS-MS at 15 min, 24 h, 48 h, and 120
 5 h post-injection of MGL-L1 and at 15 min, 24 h, 48 h, 120 h and 144 h post-injection of
   MGL-L2. Fig. 5 shows the depletions obtained in the various groups of injected mice.
           The results show that in both experimental groups, a very strong L-methionine
   depletion (~4 pM) and rapid overtime (15 min post-injection). However, this depletion is
   transient and not maintained over time, the L-methionine levels returning into the control
10 values 24 h after injection, and this in spite of the initial provision of P5P (present in the
   dilution buffer but also in the formulation of the enzyme taken up in water) and the
   supplementation with vitamin B6 identical with the one carried out for the RC-MGL-PLP2
   product. The activity of free MGL is therefore lost between 15 min and 24 h post-injection,
   probably due to rapid removal of the circulating enzyme.
15          In a second phase, the murine products RC-MGL-PLP2 and RC-MGL-PLP3
   prepared and characterized as in Example 2 are injected intravenously to CD1 mice at a
   dose of 8 ml/kg. After 6 h, -0.09 mg of pyridoxine (i.e. 150 pL of a 2.9 mM pyridoxine
   hydrochloride solution) are injected into the mice receiving RC-MGL-PLP2. The L-Met
   plasma level is evaluated to be at 15 min, 24 h, 48 h, and 120 h post-injection by HPLC
20 MS-MS. Fig. 6 and the following table show the depletion obtained in the various groups
   of injected mice.
           The results show that in both experimental groups, an L-methionine depletion
   stabilized at -35 pM and maintained over time (from 48 to 120 h post injection). These
   results indicate that supplementation with PLP or with its precursor (vitamin B6) gives the
25 possibility of maintaining an activity of the MGL encapsulated in RCs for at least 120 h
   after injection in mice. As an indication, the L-methionine concentrations in plasma 24 and
   120 h post-injection for the various products (free form of MGL or co-encapsulated in red
   blood cells with PLP) are given in the following table:

                                                     36
                                                 L-methionine level (pM)
                                                 At TO (ctrl) At 24 h     At 120 h
     Free MGL              MGL-L1                68.2 ± 21.7  57.0 ± 8.0  62.5 ± 12.0
                           MGL-L2                68.2 ± 21.7  57.3 ± 5.1  51.0 ± 8.5
     Encapsulated          RC-MGL-PLP2           82.7 ± 22.5  29.7 ± 4.6  36.0 ± 2.6
     MGL                   RC-MGL-PLP3           82.7 ± 22.5  22.3 ± 4.9  34.3 ± 7.4
            In order to assess the pharmacodynamics over times of more than 120 h, the
   murine product RC-MGL-PLP4 having a concentration of encapsulated MGL of 0.5 mg/ml
   of enzyme in the finished product is injected intravenously to CD1 mice with a dose of 10
 5 ml/kg. After 6h, -0.09 mg of pyridoxine (i.e. 150 pL of a 2.9 mM pyridoxine hydrochloride
   solution) are injected into the mice receiving RC-MGL-PLP4. The L-Met plasma level is
   evaluated by HPLC-MS-MS. Fig. 7 shows the depletions obtained at 15 min, on D1, D2,
   D5, D14 and D28 after injection.
           The results show a significant L-methionine depletion (=10 pM against =68 pM for
10 the control) and rapid depletion over time (15 min post-injection). However, this depletion
   is slightly stabilized between 24 h and 48 h to a value of -25 pM and increases up to -40
   pM after 5 days so as to finally attain the control values at about 12 days after injection of
   RC-MGL-PLP4.
            Finally, the residual activity of the injected MGL enzyme is determined according to
15 the assay method described in Example 4 in the presence of PLP. Fig. 8 hereafter lists
   the residual activities versus time for the free enzyme MGL-L2, the various products RC
   MGL-PLP and for the TPL enzyme (data from the literature).
           The results show that by encapsulating MGL in murine red blood cells it is possible
   to retain strong enzymatic activity at 24 h (residual activity comprised between -60 and
20 100 %). This residual activity slightly decreases at 48 h (-35 to 100%) and is maintained
   up to 120 h, i.e. 5 days after injection, at values comprised between -20 and -65%. The
   residual activity of the MGL in its free form drastically drops in the first minutes post
   injection so as to be almost zero at 24 h (residual activity <10%). By comparison, the
   residual activity of the TPL injected in its free form is copied on the graph and 5 h after
25 injection, the latter is only at most 37% (Elmer et al., 1978). The measurement of the
   residual activity clearly shows the benefit of encapsulation of the PLP enzymes in red
   blood cells for maintaining their enzymatic activity.

                                                37
   Claims:
           1. A pharmaceutical composition comprising erythrocytes and a pharmaceutically
   acceptable vehicle, the erythrocytes encapsulating a PLP-dependent enzyme (pyridoxal
 5 phosphate) and PLP.
           2. The composition according to claim 1, further comprising a non-phosphate
   precursor of     PLP encapsulated    in the erythrocytes    and/or present outside the
   erythrocytes.
           3. The composition according to claim 2, comprising, as a non-phosphate form of a
10 PLP precursor, pyridoxal, pyridoxine and/or pyridoxamine.
           4. The composition according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising a
   phosphate PLP precursor, encapsulated in the erythrocytes.
           5. The composition according to claim 4, comprising as a PLP phosphate
   precursor, PNP (pyridoxine phosphate) and/or PMP (pyridoxamine phosphate).
15         6. The composition according to any of the preceding claims, comprising from 0.01
   to 30, preferably from 0.05 to 10 mg of PLP-dependent enzyme per ml of red blood cells.
           7. The composition according to any of the preceding claims, comprising from 0.05
   to 600, notably from 0.5 to 100, preferably from 5 to 50 pmol of encapsulated PLP and/or
   PNP (pyridoxine phosphate) and/or PMP (pyridoxamine phosphate), per liter (L) of red
20 blood cells.
           8. The composition according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising
   pyridoxine kinase (PN-kinase), pyridoxine phosphate oxidase (PNP-oxidase), and/or an
   agent inhibiting PLP-phosphatase.
           9. The composition according to any of the preceding claims, comprising as a PLP
25 dependent enzyme, methioninase, tyrosine phenol-lyase, tyrosine aminotransferase or
   cystathionine beta-synthase.
           10. The composition according to any of the preceding claims, as a drug.
           11. The composition according to claim 10, comprising erythrocytes and a
   pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle, erythrocytes       encapsulating a PLP-dependent
30 enzyme on the one hand and, a non-phosphate form of vitamin B6 on the other hand for
   simultaneous, separate or sequential administration.
           12. The composition according to any of claims 1 to 8, comprising methioninase,
   as an anti-cancer drug, notably against a cancer comprising tumoral cells auxotrophic for

                                                38
   methionine, or as a drug allowing treatment of homocysteinuria or hyperhomocysteinemia
   or an associated cardiovascular disease.
            13. The composition according to any of claims 1 to 8, comprising tyrosine phenol
   lyase, as an anti-cancer drug, notably against a cancer comprising tumoral cells
 5 auxotrophic for tyrosine.
           14. The composition according to any of claims 1 to 8, comprising tyrosine
   aminotransferase, as a drug against the Richner-Hanhart syndrome (tyrosinemia type 1l).
           15. The composition according to any of claims 1 to 8, comprising cystathionine
   beta-synthase, as a drug allowing treatment of homocysteinuria or hyperhomocysteinemia
10 or an associated cardiovascular disease.
           16. A method for preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising erythrocytes
   encapsulating a PLP-dependent enzyme, a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle, and
   pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) and optionally a phosphate or non-phosphate precursor of
   PLP, said method comprising the following steps: optionally, a pellet of erythrocytes is
15 washed and centrifuged one or several times with a physiological buffer; the suspension
   of erythrocytes is put into contact with a hypotonic liquid medium resulting in the opening
   of pores in the erythrocyte membrane; the suspension of erythrocytes is put into contact
   with the PLP-dependent enzyme before or after opening the pores; the enzyme enters the
   erythrocytes; the pores are closed by means of a hypertonic buffer and a suspension of
20 resealed erythrocytes containing the enzyme is collected; optionally the suspension of
   erythrocytes is incubated for removing the most fragile erythrocytes; the suspension of
   erythrocytes is washed and conditioned with a preservation solution; wherein in said
   method:
           - the PLP and/or if present a phosphate PLP precursor is co-encapsulated with the
25 PLP-dependent enzyme,
           - if present, the non-phosphate PLP precursor is added to the suspension of
   erythrocytes before or after opening the pores, and/or
           - if present, the non-phosphate PLP precursor is added during the incubation or to
   the preservation solution.
30           17. The method according to claim 16, wherein PLP is co-encapsulated with the
   PLP-dependent enzyme and at least one non-phosphate precursor is added to the
   suspension of erythrocytes before and/or after opening of the pores, and/or during the
   incubation and/or to the preservation solution.

                                                 39
            18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the non-phosphate precursor is
   pyridoxine.
            19. A therapeutic treatment method for depleting or reducing plasma or circulating
   methionine in a patient in need thereof, comprising the administration of an effective
 5 amount of a composition according to any of claims 1 to 15.
            20. A process for producing methioninase, comprising the steps of:
   (a) culturing bacteria transformed to produce methioninase, centrifugation of the culture
   and recovering of the pellet,
   (b) suspending the pellet in a lysis buffer and lysis of the bacteria cells, centrifugation and
10 recovery of the supernatant,
   (c) treating the supernatant with a precipitating agent, precipitation and recovery of the
   pellet,
   (d) applying to the pellet two rounds of crystallization or precipitation using PEG at a
   temperature comprised between about 25 and 40        0C, recovering the pellet,
15 (e) suspending the pellet in a solubilization buffer and subjecting to two rounds of anion
   exchange chromatography, recovering a solution of methioninase,
   (f) submitting the solution of methioninase to a polishing step by chromatography,
   recovery of a purified methioninase solution.
            21. The process of claim 20, wherein after lysis at step (b),              and before
20 centrifugation, the cell lysate is submitted to clarifying using a cationic coagulant,
   preferably polyethyleneimine.
            22. The process of claim 20 or 21, wherein at step (c) precipitation is performed
   using ammonium sulfate.
            23. The process according to any one of claims 20 to 22, wherein at step (d), PEG
25 is PEG-6000.
            24. The process according to any one of claims 20 to 23, wherein at step (d), a
   first round of PEG precipitation is performed in the presence of ammonium sulfate, and
   the second round of PEG precipitation is performed in the presence of an inorganic salt.
            25. The process of any one of claims 20 to 24, wherein at step (e) chromatography
30 is performed on DEAE sepharose.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
