                                                  21
ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to materials handling and, in particular, an assembly for a
skirt liner adapted for retaining materials on conveyor belts. In one aspect, a skirt liner
system for a materials transfer structure is disclosed comprising
         a plurality of main frames mounted to a mounting flange of the materials transfer
structure where each main frame comprises a skirt liner carrier adapted for supporting a
skirt liner upon a first face of the skirt liner carrier and a skirt liner retainer upon a second
face of the skirt liner carrier for retaining the skirt liner upon the first face of the skirt liner
carrier;
         wherein the skirt liner carrier is attached for pivotal movement with respect to a skirt
liner carrier of at least one adjacent main frame.
Figure 12

              11/16
                    2
           20
                          2    2
                            14
                    ---20
     4
2 14   2Fire1

                                                1
                                Conveyer Skirt Liner System
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application claims priority to Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
2013902099 in the name of Bradken Resources Pty Ltd, which was filed on 11 June 2013,
entitled "Conveyer Skirt Liner System" and, Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
2014900353 in the name of Bradken Resources Pty Ltd, which was filed on 6 February
2014, entitled "Conveyer Skirt Liner System" and the specifications thereof are
incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.
FIELD OF INVENTION
[0002]      The present invention relates to the field of materials handling. In one form the
invention relates to an assembly for a skirt liner adapted for retaining materials on conveyor
belts. It will be convenient to hereinafter describe the invention in relation to a skirt liner
used for retaining materials such as iron ore, coal, gravel, sand etcetera on a conveyor
belt system and to seal against the loss or escape of these materials from the conveyor,
however it should be appreciated that the present invention is not limited to that use, only.
BACKGROUND ART
 [0003]     Throughout this specification the use of the word "inventor" in singular form may
 be taken as reference to one (singular) inventor or more than one (plural) inventor of the
 present invention.
 [0004]     It is to be appreciated that any discussion of documents, devices, acts or
 knowledge in this specification is included to explain the context of the present invention.
 Further, the discussion throughout this specification comes about due to the realisation
 of the inventor and/or the identification of certain related art problems by the inventor.
 Moreover, any discussion of material such as documents, devices, acts or knowledge in
 this specification is included to explain the context of the invention in terms of the
 inventor's knowledge and experience and, accordingly, any such discussion should not
 be taken as an admission that any of the material forms part of the prior art base or the

                                              2
common general knowledge in the relevant art in Australia, or elsewhere, on or before
the priority date of the disclosure and claims herein.
[0005]     The purpose of conveyor skirt systems is to assist in centrally loading conveyed
material on the conveyor belt, contain spillage, and control dust at the transfer of material.
For these purposes, a conveyor skirt system may comprise skirt panels, skirt liners or
wear plates and a dust seal between the conveyor and the skirt panels.
[0006]     In retaining materials centrally on a conveyor belt, the skirts used in materials
handling systems are subject to abrasive action by the passing materials. Accordingly,
the skirts are lined with abrasion and wear resistant materials such as rubber, ceramics,
white iron or hardened steel for example. However, the wear plates or liners that protect
the skirts eventually wear out. Moreover, the skirts and/or skirt liners require replacement
and/or adjustment periodically over time.
[0007]     Maintenance of conveyor skirt systems typically involves the following:
   e   Gaining access to the inside of the transfer structure which is a confined space.
   " Inspecting the condition of the sacrifical liners for wear, and gap between the liner
       and the conveyor belt.
   " If the liner is excessiviely worn it needs replacing.
   " If it has worn to a point where the gap between the liner and conveyor belt is out of
       specification, it needs to be adjusted so as the gap is acceptable again.
   " Inspecting the condition of the dust seal, if it has worn out, it needs to be replaced.
[0008]     Typical designs have a fixed frame fixed to the main transfer structure.
Sacrificial wear liners are affixed to this frame on the inside of the transfer chute and
fastened to the frame on the outside, to protect the frame/structure from wear, and a
sealing section that entrains the dust within the transfer structure.
[0009]     To inspect and/or replace the liners as described, it is a requirement to have
maintenance personnel gain access to the inside of the transfer chute to inspect and
replace if required, as well as have personnel on the outside to loosen / fasten the liner
after adjustment / replacement. Quite often, gaining access to the inside of the transfer
chute requires a confined space permit. These are hazardous environments, with limited

                                              3
points to enter/exit, and quite often cramped for space. They are certainly not ideal for
carrying out manual handling and replacing / adjusting worn liners.
[0010]    Accordingly, it would be desirable to improve the maintainability of these
systems, by:
   " eliminating the need to enter the inside of the transfer chute.
   " eliminating the need to have at least two people to adjust / replace a wear liner.
   " prevent the wear liner from inadvertantly dropping onto the conveyor belt at least
       during maintenance or otherwise in operation causing damage.
[0011]    The below products I companies are known for providing conveyor skirt
solutions:
   *   H&B Mining
   " WAMS WAMSkirt
   " EZ Conveyor Solutions (Nelson Williams Linings Inc.)
   " Martin Engineering
   " ASGCO Complete Conveyor Solutions
   " CQMS Razer - Sure Clamp
   " Kinder - K Quick Clamp
[0012]     H&B Mining provides an "Easy maintenance skirt panel" that is disclosed in
granted Australian Patent No. AU-B 199716520.            The H&B Mining system is also
disclosed at http://www.handbmining.com.au/segmented-easy-maintenance-skirt/.            The
described system of H&B Mining allows all maintenance to occur externally.                  It
incorporates a bracket allowing for the height adjustment of the skirt liner relative to the
conveyor belt, as well as ability to remove the combined bracket and liner, and a clamping
mechanism to clamp the dust seal in place. According to AU-B 199716520 on either side
of a conveyor belt, there is provided a skirt panel for preventing the loss of material from
either side of the conveyor belt during loading of material thereon.        The skirt panel
includes a side frame supporting a plurality of cover panels and a plurality of wear plates.
The wear plates provide side walls for the trough of the conveyor belt during the loading
procedure. A small gap is provided between the wear plates and the conveyor belt.
Because material can escape through this gap, a rubber skirt is also provided on either
side of the conveyor belt. Each skirt rests against the peripheral edge surface of the

                                               4
conveyor belt and prevents material from escaping through the gap. Cover panels are
each located over an opening in the side frame. A plurality of openings are provided
along an elongate extent of the side frame to thereby allow access to the inside of the
side panel along it's entire length. The side frame therefore provides a "lattice" frame with
the openings in the lattice frame being closed by the cover panels. Because both the
cover panels and the skirt can be readily removed, this facilitates maintenance of the
conveyor system, and in particular facilitates adjustment and/or removal of the wear
plates. Removal of one of the cover panels and the skirt allows ready access to both
sides of the wear plate. A series of bolts mounts the wear plate onto the side frame. The
bolts can be located within vertically aligned slotted apertures within the side frame to
enable vertical adjustment of the position of the wear plate. Ready access can therefore
be obtained to both sides of the wear plate once the cover panel and the skirt is removed.
The wear plate can also be readily removed through the opening through the side frame
once the cover panel is removed. A clamping arrangement according to AU-B 199716520
clamps the skirt in position. However, when removing the liner in the H&B Mining system
there is a risk that it may drop onto the belt and cause damage. Manual handling issues
are the main problem when considering the maintenacen of skirt liners and H&B liners
and frames are very heavy.        In contrast, it is considered that dropping liners a small
distance onto a stationary belt isnt usually an issue.
[0013]    Another skirt liner system is disclosed by WAMS WAMSkirt in International
Patent Application Publ No: WO 2007/053883 Al.             The system is also described at
http://www.wams.com.au/ProductsPages/WAMskirt.htm.                  A skirt liner system    is
disclosed in which every second panel, with liner fixed thereto, is removable, giving
access to the adjacent/alernate liner which is fixed to a permanently fixed panel.
According to W02007/053883, in use, first liner plates are bolted to a support body, and
the alternate second liner plates are bolted to the plate supports.         With the support
members removed, access to the first and alternate second liner plates can be achieved
by having a fitter insert their hands in through apertures left by the absence of the support.
This, however, does not allow for each and every liner panel to be accessed, removed
and/or adjusted. Again, as with the H&B liners, the liner and frame needs to be lifted
away which is heavy, and access to the remaining liner is limited and/or difficult.

                                                5
 [0014]      EZ Conveyor Solutions (Nelson Williams Linings Inc.) provides a system which
 is described at http://www.ezconveyorsolutions.com/ and further disclosed in Australian
 Patent No: AU-B 2003262226 entitled "Pivotable conveyor skirt board assembly". This
 system does not allow for each liner to be independently accessed and also includes a
 risk of having a liner falling onto the conveyor belt during its adjustment or access. The
 non-modular nature of the system means that pivoting the skirt board assembly involves
 a large rotating mass that may be difficult to safely operate posing an increased risk of
 pinching and the like during manual handling. Also, the design of this system presents
 difficulties with access to the liner fastening bolts/nuts and liner height adjusters.
 [0015]      Further examples of related art systems are as follows. Martin Engineering offer
 skirt liner systems with modular sections, externally removable liners and dust sealing
 systems,       which    are    described   at  http://www.martin-eng.com/products/transfer
 point/martin-chute-structure-i.html. One particualr system offered by Martin Engineering
 is described in US patent No. 5,048,669 (Swinderman) in which the frame must be
 removed to access the liner. As skirt maintenace requires the conveyor to stop, this adds
 to the downtime. In the Swinderman system, adjusting the liner height further requires
 shims which are difficult to install. ASGCO Skirtboard System disclose a skirt system in
 US Patent No: 5154280 and described further at http://www.asgco.com/conveyor
 prod ucts/conveyor-skirting-and-dust-control/.      CQMS Razer provide a "Sure Clamp"
 system described at http://www.cqmsrazer.com/conveyor-skirting-systems/, which has a
 clamping method for a dust seal. Kinder provide a "K Quick Clamp that is described at
 http://www.kinder.com.au/k-quick-clamp-skirting-system/and,         which   also involves a
 clamping method for dust seal.
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0016]       It is an object of the embodiments described herein to overcome or alleviate at
least one of the above noted drawbacks of related art systems or to at least provide a
useful alternative to related art systems.
[0017]       In a first aspect of embodiments of the present invention, there is provided a
skirt liner system for a materials transfer structure comprising a plurality of main frames
mounted to a mounting flange of the materials transfer structure where each main frame
comprises a skirt liner carrier adapted for supporting a skirt liner upon a first face of the

                                                   6
skirt liner carrier and a skirt liner retainer upon a second face of the skirt liner carrier for
retaining the skirt liner upon the first face of the skirt liner carrier; wherein the skirt liner
carrier is attached for pivotal movement with respect to a skirt liner carrier of at least one
adjacent main frame.
[0018]      Preferably, the skirt liner carrier is pivotally attached directly to a skirt liner carrier
of at least one adjacent main frame. Alternatively, the skirt liner carrier is attached to the
materials transfer structure for pivotal movement with respect to a skirt liner carrier of at
least one adjacent main frame.
[0019]      In preferred embodiments, the plurality of main frames are releasably mounted
to the mounting flange of the materials transfer structure.
[0020]      In one particular embodiment described herein there is provided a skirt liner
system for a materials transfer structure comprising: a plurality of main frames releasably
mounted to a mounting flange of the materials transfer structure where each main frame
comprises a skirt liner carrier adapted for supporting a skirt liner upon a first face of the
skirt liner carrier and a skirt liner retainer upon a second face of the skirt liner carrier for
retaining the skirt liner upon the first face of the skirt liner carrier; wherein the skirt liner
carrier is pivotally attached directly to a skirt liner carrier of an adjacent main frame.
[0021]      Each skirt liner may be accessed externally from the materials transfer structure
for removal, replacement and maintenance.
[0022]      The skirt liner retainer preferably comprises adjustment means for adjusting the
height of its respective skirt liner relative to a conveyor belt of the materials transfer
structure.
[0023]      The skirt liner carriers may be releasably fixed to the mounting flange of the
materials transfer structure.
[0024]      The direct pivotal attachment between skirt liner carriers may comprise a pivot
bolt. Preferably, the pivot bolt is releasable.

                                                   7
[0025]      The skirt liner may comprise detent fastenings for engaging the skirt liner
retainer through the skirt liner carrier.
[0026]      The main frame may further comprise a dust seal clamp operatively connected
to the direct pivotal attachment between skirt liner carriers for engaging and clamping a
dust seal that runs the length of the transfer structure.
[0027]      The main frame may further comprise a clamp fastening operatively associated
with the dust seal clamp for fastening the dust seal against the skirt liner carrier.
[0028]       In another aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided a main
frame module adapted for mounting a plurality of main frames to a materials transfer
structure, each main frame comprising:
             a skirt liner carrier adapted for supporting a skirt liner upon a first face of the skirt
liner carrier and a skirt liner retainer upon a second face of the skirt liner carrier for retaining
the skirt liner upon the first face of the skirt liner carrier;
            wherein the skirt liner carrier is attached for pivotal movement with respect to a
skirt liner carrier of at least one adjacent main frame module mounted to the materials
transfer structure.
[0029]       Other aspects and preferred forms are disclosed in the specification and/or
defined in the appended claims, forming a part of the description of the invention.
[0030]       In essence, embodiments of the present invention stem from the realization that
transfer chutes are designed for product/ore flow, making access to service liners from the
inside confined and often difficult. They are rarely designed with space for maintenance
workers to access or work in. So, it was evident there was need for a new design providing
for safer maintenance practices. It is considered that providing adjacent pivotal attachment
between and with respect to skirt liner carriers has achieved this result.
[0031]      Advantages provided by the present invention comprise the following:
-        Elimination of a need for personnel to enter a hazardous space, the inside of the
transfer chute, to carry out skirt liner inspections / adjustments / replacements.

                                                8
-      Eliminating a requirement to have personnel both on the inside and the outside of
the skirt liner system to replace / adjust the skirt liners.
-      Provision of a mechanism to prevent skirt liners from inadvertently dropping onto
the conveyor belt causing damage to the belt.
-      Integration of a sealing function, for example with the inclusion of an integrated
rubber seal clamp.
-      Each skirt / skirt liner can be accessed independently.
[0032]       Further scope of applicability of embodiments of the present invention will
become apparent from the detailed description given hereinafter. However, it should be
understood that the detailed description and specific examples, while indicating preferred
embodiments of the invention, are given by way of illustration only, since various changes
and modifications within the spirit and scope of the disclosure herein will become apparent
to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0033]       Further disclosure, objects, advantages and aspects of preferred and other
embodiments of the present invention may be better understood by those skilled in the
relevant art by reference to the following description of embodiments taken in conjunction
with the accompanying drawings, which are given by way of illustration only, and thus are
not limitative of the disclosure herein, and in which:
Figure 1 is a perspective view of a cut-away cross section of a materials transfer structure
incorporating a conveyor belt and skirt liner system constructed in accordance with a first
embodiment of the present invention;
Figure 2 is a rear view of a materials transfer structure incorporating a plurality of adjacent
main frames showing a dust seal clamped by a dust seal clamp of each main frame in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
Figure 3 illustrates a perspective view of a cut-away portion of a materials transfer structure
incorporating a conveyor belt and skirt liner system in accordance with an embodiment of
the present invention;

                                                9
Figures 4a and 4b are a rear plan view and perspective view, respectively, of a main frame
module of the materials transfer structure in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention;
Figure 5 is a perspective illustration showing a main frame module of the materials transfer
structure comprising a skirt liner carrier and skirt liner retainer in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention;
Figure 6 is a rear plan view of the main frame module shown in Figure 5 which illustrates
a level adjuster in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
Figures 7a and 7b are a rear plan view and perspective view, respectively, corresponding
to those of figures 5 and 6 of a main frame module of the materials transfer structure in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
Figures 8a and 8b are rear plan views of a main frame in accordance with an embodiment
of the present invention illustrating the adjustment of a skirt retainer for adjusting the height
of a skirt liner with respect to a conveyor belt;
Figure 9 illustrates a perspective view of a cut-away cross section of a materials transfer
structure incorporating a conveyor belt and skirt liner system in accordance with another
embodiment of the present invention;
Figure 10 a perspective view of a cut-away portion of a materials transfer structure
corresponding to that of Figure 9 in accordance with another embodiment of the present
invention;
Figure 11 is a perspective view of the main frame module from the embodiment of Figures
9 and 10, illustrating a dust seal clamping arrangement;
Figures 12 and 13 are perspective views respectively of three interconnected main frame
modules illustrating the ability to pivotally displace one main frame module relative to the

                                              10
transfer structure made possible by embodiments of the invention, and also show a
rotation limiting mechanism;
Figures 14 and 15 are rear perspective and plan views, respectively, of a main frame
module showing a skirt liner retainer structure according to another embodiment of the
invention;
Figure 16 is an overhead view of a main frame module and skirt liner illustrating a vertical
tracking interlock mechanism to maintain vertical alignment of the skirt liner;
Figures 17 and 18 are rear perspective and end cross-sectional views of a conveyor with
a skirt liner system according to an embodiment of the invention illustrating pivotal access
for maintenance of a skirt liner in situ; and
Figures 19, 20 and 21 are rear plan, side and side cross-sectional views, respectively, of
a main frame module including an alternative dust seal clamp design in accordance with
an embodiment of the invention.
Figures 22, 23 and 24 are rear plan, side cross sectional and rear perspective views,
respectively, of a main frame module comprising an alternative dust seal clamping
arrangement according to yet another embodiment of the present invention.
Figures 25 and 26 are rear perspective and rear plan views, respectively, of a main frame
module according to still another embodiment of the present invention comprising skirt
adjustment means for securing and retaining skirt liners and dust seals.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0034]      Conveyor skirt liners are used on the majority, if not all, mine ore handling plants
and also ports. This is a large market that has had the above issues relating to use, wear
and maintenance of liners for some time, and is actively pursuing a better solution.
Embodiments described hereafter address these issues with a solution according to the
present invention.

                                                 11
[0035]      A materials transfer structure, indicated generally at 10, comprises a length of
conveyor with a skirt liner system according to a first embodiment of the present invention
as shown in Figure 1. The conveyor belt 9 in use moves longitudinally relative to a fixed
portion of the transfer structure 10 to convey material such as, for example, mineral ores
from one location to another. The ores are carried by the belt 9 between two sets of
opposing skirt liners 7 which are plates constructed from abrasion resistant material. The
skirt liners 7 are held in place by a skirt liner system that is described in detail hereinbelow
with reference to Figures 1 to 8.
[0036]      Referring particularly to Figures 1 to 3, a skirt liner system according to a first
embodiment of the present invention is made up as follows. A transfer structure 10
comprises a mounting flange 1 which forms a permanent part of the transfer structure 10.
Individual main frames 20, most clearly shown in Figures 12 and 13 and comprising skirt
liner carriers 2, are releasably mounted and/or releasably fixed to the mounting flange 1
with fasteners 3 such as bolts.
[0037]      Accordingly, skirt liner carriers 2 are releasably fixed to the mounting flange 1
as well as being connected either directly to each other adjacently along the length of the
conveyor transfer with a lower pivot bolt or detent pin fastener 4 or alternatively, each skirt
liner carrier 2 is attached to the materials transfer structure 10 for pivotal movement with
respect to a skirt liner carrier 2 of at least one adjacent main frame 20. In this respect,
each skirt liner carrier 2 may be pivotally connected directly to a skirt liner carrier 2 of an
adjacent main frame 20 or, each skirt liner carrier 2 may be pivotally connected or attached
to the transfer structure 10 such as for example a dividing portion (not shown) projecting
downwardly from the above mounting flange 1 between adjacent main frames or indirectly
pivotally connected to adjacent skirt liner carriers 2 through dividing portions of the transfer
structure (not shown).
[0038]      Each skirt liner carrier 2 supports a skirt liner 7 which is an abrasion resistant
material to protect the carrier/structure from wear, assist in centrally loading conveyed
material on the conveyor belt 9, contain spillage, and control dust at the transfer of material
in the transfer structure 10. Detent fastenings 7a are incorporated in the skirt liner 7 for
engaging with the skirt liner carrier 2. Preferably the detent fastenings are bolts or studs

                                                  12
for the skirt liner but can be any appropriate fastening as would be appreciated by the
person skilled in the art.
[0039]      A skirt liner retainer 6 is provided for each skirt liner carrier 2. The skirt liner
retainer 6 has a skirt liner 7 fastened thereto through its respective skirt liner carrier 2 with
the aid of detent fastenings 7a and, when fastened, clamps the skirt liner retainer 6 and
skirt liner 7 to the carrier 2. An adjustment bolt 8 in the centre of the skirt liner retainer 6
couples the skirt liner retainer to the skirt liner carrier 2 and allows for adjustment of the
vertical position of the skirt liner 7 relative to the conveyor belt 9. It also prevents the skirt
liner 7 from inadvertently falling onto the belt 9 if the skirt liner bolts 7a become loose. The
adjustment means 8 may be an adjustable fastener other than a bolt as would be
appreciated by the person skilled in the art.
[0040]      Figures 4 to 8 are various views of a main frame module 20 of the skirt liner
system, which comprises generally a skirt liner carrier 2, skirt liner retainer 6 including
adjustment means 8. The main frame 20 is constructed to be relatively lightweight, for
example of the order of 6 -- 7kg. The carrier 2 has a pair of parallel vertical slots 111 and
the retainer 6 has a pair of holes that align with the slots. When a skirt liner 7 is attached
to the carrier the detent fastenings 7a, for example threaded bolts which project from the
rear of the skirt liner, extend through the slots and retainer holes and are secured, for
example, with corresponding nuts.          The retainer 6 is attached to the carrier 2 by the
adjustment bolt 8.
[0041]      Figures 6 and 7a, in particular, show a rear plan view of the skirt liner system
indicating the level adjustment provided by the adjustment bolt 8.              The embodiments
illustrated may be suitable for use with skirt liners having dimensions of about 300mm.
However, the system of embodiments of the present invention may be custom made for
any conveyor or materials transfer application as would be understood by the person
skilled in the art.
[0042]      When the fastenings 7a are tight the skirt liner is fixed relative to the carrier.
When the liner bolts/studs 7a are loosened, the weight of the liner is held by bolt 8. As
seen in Figures 8a and 8b, the vertical position of the retainer and skirt liner can then be
adjusted by use of the nuts 8a, 8b. For example, as the nuts 8a, 8b on bolt 8 (adjustment
and locking) are wound out/down, the skirt liner drops. Once the desired height is set the

                                                13
nuts 8a, 8b on bolt 8 can be locked together, and liner bolts/studs 7a tightened. Figure 8a
shows the top of adjustment position and Figure 8b shows the liner adjusted down to a
bottom position. The elongated adjustment apertures 111 permit such positional height
adjustment of the retainer and skirt liner, which can then be fixed in place by tightening the
liner bolts/studs 7a. This allows fine and controlled level adjustment of each skirt liner
relative to the conveyor belt.
[0043]      Referring again to Figures 1 to 3, a dust seal 11 runs the length of the conveyor
transfer structure 10 to contain spillage and dust within the transfer. Seal clamps 12 are
positioned over the pivot bolts 4 and then by tightening the clamp fastening, for example
bolt 12a, this clamps the dust seal 11 against the skirt liner carrier 2.
[0044]      Figures 9, 10 and 11 show another embodiment of the present invention where
like components of the skirt liner system previously described are given like reference
numerals. Figures 9 and 10 illustrate a length of the conveyor with a plurality of adjoining
skirt liners and carriers in cross sectional perspective view, whilst Figure 11 shows a single
main frame module in isolation in rear perspective view.
[0045]      In this embodiment the dust seal 11 is clamped with a seal clamp 12 that has
the clamp fastening 12a being presented in any suitable form, for example as a wedge
lock in Figure 11. Preferably, the seal clamps 12 engage or hook to the lower pivot bolts
4. The seal clamp in each case is provided as an integrated component for the main
frame. In certain embodiments the seal clamp has a mass of approximately 1kg.
[0046]      In use, the skirt liner carriers 2 may be released from their mounted fixings to
the mounting flange 1 by unfastening fasteners 3. This then allows for the individual skirt
liner carrier 2 to be pivotally moveable about a pivot point provided preferably by pivot bolt
4, which serves to connect to adjacent skirt liner carriers. If seal clamps 12 are engaged
with the skirt liner carrier 2, these are disengaged by releasing the clamp fastening 12a
prior to pivoting the skirt liner carrier 2.   Upon pivoting the skirt liner carrier 2 from a
substantially vertical disposition to a substantially horizontal position the skirt liner 7 can
be accessed from a direction external to the conveyor 9 itself, thus obviating the need for
confined space entry. The skirt liner 7 can also be easily removed from the transfer

                                                14
structure 10 by disengaging the detent fastening 7a which will allow for removal or
adjustment of the skirt liner 7.
[0047]       A skirt liner carrier system constructed according to another embodiment of the
invention is shown in various views in Figures 12 to 21, illustrating some additional
features.
[0048]       In Figures 12 and 13 can be seen three interconnected main frame modules 20
illustrated from different perspectives and isolated from the conveyor transfer structure 10.
The centre module 20 is shown pivoted to a horizontal position, and an enlarged view of
the pivoting connection on each side of the centre module is also shown.                  In this
embodiment a frame interlock mechanism is implemented which has the effect of limiting
pivotal movement of the module to 90 degrees. The frame interlock mechanism includes
an interlock tab 14 which pivots with one module relative to the adjacent module. When
the pivotal movement of the module reaches 90 degrees the interlock tab 14 abuts against
a portion of the carrier 2 of the fixed module, preventing further rotation (Figure 12). The
horizontal position of the centre module as shown can be considered to be the
"maintenance" position, permitting replacement of the corresponding skirt liner (not shown
in these drawings) to be carried out.
[0049]       Figures 14, 15 and 16 illustrate some other variations to the skirt liner system
described above. This includes an adjustment bolt retaining device 15 that is fitted to the
head of the adjustment bolt 8 once the desired adjustment position has been achieved,
best seen in Figure 14. This retaining device 15, which may be in the form of a wheel nut
indicator as shown, prevents unwanted rotation of the adjustment bolt 8 when the conveyor
is in service. For ease of use, the nut 8c that engages adjustment bolt 8 in this embodiment
is held by the retainer bracket 6. This arrangement enables the skirt liner height to be
adjusted using a single tool externally from the materials transfer structure and with the
skirt liner in situ.
[0050]       Also, in this embodiment the adjustment apertures 111, best seen in Figure 15,
are in the shape of keyway holes having an enlarged opening at the top and a lower
elongate slot. The diameter of the upper opening is large enough for the nut and washer
of the skirt liner fastener 7a to pass through, whilst the lower slot dimension will only permit
passage of the fastener bolt/stud 7a. Furthermore, the retainer bracket 6 is formed with

                                                 15
cradle recesses to receive the skirt liner fasteners, rather than holes as previously
described.
[0051]      This construction allows for easier maintenance and replacement of the skirt
liner 7. As can be seen from Figures 17 and 18, when the module is in the maintenance
position, the low pivot point results in a low frame to belt clearance which can make access
to the skirt liner fasteners 7a difficult. However, with the keyway hole and cradle retainer,
instead of having to remove the nut and washer from each skirt liner bolt once the module
is in the maintenance position, the nut only needs to be loosened before the module is
rotated into the maintenance position. The keyway hole has been designed to allow the
nut and washer to pass through. When the nut is loosened and the module rotated to the
maintenance position (horizontal) the liner 7 can be slid out toward the operator, and lifted
up and away from the conveyor without the need to remove any nuts or washers.
Furthermore, the vertical adjuster (retainer bracket 6) has been designed so that the
operator cannot lift the skirt liner into the keyway opening when the module is vertical.
[0052]      Figure 16 shows the carrier 2 and liner 7 in overhead plan view from above.
This drawing illustrates the implementation of inter-fitting grooves and ridges 15a, 15b
formed on the side edges of the liner and carrier, respectively. The inverse arrangement
where grooves and ridges 15a, 15b are formed on the side edges of the carrier and liner,
respectively, is also envisaged as would be appreciated by the person skilled in the art.
This feature assists in maintaining alignment of the liner 7 relative to the carrier 2 at
installation as well as during and following positional adjustment.
[0053]      Figures 19, 20 and 21 are rear plan, side and side cross-sectional views,
respectively, of a main frame module including an alternative dust seal clamp design. In
this embodiment the dust seal clamp 12 is a separate part that is attached to the carrier 2
with a central bolt 12a. When the bolt 12a is tightened to the carrier it applies a force to
the dust seal clamping area 13 in order to hold a rubber dust seal in place.
[0054]      With reference to Figures 22 to 26 an alternate clamp design allows for tool free
maintenance/replacement of a skirting system. Figure 22 is a rear plan view of a main
frame module comprising a rubber skirt clamp 22. Figure 23 is a cross sectional view of
the main frame module of Figure 22 taken along the line A-A. A handle 23 is provided for
use with the clamp 22 and is lifted to lock the rubber skirt in place within the skirt clamping

                                                  16
area 230. Removing or obviating the use of the bolt 12a as shown in the previous example
illustrated in Figure 21 from the clamp design can also reduce maintenance time to replace
the rubber skirt. A locking pin 24a provision is included to ensure handle 23 cannot be
accidentally released. The clamping force can be adjusted as shown in Figure 24 by use
of adjustable clamping force provided through use of tensioners 24.                The previous
adjustment also allows for a wide range of dust seal or rubber skirt thicknesses as the
clamp depth is adjustable.
[0055]       Figure 25 is a rear perspective view of an example main frame module showing
an adjustment bolt retainer 15 that is used to stop unwanted movement during operation
of the transfer structure.      Again, as previously described, vertical adjustment of the
associated skirt liner is achieved through use of adjustment bolt 8.
[0056]       Figure 26 is a rear plan view of a main frame module where apart from the
previously described keyway apertures 111 for mounting wear liners or skirt liners there is
also clearly shown a retainer 6 comprising an adjustment bracket with cradle formations
to hold liner bolts/studs 7a. Further, Figure 26 shows a clamp locator 260 that may be
utilised for positioning the rubber skirt clamp 22 of Figures 22 to 24.
[0057]       The skirt liner system that has been described hereinabove has a number of
features that provide advantageous effect, including:
     " A modular design so that each skirt / skirt liner can be accessed independently.
     " Each main frame module can be independently pivoted to a maintenance position,
         eliminating the need for personnel to enter a hazardous space, the inside of the
         transfer chute, to carry out skirt liner inspections / adjustments / replacements.
     " A skirt liner fastening arrangement that eliminates the need for the operator to reach
         into confined locations with limited access for liner replacement.
     " Provision of a mechanism to prevent skirt liners from inadvertently dropping onto
         the conveyor belt causing damage to the belt.
     " A skirt liner height adjustment mechanism that can be operated with a single tool
        whilst in situ and ensuring vertical alignment of the skirt liner.
     " Integration of a sealing function, for example with the inclusion of an integrated
         rubber seal clamp.

                                               17
[0058]     While     this invention   has  been     described   in connection     with  specific
embodiments thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further modification(s). This
application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention
following in general, the principles of the invention and including such departures from the
present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to which the
invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth.
[0059]     As the present invention may be embodied in several forms without departing
from the spirit of the essential characteristics of the invention, it should be understood that
the above described embodiments are not to limit the present invention unless otherwise
specified, but rather should be construed broadly within the spirit and scope of the
invention as defined in the appended claims. The described embodiments are to be
considered in all respects as illustrative only and not restrictive.
[0060]     Various modifications and equivalent arrangements are intended to be included
within the spirit and scope of the invention and appended claims. Therefore, the specific
embodiments are to be understood to be illustrative of the many ways in which the
principles of the present invention may be practiced. In the following claims, means-plus
function clauses are intended to cover structures as performing the defined function and
not only structural equivalents, but also equivalent structures. For example, although a
nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical
surface to secure wooden parts together, whereas a screw employs a helical surface to
secure wooden parts together, in the environment of fastening wooden parts, a nail and a
screw are equivalent structures.
[0061]      "Comprises/comprising" and "includes/including" when used inthis specification
is taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or components but does
not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps,
components or groups thereof.         Thus, unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
throughout the description and the claims, the words 'comprise', 'comprising', 'includes',
'including' and the like are to be construed inan inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive
or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not limited to".

                                                  18
CLAIMS
1.       A skirt liner system for a materials transfer structure comprising
         a plurality of main frames mounted to a mounting flange of the materials transfer
structure where each main frame comprises a skirt liner carrier adapted for supporting a
skirt liner upon a first face of the skirt liner carrier and a skirt liner retainer upon a second
face of the skirt liner carrier for retaining the skirt liner upon the first face of the skirt liner
carrier;
         wherein the skirt liner carrier is attached for pivotal movement with respect to a skirt
liner carrier of at least one adjacent main frame.
2.       A skirt liner system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the skirt liner carrier is pivotally
attached directly to a skirt liner carrier of at least one adjacent main frame.
3.       A skirt liner system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the skirt liner carrier is attached
to the materials transfer structure for pivotal movement with respect to a skirt liner carrier
of at least one adjacent main frame.
4.       A skirt liner system as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the plurality of main frames
are releasably mounted to the mounting flange of the materials transfer structure.
5.       A skirt liner system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the skirt liner
retainer comprises adjustment means for adjusting the height of its respective skirt liner
relative to a conveyor belt of the materials transfer structure.
6.       A skirt liner system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the skirt liner
carriers are releasably fixed to the mounting flange of the materials transfer structure.
7.       A skirt liner system as claimed in any one of claims 2, 4, 5 or 6 wherein the direct
pivotal attachment between skirt liner carriers comprises a pivot bolt.
8.       A skirt liner system as claimed in claim 7 wherein the pivot bolt is releasable.

                                                 19
9.      A skirt liner system as claimed in any one of the previous claims wherein the skirt
liner comprises detent fastenings for engaging the skirt liner retainer through the skirt liner
carrier.
10.     A skirt liner system as claimed in any one of the previous claims wherein the main
frame further comprises a dust seal clamp positioned over the attachment of the skirt liner
carrier for engaging and clamping a dust seal that runs the length of the transfer structure.
11.     A skirt liner system as claimed in claim 10 wherein the main frame further comprises
a clamp fastening operatively associated with the dust seal clamp for fastening the dust
seal against the skirt liner carrier.
12.     A skirt liner system as claimed in claim 11 wherein the clamp fastening allows for a
range of dust seal thicknesses and comprises one or a combination of:
         a handle for tool free operation;
         at least one bolt;
         tensioners for adjusting clamping force.
13.     A skirt liner system as claimed in any one of the previous claims wherein each skirt
liner is accessible externally from the materials transfer structure for removal, replacement
and maintenance.
14.     A skirt liner system as claimed in any one of the previous claims wherein grooves
and/or ridges are formed on one or more of the skirt liner carrier and the skirt liner to
maintain alignment of the skirt liner relative to the skirt liner carrier.
15.     A main frame module adapted for mounting a plurality of main frames to a materials
transfer structure, each main frame comprising:
         a skirt liner carrier adapted for supporting a skirt liner upon a first face of the skirt
liner carrier and a skirt liner retainer upon a second face of the skirt liner carrier for retaining
the skirt liner upon the first face of the skirt liner carrier;
        wherein the skirt liner carrier is attached for pivotal movement with respect to a skirt
liner carrier of at least one adjacent main frame module mounted to the materials transfer
structure.

                                              20
16.   A skirt liner of a materials transfer structure adapted for a skirt liner system as
claimed in any one of claims 1 to 13.
17.   A skirt liner of a materials transfer structure adapted for operative association with
a main frame module as claimed in claim 15.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
