       ABSTRACT
          A grinding-dosing machine with a dosing device (3) for ground coffee, adapted to
   be fixed to a coffee grinder (2) to form a grinding-dosing machine (1), comprises a main
   body (5), having a dispensing conduit (51) which is configured to receive ground coffee
 5 from a coffee grinding device (2), and discharge it by gravity into a filter holder (4), and a
   closure element (54) which can close the conduit and allow ground coffee to build up in
   the conduit (51). A bending beam load cell (6) has a first end portion (61) connected to
   the main body (5) and a second end portion (62) attached to the coffee grinding device
   (2). Thus the load cell (6) will support the main body (5) which hangs therefrom, and
10 measure the weight of the ground coffee built up in the conduit (51).
           [Figure 1]

                          1/7
                    52                   3
                        5
         71-?
   51
                                    74
   57                         65     77 57
                   55-                     63    6   A
       64   -
      61   - -- - -
                                                        96
     73                                             67 9
                                                   66
                   993
  91
                                              92
                     54    88
99
                                            90
                                 89
                        Fig. 1

                                                  1
   Title: "A grinding-dosing machine with a dosing device for ground coffee"
   This application claims priority from Italian Application No. 10<removed-apn>711 filed on
   2 December 2016, the contents of which are to be taken as incorporated herein by this
 5 reference.
                                        DESCRIPTION
           Field of the invention
10         The present invention finds application in the field of grinding of coffee beans as
   is needed for preparation of a coffee beverage, e.g. espresso. Particularly, the invention
   relates to a grinding-dosing machine with a dosing device for accurate measurement of
   the doses of ground coffee.
15         Background art
           When preparing coffee beverages, such as espresso, coffee beans are first ground
   in a coffee grinder. Then the ground coffee are brewed using high-pressure hot water in a
   coffee machine. The ground coffee ejected by the coffee grinder is carried to the coffee
   machine into a filter holder, in which it is held even during preparation and dispensing of
20 the beverage.
           In order to obtain a coffee of the desired type, optimal adjustment of process
   parameters is relevant, such as the degree of grinding of coffee beans, pressing of the
   ground coffee amount of ground coffee in use, proper ground coffee-to-water ratio, and
   water temperature and pressure.
25         IT1187064, for example, discloses an automatic coffee machine for dispensing
   coffee, which provides a consistent volume of brewed beverage and allows dispensing to
   be measured with time, such that the user is promptly given an indication of the quality of
   the dispensed coffee.
           On the other hand, ES1089030 discloses a coffee grinder that incorporates a
30 graduated transparent tube, allowing the amount of coffee that is being ground to prepare
   a single coffee dose. Therefore, the barista will receive a visual check of the amount of

                                                    2
   ground coffee, and will thus decide when he/she will manually act to turn off the coffee
   grinder and stop grinding the coffee beans. The coffee dose is checked based on the
   volume of coffee that has been ground.
           Further coffee grinders, like the one as disclosed in EP2314188 adjust the coffee
 5 dose to be fed to the filter holder based on preset grinding times. Namely, the coffee
   grinder as disclosed in this document may recognize the filter holder in use and
   autonomously decide the dose of ground coffee to be dispensed. Each filter holder is
   associated with a coffee dispenser, which dispenses coffee according to a predetermined
   recipe and, as the coffee grinder recognizes the filter holder, it will provide a provide a
10 predetermined amount of ground coffee, e.g. a single or a double dose, associated with
   the recipe.
           WO 2015/006244 discloses a coffee grinder equipped with a load cell that
   supports a fork for the barista to lay the filter holder thereon while the latter is being filled
   with ground coffee. This will deform the load cell, and as its deformation is measured,
15 the grinder will be able to provide a measurement of the mass of the filter holder
   containing the ground coffee to the barista. Therefore, the mass of the ground coffee is
   obtained by subtracting the mass of the empty filter holder from the measured value. The
   coffee grinder as disclosed in this document also provides arrangements to preserve the
   load cell from impacts that might damage it, particularly when the barista lays the filter
20 holder on the fork. This is because the load cell should not be exposed to stresses that are
   too higher than those expected for weighing.
           US 2016/0143481 addresses a coffee grinding machine comprising a dispensing
   conduit connected to a grinder unit for dispensing coffee into a filter supported by a filter
   holder supported by a platform, wherein a load cell is connected to the support platform
25 for weighing the amount of coffee contained in the filter. The load cell is electrically
   connected to a control unit that receives signals indicative of the weight of coffee and is
   configured to stop the grinder unit when the weight of the coffee attains a predetermined
   value.
30

                                                  3
            Summary of the Invention
            The Applicant found that measurement of the mass of the ground coffee provides,
   in many cases of interest, more accurate dosing as compared with the control of the
   grinding time or the volume of ground coffee. Volume-based control may be inaccurate,
 5 as the mass of ground coffee in a predetermined volume may vary according to the
   degree of grinding. Furthermore, a visual check of the height of the ground coffee in a
   graduated test tube may be difficult due to uneven distribution of ground coffee, due for
   example to accumulation. In addition, visual checks cannot account for density
   differences caused by different particle sizes or moisture, Here, density differences may
10 not appear as a level change in the doser, whereas weight may be different.
            Grinding time control may also lead to dispensing of inaccurate doses of ground
   coffee for various reasons. This is because coffee beans may form agglomerates due to
   the effect of grease on the grains; furthermore, the coffee grinder is prone to wear, which
   leads to a time-dependent degradation of its operation parameters. Similar problems may
15 cause changes in the degree of grinding or irregular sliding of the outflowing ground
   coffee from the coffee grinder, leading to dosing errors.
            While the arrangements as disclosed in WO 2015/006244 and US 2016/0143481
   provide the possibility of measuring the mass of ground coffee, the Applicant found that,
   since the devices as disclosed therein effect measurements with the weight of the filter
20 holder supported by the load cell, the mass of the empty filter holder has to be precisely
   known. One coffee grinder is generally used with various filter holders, which usually
   have different masses. It shall be noted that a filter holder may weigh a few hundred
   grams, and a dose of ground coffee is generally a few grams. Therefore, even slight mass
   differences between two filter holders, possibly of the same type, may be significant as
25 compared with the weight of the coffee to be dosed.
            This disclosure provides a grinding-dosing machine with dosing device that can
   weigh the ground coffee before introduction thereof into the filter holder. Namely, the
   ground coffee are introduced into a conduit, where they build up, and are discharged into
   the filter holder as soon as the desired mass is reached. The dispensing conduit and, as a
30 result, the ground coffee that have built up therein, hang from a load cell, which measures
   their mass. This will afford accurate measurement and dosing of the mass of ground

                                                 4
   coffee.
           Advantageously, the unladen mass as measured by the load cell is constant, which
   allows a single measurement to be taken during calibration of the load cell. Therefore, the
   load cell may be set to indicate a zero mass in a no-load measurement condition.
 5 Therefore, the mass that is being measured and indicated when ground coffee are present
   directly corresponds to the net mass of the ground coffee, and there is no need to check
   the unladen mass, e.g. the mass of the filter holder, at each weighing, i.e. before
   dispensing the ground coffee.
           Preferably, the load cell operates in a relatively narrow range of values and
10 provides adequately precise measurements. The load cell initially supports a main body
   that comprises the dispensing conduit and the mass of the ground coffee is simply later
   added to such mass. Therefore, the mass increase recorded by the cell during
   measurement is only equal to the quantity to be measured, i.e. the mass of the ground
   coffee. As a result, from an equilibrium position assumed by the load cell before
15 grinding, the load cell is subjected to a small deformation when the ground coffee are
   present.
           Certain embodiments provide a grinding-dosing machine with dosing device with
   improved impact protection of the load cell, leading to a more reliable and sturdy dosing
   device, and preventing the cell from being subjected to stresses that do not fall in the
20 operating range of the load cell, such range being preferably narrow.
   The present disclosure provides a grinding-dosing machine comprising:
   - a grinding device, configured to grind coffee beans and deliver ground coffee, said
   grinding device comprising a grinder unit, and a grinder motor for driving said grinder
   unit,
25 - a dosing device for ground coffee, configured to receive the ground coffee delivered by
   the grinding device,
   characterized in that said dosing device for ground coffee comprises:
   - a main body, comprising:
            a) a dispensing conduit with an inlet configured to receive ground coffee, and an
30 outlet configured to allow ground coffee to be discharged from the dispensing conduit,
   the ground coffee falling by gravity through the inlet along the dispensing conduit,

                                                  5
            b) a closure member movable between a closed position to close the outlet and
   allow ground coffee to build up in the conduit and an open position, in which ground
   coffee can be discharged through the outlet,
   - a load cell having a first free end portion connected to the main body for supporting in
 5 suspension the main body, the load cell being configured to measure the weight of the
   ground coffee built up in the dispensing conduit when the closure member is in the closed
   position, and to generate a measurement signal representative of the measured weight of
   the ground coffee, and
   - an electronic control unit connected to the load cell and the grinder motor and
10 configured to receive the measurement signal generated by the load cell and to turn off
   the grinder motor as a function of the value of said measurement signal.
   Preferably, the control unit is configured to turn off the grinder motor when the value of
   the measurement signal reaches a preset value that is stored in the electronic control unit.
   Preferably, the load cell comprises a second end portion opposite to the first end portion,
15 the dosing device comprises a stationary support structure, external to the main body, the
   support structure being fixed to the second end portion of the load cell to support the load
   cell and hence the main body.
   Preferably, the load cell comprises at least one flexible portion arranged between the first
   end portion and the second end portion,
20 - said at least one flexible portion being configured to deform under the weight applied to
   the first end portion.
            Preferably, the load cell is configured to measure the weight of the ground coffee
   built up in the dispensing conduit by difference between a gross weight of the main body,
   as measured with the ground coffee in the conduit and a tare that is equal to the weight of
25 the main body when no ground coffee are in the conduit, as measured when the
   dispensing conduit is empty.
            Preferably, the load cell is configured to indicate a zero weight when no ground
   coffee are present in the dispensing conduit.
            Preferably, in the inlet of the dispensing conduit is configured to receive ground
30 coffee from a grinding device connected with said inlet of the conduit.
            Preferably, the closure member is located at the outlet.

                                                  6
           Preferably, the closure member is pivotally connected to the load transfer
   structure.
           Preferably, the dispensing conduit extends in the vertical direction between in the
   inlet and the outlet.
 5         Preferably, the load cell is a bending beam load cell.
           Preferably, the load cell is connected to the control unit and is configured to
   generate a measurement signal representative of the measured weight of the ground
   coffee, e.g. a voltage signal proportional to the deformation of the deformation of the end
   flexible portion.
10         Preferably, the main body comprises a drive system, which is coupled to the
   closure member and is connected to the electronic control unit to drive the closure
   member between the open position and the closed position. Preferably, the drive system
   comprises a motor, driven by the electronic control unit and connected to the closure
   member and the electronic control unit is configured to control the movement of the
15 closure member from the closed position to the open position and vice versa.
           Preferably the drive system is fixed to the load transfer structure.
           In one embodiment, the electronic control unit is connected to a user interface and
   is configured to receive input data from the user interface.
           In certain embodiments, the dosing device comprises a panel that is attached to
20 the second end portion of the load cell to support the load cell and hence the main body.
   Preferably the panel has a main extension in a vertical plane and is attached to the load
   transfer structure.
           Preferably, the first end portion of the load cell is cantilevered from the panel.
           Preferably, the second end portion is cantilevered from said panel.
25         Preferably, the panel is substantially flat and has a vertical orientation
   (particularly parallel to the longitudinal direction of the conduit) such that at least the
   dispensing conduit and the closure member project out of the panel in cantilever fashion.
           In certain embodiments, the load transfer structure comprises an opening that is
   configured to allow the passage of the load cell through the opening. Preferably, the
30 panel, if any, has an opening arranged at the opening of the load transfer structure and
   configured to allow the passage of the load cell through the panel opening and the

                                                  7
   structure opening.
           Preferably, the panel has an opening, for the passage of the load cell through the
   opening, the first and second end portions of the cell being arranged in facing relationship
   to two opposite larger surfaces of the panel and projecting out of them in cantilever
 5 fashion.
           Preferably, the grinding-dosing machine further comprising a retaining support
   which is configured to support and/or mechanically connect a filter holder, wherein the
   dosing device is placed above the retaining support, with the outlet of the dispensing
   conduit facing the retaining support, for the ground coffee to be discharged into the filter
10 holder when the latter is placed on the retaining support and the closure member is in the
   open position.
           Preferably,    the  grinding  device    comprises  a   connecting    conduit   which
   communicates with the grinder unit and is connected to the inlet of the dispensing
   conduit. The connecting conduit is adapted to receive the ground coffee from the grinder
15 unit and to introduce the ground coffee into the dispensing conduit of the dosing device.
           In one embodiment, the frame of the grinding-dosing machine comprises a base
   and the support structure, with the second end portions of the load cell fixed thereto, is
   mechanically connected to the base. Preferably, in this embodiment, the support structure
   is a portion of the frame.
20         In one embodiment, the dosing device comprises a panel which is fixed to the
   second end portion of the load cell to support the load cell, the panel being in turn fixed
   to a portion of the frame, the portion of the frame acting as a support structure external to
   the main body.
           Preferably, the control unit is connected to the grinder unit, the load cell and the
25 drive system for driving the closure member.
           In one embodiment, the grinding-dosing machine comprises a presence sensor,
   which is configured to generate an electric signal for notifying the presence of the filter
   holder when the filter holder has been placed in the retaining support, wherein the
   electronic control unit is connected to the presence sensor to detect the presence of a filter
30 holder.
           A method of dispensing a dose of ground coffee is also disclosed herein.

                                                8
           Brief description of the figures
           Further features and advantages of the grinding-dosing machine of this invention,
   will be apparent from the following description of one preferred embodiment thereof,
 5 which is given by way of illustration and without limitation with reference to the
   accompanying figures, in which:
           - Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a dosing device of a grinding-dosing
   machine according to one embodiment of the present invention,
           - Figure 2 shows a perspective view of the dosing device of Figure 1, which
10 comprises a support frame according to a further embodiment of the present invention,
           - Figure 3 shows a rear perspective view of the dosing device of Figure 2,
           - Figure 4 shows a side perspective view of the dosing device of Figure 2,
           - Figure 5 schematically shows a detail of a dosing device according to one
   embodiment of the present invention,
15         - Figure 6 shows a perspective view of a grinding-dosing machine according to a
   preferred embodiment of the present invention,
           - Figure 7 shows a block diagram of a system for controlling grinding and
   weighing of the ground coffee with reference to the grinding-dosing machine of Figure 6,
           - Figure 8 shows a schematic view of an example of a filter holder.
20
           Detailed description
           Figure 6 is a perspective view of a coffee grinding-dosing machine, according to
   one embodiment of the invention. The grinding-dosing machine 1 comprises a coffee
   bean grinding device, or grinding device 2 and a dosing device 3.
25         Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a dosing device 3 according to one
   embodiment of the present invention. The dosing device 3 comprises a main body 5. The
   main body 5 comprises a conduit 51 having one inlet 52 and one outlet 53. The inlet 52 is
   configured to receive ground coffee, e.g. from a coffee grinding device. The outlet 53 of
   the conduit 51 is configured to allow ground coffee to be discharged from the conduit 51.
30 The conduit 51 preferably extends in the vertical direction between the inlet 52 and the
   outlet 53. The ground coffee received through the inlet 52 fall by gravity along the

                                                  9
   conduit 51 out of the outlet 53.
           In certain embodiments, the dosing device 3 is configured to discharge predefined
   doses of ground coffee. The dosed ground coffee discharged from the dosing device 3
   may be collected in a filter holder, typically supported by a coffee grinder fork (not
 5 shown in Figure 1).
           The main body 5 of the dosing device 3 comprises a closure member 54 which is
   preferably placed at the outlet 53 of the conduit 51. The closure member 54 is movable to
   switch between a closed position and an open position. In the embodiment as shown in
   the figures, the closure member 54 is a plate, e.g. a steel plate.
10         In the closed position, the closure member 54 prevents ground coffee from being
   discharged out of the outlet 53 and allows ground coffee to build up in the conduit 51. In
   the closed position, the closure member closes the outlet 53 and supports the ground
   coffee built up in the conduit 51. Conversely, in the open position, the closure member
   leaves the outlet 53 open, allowing ground coffee to be discharged from the conduit 51
15 through the outlet, in the direction of the arrow 99.
           In the examples as shown in Figures 1-4, the plate 54 is mounted to a pin 88
   which acts as a fulcrum for pivoting about an axis of rotation AA, and switching between
   the closed position and the open position is performed by rotating the plate from a
   horizontal position in which it closes the outlet of the conduit and a vertical position
20 (substantially along the main direction of extension of the conduit i.e. the direction 99) in
   which the plate leaves the outlet 53 open.
           According to the present invention, the dosing device 3 comprises a load cell 6,
   which is configured to measure the weight of the ground coffee built up in the conduit 51
   of the main body 5 when the closure member 54 is in the closed position. Conventionally,
25 the dosing device 3 is configured to generate electric measurement signals representative
   of the weight of the coffee built up in the dispensing conduit.
   An electronic control unit 97 is connected to the load cell 6 and the grinder motor 21 and
   configured to receive the measurement signal generated by the load cell 6 and to turn off
   the grinder motor 21 as a function of the value of said measurement signal.
30 Preferably, the control unit 97 is configured to turn off the grinder motor 21 when the
   value of the measurement signal reaches a preset value that is stored in the electronic

                                                 10
   control unit 97.
   Preferably, the load cell 6 comprises a second end portion 62 opposite to the first end
   portion 61 and the dosing device 3 comprises a stationary support structure 8, external to
   the main body 5, the support structure 8 being fixed to the second end portion 62 of the
 5 load cell 6 to support the load cell 6 and hence the main body 5.
           Preferably, the load cell is a bending beam load cell (e.g. a shear beam load cell).
           The load cell 6 generally comprises at least one flexible portion (62) arranged
   between the first end portion 61 and the second end portion 62, and configured to deform
   under the weight applied to the first end portion 61. Furthermore, the load cell 6 may
10 comprise one or more strain gages (not shown) applied to the flexible portion 63 and
   configured to generate a voltage signal proportional to the deformation of the flexible
   portion 62. Strain gages may be, for example, deformable resistors connected in a
   Wheatstone-bridge configuration, according to known techniques.
           The electronic control unit (97), preferably a central processing unit (CPU), is
15 configured to receive the measurement signals representative of the load applied to the
   cell. For example, the load cell 6 is electronically connected to the control unit 97 which
   receives voltage signals proportional to the deformation of the load cell 6.
           The first end portion 61 is free and is connected to the main body 5 of the dosing
   device 3 in such a manner as to support the main body 5 in hanging relation. In other
20 words, the main body 5 hangs from the first end portion 61 of the load cell 6. Thus, the
   weight of the main body 5 and of the coffee built up in the main conduit 51 rests
   completely on the load cell 6, thereby causing the deformation of the flexible portion 62
   and thus allowing the measurement of such weight, e.g. by means of the strain gages.
           The load cell 6 is preferably configured to measure the weight of the ground
25 coffee built up in the conduit 51 of the main body 5 by difference between a gross weight
   of the main body 5, as measured when there are ground coffee in the conduit 51 of the
   main body 5, and a tare constituted by the main body 5 itself with no ground coffee in the
   conduit. The tare, that may be measured when the conduit 51 of the main body is empty,
   may be thus represented by a constant numerical value. Therefore, the load cell 6 may be
30 configured to indicate a zero weight when no ground coffee are present in the conduit 51.
   The measurement signals transmitted by the load cell to the CPU are representative of the

                                                   11
   weight of the coffee built up in the conduit.
           Reference will be made hereinbelow to a constant tare, with the technical meaning
   as described above.
           As further discussed hereinafter, the second end portion 62 of the load cell 6
 5 during use is fixed, particularly by means of a stable connection with a structure external
   to the main body, referred to hereinafter as support structure, e.g. a non-hanging panel or
   frame, such as a frame of a grinding-dosing machine that comprises the dosing device of
   the present disclosure.
           In a preferred embodiment, the main body 5 comprises a load transfer structure
10 55. In the embodiment as shown in the figures, the load transfer structure 55 is shaped as
   a suitably shaped plate. Preferably, the load transfer structure 55 has a vertically-oriented
   main plane of extension (i.e., parallel to the main direction of extension of the conduit 51)
   and comprises at least one connecting portion 92 projecting out of the main plane of
   extension for attaching the structure 55 to the load cell 6, particularly the first free end
15 portion, 61 of the cell 6. More generally, the load transfer structure 55 is attached to the
   first end portion, 61 of the cell 6, as discussed in greater detail below.
           In the embodiment as shown in the figures, the load transfer structure 55
   comprises an opening 77 which is configured to receive the load cell 6 in a transverse
   position across the opening. The load cell 6 is arranged to project out of the main plane of
20 extension of the load transfer structure 55, and particularly both end portions of the load
   cell are arranged to project out of the main plane of extension of the load transfer
   structure.
           The dispensing conduit 51 and the closure member 54 are engaged on the load
   transfer structure 55, and are particularly attached to it. For example, the conduit 51 is
25 attached to the load transfer structure 55 through first fastener elements.
           In the exemplary implementation of the figures, the main body 5 comprises an
   outlet connection element 91 disposed at the outlet 53 of the dispensing conduit 51 and
   connected to the outlet. Preferably, the outlet connection element 91 is formed of one
   piece with the conduit 51. The outlet connection element 91 is hollow and has an opening
30 at the outlet 53 of the conduit to allow ejection of the ground coffee from the conduit
   through the connection element.

                                                   12
            In the illustrated embodiment, without limitation, the outlet connection element 91
   extends outside the conduit 51, in a main direction perpendicular to the longitudinal axis
   of the conduit 51. A first connecting flange 90, which projects out of the main plane of
   extension of the structure 55, is attached to the structure or is integral with the structure.
 5 The first connecting flange 90 is configured to support the outlet connection element 91,
   and be attached thereto by first fastener means 89 (e.g. a plurality of screws into a
   fastening box). Accordingly, the conduit 51 is supported by the load transfer structure 55
   through the outlet connection element 91, the first fastener means 89 and the first
   connecting flange 90.
10          It shall be understood that other methods of connection, namely fixation, may be
   provided between the dispensing conduit 51 and the load transfer structure 55, other than
   those as shown in the figures. Particularly, the outlet connection element 91 is optional,
   and the connection flange 90 is also optional.
            In the embodiments of Figures 1-4, the plate 54 is attached to the load transfer
15 structure 55 by means of a pivot or pin 88 for pivoting about the axis AA, which moves
   the plate 54 from the closed position to the open position.
            In an alternative embodiment, a detail whereof is schematically shown in Figure
   5, described in further detail hereinbelow, the closure member 54 is movable relative to
   the load transfer structure 55 in a straight direction, e.g. a horizontal direction.
20          The load transfer structure 55 is attached to the first end portion 61 of the load cell
   6. Particularly, the first end portion, 61 of the cell 6 comprises a supporting surface 64 for
   application of bending stresses.
            In the illustrated example, the load transfer structure 55 is attached to such bearing
   surface 64 by means of second fastener elements 65, e.g. screws. Particularly, the
25 connection portion 92 of the structure 55 is attached to the first end portion 61 of the cell
   6. Thus, the load transfer structure 55 is supported in hanging relationship on the support
   surface of the load cell 6 and in turn, the dispensing conduit 51 and the closure member
   54 are constrained to the load transfer structure 55, and are hence supported by the load
   cell 6 in hanging relationship through the structure 55.
30          As mentioned above, the second end portion 62 of the load cell 6 can be fixed to a
   support structure for supporting the load cell 6, which supports the main body 5 in

                                                  13
   hanging relationship by its free first end portion. It will be appreciated that the support
   structure does not hang from the load cell 6. Preferably, the support structure rests on or
   is attached to a base.
           Referring to the embodiment of Figures 2-4, the support structure, which is
 5 external to the main body, is a panel 8 that is supported or fixed to a base, in the work
   position of the dosing device, to thereby support the main body. Preferably the panel 8 is
   formed as a suitably shaped plate. The second end portion 62 of the load cell 6 is attached
   to the panel 8 of the dosing device 3. The panel 8 is preferably a substantially flat panel,
   which is located behind the load transfer structure 55, and with a vertical orientation, for
10 the main body 5 to be arranged to project out of the panel 8. In the illustrated
   embodiments, the main body 5 comprises at least one portion projecting out of the panel
   8, such portion comprising at least the conduit 51 and the closure member 54.
           The panel 8 of the dosing device 3 may be stably supported or be mechanically
   connected to a frame (not shown in Figures 1-5) of a grinding-dosing machine, which
15 comprises the dosing device 3. The second end 62 of the load cell 6 may be connected to
   the frame either indirectly through the panel 8 of the dosing device 3 (like in the example
   as shown in the figures) or directly.
           The panel 8 supports the load transfer structure 55. Since the panel 8 rests on a
   base and/or is attached to a frame, it is not weighed by the load cell 6.
20         Preferably, the load cell 6 is arranged to project out of the panel 8. The panel 8
   has an opening 82, at the opening 77 of the load transfer structure 55, for the passage of
   the load cell 6 through the openings, with the load cell 6 not contacting the edge of the
   opening 82, to avoid measurement errors.
           The panel 8 is attached to the load transfer structure 55 and hence to the main
25 body 5 by the second end portion 62 of the load cell 6. Since no other constraint points
   are provided between the load cell and a structure external to the main body, the load
   transfer structure is supported in hanging relationship on the flexible and free first end
   portion 61 of the load cell and is free to move relative to the panel 8.
           The Applicant noted that an accidental impact on the main body 5 may cause
30 deformation of the load cell 6 and/or a movement of the main body relative to the support
   structure of the body, such as the panel 8. Preferably, the movement of the load transfer

                                                 14
   structure and hence the main body is vertically restricted by first limit-stop elements, and
   more preferably is also horizontally restricted by second limit-stop elements. The first
   limit-stop elements, and the second limit-stop elements, if any, are configured to restrict
   the movement of the main body 5 and the panel 8 relative to each other, to thereby
 5 protect the load cell 6 from excessive deformations as a result of impacts.
           In the embodiment as shown in the figures, first limit-stop elements comprise
   limit-stop screws 57 and respective abutment surfaces 84. The screws 57 of the first limit
   stop elements are arranged in such a manner as to be spaced from the abutment surfaces
   84 when no impact occurs, and to contact their respective abutment surfaces 84 in the
10 case of impacts, to thereby restrict the movement of the main body 5 and the panel 8
   relative to each other. Namely, the limit-stop screws 57 are fixed to the upper portion and
   the lower portion of the load transfer structure 55, and particularly to respective flanges
   formed in the structure 55 at respective holes in the panel 8. For example, the abutment
   surfaces 84 horizontally project out of the panel 8. Each screw 57 of the main body 5 has
15 an abutment surface 84 of the panel 8 corresponding thereto, to allow the main body 5 to
   move relative to the panel in the vertical direction before stopping its movement.
           Preferably, the movement of the main body is restricted in the horizontal direction
   by second limit-stop elements, for instance limit-stop screws 85 attached to the panel 8,
   proximate to the vertical walls of the load transfer structure. Each screw 85 of the panel 8
20 has an abutment surface of the main body 5 corresponding thereto, for instance a vertical
   portion of the load transfer structure 55.
           It shall be appreciated that, by defining the load transfer structure that holds the
   main body (open conduit) as the tare, the movement caused by (further) bending of the
   free end portion of the load cell for weighing the ground coffee is relatively small,
25 considering typical ground coffee masses dispensed into a filter holder ranging from 5 to
   30 grams.
           In the exemplary implementation as shown in the figures, the second end portion
   62 of the load cell 6 is attached to the back surface of the panel 8, opposite to the front
   surface on which the load transfer structure 55 is arranged to project (as shown in Figures
30 3 and 4). The panel comprises a connection flange 81, projecting out of the main plane of
   extension of the panel 8, which can be made by cutting and bending a portion of the panel

                                                  15
   8. The second end portion 62 of the load cell 6 rests on, and is preferably fastened to a
   plate 93 that rests on the connection flange 81, disposed below and parallel to the plate 93
   and spaced from the latter through the use of damping elements 67. The ends of these
   damping elements are fastened to the plate 93 and the flange 81, for example by means of
 5 screws 92 (as shown in Figure 2) and nuts 66 respectively.
           It shall be understood that other ways of fastening the second end portion 62 of
   the load cell 6 are possible. For example, the second end portion may be fixed to a flange,
   which is in turn fixed to the back surface of the panel (not shown). The damping elements
   67 are optional and the provision of both a plate and a flange for attaching the second end
10 62 of the load cell to the panel is also optional.
           As discussed in greater detail below, in certain embodiments, the panel 8 is
   preferably configured for connection with a support structure that is external to the dosing
   device. For this purpose and according to the example of figures 2-4, the panel has
   connection elements 83 and 83'.
15         Preferably, the main body 5 comprises a drive system 7 which is configured to
   move the closure member 54 between the open position and the closed position. The
   drive system 7 is connected, preferably fixed, to the load transfer structure 55. It will be
   appreciated that the mass as measured by the load cell 6 is also inclusive of the mass of
   the drive system 7. Preferably, the drive system 7 comprises a motor 71 connected to the
20 plate 54.
           In the embodiment as shown in Figures 1 to 4, the drive system 7 comprises a first
   pulley 72 driven by the motor 71, a second pulley 73 which is fixed to the pivot 88 and
   pivots relative thereto, to thereby rotate the closure member 54, and a drive belt 74 for
   transferring the rotary motion from the first pulley 72 to the second pulley 73, i.e. from
25 the motor 71 to the closure member 54, to thereby move the closure member 54 between
   the open position and the closed position.
           In a further embodiment, as schematically shown in Figure 5, the drive system 7
   comprises a cogwheel 75 coupled to a motor 71, and a rack 76. The rack 76 cooperates
   with the cogwheel 75 to convert the rotary motion of the toothed wheel into a rectilinear
30 motion, such that the motor 71 will move the closure member 54, for instance a plate,
   between the open position and the closed position in the direction B, in both ways. The

                                                16
   direction of movement of the plate is horizontal, i.e. perpendicular to the main extent of
   the dispensing conduit 51. The arrow E indicates the direction of discharge of ground
   coffee along the dispensing conduit.
           In certain embodiments, the control unit 97 is configured to actuate the drive
 5 system 7, and in particular the motor 71, to thereby move the closure member 54 to the
   open position when the weight of the ground coffee reaches a preset value.
           The grinding device 2 has known characteristics, some of which are described in
   any case, for better understanding of the operation of the dosing device 3.
           The grinding-dosing machine comprises a vessel (not shown in figure 6), for
10 instance formed as a hopper, in which coffee beans can be deposited for later grinding,
   and which can be coupled to a coupling member 86. The grinding device is in
   communication with the vessel to receive the deposited coffee beans therefrom. The
   grinding device comprises a grinder unit (21a) which is designed to be driven by a
   grinder motor 21. Conventionally, the grinder unit 21a comprises one or more grinding
15 wheels (e.g. A pair of flat or cylindrical grinding wheels) or one or more relatively
   rotating blades for grinding coffee beans.
           The grinding-dosing machine 1 comprises a frame 95 that supports the bean
   containing vessel and the grinding device 2. The frame 95 comprises a base 94 upon
   which the machine lies. The ground coffee are ejected from the grinder unit 21a which is
20 connected with the inlet 52 of the dispensing conduit 51 of the dosing device 3.
   Particularly the grinder unit 21a introduces ground coffee into a connecting duct, e.g. a
   chute 87, connected to the dispensing conduit 51.
           An optional conduit 23 connects the dispensing conduit 51 to the upper surface of
   the grinder-doser 1 to afford cleaning thereof without disassembling the machine.
25         The machine 1 further comprises a retaining support 24, which is configured to
   support and/or mechanically connect a filter holder 4. For example, the retaining support
   is a fork, on which the filter holder is laid. Preferably, the outlet 53 of the conduit 51
   faces the retaining support 24 to allow ground coffee to be discharged into the filter
   holder that rests on or is connected to it, when the closure member 54 is in the open
30 position. The dispensing device 51 is placed on top of the filter holder retaining support
   24.

                                                    17
           The panel 8 is mounted in the housing of the machine 1 and is mechanically
   connected to a support structure of the machine 1, which is external to the dosing device.
   In Figure 6, the panel 8 is attached to a portion 22 of the frame 95 of the machine by
   means of connecting elements 83. In the embodiment of Figure 6, the panel 8 comprises
 5 second connecting elements, e.g. coupling teeth 83', as shown in Figures 2 and 4, for the
   panel 8 to be coupled to the base 94 of the grinding-dosing machine 1 and preferably, to
   an optional sealing flange 103 of the filter holder 4.
           In another embodiment, the panel 8 is only attached to the base 94 of the frame of
   the machine 1.
10         It shall be understood that the load transfer structure 55 may be supported and/or
   mechanically connected to a panel 8 having a configuration other than that shown in the
   figures or, as mentioned above, be supported and/or directly connected to a support
   structure external to the dosing device 3, such as a frame of a machine that houses the
   dosing device. In the latter case, the panel 8 will not be necessarily provided.
15         More generally, it shall be intended that the second end portion 62 of the load cell
   is or is able to be fixed to a support structure external to the main body 5 to thereby
   support the main body not in hanging relationship.
           In one embodiment (not shown), the second end portion 62 is directly attached to
   a portion of frame 95 of the grinding-dosing machine.
20         It shall be noted that, since the filter holder 4 is not designed to rest on any part of
   the main body 5 or the load cell 6, the dosing device 3 may be configured in such a
   manner that the mass of the main body 5 will remain substantially constant throughout
   the useful life of the dosing device 3 or at least for an extended use of the device.
           Figure 7 is a block diagram of a system for controlling grinding and weighing of
25 the ground coffee. The grinding-dosing machine is equipped with an electronic control
   unit, e.g. a central processing unit (CPU) 97 and a user interface 98 which is
   electronically connected to the control unit. Conventionally, the user interface may be a
   touch-screen display or a keypad through which the user can input commands and/or
   enter input data. The control unit, which is usually housed in the machine and the user
30 interface, typically arranged on an outer front panel of the machine for easy access by a
   user, are not shown in figure 6. The motor 21 of the grinder unit 21a and the motor 71

                                                  18
   that moves the plate 54, as schematically shown in figure 7, are controlled by the control
   unit 97. The CPU is configured to receive measurement signals representative of the
   weight by the load cell 6 and to transmit control signals to the load cell, the motor of the
   grinder unit 21a and the motor for driving the closure member 54. The control signal
 5 lines from/to the CPU 97 are shown in Figure 7 by a dashed line.
           In one embodiment, the electronic control unit controls the operation of the
   grinder unit of the grinding device 2, through the grinder motor 21. Namely, the control
   unit 21 a is configured to start a grinding operation and stop a grinding operation when the
   weight of the ground coffee attains a default value or when a default time interval
10 expires. The default time and/or weight values may be either selected by the user or
   stored in the control unit. The default values, hereinafter also referred to as nominal
   values can be entered as input data that are received by the CPU or stored in the CPU.
   The nominal weight and/or time values may vary according to the desired coffee recipe.
           The grinding-dosing machine may be equipped with means, known per se, for
15 recognizing a filter holder, and for associating different default coffee weight values with
   different filter holders. Figure 8 shows an exemplary filter holder 100, equipped with an
   identification means (schematically shown), which is preferably removable, and is
   preferably placed on the basket 102 for recognition by a recognition sensor. While the
   identifier is shown in a lateral region of the basket of the filter holder, the identifier can
20 be placed on the front of the basket 102 (not shown in Figure 8). The identification means
    101 may be a color or any other prior art means, such as a barcode, an inductive means or
   a mechanical code with which the recognition sensor interacts. Referring to figure 6,
   when the filter holder 100 is placed on the fork 24, a recognition sensor (not shown), e.g.
   placed below the sealing flange 103, level with the identification means, detects the
25 ground coffee dispensing type, e.g. by total mass to be dispensed and, optionally, the
   degree of grinding, and a presence sensor (not shown), e.g. of inductive type, detects the
   presence of the filter holder. As the presence of the filter holder is detected, the presence
   sensor sends an electronic signal to the control unit that will control a grinding operation
   according to the dispensing type associated with the identification means.
30         Preferably, before using the grinding-dosing machine, e.g. during the installation
   of the machine, an operator calibrates the dosing device for the load cell to read a zero

                                                 19
   weight value when no ground coffee are present in the dispensing conduit. Preferably, the
   operator sets a a nominal ground coffee weight.
           In one embodiment, the operator enters a nominal weight value as an input data
   into the user interface 98 and starts a grinding operation for an initial configuration of the
 5 machine. The control unit is configured to receive the nominal weight value entered by
   the user and, once the grinding operation has been selected, to carry out the operation
   with the plate in the closed position and to check the weight of ground coffee on the
   plate, as the operation is being carried out. When the weight of the coffee that falls on the
   plate attains the nominal weight value that has been previously set, the grinding operation
10 is stopped and the control unit is configured to determine the grinding time associated
   with the nominal weight value and to store this value as a nominal grinding time value.
   Once the nominal weight values and the nominal grinding time have been stored, the
   control unit is configured to calculate a nominal mass throughput of ground coffee, e.g. in
   grams per second, based on these values.
15         The control unit may be configured to store a plurality of nominal weights of
   ground coffee associated with a corresponding plurality of nominal grinding times, based
   on which the control unit determines a respective plurality of mass throughputs, e.g
   depending on the type of beverage to be prepared. If a plurality of types of beverages are
   provided, the control unit is configured to create an input data table, listing nominal
20 weight values and associated nominal mass throughputs (or grinding times), for each type
   of beverage, as acquired as a result of respective calibration operations.
           The selection of the type of beverage and hence the selection of the nominal
   weight, time and mass throughput values, may be made manually or through automatic
   recognition of the filter holder, as described above.
25         After the initial configuration of the grinding-dosing machine, and according to
   one embodiment of the machine, the latter works "on demand" and the dosing device
   operates with the ground coffee dispensing conduit always open, namely the control unit
   is configured to hold the plate in the open position. In this mode, the dispensed dose is a
   function of the grinding time stored in the machine for a particular type of beverage.
30         The Applicant found that during use of the grinding-dosing machine in a
   dispensing mode that relies on the grinding time, the operating conditions may change

                                                20
   over time of use of the machine, which will allow the dispensed dose to no longer
   correspond to the desired dose set by a user or stored in the machine.
           In certain embodiments, the weight of ground coffee being dispensed is controlled
   . In an "on demand" mode of use of the grinding-dosing machine, such control may be
 5 actuated after a given time of use of the machine (e.g. after a few hours, one day or one
   week). The weight of the dispensed dose may be controlled in a single dispensing
   operation or over a plurality of dispensing operations.
           It shall be understood that a person skilled in the art can make many changes
   equivalent to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the
10 accompanying claims.

                                                  21
                                               Claims
   1. A grinding-dosing machine (1) comprising:
   - a grinding device (2), configured to grind coffee beans and deliver ground coffee, said
 5 grinding device (2) comprising a grinder unit (21a), and a grinder motor (21) for driving
   said grinder unit (21a),
   - a dosing device (3) for ground coffee, configured to receive the ground coffee delivered
   by the grinding device (2),
   characterized in that said dosing device (3) for ground coffee comprises:
10 - a main body (5), comprising:
           a) a dispensing conduit (51) with an inlet (52) configured to receive ground
   coffee, and an outlet (53) configured to allow ground coffee to be discharged from the
   dispensing conduit (51), the ground coffee falling by gravity through the inlet (52) along
   the dispensing conduit (51),
15         b) a closure member (54) movable between a closed position to close the outlet
   (53) and allow ground coffee to build up in the conduit (51) and an open position, in
   which ground coffee can be discharged through the outlet (53),
   - a load cell (6) having a first free end portion (61) connected to the main body (5) for
   supporting in suspension the main body (5), the load cell (6) being configured to measure
20 the weight of the ground coffee built up in the dispensing conduit (51) when the closure
   member (54) is in the closed position, and to generate a measurement                  signal
   representative of the measured weight of the ground coffee, and
   - an electronic control unit (97) connected to the load cell (6) and the grinder motor (21)
   and configured to receive the measurement signal generated by the load cell (6) and to
25 turn off the grinder motor (21) as a function of the value of said measurement signal.
   2. A grinding-dosing machine (1) as claimed in claim 1, wherein the control unit (97) is
   configured to turn off the grinder motor (21) when the value of the measurement signal
   reaches a preset value that is stored in the electronic control unit (97).
30
   3. A grinding-dosing machine (1) according to claim 1 or 2, wherein:

                                                 22
   - the load cell (6) comprises a second end portion (62) opposite to the first end portion
   (61),
   - the dosing device (3) comprises a stationary support structure (8), external to the main
   body (5), the support structure (8) being fixed to the second end portion (62) of the load
 5 cell (6) to support the load cell (6) and hence the main body (5).
   4. A grinding-dosing machine (1) as claimed in claim 2 or 3, wherein:
   - the load cell (6) comprises at least one flexible portion (63) arranged between the first
   end portion (61) and the second end portion (62),
10 - said at least one flexible portion (63) being configured to deform under the weight
   applied to the first end portion (61).
   5. A grinding-dosing machine (1) as claimed in any of claims 1 to 4, wherein the main
   body (5) comprises a load transfer structure (55) attached to the first end portion (61) of
15 the load cell (6) so as to be supported in suspension by the load cell (6), the dispensing
   conduit (51) and the closure member (54) being fastened to the load transfer structure
   (55) so as to be supported by the load cell (6) through the load transfer structure (55).
   6. A grinding-dosing machine (1) as claimed in claim 5, wherein the first end portion (61)
20 of the load cell (6) comprises a stress application surface (64) on which the load transfer
   structure (55) is fixed.
   7. A grinding-dosing machine (1) as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the
   load cell (6) is configured to measure the weight of the ground coffee built up in the
25 dispensing conduit (51) by difference between a gross weight of the main body (5), as
   measured with the ground coffee in the dispensing conduit (51) and a tare weight that is
   equal to the weight of the main body (5) when no ground coffee is in the dispensing
   conduit, as measured when the dispensing conduit (51) is empty.
30 8. A grinding-dosing machine (1) as claimed in any of claims 3 to 7, wherein the
   stationary support structure (8) comprises a panel (8) and the first end portion (61) of the

                                                 23
   load cell (6) is cantilevered from said panel (8).
   9. A grinding-dosing machine (1) as claimed in claim 8, wherein said main body (5) and
   said panel (8) comprise at least first endstop stop elements (57, 84, 85), which are
 5 configured to limit the mutual displacement of the main body (5) and the panel (8).
   10. A grinding-dosing machine (1) as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the
   closure member (54) comprises a disk configured to close the outlet (53) and to support
   the ground coffee built up in the conduit (51) when the closure member (54) is in the
10 closed position.
   11. A grinding-dosing machine (1) as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the
   main body (5) comprises a drive system (7) which is coupled to the closure member (54)
   and is connected to the electronic control unit (97) to move the closure member (54)
15 between the open position and the closed position.
   12. A grinding-dosing machine (1) as claimed in any of claims 1 to 11, further
   comprising a retaining support (24) which is configured to support and/or fasten a filter
   holder (4), wherein the dosing device (3) is placed above the retaining support (24), with
20 the outlet (53) of the dispensing conduit (51) facing the retaining support (24), for the
   ground coffee to be discharged into the filter holder (4) when the closure member (54) is
   in the open position.
   13. A grinding-dosing machine as claimed in any of the preceding claims 1 to 12,
25 wherein the electronic control unit (97) is configured to:
        -  receive input data comprising or associated with a nominal weight value of the
           ground coffee,
        -  place the closure member (54) in the closed position;
        -  perform a grinding operation by actuating the grinder motor (21) to discharge the
30         ground coffee through the dispensing conduit (51) and continuously receiving
           measurement signals from the load cell (6), representative of the weight of the

                                                24
           ground coffee built up on the closure member (54), during discharge of the
           ground coffee through the dispensing conduit (51);
       -   continuously comparing the weight of the ground coffee with said nominal weight
           value;
 5     -   stopping the grinder unit (21 a) when the weight of the ground coffee reaches said
           nominal weight value.
   14. A method of dispensing a dose of ground coffee from grinding-dosing machine (1),
   the machine     comprising    a grinding device     (2)  for grinding coffee    beans, in
10 communication with a dispensing conduit (51), having an inlet (52) for receiving the
   ground coffee from the grinding device and an outlet (53), a closure member (54)
   arranged at the outlet (53) of the dispensing conduit and movable between an open
   position for the ground coffee to be discharged from the conduit and a closed position for
   closing the outlet, and a load cell (6) configured to generate measurement signals
15 representative of the weight of ground coffee built-up in the dispensing conduit when the
   closure member is in the closed position, the method comprising:
       -   receiving input data comprising or associated with a nominal weight value of the
           ground coffee,
       -   operating the grinding device (2) for discharging ground coffee through the
20         dispensing conduit (51) onto the closure member (54);
       -   continuously receiving measurement signals representative of the weight of the
           ground coffee built up on the closure member during discharge of the ground
           coffee through the dispensing conduit;
       -   continuously comparing the weight values of the ground coffee, associated with
25         the measurement signals, with the nominal weight value of the ground coffee;
       -   stopping the grinding device when a weight value measured is equal to the
           nominal weight value, and
       -   moving the closure member into the open position, for the ground coffee to be
           discharged from the dispensing conduit,
30     wherein the dispensing conduit (51) and the closure member (54) are supported in
       suspension by the load cell (6).

                                          1/7
                                          1/7
<removed-date>
                                 52                            3
                                      5
                                            7
<removed-apn>
                            71
                   51
                                                          74
                   57                           65        77 57
                                                                   63    6
                        55                                                     A
                        64
                       61
                                                                                   62
                                                                                        96
                                                                                        93
                   73                                                         67
                       53
                                                                              66
              A                                                          57
                  91
                                                                        92
                                 54       88
              99
                                                                   90
                                                     89
                                      Fig. 1

                                         2/7
                                        2/7
                                   52
<removed-date>
                             51                              3
                                               7
                             5                     71
                             83
                                                        55
<removed-apn>
                                                         83
              65
                       64                                             55
                       61
                                                                       96
                                                                                93
                       53
                                                                           63
                       54                                        89
                                                                       90
                       83<U+2720>
                                                                           91
                   8
                                  83<U+2720>
                                   Fig. 2

                                                  3/7
                                                 3/7
                                           52
<removed-date>
                                                                                3
                             5
                        71                                   72
                                                                                    83
                                                                  51
<removed-apn>
                    7
                                                              74
                                 55
                                                                   57
                         57
                                                 84                85
                                                                       6
                                                                  62
                                      82
                             81                                            93
                                                              85
                                                                  67
              96                                             66
                   90
                                 84         57
                                                                                     3
                                                       83<U+2720>
                                                 Fig. 3

                                        4/7
                                       4/7
                                  52
<removed-date>
                             71
                                                72                                  3
              7
                                                 74
                                                 55
<removed-apn>
                       51
                  5                                             57
                                                                84
                                                           85
                            92                                  63
                                                                           6
                             64
                        61                                       62
                                                                               93
                                                                      67
                                                                 66
                  91                                  81
                                                                      8
                                                     83<U+2720>
                                       Fig. 4

                             5/7
                            5/7
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                            51
                                          7
                        E
                                              76
                                     B
              53
                                                   75
                   54
                                         71
                            Fig. 5

                                                  6/7
                                                  6/7
<removed-date>
                                     1
                                87                                   86
                    23
<removed-apn>          52
                                                                 95
                                                                 2
                   22                                                 21a
              83                                                     21
                           51
                   5
                                                                 6
                        53
               54
                       3
              103
                                                            94
                                                        8
                                         24   4
                                              Fig. 6

                                       7/7
                                       7/7
<removed-date>
                   6
              98                                       97
<removed-apn>
                       UI                        CPU
                                                       21
                            71
                                       Fig. 7
                                                102
                   101
                                 100
                                       Fig. 8

