                                                5
    Abstract
            A method of creating a void former for use in creating a void in concrete
    structures, comprising of materials arranged in a configuration that allows the void
  5 former to compact or fold in one instance while also being able to be un-compacted
    to a suitably rigid and sturdy rectangular prism structure to hold the weight of
    installers and concrete material when installed for the purpose of creating a void.
    Also, being suitably durable under inclement weather conditions, with materials that
    are easily recyclable with easily meaning without any specialist requirements or
 .0 equipment.
 -5
 .0
 .5
 ~0
35
40
45
50

 0)
LL

                                    1
                           AUSTRALIA
                   Patents Act 1990 (Cth)
ORGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION INNOVATION
                              PATENT
  COMPACTABLE VOID FORMER FOR CONCRETE
                                SLABS
The invention is described in the following statement:

                                                   2
     Field of the Invention
             This invention relates to concrete void formers and more particularly to void
     formers in concrete slabs or sometimes referred to as raft slabs.
  5
     Background of the Invention
             Currently the majority of available void formers for concrete slabs in particular
     residential house concrete slabs are made from expanded polystyrene, a rigid cellar
 .0  plastic derived from petroleum and natural gas by-products. These products have
     many shortcomings including environment sustainability, work place health & safety
     and volume. The polystyrene void formers are usually 1.09 meters x 1.09 meters x
      175mm or 225mm or 300mm or 375mm high and on average a residential house
     slab construction would require 90 units. Using a standard 300mm high polystyrene
 .5  void former you require 32m2 of space for transport, warehousing and site storage,
     which is considerable space on modern building sites.
             The advantage of the invention to compact of fold greatly reduces the area
     required to; 1. Manufacture, 2. Warehouse, 3. Transport void former for concrete
 .0  structures thus reducing environmental impact related to the domestic construction
     industry. On average the invention requires 10% of the current area required to
     perform the same task, creating a void on concrete structures.
             While not reported as toxic to handle when ignited or cut polystyrene void
 .5  formers have the potential to be hazardous to users. When installation has been
     completed all unused and waste material is required to be collected and disposed of
     separately to other building materials because of its potential side effects to our
     environment.
  0o         Other void formers can be found made from different materials including
     plastic which can be beneficial but are also expensive & again take up a lot of space.
      It must be mentioned there is other void formers available, but these are made from
     materials unsuitable for use in inclement weather leaving their use very limited in the
     constructions industry.
35
     Summary of the Invention
             According to the first aspect of the invention there is provided the ability to
     collapse a void type structure material including;
40   Bands of Kraft
     Aluminium and Polyethene Sheet
     Or any other materials that perform to the desired characteristics
             Where in the materials are arranged in a suitable structure that allow said
45   structure usually a rectangular prism in shape to collapse and expand manually
     depending on what is required, allowing for the void former to be easily transported
     and handled requiring only approximately 10% of the area currently required for the
     similar polystyrene product.
50

                                                   3
             The structure is made up of rectangular sections intersecting to create a grid
     type pattern to maximize strength while minimizing material required. Added a band
     to surround said grid type structure, which includes two flaps to allow one face of the
     invention to be sealed to create a void.
  5
     Brief Description of Drawings
             Preferred embodiments of the invention will hereafter be described, by the
 .0  way of example only, with reference to drawings which:
             Figure. 1 is a top view of the band structure and 2 flaps as mentioned.
             Figure.2 is a top view of the grid like structure.
 -5
             Figure 3. is a 3D view of the grid type structure.
             Figure 4. is a model view of the invention showing the grid type structure in
     conjunction with the surrounding band and flaps to seal the void.
 .O
             Figure 5. is a cross section view of a concrete slab incorporating a void
     system.
             Figure 6. is a model view of an embodiment showing the grid type structure in
 .5  with the lid forming part of the grid structure or partitions.
             Figure 7. is a side view of the rectangular bands in the embodiment with
     notches cut out to allow other rectangular bands to slot into in.
  io         Figure 8. is a top view of the invention compacted or folded down.
             Figure 9. is a top view of the invention 75% compacted or folded.
             Figure 10. is an model view of one embodiment of a lid to enclosed the grid
35   like structure.
     Detailed Description
40           Embodiments of the invention described herein relate to a void former for use
     in concreting and a corresponding method of use and it's supply chain. More
     particularly, the void former has been constructed from suitable recycled materials
     arranged in a configuration that allows the void former to be compacted or folded to
     maximise logistics, usability and minimise environmental impacts.
45
             With reference to figure 1. there in shows a void former 1 in one embodiment
     of the invention which shows the outer band and top section 3 which encloses
     partitions 2 to create a void. Alternative embodiment figure 6. the top section 3 can
     also form part of the partitions 2, or in other embodiments the top section 3 can be a
50   separate structure figure 10.

                                                  4
            According to the illustrated embodiment the void former 1 is shaped in the
    form of a rectangular prism. For instance, it is general understood in the industry
    that;
  5 a) A rectangular void former ranges in standard sizes for 175mm, 225mm, 300mm
    and 375mm high that are 1090mm x 1090mm specified by structural engineers
    dependent on soil classification on the construction site and other factors.
        In more detail rectangular sections arranged to form partitions as shown in figure
 .0 3. create the internal grid like structure of the invention. In one embodiment the
    invention figure 7. shows notches 4 in the rectangular sections 2 allowing them to
    pivot on themselves so the invention can fold down or compact, as seen in figure 8
    where it is completely folded or compacted and figure 9. The invention is 75% folded
    or compacted.
 -5
        The invention is applied to use the same way as current void formers, with no
    special specification or engineering required. The invention is an equivalent to
    current industry standards.
 .0     The preceding description is provided in relation to several embodiments which
    may share common characteristics and features. It is to be understood that one or
    more features of any one embodiment may be combinable with one or more features
    of the other embodiments. In addition, any single feature or combination of features
    in any of the embodiments may constitute additional embodiments.
 .5
        In addition, the foregoing describes only some embodiments of the inventions,
    and alterations, modifications, additions and/or changes can be made thereto without
    departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosed embodiments, the embodiments
    being illustrative and not restrictive.
 io
        Furthermore, the inventions have described in connection with what are presently
    considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments, it is to be
    understood that the invention is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments, but
    on the contrary, is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent
35  arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the inventions. Also, the various
    embodiments described above may be implemented in conjunction with other
    embodiments, e.g., aspects of one embodiment may be combined with aspects of
    another embodiment to realize yet other embodiments. Further, each independent
    feature or component of any given assembly may constitute an additional
40  embodiment.
45
50

                                                6
    Claims
         1. A method of creating a void former for creating a void in concrete structures
  5 comprising:
    A structure made up a horizontal bands or partitions intersecting to create a grid type
    pattern.
         2. A void former as claimed in claim 1, further comprising of various materials
 .0 allowing for suitable durability under inclement weather,
         3. A method as claimed in claim 1 and 2, comprising the materials arranged in a
    pattern to create a rectangular prism type structure.
 .5      4. A method claimed in claim 3, where in the arrangement also allows the
    structure to be fold or compacted.
         5. A void former in accordance with claim 4, where in the structure is suitably
    rigid.
 .O
         6. A method for constructing a concrete slab, comprising:
    Laying at least one void former or series of in accordance with any one of claims 3 to
    5 on a suitable subbase: pouring concrete over at least one void former for
    constructing the concrete slab.
 .5
 i0
35
40
45
50

          <removed-apn> <removed-date>
          2.
Figure 1.

<removed-date>
                                         2.
<removed-apn>
              Figure 2.
                                                   2.
                             Figure 3.
                                         3.
                                              2.
                          Figure 4.

<removed-date>
              1.
<removed-apn>
                    Figure 5.
                            3.
                                 2.
              Figure 6.
                                  2.
                                 4.
              Figure 7.

<removed-date>
                                              2.
                Figure 8.
<removed-apn>
                                         2.
              Figure 9.
                                                   3.
                            Figure 10.

