                             INTRAOCULAR GAS INJECTOR
                             ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
A hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly, including: a syringe body with an outlet, the
outlet including a nozzle and a valve disposed in the nozzle, the valve having a closed
configuration and an open configuration; a plunger slidably disposed in the syringe body and,
with the syringe body, defining a first chamber within the syringe body, the first chamber
fluidically connected to the outlet such that fluid can be drawn into the first chamber through
the outlet and discharged from the first chamber through the outlet; a filter having a first end
connectable to the outlet of the syringe body and configured to maintain the valve in the open
configuration when connected to the outlet of the syringe body.

WO 2013/188595           PCT/US2013/045515
                    4/26
               A(.9

                             INTRAOCULAR GAS INJECTOR
                                 RELATED APPLICATIONS
         [0001]     The present application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application
No. 2013274203, the entire contents of which is hereby expressly incorporated by reference.
                                      TECHNICAL FIELD
         [0002]     The inventions disclosed herein generally relate to devices and methods
for injecting gases into an eye of an animal.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTIONS
         [0003]     Surgical procedures can require gases or other fluids to be injected into a
target area for treatment of certain injuries, disorders and diseases. In the treatment of eye
conditions such as macular holes, retinal tears and detachments, part of the surgical procedure
can include the injection of gases or other fluids into the eye.
         [0004]     For example, retinal detachment         is an eye disorder involving the
separation of the retina from the Retinal Pigment Epithelium (RPE), the tissue that holds the
retina in place. Retinal detachment can occur due to a retinal tear, traction on the retina, or
inflammation which allows fluid to build up in the subretinal space thereby causing the retina
to begin to separate from supporting RPE tissue.          This disorder can also occur due to
Posterior Vitreous Detachment (PVD), Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy (PDR), injury, or
neovascularization of the fibrous or vascular tissue causing the retina to be detached from the
RPE.    Such a condition, if not treated immediately, could lead to partial vision loss and
potentially even blindness.
         [0005]     Treatment approaches for uncomplicated retinal detachments may include
non-surgical techniques such as pneumatic retinopexy, laser photocoagulation, or cryopexy.
More complicated retinal detachments require surgical intervention.         Due to the risk of
infection, which can potentially cause blindness, such surgeries are performed under sterile
conditions in order to significantly reduce the potential for infection.      Surgical methods
include vitrectomy, which is the removal of the vitreous humor; dissection and removal of
membranes, in the case of traction retinal detachments; and photocoagulation or cryopexy, in
the case of additional retinal tears. Following such a surgical procedure, an intraocular gas
                                                -1-

tamponade may be used to hold the retina tissue in contact with the RPE which enables the
retina to remain attached during the healing process after the surgical procedure.
         [0006]     Since intraocular pressure must be maintained relatively constant during
the healing process, the gas chosen is typically one that expands at constant pressure (isobaric
process). As such, the intraocular gas tamponade can be a gas bubble of air mixed with an
expansile gas such as sulfur hexafluoride (SF6 ), hexafluroethane (C2 F6 ), or octafluoropropane
(C3F8 ).   The intraocular gas tamponade dissolves over time depending on the gas and
concentrations used.    For example, sulfur hexafluoride dissolves within 1-2 weeks when
mixed with air at a concentration of approximately 20 percent, hexafluoroethane dissolves in
approximately 4-5 weeks when mixed with air at a concentration of approximately 16
percent, and octafluoropropane dissolves in approximately 6-8 weeks when mixed with air at
a concentration of approximately 12%. Changing the concentrations of these gases affects
the duration.
         [0007]     Current practice involves use of gases contained in separate, multi-dose
pressurized containers which are then transferred into a syringe for mixing with air and
injection into the patient' s eye. Therefore, during a surgical procedure, multiple non-sterile
and sterile steps are required in order to fill the syringe with a desired concentration of gas
and air.    These non-sterile and sterile steps are typically performed by the non-sterile
operating room circulating nurse and the sterile scrub technician supporting the surgeon in
the sterile field. During a first non-sterile step, the circulating nurse prepares the non-sterile
re-usable gas container by setting a pressure regulator connected to the gas container at the
proper pressure. During a second step, the scrub tech prepares a sterile syringe by connecting
a stopcock, filter, and tubing, in series, onto the syringe. During a third step, the tubing is
connected to the gas container. The scrub tech carefully passes the free end of the sterile
tubing through the invisible sterile barrier to the awaiting non-sterile circulating nurse. The
non-sterile circulating nurse receives the tubing and carefully ensures that he/she does not
contaminate the scrub tech nor any other of the sterile surfaces; and connects the tubing to the
regulator on the gas container. During a fourth step, the syringe is then filled with gas from
the container. The scrub tech and circulating nurse coordinate the opening of the pressurized
container valve to release gas through the connected tubing, filter, stopcock, and into the
                                                 -2-

syringe. The pressure of the released gas is sufficient to push the syringe plunger along the
length of the syringe barrel and thus fill the syringe with gas. The scrub tech ensures that the
gas does not push the plunger out of the open end of the syringe barrel and signals to the
circulating nurse to close the gas container valve when the syringe approaches a fully filled
condition. During a fifth step, the syringe is then purged of all air and gas in order to ensure
that a substantial majority of air which may have been present within the syringe, stopcock,
filter, and tubing, prior to filling with gas has been purged.        The scrub tech turns the
stopcock, to provide a means for the air and gas in the syringe to be released to the
atmosphere, presses on the syringe plunger, and empties the syringe of all of its contents.
The scrub tech then turns the stopcock in the opposite direction, returning the connection
pathway to the tubing and the gas container. Steps four and five are repeated several times to
further reduce the amount of air that was initially in the syringe, stopcock, filter, and tubing;
flushing the majority of the air from the syringe, stopcock, filter, and tubing and purging the
system of air. During a sixth step, the syringe is then refilled with gas from the container.
The scrub tech detaches the tubing from the filter and signals the circulating nurse to
carefully take the tubing, removing it from the sterile field. During a seventh step, the scrub
tech does not expel the full contents of the syringe, stopping the plunger such that only a
measured volume of gas remains in the syringe. For example, the gas may be expelled such
that only 12mL remains within the syringe. During an eighth step, the scrub tech replaces the
used filter with a new sterile filter and draws filtered room air into the syringe until the total
air/gas mixture in the syringe is at a proper volume for the desired gas concentration.
         [0008]      For example, atmospheric air may be drawn into the syringe such that the
total volume of air and gas is 60mL therefore achieving a concentration of 20 percent. Since
the pressurized containers are non-sterile, and the syringe and surgical area are sterile,
completing the above-mentioned steps must be performed by at least one party in the non
sterile field (typically the circulating nurse), a second party in the sterile field (typically the
scrub tech), and requires the coordination and communication between the two parties.
         [0009]      The procedure requires a complex set of steps which may increase the
potential for errors occurring.     An error in one of these steps can result in an improper
concentration of gas being used which may result in having either an elevated pressure or
                                                 -3-

reduced retinal tamponade duration thereby potentially causing ischemia or failure of the
reattachment surgery, both of which potentially causing blindness. Additionally, the current
practice results in a significant amount of wasted gas which is both expensive and harmful to
the environment.       Thus handling of such gases, especially in pressurized containers
containing more than one dose, may present potential danger to the operator if mishandled.
As such, some countries may even prohibit storage of these pressurized containers in the
operating room.
         [0010]     While there have been some approaches to improve the current procedure,
such as U.S. Patent Number 6,866,142 to Lamborne et al., single-dose containers capable of
being placed in the sterile field, and the Alcon@ Constellation@ system which allows filling
and purging of gas, these approaches have been insufficient to address all the potential issues.
As such, there remains a need in the industry for an improved gas mixing apparatus.
                               SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         [0011]     An aspect of at least one of the inventions disclosed herein includes the
realization that an intraocular gas injector design can allow a surgeon or a nurse to prepare a
gas mixture with a selected concentration level using with a simplified procedure.           For
example, in some known intraocular gas injector devices and procedures, such as
conventional syringes, multiple parties can be required to fill the syringe to achieve a desired
concentration with one person repeatedly filling and discharging the syringe and another
person controlling the flow of a gas contained in an external tank. Additionally, each person
must coordinate their actions and perform a multitude of complex steps. This increases the
potential for errors in the filling process which could result in an improper concentration
being achieved in the syringe prior to injection into a patient. Furthermore, this can increase
the time necessary to fill the syringe as the two parties must coordinate their activities and
perform multiple steps.      The potential for error can be particularly dangerous in certain
medical fields, such as ophthalmology, where injection of an improper concentration can
result in blindness. Thus, an intraocular gas injector that can be operated by a single person
can help reduce the likelihood of error.
         [0012]     Another aspect of at least one of the inventions disclosed herein includes
the realization that an intraocular gas injector design can allow for multiple selectable
                                               -4-

concentration levels thereby allowing one device to be used for different applications and
thus potentially further reducing manufacturing costs and waste.           For example, some
conventional devices can only allow for a preset concentration level to be achieved within the
device thereby necessitating the manufacturing and storage of multiple devices having
different preset concentration level. This increases both the costs of manufacturing and the
cost to a surgeon who needs to purchase multiples of each device to accommodate for
different surgical needs.      Under such circumstances, some devices can expire thereby
requiring the manufacturer or surgeon to dispose of such devices without ever having been
used. As such, an intraocular gas injector that allows for multiple concentration levels can
serve as a one-size fits all for a surgeon thereby reducing waste.
         [0013]     Another aspect of at least one of the inventions disclosed herein includes
the realization that an intraocular gas injector design can allow for automated operation
during at least some phases of operation thereby reducing the potential for errors in achieving
a proper concentration level. For example, in some known intraocular gas injector devices
and procedures, such as conventional syringes, a nurse or other operating room personnel
must physically measure the amount of gas contained within a syringe during a first phase of
operation. In a situation where a minute change in volume can result in a significant change
in concentration, a minor error in this physical measurement can result in an improper
concentration being achieved in the syringe after all phases of operation have been
completed. Therefore, an intraocular gas injector that automatically measures the volume in
the first phase and/or any other phase can reduce the likelihood of an improper concentration
being achieved in the injector.
         [0014]     Another aspect of at least one of the inventions disclosed herein includes
the realization that an intraocular gas injector design can be made with a canister within the
injector, with the canister capable of being filled separately prior to incorporation into the
injector, thereby reducing the costs of manufacture.      Thus, for example, an intraocular gas
injector device can include a separate canister placed within the body of the injector.
         [0015]     Yet another aspect of at least one of the inventions disclosed herein
includes the realization that an intraocular gas injector design can incorporate a storage
member having an internal valve mechanism thereby reducing the costs of manufacture of the
                                                 -5-

injector.   For example, in some designs, the device can use multiple pressure regulation
systems, such as check valves, integrated on components of the device to regulate pressure
within the device and to control the operation of the device.       The integration of pressure
regulation systems on components of the device can result in increased manufacturing costs
for those components. Thus, the relocation of valves to the storage member can help reduce
manufacturing costs of the device if the cost of manufacturing of an internal valve
mechanism within the storage member is lower than the cost of manufacturing a valve
integrated on other components of the device.
         [0016]     An aspect of at least one of the inventions disclosed herein includes the
realization that an intraocular gas injector design can incorporate an interlock mechanism
configured to control the movement of an activation switch thereby reducing potential
erroneous operation of the injector. For example, in some designs, the device can include an
activation switch which can control the operation of the device such as the opening and
closing of a pressurized chamber within the device. In some instances, the user can use the
activator switch to reopen the pressurized chamber within the device when such opening can
cause an improper concentration to be received.        An interlock mechanism configured to
control the movement of an activation switch can help reduce the likelihood of erroneous
operation of the injector.
         [0017]     An aspect of at least one of the inventions disclosed herein includes the
realization that an intraocular gas injector design can allow for automated operation during at
least some phases of operation when connected to an external pressurized chamber thereby
reducing the potential for errors in achieving a proper concentration level. For example, in
some known intraocular gas injector devices and procedures, such as conventional syringes, a
nurse or other operating room personnel can connect an external gas tank to the syringe and
repeatedly fill and discharge gas within the syringe to ensure that the syringe contains mainly
gas from the tank. During these refill and discharge cycles, another party may need to open
and close a valve on the external gas tank. Thus, for example, an intraocular gas injector can
allow the attachment of an external pressurized chamber and automatically reach a
configured volume and discharge gas such that the injector contains mainly gas from the
external pressurized chamber.
                                                -6-

          [0018]      In one broad form an aspect of the present invention seeks to provide a
hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly, comprising: a syringe body with an outlet, the
outlet comprising a nozzle and a valve disposed in the nozzle, the valve having a closed
configuration and an open configuration; a plunger slidably disposed in the syringe body and,
with the syringe body, defining a first chamber within the syringe body, the first chamber
fluidically connected to the outlet such that fluid can be drawn into the first chamber through
the outlet and discharged from the first chamber through the outlet; a filter having a first end
connectable to the outlet of the syringe body and configured to maintain the valve in the open
configuration when connected to the outlet of the syringe body.
          [0019]      In one embodiment, the first end of the filter comprises a flange
configured to engage a threaded interior section of the nozzle.
          [0020]      In one embodiment, the filter comprises a second end comprising a filter
orifice and a lumen extending between the first end and the second end, the filter configured
to filter fluid flowing between the first end and the second end.
          [0021]      In one embodiment, the filter further comprises a filter element positioned
between the first end and the second end.
          [0022]      In one embodiment, the valve comprises a valve body, a piston, a seal, a
valve biasing member, and an internal protruding member.
          [0023]      In one embodiment, at least a portion of an inner surface of the filter tapers
so as to correspond to a shape of the valve body.
          [0024]      In one embodiment, the hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly further
comprises a filling mechanism configured to direct a first fluid into the first chamber so as to
move the plunger and expand the first chamber.
          [0025]      In one embodiment, the hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly further
comprises a second chamber, the second chamber comprising an internal volume containing
at least the first fluid in a concentration different than that in atmospheric air and at a pressure
greater than that of surrounding atmospheric air.
          [0026]      In one embodiment, the valve comprises a first valve, wherein the second
chamber comprises an opening at a first end and a second valve located adjacent the first end,
the second valve configured to seal the opening.
                                                  -7-

         [0027]      In one embodiment, the second valve comprises a piston, a seal, and a
biasing member, the second valve configured to seal the opening at least prior to activation of
the assembly.
         [0028]      In one embodiment, the second chamber comprises a relief valve
configured to release the first fluid from the second chamber when the pressure within the
second chamber exceeds a preconfigured value.
         [0029]      In one embodiment, the hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly further
comprises a release mechanism, wherein the release mechanism comprises a pin.
         [0030]      In one embodiment, the hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly further
comprises an adjustable volume limiter configured to limit movement of plunger to a
plurality of user-selectable positions corresponding to a plurality of volumes of the first
chamber.
         [0031]      In one embodiment, the plunger is slidably disposed within the syringe
body and moveable along an axial direction, the outlet comprising an outlet passage
extending along the axial direction.
         [0032]      In one broad form an aspect of the present invention seeks to provide a
method for mixing gases, comprising: providing a syringe comprising: a syringe body with an
outlet, the outlet comprising a nozzle and a valve disposed in the nozzle, the valve having a
closed configuration and an open configuration; and a plunger slidably disposed in the
syringe body and, with the syringe body, defining a first chamber within the syringe body;
and connecting a first end of a filter to the nozzle and thereby transitioning the valve from the
closed configuration to the open configuration.
         [0033]      In one embodiment, the valve comprises a valve body, a piston, a seal, a
valve biasing member, and an internal protruding member and wherein connecting the first
end of the filter to the nozzle causes the piston to move in a rearward direction relative to the
valve body so as to disrupt a sealing contact between the valve piston and valve body.
         [0034]      In one embodiment, connecting the first end of the filter to the nozzle
comprises engaging a flange of the filter with a threaded interior section of the nozzle.
                                                -8-

          [0035]    In one embodiment, the method further comprises adjusting a volume
selector to a first volume value on an adjustable volume limited syringe, the selected first
volume value corresponding to a first volume of a first chamber of the syringe.
          [0036]    In one embodiment, the method further comprises releasing a first fluid into
the first chamber of the syringe, the first fluid having a pressure higher than that of
surrounding atmospheric air; and expanding the first chamber to the first volume, wherein the
expansion of the first chamber to the first volume occurs as a result of an increase in pressure
in the first chamber due to filling of the first chamber with the first fluid.
          [0037]    In one embodiment, releasing the first fluid into the first chamber
comprises releasing the first fluid from a second chamber disposed within at least one of the
syringe body and the plunger.
          [0038]    This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a
simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary
is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter, nor
is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          [0039]    FIGURE 1 is a first embodiment of a gas mixture apparatus.
          [0040]    FIGURE 2A is a second embodiment of a gas mixture apparatus shown in
an initial phase of operation.
          [0041]    FIGURE 2B is a second embodiment of a gas mixture apparatus shown in
a first phase of operation.
          [0042]    FIGURE 2C is a second embodiment of a gas mixture apparatus shown in
a second phase of operation.
          [0043]    FIGURE 2D is a second embodiment of a gas mixture apparatus shown in
a third phase of operation.
          [0044]    FIGURE 3 is an exploded view of the components of the second
embodiment of a gas mixture apparatus.
          [0045]    FIGURE 4 is a perspective view of a measurement control system and
activation system of the second embodiment of a gas mixture apparatus.
                                                  -9-

        [0046]     FIGURE 5A is a perspective view of a metering dial of the second
embodiment of a gas mixture apparatus.
        [0047]     FIGURE 5B is a sectional view of a metering dial of the measurement
control system of Figure 4.
        [0048]     FIGURE 6 is a perspective view of a plunger body of the measurement
control system of Figure 4.
        [0049]     FIGURE 7 is a perspective view of the activation system of Figure 4.
        [0050]     FIGURE 8A is a sectional view of the measurement control system and
activation system of Figure 4 in a first or "closed" position.
        [0051]     FIGURE 8B is a sectional view of the measurement control system and
activation system of Figure 4 in a second or "open" position.
        [0052]     FIGURE 9 is a side view of an embodiment of an activation system,
pressurized chamber, and first pressure regulation system of the second embodiment of a gas
mixture apparatus.
        [0053]     FIGURE 10 is a sectional view of the activation system, pressurized
chamber, and first pressure regulation system of Figure 9 in a first position.
        [0054]     FIGURE 11 is a sectional view of the activation system, pressurized
chamber, and first pressure regulation system of Figure 9 in a second position.
        [0055]     FIGURE 12 is a sectional view of components including a mixing
chamber and second pressure regulation system of a second embodiment of a gas mixture
apparatus.
        [0056]     FIGURE 13 is an enlarged sectional view of the mixing chamber and
second pressure regulation system of Figure 12.
        [0057]     FIGURE 14 is an enlarged sectional view of the mixing chamber and
second pressure regulation system of Figure 12 with an additional attachment.
        [0058]     FIGURE 15A is a perspective view of a metering dial of an embodiment
of a measurement control system.
        [0059]     FIGURE 15B is a sectional view of a metering dial of an embodiment of a
measurement control system.
                                                -10-

         [0060]        FIGURE 16 is a perspective view of a plunger body of an embodiment of a
measurement control system.
         [0061]        FIGURE 17 is a perspective view of components of an embodiment of an
activation system.
         [0062]        FIGURE 18 is a sectional view of a measurement control system and
activation system in a first, "initial", or "pre-activation" position showing operation of an
interlock mechanism.
         [0063]        FIGURE 19 is a sectional view of a measurement control system and
activation system in a second or "open" position showing operation of an interlock
mechanism.
         [0064]        FIGURE 20 is a sectional view of a measurement control system and
activation system in a third or "closed" position showing operation of an interlock
mechanism.
         [0065]        FIGURE 21 is a sectional view of a measurement control system and
activation system in a first, "initial", or "pre-activation" position showing operation of the
latch.
         [0066]        FIGURE 22 is a sectional view of a measurement control system and
activation system in a second or "open" position showing operation of the latch.
         [0067]        FIGURE 23 is a sectional view of a measurement control system and
activation system in a third or "closed" position showing operation of the latch.
         [0068]        FIGURE 24 is an enlarged view of an embodiment of an activation
system, pressurized chamber, and a storage member pressure regulation system.
         [0069]        FIGURE 25A is a sectional view of the embodiment of an activation
system, pressurized chamber, and a storage member pressure regulation system of Figure 24
in a first, "initial", or "pre-activation" position.
         [0070]        FIGURE 25B is an enlarged view of the embodiment of an activation
system, pressurized chamber, and a storage member pressure regulation system of Figure
25A.
                                                  -11-

         [0071]     FIGURE 26A is a sectional view of the embodiment of an activation
system, pressurized chamber, and a storage member pressure regulation system of Figure 24
in a second or "open" position.
         [0072]     FIGURE 26B is an enlarged view of the embodiment of an activation
system, pressurized chamber, and a storage member pressure regulation system of Figure
26A.
         [0073]     FIGURE 27A is a sectional view of the embodiment of an activation
system, pressurized chamber, and a storage member pressure regulation system of Figure 24
in a third or "closed" position.
         [0074]     FIGURE 27B is an enlarged view of the embodiment of an activation
system, pressurized chamber, and a storage member pressure regulation system of Figure
27A.
         [0075]     FIGURE 28 is an enlarged view of the embodiment of an activation
system, pressurized chamber, and a storage member pressure regulation system of Figure 25A
illustrating in more detail an embodiment of a storage member.
         [0076]     FIGURE 29 is an enlarged view of the embodiment of an activation
system, pressurized chamber, and a storage member pressure regulation system of Figure 26A
illustrating in more detail an embodiment of a storage member.
         [0077]     FIGURE 30 is a sectional view of an embodiment of a syringe body and
syringe pressure regulation system.
             DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
         [0078]     The following detailed description is merely illustrative in nature and is
not intended to limit the embodiments of the subject matter or the application and uses of
such embodiments. As used herein, the word "exemplary" means "serving as an example,
instance, or illustration."     Any implementation described herein as exemplary is not
necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other implementations.
Furthermore, there is no intention to be bound by any expressed or implied theory presented
in the proceeding technical field, background, brief summary, or the following detailed
description.
                                             -12-

         [0079]    Certain terminology may be used in the following description for the
purpose of reference only, and thus are not intended to be limiting. For example, terms such
as "upper", "lower", "above", and "below" refer to directions in the drawings to which
reference is made. Terms such as "proximal", "distal", "front", "back", "rear", and "side"
describe the orientation and/or location of portions of the component within a consistent but
arbitrary frame of reference which is made clear by reference to the text and the associated
drawings describing the component under discussion.        Such terminology may include the
words specifically mentioned above, derivatives thereof, and words of similar import.
Similarly, the terms "first", "second", and other such numerical terms referring to structures.
         [0080]    As used herein, the terms "front" and "distal" refer to the parts of the
subject apparatus which are located further away from the user (e.g., surgeon) of the
apparatus during an injection operation. As used herein, the terms "rear" and "proximal"
refer to the parts of the apparatus which are located closer to the user (e.g., surgeon) of the
apparatus during an injection operation.
Apparatus For Mixing Two Gases
         [0081]    With reference to FIG. 1, an embodiment of a gas mixture apparatus 10a
can comprise a measurement control system 110a, an activation system 210a, and a mixing
system 310a configured to create a mixture of two or more gases at a desired concentration
ratio.   The mixing system 310a can include a pressurized chamber 410a and a mixing
chamber 510a.
         [0082]     The mixing system 310a can also include a pressure regulation system to
enhance the operation of the mixing system 310a. In some embodiments, the mixing system
310a additionally includes a first pressure regulation system 610a and a second pressure
regulation system 710a.
         [0083]    The measurement control system 110a can be in the form of a metering
mechanism operatively coupled to any and all devices contained within the mixing system
310a to control certain aspects of the devices contained therein. In some embodiments, the
measurement control system 110a can be a variable and user-operable device such that
aspects of the device can be modified by the user of the gas mixture apparatus 10a. The
activation system 210a can be operatively coupled to the pressurized chamber 410a in order
                                              -13-

to activate operation of the device and commence the mixing of gases within the mixing
system 310a.
         [0084]     The pressurized chamber 410a can contain at least one of the two or more
gases to be mixed within the mixing system 310a. In some embodiments, the gas contained
within the pressurized chamber 410a can be at a pressure higher than surrounding ambient
conditions. Additionally, the pressurized chamber 410a can contain gases at concentrations
different from that in the atmosphere. The pressurized chamber 410a can be configured such
that it is in fluid communication with the first pressure regulation system 610a. In other
embodiments, the pressurized chamber 410a can be in direct fluid communication with the
mixing chamber 510a.       The pressurized chamber 410a can be configured such that it is
internally contained within an injector apparatus. The pressurized chamber 410a can also be
configured such that it is external to the injector apparatus. The first pressure regulation
system 610a can be configured to maintain a pre-configured pressure differential between the
pressurized chamber 410a and the mixing chamber 510a. The mixing chamber 510a can be
configured to receive gas from the pressurized chamber 410a either directly or via the first
pressure regulation system 610a.      In some embodiments, the mixing chamber 510a can
additionally be configured to receive a second gas to be mixed from outside the mixing
system 310a such as an external gas container or the atmosphere. The mixing chamber 510a
can be configured such that it is in fluid communication with the second pressure regulation
system 710a at a mixing chamber 510a exit point.            In other embodiments, the mixing
chamber 510a can be in direct fluid communication with the atmosphere at a mixing chamber
exit point. Examples of each of these subsystems are described separately below.
         [0085]     In some embodiments, the measurement control system 110a is configured
to control concentrations of the gas within the gas mixture apparatus 10a.            In some
embodiments, the measurement control system 110a is operatively coupled with the mixing
system 310a. Preferably, measurement control system 11Oa is operatively coupled with either
the pressurized chamber 410a or the mixing chamber 510a such that the measurement control
system 110a can modify variable aspects of the pressure chamber 410a and/or the mixing
chamber 510a. In some embodiments, the measurement control system 110a is capable of
controlling characteristics such as, but not limited to, the volume of gas contained within the
                                               -14-

mixing chamber 510a. Other characteristics, such as pressure, are also contemplated as being
controllable by the measurement control system 110a. Preferably, the measurement control
system 110a is variable such that a user can be able to select a desired concentration ratio of
gas that can be expelled from the gas mixture apparatus 10a. This advantageously allows a
user to have only a single gas mixture apparatus 10a for a wide range of desired
concentration ratios.    As such, the measurement control system 110a can include user
operable switches such as dials which vary the operation of components within the mixing
system 310a such as the pressurized chamber 410a, the mixing chamber 510a, the first
pressure regulation system 610a, and the second pressure regulation system 710a.
         [0086]     The pressurized chamber 410a is configured to store one or more gases
within an interior space of the pressurized chamber 410a for a period of time prior to mixing
the two or more gases in the gas mixture apparatus 10a. The conditions within the interior
space is configured to be different than those of atmospheric conditions and therefore the
interior space should generally reduce the release of such gases out of the interior space or
reduce the entry of non-stored gases into the interior space until mixing of the two or more
gases is to be performed.
         [0087]     In some embodiments, the one or more gases within the interior space are
at a higher pressure than ambient atmospheric conditions.        Additionally, the one or more
gases can also be gases at concentrations different than those at ambient atmospheric
conditions. In some embodiments, the interior space can be divided into separate subsections
or portions for holding one or more gases. These separate portions of the interior space can
therefore be kept at different pressures and/or different concentrations of gases.
         [0088]     In some embodiments, the gases can additionally be placed in different
structural units within the interior space.       Such structural units can be used to more
effectively reduce the release of stored gases and/or reduce the entry of non-stored gases. In
some embodiments, the stored gases of the pressurized chamber 410a are pre-loaded from the
time of manufacture.      In other embodiments, it is contemplated that the contents of the
pressurized chamber 410a can be loaded by a user of the gas mixture apparatus 10a. For
example, the stored gases can be contained in a removable cartridge-like device which can
advantageously facilitate the replacement of such gases.
                                               -15-

        [0089]     In some embodiments, the activation system 210a is configured to activate
the operation of the gas mixture apparatus 10a and commence the process of mixing the two
or more gases within the mixing system 310a.          As such, the activation system 210a is
operatively coupled to the mixing system 310a and can be coupled to both the mixing
chamber 310a and the pressurized chamber 410a.           The activation system can cause the
pressurized chamber 410a to activate and release gases contained therein into the mixing
chamber 510a.     In some preferred embodiments, the activation system 210a can cause the
pressure within the pressurized chamber 410a to increase such that the first pressure
regulation system 610a is activated thereby allowing fluid flow from the pressurized chamber
410a into the mixing chamber 510a.        The activation system 210a can include a device
configured to activate a separate portion of the pressurized chamber 410a that contains higher
pressure gas than the remainder of the pressurized chamber 410a such that the pressure
within a separate section of the pressurized chamber 410a increases.           In a preferred
embodiment, the activation system 210a can cause a sealed device within the mixing
chamber 510a to burst thereby increasing the pressure throughout the pressurized chamber
410a.   In such embodiments, the activation system 210a can include a puncturing device
capable of bursting the seal.    Use of an activation system 210a provides advantages by
allowing the gas mixture apparatus 10a to potentially be pre-filled prior to use and safely
stored.
        [0090]     The activation system 210a can also be operably coupled to the mixing
chamber 510a allowing a user to manually vary certain aspects of the device.          In some
embodiments, the activation system 210a can be used to modify the volume of the mixing
chamber 510a. The activation system 510a can also be used to modify the pressure of the
mixing chamber 510a.
        [0091]     In some embodiments, the first pressure regulation system 610a is
configured to serve as a separation mechanism between both the pressurized chamber 410a
and the mixing chamber 610a. The first pressure regulation system 610a can activate upon
reaching a pre-configured pressure differential between both the pressurized chamber 410a
and the mixing chamber 510a. In some preferred embodiments, the first pressure regulation
system 610a can be comprised of at least one valve assembly. The valve assembly can open
                                               -16-

when pressure within a portion of the pressurized chamber 410a is higher than the pressure in
the mixing chamber 510a. The valve assembly can be a check valve, clack valve, non-return
valve, or one-way valve. Such valves can also include ball check valves, diaphragm check
valves, swing check valves, stop-check valves, lift-check valves, in-line check valves, and
duckbill valves. Other pressure regulation mechanisms can also be used. Additionally, it is
contemplated that first pressure regulation system 610a can also be activated by other means
other than pressure differentials across the system 610a.
         [0092]     In some embodiments, the mixing chamber 510a is configured to serve as
a space within which the two or more gases can be mixed to obtain a desired concentration
ratio of the gases. The mixing chamber 510a can be such that the volume can be variable and
adjustable based upon use of the activation mechanism.        The mixing chamber 510a can
receive the gases to mix solely from the pressurized chamber or from gases already existing
within the mixing chamber 510a. The mixing chamber 510a can also receive gases from
secondary sources. In some embodiments, the mixing chamber 510a can receive air from the
atmosphere to mix with the gases received from the pressure chamber 310a and/or gases
already existing within the mixing chamber 510a.
         [0093]     In some embodiments, the second pressure regulation system 710a is
configured to serve as a separation mechanism between both the mixing chamber 510a and
the surrounding atmosphere. The second pressure regulation system 710a can activate upon
reaching a pre-configured pressure differential between both the mixing chamber 510a and
the surrounding atmosphere. In some preferred embodiments, the second pressure regulation
system 710a can be comprised of at least one valve assembly. The valve assembly can open
when pressure in the mixing chamber 510a is higher than the pressure in the surrounding
atmosphere. The valve assembly can be a check valve, clack valve, non-return valve, or one
way valve. Such valves can also include ball check valves, diaphragm check valves, swing
check valves, stop-check valves, lift-check valves, in-line check valves, and duckbill valves.
Other pressure regulation mechanisms can also be used. Additionally, it is contemplated that
second pressure regulation system 710a can also be activated by other means other than
pressure differentials across the system 710a.
                                               -17-

Operational Overview
         [0094]     With reference to FIGS. 2A-2D, the operation of an embodiment of a gas
mixture apparatus 10b is illustrated. With reference to FIG. 2A, the apparatus 10b can be in
an initial phase with the activation system 210b in a first or "closed" position. At this time,
the user of the device can use the measurement control system 110b to select a desired
concentration of gas for the injectable volume. Once the selection has been made, the user
can then move the activation system 210b into a second or "open" position thereby causing
the system to activate and commencing the mixing process.
         [0095]     During this first phase of operation, as shown in FIG. 2B, gas contained
within the pressurized chamber can be released and, in embodiments containing a first
pressure regulation system, the first pressure regulation system can open in response to a
change in pressure within the chamber.         As such, fluid can flow from the pressurized
chamber into the mixing chamber 510b thereby causing an increase in the volume of the
mixing chamber 510b. However, due to components of the measurement control system
 110b, the mixing chamber 510b can reach a first volume and cannot expand beyond this first
volume. This first volume can be set based on the desired concentration of the injectable
volume. During this first phase of operation, excess gas can also be bled from the mixing
chamber 510b via the second pressure regulation system 710b. Once the mixing chamber
has reached this first volume, the first phase of operation is complete and the second phase of
operation begins.
         [0096]     During the second phase of operation, the mixing chamber 510b can
remain at the first volume while pressure within the mixing chamber 510b is bled from the
system via the second pressure regulation system 710b. By overfilling the mixing chamber
510b with the desired gas, and then bleeding off that gas, this helps to ensure that a
significant amount of atmospheric gas within the mixing chamber 510b, which may have
been contained in the mixing chamber 510b prior to activation, is substantially purged from
the mixing chamber 510b and displaced by the gas originally contained in the pressurized
chamber. Once the pressure within the mixing chamber 510b has reached a configured value
based on the configuration of the second pressure regulation system 710b, bleeding of the gas
within the mixing chamber 510b ceases and the second phase of operation is complete.
                                               -18-

        [0097]     During a third phase of operation, as shown in FIG. 2C, an attachment
760 can be added to the system which can force the second pressure regulation system 710b
to remain open. This attachment can be a filter to remove bacteria to sterilize air, an infusion
cannula or a syringe needle. This opening of the second pressure regulation system 710b
causes gas within the mixing chamber 510b to reach ambient pressure. Once sufficient time
has elapsed for the gas to reach ambient pressure, the user can then set the activation system
210b to the first or "closed" position thereby unlocking the measurement control system
110b. The user can then manually expand the volume of the mixing chamber 510b to the
injectable volume. In some embodiments, the measurement control system 210b can stop
expansion of the volume of the mixing chamber 510b once the injectable volume is reached.
Once the third phase is complete, the attachment can be removed such that the second
pressure regulation system 710b can isolate the mixed gas from the surrounding atmosphere
to reduce or prevent dilution of the mixed gas.
        [0098]     One significant advantage of the operation of the apparatus 10b is that the
entire process can be performed by a single individual within the sterile field. Furthermore,
the process is substantially automated such that the user need only set the measurement
control system 210b to a proper setting and the apparatus 210b will automatically perform a
substantial majority of the remaining steps. Additionally, the steps automatically performed
by the apparatus 10b are those which can normally be most-prone to error such as measuring
proper volumes to achieve a desired concentration thereby significantly reducing the risk of
obtaining an incorrect concentration of gas in the injectable volume. Inadvertent dilution of
the gas with the surrounding atmosphere at the conclusion of the second and third phases of
the operation can be reduced or prevented with the incorporation of the second pressure
regulation system 710b.
        [0099]     In other embodiments, a fewer or greater number of phases of operation
can be performed. In some embodiments, only a single phase of operation can be performed.
For example, the pressurized chamber 410a can contain a gas at a pre-set concentration level.
During the single phase of operation, the user can activate the apparatus 10b such that a gas
or fluid flows from the pressurized chamber 410a and into a second chamber, such as the
mixing chamber 510a, until the chamber reaches a configured volume. The gas or fluid can
                                             -19-

also be expelled or bled off using a pressure regulation system until a desired pressure is
achieved within the chamber. After expelling the gas, the apparatus 10b can be ready for use.
As should be apparent to one of skill in the art, in such an embodiment, little to no mixing
may in fact be performed.
System Overview
        [0100]      With reference to FIG. 3, components of an embodiment of a gas mixture
apparatus 10b are shown which comprise a measurement control system 110b, an activation
system 210b, a pressurized chamber 410b, a mixing chamber 510b, a first pressure regulation
system 610b, and a second pressure regulation system 710b.          The measurement control
system 110b can comprise a metering dial 120 and a plunger body 160 which can be inserted
into the metering dial 120. The activation system 210b can comprise an actuation rod 220
and activation switch 260. The activation system 210b can be operatively coupled to the
measurement control device 110b to control the operation of the gas mixture apparatus 10b.
The activation system 210b can be inserted into the plunger body 160.
        [0101]      The pressurized chamber 410b can be comprised of a housing 420, a
canister 436 containing a gas, a release mechanism 444 to release the gas contained within
the canister 436, a filter 448 to reduce the amount of non-gas or bacteria material flowing out
of the housing 420, and a plunger seal 460. The mixing chamber 510b can be comprised of a
syringe body 520. The first pressure regulation system 610b can comprise a valve body and
associated valve components. The second pressure regulation system 710b can also comprise
associated valve components.
Measurement Control System and Activation System
        [0102]      With reference to FIG. 4, an embodiment of a combined measurement
control system 110b and activation system 210b is shown. The measurement control system
110b can comprise a metering dial 120 and a plunger body 160. The activation system can
comprise an actuation rod 220 (shown in FIG. 7) and an activation switch 260.
        [0103]      With reference to FIGS. 5A and 5B, an embodiment of a metering dial
120 of the gas mixture apparatus 10b is shown which is configured to allow a user of the
apparatus 10b to selectively vary the concentration of an injectable volume. The metering
                                               -20-

dial 120 is comprised of at least two structural components - a metering body 122 and a
metering cap 124 which can be coupled to the metering body 122 so as to allow the metering
dial 120 to be reversibly attached to another component of the apparatus 10b.         This can
advantageously facilitate assembly of the apparatus and, in some embodiments which are
reusable, can facilitate disassembly for resterilization. In some embodiments, the metering
cap 124 can be reversibly attached to the metering body 122 using fasteners such as screws,
rivets, clips, and other fastening mechanisms known in the art. Attachment of the metering
cap 124 to the metering body 122 can form an annular slot 126 and an annular lip 128 such
that the metering dial 120 can be attached to another component of the apparatus 10b. For
example, the annular slot 126 and annular lip 128 can correspond to a flange 526 located on
the syringe body 520.
         [0104]     The metering body 122 can have a generally cylindrical member 130 with
a flange 132 at the top end and a channel 134 substantially centered on the cylindrical
member 130 and running throughout the entire meter body 122. Since the meter body 122 is
configured to control the concentration of the gas in the injectable volume, the meter body
122 can include metering indicators 136 along a surface viewable by a user of the apparatus
10b in a fully assembled state. In the illustrated embodiment, the metering indicators 136 are
located on a top surface of the flange 132 although any location which can be viewed by the
user can be used.      The metering indicators 136 can provide the user of the device with
information regarding the operation of the apparatus 10b. In the illustrated embodiment, the
metering indicators 136 show a range of numbers from 18, 19, 20, 21, and 22 corresponding
to concentrations of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6 ) which would be produced in the injectable
volume if the apparatus 10b is activated. As should be apparent to one of skill in the art, the
ranges used can depend upon the gas used and the application for the gas. Furthermore, in
some embodiments, this range can be further divided to provide enhanced control over the
desired concentration.
         [0105]     The metering body 122 can have slots 138, rails 140, and variable stops
142 corresponding to the metering indicators 136.         In the illustrated embodiment, the
metering body 122 has five separate slots 138 located along an inner surface of the channel
134 which correspond to the five integer values stated above. In other embodiments, the
                                               -21-

metering body 122 can have fewer or greater slots than the number of values provided by the
metering indicators 136.
        [0106]      Corresponding with each of these slots 138 are variable stops 142 which
extend inwardly from the slots 138. As illustrated above, these variable stops 142 can extend
from the top surface of the flange 132 to a set distance towards the bottom end of the tubular
body 130. In some embodiments, the variable stops 142 need not extend from the top surface
but instead are minor protrusions at set distances towards the bottom end of the cylindrical
member 130. These variable stops 142 are configured to interact with components contained
in the plunger body 160 such as a latch 228, or the plunger body 160 itself to control the
expansion volume of the mixing chamber 510b during a first and second phase of operation
by limiting the rearward extension of the plunger body 160 during these phases (see FIG.
2B).    As such, the variable stops 142 extend different distances depending upon the
concentration to which the stop 142 corresponds. For example, a concentration of 21 percent
extends a lesser distance than a concentration of 20 percent. As such, when a concentration
of 21 percent is chosen, the plunger body 160 can be allowed to extend rearwardly a greater
distance thereby allowing a greater expansion of the mixing chamber 510b during the first
phase of operation. Therefore, as should be apparent, the variable stops 142 are used to
control the first expansion volume of the first phase of operation.
        [0107]      On both sides of slots 138 are rails 140 which extend inward from an inner
surface of the channel 134. In some embodiments, the rails 140 extend inwardly from the
inner surface of the channel 134 a greater distance than the variable stops 142. The rails 140
can be configured to prevent the apparatus 10b from switching to a different concentration
value once the apparatus 10b has been activated.         This can be particularly important in
applications where a specific concentration of gas can be necessary and any minor change in
this value can have significantly adverse effects. In the illustrated embodiment, the rails 140
are configured to substantially reduce the likelihood that the plunger body 160 will rotate to a
different variable stop 142 during at least the first two phases of operation.       In certain
embodiments, these rails can be removed if a constantly variable metering device is desired.
In such an embodiment, the variable stop 142 could instead have a ramp shape rather than
have multiple steps.
                                              -22-

         [0108]     Metering body 122 can additionally include a ratchet pawl 144 along an
inner surface of channel 134 which extends inwardly toward the center of the channel 134.
The ratchet pawl 144 can be hinged and configured such that the ratchet pawl 144 is movably
deformable and provides resistance during deformation.             This ratchet pawl 144 can
correspond to features located on the plunger body 160 to facilitate proper orientation with
respect to the selected concentration.    Such a mechanism can additionally provide tactile
feedback to a user of the device indicating that the proper alignment has been achieved. This
tactile feedback can advantageously reduce the likelihood of activation in an improper
orientation.   Other types of feedback mechanisms and alignment mechanisms can also be
used.
         [0109]     With reference to FIG. 6, an embodiment of a plunger body 160 is shown
which comprises a generally tubular frame 162, a handle 164 at one end of the plunger body
160, a selector ring 166 located therebetween, and a channel 168 centered on the tubular
frame 162 and running throughout the entire length of the plunger body 160. The tubular
frame 162 is configured to be slidably translatable and partially slidably rotatable within the
channel 134 of the metering dial 120. The tubular frame 162 has a retention mechanism 170
in the form of a clip which is hingedly attached to the tubular frame 162.        The retention
mechanism 170 can be configured to retain a component such as a housing 420 of the
pressurized chamber 410b.         The retention mechanism 170 advantageously allows the
component to be attached without the use of tools thereby facilitating the process of
assembling the entire device.      Additionally, the retention mechanism 170 can also be
configured such that the component can be removed from the tubular frame 162 thereby
allowing the apparatus 10b to be reused or, in other embodiments which allow for reuse of
the apparatus 10b, facilitating the process of resterilization if such a process is used for the
device. Other types of retention mechanisms can also be used in lieu of the clips shown in
the illustrated embodiment and can include fasteners such as screws.
         [0110]     Tubular frame 162 can additionally comprise a guard 172 which extends
outward from the outer surface of the tubular frame 162. The guard 172 can run from the
bottom end of the tubular frame 162 to a distance toward the top end of the tubular frame
162. The guard 172 is configured to fit within the slots 138 and rails 140 located along the
                                              -23-

inner surface of the channel 134 of the metering body 122. As such, the guard 172, when
positioned between the rails 140, can prevent the plunger body 160 from rotating.          This
advantageously can prevent the plunger body 160 from moving to a different variable stop
142 after commencing the first phase of operation and thereby reduce the risk of an improper
concentration in the injectable volume. The guard 172 is preferably sized such that, when the
plunger body 160 is fully inserted, the guard 172 is only slightly below the rails 140 such that
the plunger body 160 can rotate freely to different concentration values during the initial
phase of operation (see FIG. 2A). However, because the guard 172 is only slightly below the
rails 140, once extended a short distance, the guard 172 can become locked within the
selected rail 140. This positioning advantageously allows the guard 172 to lock shortly after
activation of the apparatus 10b. Furthermore, the guard 172 preferably extends outward from
the tubular frame 162 only a sufficient distance such that it can contact the rails 140 but not
enough such that it contacts the variable stops 142 located between the rails 140. This can
therefore allow the guard 172 to not be interfered by the variable stops 142 during operation.
         [0111]     Tubular frame 162 can additionally comprise a latch aperture 174
configured to allow a latch 228 located on the activation rod 220 to protrude outward from
the tubular frame 162. The latch aperture 174 is preferably centered just above the top-most
portion of the guard 172. As will be discussed in detail below, in a first or "closed" position,
the latch 228 can not extend beyond the guard 172 and thus would not contact a variable stop
142 (see FIG. 8A). When in a second position, the latch 228 can extend outward from the
tubular frame 162 beyond the guard 172 such that the latch 228 can contact the variable stops
140 thereby preventing further extension of the plunger body 160 while the latch is in the
second position (see FIG. 8B). In some embodiments, the latch aperture 174 can be placed
such that, if the plunger body 160 is improperly oriented within the metering dial 120 during
an initial phase of operation (shown in FIG. 2A), the latch 228 can be prevented from
extending outward into the second or "open" position by a rail 140 of the metering dial 120.
This can advantageously prevent the apparatus 10b from activating when improperly
oriented.
         [0112]     Tubular frame 162 can additionally include ratchet slots 176 in the form of
cut-outs located along its outer surface. The ratchet slots 176 are configured to receive the
                                              -24-

ratchet pawl 144 of the metering body 122 thereby providing a mechanism for ensuring that
the plunger body 160 is properly oriented within the metering body 122 by providing
resistance against rotation when the pawl 144 is received within one of the ratchet slots 176.
Furthermore, advantageously, at each point where the ratchet pawl 144 is received within the
ratchet slots 176, a user of the apparatus 10b can also receive tactile feedback when the
plunger body 160 is properly oriented within the metering body 120.
        [0113]      Selector ring 166 can be an annular protrusion extending from the outer
surface of the tubular frame 162. The selector ring 166 can additionally include a selector
indicator 178 which can take the form of a minor protrusion located on the selector ring 166.
Selector indicator 178 can correspond to the metering indicators 136 located on the metering
body 122 to indicate the concentration level that will be obtained when the plunger body 160
is oriented in that position. Such a system can advantageously provide a user of the device
with easily viewed information regarding the selected concentration level. The selector
indicator 178 can advantageously be colored to facilitate use of the apparatus 10b.
        [0114]      The handle 164 can extend in two opposite directions in a radial direction
from the longitudinal axis of the tubular frame 162. Handle 164 can be shaped such that a
user of the apparatus 10b can contact the handle 164 and use the handle to either further
extend the plunger body 160 rearward and out of the apparatus 10b or further depress the
plunger body 160 frontward into the apparatus 10b. Handle can additionally include a pin
aperture 180 for receiving a coupling mechanism for the activation switch 260.              The
activation switch 260 can thereby rotate about the coupling mechanism in order to operate the
actuation rod 220 located within the plunger body 160.
        [0115]      With reference to FIG. 7, an embodiment of an activation system 210b is
shown which comprises an actuation rod 220 and an activation switch 260. The actuation rod
220 has a generally elongate body with an actuator pin 222 at a first end, an actuator stem 224
at a second end, and a latch movement portion 226 located in an intermediate portion. The
actuator pin 222 is configured to be received within a housing 420 of the pressurized chamber
410b and activate the release of gas contained therein when in a second or "open" position.
The actuator stem 224 is configured to abut and follow the contoured surface 262 of the
activator switch 260. The actuator stem 224 is also preferably shaped such that the cross
                                              -25-

sectional profile matches the cross-sectional profile in a top portion of the channel 169 (as
shown in FIG. 8) located near the handle 164 of the plunger body 160. Preferably, the cross
sectional profile is not substantially circular such that the actuator rod 220 is substantially
prevented from rotating within the channel 168 of the plunger body 160.               The latch
movement portion 226 is shaped such that the latch 228 is translated when the latch 228
slidably translates along the latch movement portion 226 of the actuation rod 220. As such,
the latch 228 has an aperture 230 which has a cross-sectional shape similar to that of the
cross-sectional shape of the latch movement portion 226.
        [0116]      The activator switch 260 is configured to translate the actuator rod 220
through the plunger body 160 and through the housing 420 of the pressurized chamber 410b
to activate the release of gas contained therein. As such, the activator switch 260 can be a
cam with a contoured profile 262 along the surface configured to contact the actuator stem
224. Activator switch can also have an aperture 264 configured to receive a pin 266 such that
the activator switch 260 can rotate about the pin 266. In the illustrated embodiment, the
activator switch 260 is shown in a first or "closed" position.       In this first position, the
distance between the pin 266 and the contoured surface 262 in contact with the actuator stem
can be a reduced distance such that the actuator rod remains in a first or "closed" position.
However, when rotated about the pin 266 to a second or "open" position, the distance
between the pin 266 and the contoured surface 262 in contact with the actuator stem 224 can
be an increased distance thereby translating the actuator rod 220 to a second or "open"
position further into the housing 420 of the pressurized chamber 410b. As will be discussed
in greater detail with respect to FIGS. 10 and 11 below, movement into the second or "open"
position can be configured to release gas in the pressurized chamber 410b.         The activator
switch 260 can preferably be any type of switch that can remain in a first or second position
without the user needing to maintain the switch in that position.            In the illustrated
embodiment, a rotating lever is used. Other switches can also be used such as a screw, latch,
spring loaded pin, or any other switch known in the art.
        [0117]      With reference to FIGS. 8A and 8B, an illustration of the operation of the
activation system 210b is shown which includes some components of the measurement
control system 110b and the activation system 210b.         As shown here, the latch 228 is
                                               -26-

contained within the latch aperture 174 such that the latch cannot translate toward a front end
or rear end of the plunger body 160. As such, when the actuator rod 220 translates in a
frontward or rearward direction, the latch 228 must follow the profile of the latch movement
portion 226 of the actuator rod 220.       As such, this provides the advantage of coupling
movement of the latch 228 in the second position when the activator switch 260 and thus the
actuator rod 220 are in a corresponding second position. Furthermore, because movement of
the latch 228 is coupled with movement of the other activator switch 260 and actuator rod
220, if the latch 228 is prevented from moving into the second position, the activator switch
260 and activator rod 220 are also prevented from moving into the second position. Note
that, as described above, while in the second or "open" position, the latch 228 can protrude
from the plunger body 160 thereby restricting extension of the plunger body 160 as shown in
FIG. 8B.
Pressurized Chamber and First Pressure Regulation System
         [0118]     With reference to FIG. 9, an embodiment is shown including some
components of both the activation system 210b, the pressurized chamber 410b of the mixing
system 310b, and the first pressure regulation system 610b of the mixing system 310b. As
illustrated, the pressurized chamber 410b can have a housing 420 with an annular slot 422
located near a first end of the housing 420. The annular slot 422 can be configured to receive
the retention mechanism 170 located on the plunger body 160. Housing can also have a
plunger seal 460 located at a second end of the housing 420.          The plunger seal 460 is
configured to provide an airtight seal for defining the mixing chamber 510b.
         [0119]     With reference to FIG. 10, which is a sectional view of the pressurized
chamber 410b and the first pressure regulation system 610b.           The housing 420 has a
generally cylindrical body with an annular slot 422 located at the first or rearward end and a
conical or frusto-conical surface 424 located at the second or frontward end corresponding to
the shape of the plunger seal 460. Housing 420 can additionally be shaped such that it has an
annular protrusion 426 and an annular slot 428 configured to receive a lip 462 of the plunger
seal 460.     This configuration advantageously ensures that the plunger seal 460 remains
connected to the housing 420 and forms a seal to prevent the leakage of any gas contained in
                                               -27-

the housing body 420. It can be preferable that the lip 462 of the plunger seal 460 fit snugly
within the annular slot 428 of the housing 420 to provide an enhanced seal. An interior space
430 is substantially enclosed by the housing 420 and can be separated into a first separate
portion 432 and a second separate portion 434. Contained within the second separate portion
434 of the housing 420 can be a third separate portion in the form of a structural unit such as
a canister 436. This canister can contain the gases for mixing into the mixing chamber 510b.
Provision of the gases in a canister is advantageous as it facilitates manufacturing of the
apparatus 10b as it can allow the canisters to be manufactured separately from other
components of the pressurized chamber 410b. In some embodiments where the apparatus
10b is reusable, cartridges can be replaced.
        [0120]      The canister 436 has a first or rearward end in contact with the actuator pin
222 and a sealed second or frontward end 437. At one end of the canister 436 is a seal 438
which substantially reduces leakage of any gas from the first separate portion 432 to the
second separate portion 434.       This advantageously reduces the likelihood of gases from
leaking out of the actuator aperture 440 and out of the apparatus 10b.
        [0121]      The housing can also include a biasing mechanism 442, such as a spring,
which exerts a force on the seal in a direction away from the second end of the housing 420.
In the illustrated embodiment, the biasing mechanism 442 is located in the first separate
portion 432. This reduces the likelihood of the canister 436 moving into the first separate
portion 432 and potentially releasing the gas contained therein without having been activated
by the user. Furthermore, biasing mechanism 442 can also provide a counter-force against
activation such that a user can not accidentally activate the device. It is preferable that the
biasing mechanism 442 be configured to exert a sufficient force such that, after the first and
second phases of operation are complete and the activation switch 160 is returned to a first or
"closed" position, the biasing mechanism 442 exerts sufficient force such that actuator rod
220 is returned to its first or "closed" position thereby causing the latch 228 to return to its
first or "closed" position.     Once latch 228 returns to its first or "closed" position, the
extension of the plunger body 160 is no longer limited and the third phase of operation can
commence. If the biasing mechanism 442 does not exert sufficient force on the actuator rod
220, entering into the third phase of operation could be made significantly more difficult.
                                               -28-

         [0122]      Housing can also have a release mechanism 444, such as a needle or a
pilot tip as illustrated in this embodiment of the apparatus 10b, which can be configured to
puncture the sealed second end 437 of the canister 436 to release gas into the first separate
portion 432 through the release mechanism 444 due to a channel 446 running axially through
release mechanism 444. Due to the high pressure in the first separate portion 432, the first
pressure regulation system 610b can open allowing the gas to escape to the front of the
plunger seal 460 and into the mixing chamber 510b. In some embodiments, a filter 448 can
be placed along the flow path such that there is a reduced likelihood of foreign materials
entering into the mixing chamber 510b. This can be particularly important when the gas can
be placed into areas highly sensitive to the presence of foreign materials such as bodily
cavities.   The presence of foreign materials can cause infection or other harm. In some
embodiments, the filter 448 can be configured to filter out bacteria to sterilize the air.
         [0123]      Plunger seal 460 is configured to partially define the injectable volume of
the mixing chamber 510b by creating a seal for the mixing chamber 510b. Plunger seal 460
can have a generally cylindrical body with annular protrusions 464 configured to contact an
inner surface of the mixing chamber 510b and a conical or frustoconical face 466 at a
frontward end.       The frustoconical face 466 can additionally comprise an aperture 468
centered about the cylindrical body configured to receive components of the first pressure
regulation system 610b. Furthermore, the body can also have an opening 470, defined by the
lip 462, on the rearward end configured to receive the housing 420.
         [0124]      With continued reference to FIG. 10, an embodiment of the first pressure
regulation system 610b is shown in a first or "closed" position. The first pressure regulation
system 610b can comprise a valve body 620 comprising multiple apertures 622 at one end, a
valve stem 624 running through the valve body 620 with a seat 626 at a rear end configured
to contact the biasing mechanism 628 and a head 630 at a front end configured to contact a
sealing ring 632.      During operation, the biasing mechanism 628 can exert a biasing force
against the seat 626 in a rearward direction such that the head 630 is biased against the
sealing ring 632 and valve body 620 thereby reducing or preventing the flow of gas through
the valve body 620 and ultimately into the mixing chamber 510b. Due to the orientation of
the biasing mechanism 628, the first pressure regulation system 610b remains closed until
                                               -29-

pressure within the pressurized chamber 410b exceeds a threshold value.           This threshold
value can be configured by changing the amount of force necessary to compress the biasing
mechanism 628.
         [0125]      With reference to FIG. 11, an embodiment of the first pressure regulation
system 610b is shown in an "open" position during the first and second phase of operation.
During these phases, pressure within the pressurized chamber 410b can exceed the pressure
within the mixing chamber 510b. In some preferred embodiments, the difference in pressure
is substantial.  Due to this pressure differential, sufficient force is placed upon the valve
components causing the biasing mechanism 628 to be overcome thereby allowing gas to flow
out of the valve body 620 and into the mixing chamber 510b.
         [0126]      This configuration for the first pressure regulation system 610b is
advantageous due to the multiple phases of operation of the apparatus 10b. During the first
and at least part of the second phase of operation, the pressure differential causes the valve to
remain open.      However, once the pressure differential is insufficient to overcome the
threshold value, the valve remains in a closed position preventing any additional gas from
flowing     into   the   mixing    chamber     and   potentially  disrupting    the    calculated
pressures/concentrations.
         [0127]      With reference to FIG. 12, an embodiment of a mixing chamber 510b is
shown comprising a syringe body 520, a second pressure regulation system 710b, and various
components of the above-mentioned systems. Syringe body 520 has a cylindrical body, an
aperture 522 at the rear end, and a threaded nozzle 524 at the front end. Syringe body also
has flange 526 configured to be engaged with the metering device 120. The mixing chamber
510b can be defined by the inner walls of the syringe body 520 and the plunger seal 460.
Furthermore, the syringe body can include indicators 528 along its outer surface
corresponding to a chosen concentration. These indicators 528 can advantageously provide
visual confirmation to the user of the selected concentration.
         [0128]      With reference to FIG. 13, an embodiment of the second pressure
regulation system 710b is shown comprising a valve body 720 which can include a ball 722,
a biasing mechanism 724, a seat 726, and a sealing mechanism 728. The second pressure
regulation system 710b can also comprise a second biasing mechanism 730 and a pin
                                               -30-

actuator 732. The valve body 720 can be translatable within the interior space 734 near the
nozzle 524 of the syringe body 520.        In some embodiments, due to the second biasing
mechanism 730, the valve body 720 is translated such that a flange 735 of the valve body 720
is pressed against the inner lip 736 of the nozzle 524. Furthermore, biasing mechanism 724
can seal flow through the valve body 720 until a sufficient force is placed on the ball 722 to
overcome the biasing force.      This can occur when the pressure differential between the
mixing chamber 510b and the atmosphere is beyond a threshold value.
         [0129]     During operation, the second pressure regulation system 710b is opened
during a first and second phase of operation due to the increased pressure contained in the
mixing chamber 510b. Once the pressure differential is insufficient to cause valve body 720
to open, the second phase of operation is complete and the user can move proceed to the third
phase of operation.
         [0130]     With reference to FIG. 14, an embodiment of the second pressure
regulation system 710b is shown with an attachment 760 comprising a filter. The attachment
760 has a first open end 762 with a flange 764 configured to engage with the threads on the
interior of the threaded nozzle 524, a second open end 766, and a filter element 768 located
therebetween. As such, gas can pass from the first open end 762 to the second open 766 and
advantageously be filtered in the process which reduces the risk of any harmful materials
enter the mixing chamber 510b. In some embodiments, the inner surface of the first open end
762 tapers when moving towards the second open end 766 such that the shape corresponds to
the shape of valve body 720. As the attachment 760 is threaded into the threaded nozzle 524,
the attachment 760 engages the valve body 720 and translates the valve body 720, against the
biasing force of the second biasing mechanism 730 towards the rear end of the syringe body
520. This causes the ball 722 to engage the pin actuator 732 thereby causing the valve body
720 to open allowing gas within the mixing chamber 510b to reach ambient pressure. This
configuration is advantageous as it allows the mixing chamber 510b to be further expanded at
ambient pressure and simultaneously filtering air drawn into the mixing chamber 510b. In
this position, the third phase of operation can therefore be performed. Once the third phase
of operation is completed, the attachment 760 can be removed.         Due to the force of the
                                              -31-

second biasing mechanism 730, the valve body 720 can be translated away from pin actuator
732 such that the valve body 720 remains closed until a user decides to inject the gas.
Embodiment of Measurement Control System and Activation System
         [0131]      FIGS. 15-31 illustrate additional embodiments of components of a
measurement control system of the apparatus.
         [0132]      FIGS. 15A and 15B illustrate an embodiment of a metering dial 820
which can be configured to allow a user of the device to select a concentration of fluid for an
injectable volume.     Similar to other embodiments, the metering dial 820 can include two
components such as a metering body 822 and a metering cap 824 which can be removably
attached to the metering body 822. As with other embodiments of a metering dial and similar
metering devices, such as metering dial 120, the removable attachment can advantageously
facilitate the assembly of the apparatus. Furthermore, in some embodiments, the removable
attachment can allow for disassembly such that the apparatus can be reduced to individual
components to facilitate resterilization of some or all of the components of the apparatus. As
with other embodiments, the metering cap 824 can be reversibly attached to the metering
body 822 using fasteners such as screws, rivets, clips, and other fastening mechanisms known
in the art.    In other embodiments, the metering body 822 and metering cap 824 can be
irremovably attached using devices and methods such as adhesives, welding, and the like.
Such embodiments can provide an advantage of reducing the likeihood of tampering.
Attachment of the metering cap 824 to the metering body 822 can form an annular slot and an
annular lip such that the metering dial 820 can be attached to another component of the
apparatus.    In some embodiments, the annular slot and the annular lip can correspond to
corresponding features, such as a flange and lip, located on a syringe on which the metering
dial 820 is placed.
         [0133]      With continued reference to FIG. 15A and FIG. 15B, the metering body
822 can have a generally cylindrical member 830 with a flange 832 located at top portion of
the metering body 822.      The metering body 822 can include a channel 834 substantially
centered on the cylindrical member 830 and running throughout the entire metering body
822. In some embodiments, the generally cylindrical member 830 can be sized and shaped to
                                              -32-

be received within a channel of another component of the apparatus. For example, in some
embodiments, the metering body 822 can be received within a channel of a syringe to which
the metering dial 820 is attached. In some embodiments, such as that illustrated in FIG. 15A,
the generally cylindrical member 830 can include additional surface features, such as an
increased diameter portion 831, which can potentially be keyed to the device into which it is
inserted.
        [0134]     As with other embodiments of metering dials or similar metering
mechanisms, this embodiment can also include metering indicators 836 located along a
surface of the metering body 820. In this illustrated embodiment the metering indicators 836
are located on a top surface of the flange 832 although any other viewable location can be
used such as, for example, along the perimeter portion of the flange 832. In the illustrated
embodiment, the metering indicators 836 show a range of numbers from 18, 19, 20, 21, and
22 corresponding to concentrations of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6 ) which can be produced in an
injectable volume of the assembly. As should be apparent to one of skill in the art, the ranges
used can depend upon the gas used and the application for the gas. In some embodiments
this range can be further divided to provide greater precision and control over the desired
concentrations.
        [0135]     As with other embodiments of metering dials and other metering
mechanisms, the metering body 822 can have slots 838, rails 840, and variable stops
corresponding to the metering indicators 836.       As more clearly shown in FIG. 15B, the
metering body 822 can have five separate slots 838 located along an inner surface of the
channel 834 which correspond to the five metering positions 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22. In other
embodiments, the metering body 822 can have fewer or greater slots than the number of
values provided by the metering indicators 836. Corresponding with each of these slots 838
can be variable stops which extend inwardly from the slots 838. These variable stops can
extend from the top surface of the flange 832 to a set distance towards the bottom end of the
generally cylindrical member 830. As should be appreciated by one of skill in the art, the
variable stops need not extend from the top surface. For example, in some embodiments, the
variable stops can be protrusions at set distances towards the bottom end of the tubular body
830.
                                              -33-

        [0136]      The operation of the variable stops of the illustrated embodiment of the
metering dial 820 can be similar to that of other embodiments of metering dials and metering
mechanisms.     The variable stops can be configured to interact with components contained
within the plunger body 860, such as a latch 928 or similar protruding structure, to control
expansion of a chamber for an injectable volume during at least some phases of operation. In
some embodiments, the variable stops can perform this task by limiting the rearward
extension of the plunger body 860 during different phases. As such, the variable stops extend
different distances depending upon the concentration to which the stop corresponds.
        [0137]      With continued reference to FIGS. 15A and15B, both sides of slots 838
can be bounded by rails 840 which extend inwardly from an inner surface of the channel 834.
In some embodiments, the rails 840 can extend inwardly from the inner surface of the
channel 834 a greater distance than the stops. The rails 840 can be configured to prevent the
apparatus from switching to a different concentration value once activated. In the illustrated
embodiment, the rails 840 are configured to substantially reduce the likelihood that the
plunger body 860 will rotate to a different variable stop during at least the first two phases of
operation. In certain embodiments, the rails 840 can be removed if a constantly variable
metering device is desired. In such circumstances other mechanisms can be used to prevent
or otherwise significantly reduce the likelihood that a different concentration value will be
chosen after the device has been activated.
        [0138]      As illustrated more clearly in FIG. 15B, metering body 822 can
additionally include along an inner surface of the channel 834 notches, indentations, divots,
recesses, or similar structures 842 located along an inner surface of the channel 834 opposite
the slots 838 and rails 840. In other embodiments, the notches 842 can be located at other
suitable locations on the metering dial 820. These notches 842 can correspond to features
located on other components of the apparatus to form a ratcheting mechanism. For example,
the notches 842 can correspond to a ratcheting member 886 (shown on FIGS. 21-23) located
on the plunger body 860.         As such, the ratcheting mechanism can be configured to
advantageously provide a user with tactile feedback when the plunger body 860 has been
rotated to a selectable concentration.    As such, a user of the device can be less likely to
accidentally have the plunger body 860 in an inoperable position when the gas assembly is
                                              -34-

activated.    Furthermore, the ratcheting mechanism can also provide a threshold resistance
against rotation from one concentration to a second concentration. In such embodiments, the
ratcheting mechanism can thereby advantageously reduce the likelihood of unintentional
rotation from one concentration to a second concentration.            Other types of feedback
mechanisms and alignment mechanisms can also be used to provide this tactile feedback.
          [0139]     With reference to FIG. 16, an embodiment of a plunger body 860 is shown
which can include a generally tubular frame 862, a handle 864 at one end of the plunger body
860, a selector member 866 located there between, and a channel 868 centered on the tubular
frame 862 which can run throughout the entire length of the plunger body 860 or which can
run throughout at least a part of the length of the tubular frame 862. The tubular frame 862
can be configured to slidably translate and slidably rotate within a channel of a metering dial.
          [0140]     The tubular frame 862 can include retention wings or clips 870 located at
an end opposite of the handle 864. As shown in the illustrated embodiment, the retention
wings 870 can be partially cylindrical protrusions separated by two or more cutouts or slits
871. As such, depending on the material used, the retention wings 870 can be bent outwardly
when receiving a component within the channel 868. In some embodiments, the retention
wings 870 can each include a semi-annular lip along an interior surface of the retention wings
870 which corresponds to an annular slot of a component inserted within the channel 868.
For example, in some embodiments, the semi-annular lip can correspond to an annular slot
1024 located on a second housing member 1022 (see FIG. 24). As such, the retention wings
870 can allow for a snap fit assembly of multiple components of the device thereby
facilitating assembly and also potentially allowing for disassembly for purposes of reuse
and/or resteriilzation. Other fastening mechanisms and methods can also be used to connect
the components to the plunger body 860 including fasteners such as screws, adhesives,
welding, and other similar mechanisms and methods known in the art.
          [0141]     With continued reference to FIG. 16, the tubular frame 862 can include a
guard 872 which can extend outwardly from the outer surface of the tubular frame 862. In
some embodiments, the guard 872 can run from the bottom end of the tubular frame 862 to a
distance toward the top end of the tubular frame 862, such as, for example, up to and adjacent
the latch aperture 874. In other embodiments, such as that illustrated in FIG. 16, the guard
                                              -35-

872 can be sized so as to not extend to an end surface of the tubular frame 862 but instead
extends only to the cutout 871 of the retention wings 870. Similar to other embodiments of
the plunger body, such as plunger body 160, the guard 872 can be configured to fit within
slots and rails of the metering dial. In other embodiments, other forms of metering devices
can be used and the guards 872 can be configured to correspond to similar structural features
on such devices.
          [0142]     The guard 872, when positioned between the rails 840, can prevent or
substantially reduce the likelihood that the plunger body 860 will rotate after activation. This
advantageously can prevent or reduce the likelihood of the plunger body 860 rotating during
phases of operation which may cause an erroneous concentration of fluid in the injectable
volume. The guard 872 can be sized such that, when the plunger body 860 is fully inserted
within the channel 834, the guard 872 can be slightly below the rails 840 such that the
plunger body 860 can rotate freely to select different concentration values while in a first,
"initial," or "pre-activation" position. However, because the guard 872 is only slightly below
the rails 840, once extended a short distance, the guard 872 can become positioned between
the selected rails 840. This positioning advantageously allows the guard 872 to lock shortly
after activation of the apparatus. Furthermore, the guard 872 can extend outwardly from the
tubular frame 860 only a sufficient distance to contact the rails 840 but not sufficiently
outwardly to contact variable stops or similar features located between the rails 840.
          [0143]     With continued reference to FIG. 16, the tubular frame 862 can include a
latch aperture 874 configured to allow a latch 928 located on the activation rod 920 and
contained within the channel 868 to protrude outwardly from the tubular frame 862. As
shown in the illustrated embodiment, the latch aperture 874 can be centered just above the
topmost portion of the guard 872. In other embodiments, the latch aperture 874 can also be
located at different positions along the tubular frame 862 and can contain more than one latch
aperture if multiple latches are used.
          [0144]     As described in greater detail below, in a first, "initial", or "pre-activation"
position, the latch 928 can be sized so as to not extend beyond the guard 872 and thus not
contact a variable stop or similar structure. When in a second or "open" position, the latch
928 can extend outwardly from the tubular frame 862 beyond the guard 872 such that the
                                               -36-

latch 928 can contact the variable stops or similar structures thereby preventing or
significantly reducing the likelihood of further extension of the plunger body 860 while the
latch is in the second position. As with other embodiments of the plunger body 860, in some
embodiments the latch aperture 874 can be placed such that, if the plunger body 860 is
improperly oriented within the metering dial 820 during an initial or "pre-activation" phase of
operation, the latch 928 can be prevented from extending outwardly into the second or
"open" position by a rail 840 of the metering dial 820.         Furthermore, similar to other
embodiments of latch mechanisms, this can also prevent or at least substantially reduce the
likelihood that a user will be able to operate the activation switch 960 thereby preventing or
substantially reducing the likelihood that a user will activate the apparatus when in an
inoperable position.
         [0145]      Selector member 866 can be a protrusion extending from the outer surface
of the tubular frame 862.      The selector member 866 can additionally include a selector
indicator 876 which can take the form of a minor protrusion located on the selector ring 866.
Selector indicator 876 can correspond to the metering indicators 836 located on the metering
body 822 to indicate the concentration level that will be obtained when the plunger body 860
is oriented in that position when activated.
         [0146]      With continued reference to FIG. 16, the handle 864 can extend in two
opposite directions in a radial direction from the longitudinal axis of the tubular frame 862.
The handle 864 can be shaped such that a user can grip the handle 864 and use the handle to
either further extend the plunger body 860 rearwardly, for example, to increase the volume
contained in the apparatus or further depress the plunger body 860 frontwardly, for example,
to reduce the volume contained in the apparatus and eject the injectable volume. The handle
864 can additionally include a pin aperture 878 for receiving a coupling mechanism, such as a
coupling pin, for an activation switch 960. The activation switch 960 can thereby rotate
about the coupling mechanism in order to operate an actuation rod 920 which can be located
within the plunger body 860.
         [0147]      As will be described in more detail with respect to the operation of an
interlock mechanism shown in FIGS. 18-20, the handle 864 can additionally include a recess
880 configured to receive the activation switch 960. The recess 880 can be sized such that,
                                              -37-

when the activation switch 960 is in a third or "closed" position, the activation switch 960 is
fully contained within the recess 880. Furthermore, the handle 864 can additionally include
an interlock aperture 882 and an interlock channel 884 configured to receive an interlock
member 970 of an interlock mechanism.
         [0148]     With reference to FIG. 17, an embodiment of an activation system is
shown which can include an actuation rod 920 and an activation switch 960 which can be
used to control the operation of the apparatus. As shown in the illustrated embodiment, the
actuation rod 920 can include an actuator body 922 with a generally cylindrical shape. The
actuator body 922 can be configured to extend through part of the channel 868 of the plunger
body 860. In other embodiments, the actuator body 922 can be lengthened or shortened
depending on the length of other components contained within the channel 868. In some
embodiments, the actuator body 922 can have other cross-sectional shapes such as circles,
ovals, ellipses, quadrilaterals, or other polygons. Additionally, the actuator body 922 can
differ in cross-sectional shape along different portions of the actuator body 922.           For
example, as shown in the illustrated embodiment, the actuator body 922 can have a circular
cross-sectional shape along a first portion of the actuator body 922 and a  "+"  cross-sectional
shape in a second portion. Similar to other embodiments of the actuation rod, the actuator
body 922 can be configured to abut and follow a contoured surface 962 of the activation
switch 960 at a first end of the actuator body 922.    In some embodiments, the actuator body
922 can be translated within the channel 868 of the plunger body 860 when the activation
switch 960 is rotated as a result of the contoured surface 962.
         [0149]     In some embodiments, such as that illustrated in FIG. 17, the actuation rod
920 can include a rod biasing member or mechanism 924 such as a helical spring or any other
similar mechanism. The rod biasing member 924 can be configured such that it applies a
linearly increasing force as the rod biasing member 924 is compressed.                 In other
embodiments, the rod biasing member 924 can be configured such that it applies an
exponentially increasing force as the rod biasing member 924 is compressed such that the
force becomes significantly greater as the rod biasing member 924 is compressed. As shown
in the illustrated embodiment, the rod biasing member 924 can be a helical spring received in
a recess of the actuator body 922. The rod biasing member 924 can be releasably fastened to
                                               -38-

the actuator body 922 such that the rod biasing member 924 can be removed for purposes of
disassembly.     In other embodiments, the rod biasing member 924 can be permanently
fastened to the actuator body 922. In yet other embodiments, the rod biasing member 924
can be not connected to the actuator body 922 and can be retained within the recess as a result
of being placed between two components such as the actuator body 922 and a first housing
member 1020.
         [0150]     As is described in further detail below with respect to the operation of an
embodiment of the activation system shown in FIGS. 25-27, the rod biasing member 924
can be configured to provide a biasing force against a housing member 1020. This biasing
force can be configured such that it can exceed a threshold force to activate the release of gas
from a pressurized chamber within the apparatus. In addition, the rod biasing member 924
can also be configured to provide a biasing force against the actuator body 922 such that,
when the activation switch 960 is moved into different positions, the actuator body 922 will
translate in a direction that will keep the actuator body 922 in contact with at least a portion
of the activation switch 960 such as the contoured portion 962.
         [0151]     The actuation rod 920 can include a latch movement portion 926 located
between a first end and second end of the actuator body 922. Similar to the latch movement
portion of other embodiments of the actuation rods, latch movement portion 926 can be used
to translate a latch 928 located thereon such that the latch 928 can protrude from or retract
from an aperture or similar structure located on the plunger (e.g., latch aperture 874 located
on the plunger body 860).
         [0152]     With continued reference to FIG. 17, an activator switch 960 can be
configured to translate the actuator rod 920 through the plunger body 860 towards the first
housing member 1020 to activate a mechanism for releasing the gas contained therein. As
such, the activator switch 960, like the activator switch of other embodiments, can be a cam
with a contoured profile 962 located along the surface configured to contact the actuator body
922. Activator switch 960 can additionally include an aperture 964 configured to receive a
pin (not shown in FIG. 17) such that the activator switch 960 can rotate about the pin.        It
should be appreciated by a person of skill in the art that the activation switch 960 can
preferably be any type of switch that can remain in a first, second, or more positions without
                                               -39-

the user needing to maintain the switch in that position. In the illustrated embodiment, a
rotating lever is used. Other switches can also be used such as a screw, latch, spring loaded
pin, or any other switch known in the art.
         [0153]      With reference to FIG. 18, the activator switch 960 is shown in a first,
"initial", or "pre-activation" position. For example, this can be a position prior to a first
phase of operation. In this first position, the distance between the pin 966 and the contoured
surface 962 in contact with the actuator body 922 can be a first distance such that the actuator
body 922 is located at a first distance from the end of the tubular frame 862 of the plunger
body 860.
         [0154]      As shown in FIG. 19, in some embodiments, the activator switch 960 can
be rotated towards a more vertically oriented position, a second or "open" position, in which
the distance from the pin 966 to the contoured surface 962 in contact with the actuator body
922 can be a second distance such that the actuator body 922 is located at a second distance
from the end of the tubular frame 862 of the plunger body 860. This can correspond to the
position of the activation switch 960 during a first and second phase of operation. In some
embodiments, the second distance can be greater than the first distance. As will be described
in more detail with respect to FIGS. 25-27, this can cause the actuator body 922 to translate
towards the first housing member 1020 of the pressurized chamber. This translation can
activate the release of fluid or gas contained in the pressurized chamber.
         [0155]      As shown in FIG. 20, in some embodiments, the activation switch 960 can
also be rotated towards a more horizontally-oriented position, a third or "closed" position, in
which the distance from the pin 966 to the contoured surface 962 in contact with the actuator
body 922 can be a third distance such that the actuator body 922 is located at a third distance
from the end of the tubular frame 862 of the plunger body 860. This can correspond to a
third phase of operation and/or a final phase prior to injection of the injectable volume into a
patient. This third distance can be less than or equal to the first and/or second distances. In
some embodiments, rotation towards the third position can cause the actuator body 922 to
translate away from the first housing member 1020 of the pressurized chamber such that no
fluid or gas is released from the pressurized chamber.
                                               -40-

         [0156]      With reference back to FIG. 17, an interlock mechanism can be included
to control and limit the movement of the activation switch 960. As shown in the illustrated
embodiment, the interlock mechanism can include an interlock member 970 such as a pawl
having interlock wings or clips 972 located at one end and an interlock portion 974 (shown in
FIGS. 18-20) located at a second end.          The interlock clips 972 can be configured to be
received within interlock apertures 882 or indentations, recesses, or other similar mechanisms
to retain the interlock clips 972 located in the handle 864.
         [0157]      With reference again to FIGS. 18-20, an illustration of the operation of an
embodiment of the interlock mechanism is provided.             FIG. 18 is an illustration of the
interlock mechanism and activation switch 960 in the first, "initial", or "pre-activation"
position. As shown in the illustrated embodiment, the interlock member 970 can be sized
and shaped to be received within an interlock channel 884 of the handle 864. While in the
first position, the interlock clips 972 can be biased inwardly by virtue of contact between the
interlock clips 972 and the inner surfaces of the channel 884.
         [0158]      As shown in the illustrated embodiment, the interlock portion 974 of the
interlock member 970 can be received within a notch or indentation 976 located at an end of
the activation switch 960. The shape of interlock portion 974 and the notch or indentation
976 can be chosen such that, while in the first or "initial" position, the activator switch 960
can be prevented or restricted from rotating in a clockwise direction towards a horizontally
oriented position (i.e., the third or "closed" position) due to resulting interference between the
interlock portion 974 and the activation switch notch 976. Additionally, the shape of the
interlock portion 974 can be chosen such that, in the first position, the activation switch 960
can rotate in a counter-clockwise direction towards a more vertically-oriented position (i.e.,
the second or "open" position). In some embodiments, such as that shown in the illustrated
embodiment, the activation switch 960 can include a second contoured surface 978
configured to translate the interlock member 970 towards an opposite end of the handle 864
when the activation switch 960 is rotated from the first to the second position. In some
embodiments, movement of the interlock member 970 within the interlock channel 884
towards an opposite end of the handle 864 results in the ends of the interlock clips 972 being
translated towards the interlock apertures 882. Upon reaching the interlock apertures 882, the
                                                -41-

interlock clips 972 which were originally pre-biased inwardly while in the interlock channel
884, expand outwardly such that the interlock clips 972 are received within the interlock
apertures 882.    In some embodiments, the interlock member 970 can be prevented from
translating back towards the activation switch 960 once received within the interlock
apertures 882. This can advantageously prevent or at least substantially reduce the likelihood
that the interlock member 970 can reengage the activation switch 960 and restrict movement
of the activation switch 960.
         [0159]     FIG. 19 is an illustration of the activation switch 960 and the interlock
mechanism in a second or "open" position.         As illustrated, the interlock clips 972 of the
interlock member 970 have been received within the interlock apertures 882 such that the
interlock member 970 can no longer translate back towards the activation switch 960. As a
result, a user of the device can rotate the activation switch 960 in a clockwise direction
towards the third or "closed" position.
         [0160]     FIG. 20 is an illustration of the activation switch 960 and the interlock
mechanism in the third or "closed" position. In some embodiments, the activation switch
960 can be received within a recess 880 in the handle 864 and be flush with a top surface of
the handle. Furthermore, the recess 880 can be sized and shaped to closely conform to the
shape of the activation switch 960 such that a user of the device can have difficulty rotating
the activation switch 960 into one of the prior two positions after the activation switch has
been fully placed in the third position.
         [0161]     As such, the interlock mechanism advantageously controls the operation of
the activation switch 960 such that a user of the device will not accidentally rotate the switch
960 in an improper position or in an improper order. Furthermore, because a user of the
device may have more difficulty rotating the activation switch 960 from the third position to
one of the prior two positions, there is a reduced likelihood that a user could potentially alter
the concentration of the injectable volume after the final phase of operation. As such, the
interlock mechanism advantageously serves as a safety mechanism for operation of the
device. In other embodiments, other forms of interlock mechanisms may be used which may
include the use of other fasteners, clips, or similar devices. A person of ordinary skill in the
art would understand that other types of interlock mechanisms can also be used.
                                               -42-

         [0162]     With reference to FIGS. 21-23, an illustration of the operation of an
embodiment of the activation system is shown. As shown in the illustrated embodiment, and
similar to other embodiments, the latch 928 can be contained within the latch aperture 874
such that the latch can not translate toward a front end or rear end of the plunger body 860.
In such an embodiment, when the actuator rod 920 translates in a frontward or rearward
direction, the latch 928 is configured to follow the profile of the latch movement portion 926
of the actuator rod 920.
         [01631       FIG. 21 shows the embodiment in a first, "initial", or "pre-activation"
position. As shown here, the latch 928 can be positioned such that it outwardly protrudes
from the plunger body 860 sufficiently such that, if extended rearwardly, the latch 928 would
contact a variable stop located on the metering body 922 and prevent any further extension.
In other embodiments, when in the first position, the latch 928 can be configured so as to not
outwardly protrude from the body 860 to prevent such extension. When moved to the second
or "open" position, as shown in FIG. 22, the latch 928 can sufficiently outwardly protrude
from the plunger body 860 such that the latch 928 can contact the variable stop or similar
structure located on the metering dial 820 thereby preventing any further rearward extension.
When rotated to the third or "closed" position, as illustrated in FIG. 23, the latch 928 can be
sufficiently retracted within the latch aperture 874 such that the latch 928 no longer contacts
the variable stop or similar structure located on the metering dial 820 thereby allowing the
plunger body 860 to be further extended rearwardly.
         [0164]     With continued reference to FIGS. 21-23, a ratcheting member 886 such
as a pawl can be attached to the plunger body 860. The ratcheting member 886 can be hinged
and configured such that the ratcheting member 886 is movably deformable and provides
resistance during deformation.      The ratcheting member 886 can correspond to features
located on the plunger body metering dial 820, such as notches 842, to facilitate proper
orientation with respect to the selected concentration. In order to allow inward deformation
of the ratcheting member 886, the actuator body 924 can include a recess or indentation 980.
This recess 980 can be configured such that the ratcheting member 886 is allowed to
inwardly deform only in the first and third positions whereas the ratcheting member 886 is
restricted from deforming inwardly while in the second position. This can provide a means
                                               -43-

of reducing the likelihood that the plunger body 860 can be rotated during operation of the
device.
Embodiment of Pressurized Chamber
         [0165]     With reference to FIG. 24, an embodiment of a pressurized chamber is
shown along with components of an activation system.          As illustrated, the pressurized
chamber can have a two-part housing with a first housing member 1020 and a second housing
member 1022 which are translatable with respect to each other. As shown in the illustrated
embodiment, the two members 1020, 1022 can have a generally cylindrical shape such that
some or all portions of the two members 1020, 1022 can be received within a channel 868 of
the plunger body 860. In some embodiments, the two members 1020, 1022 can be detached
from one another to allow free translation of the two members 1020, 1022.            In other
embodiments, the two-part housing can be attached while still allowing translation of the
members 1020, 1022 with respect to each other. Such attachment can be used to increase the
stability of the two members 1020, 1022.
         [0166]     As shown in the illustrated embodiment and similar to other embodiments
of the pressurized chamber, an annular slot 1024 can be located on the second housing
member 1022. In the illustrated embodiment, the annular slot 1024 is located at an end
opposite the first housing member 1020 however other possible locations can be chosen. The
annular slot 1024 can be sized and configured to receive the retention wings 870 of the
plunger body 860 allowing the second housing member 1022 to be fastened to the plunger
body 860 using a snap-fit connection. To facilitate insertion of the second housing member
1022 into the channel 868 of the plunger body 860, the inserted end portion can be slightly
tapered. In some embodiments, the second housing member 1022 can be removably attached
to the plunger body 860 thereby allowing replacement of certain parts contained therein. For
example, in some embodiments, a storage member 1030 or canister can be contained within
the two-part housing. The two-part housing can also have a plunger end 1060 with a plunger
seal 1061 such as a rubber o-ring configured to sealingly contact the syringe body 1120 and
form a seal for defining a chamber to contain an injectable volume, such chamber potentially
                                              -44-

serving as a mixing chamber.        Other types of sealing members can be used around the
plunger end 1060 to form such a seal.
         [0167]     FIGS. 25A and 25B are cross-sectional views of the embodiment shown
in FIG. 24 when the apparatus is in a first, "initial", or "pre-activation" position.       As
illustrated more clearly in FIG. 25B, in the first position, the rod biasing member 924, such
as a helical spring can be in contact with both the actuator body 922 and the first housing
member 1020; however, the actuator body 922 may not be in direct contact with the first
housing member 1020. In the first position, the rod biasing member 924 can exert a force in
a frontward direction upon the first housing member 1020 and a force in a rearward direction
upon the actuator body 922 such that the actuator body 922 remains in contact with the
activation switch 960. In this position, the frontward force upon the first housing member
1020 can cause the first housing member 1020 to apply a force upon a storage member 1030
contained therein as the first housing member 1020 attempts to translate towards the second
housing member 1022. Preferably, in the first position, the force applied by the first housing
member 1020 upon the storage member 1030 will be insufficient to translate the storage
member 1030 towards the second housing member 1022 due to mechanisms contained in the
storage member 1030 (as will be discussed in further detail in FIGS. 28-29). As such, while
in the first position, any gas or fluid contained within the storage member 1030 will remain
contained within the storage member 1030.
         [0168]     FIGS. 26A and 26B are cross-sectional views of the embodiment shown
in FIG. 24 when the apparatus is in a second or "open" position. As illustrated more clearly
in FIG. 26B, while in the second position, both the actuator body 922 and the rod biasing
member 924 can be directly in contact with the first housing member 1020. Due to this direct
contact, a more significant force can be applied to the first housing member 1020 such that
the first housing member 1020 can translate in a frontward direction thereby causing the
storage member 1030 to translate in a frontward direction. This frontward translation of the
storage member 1030 can then activate the release of gas from the storage member 1030. In
other embodiments, the actuator body 922 need not directly contact the first housing member
1020 since, in such embodiments, the increase in force applied by the rod biasing member
924 due to compression of the rod biasing member 924 can be sufficient to cause the first
                                               -45-

housing member 1020 to translate in a frontward direction to cause the activation of the
release of gas from the storage member 1030.
        [0169]      FIGS. 27A and 27B are cross-sectional views of the second embodiment
shown in FIG. 24 when the apparatus is in a third or "closed" position. As illustrated in
FIG. 27B, while in the third position, the actuator body 922 may not be in contact with the
first housing member 1020. Furthermore, in some embodiments, due to the reduced distance
between the pin 966 and the contoured surface 962, the force exerted by the rod biasing
member 924 on the actuator body 922 in a rearward direction can cause the actuator body 922
to translate towards the contoured surface 962 such that the actuator body 922 remains in
contact with the activation switch 960. This expansion of the rod biasing member 924 results
in a reduction of force exerted by the rod biasing member 924 upon the first housing member
1020. As a result of this reduced force, and as a result of other mechanisms located within
the storage member 1030 or canister, the storage member 1030 can be restored to a closed
state thereby preventing any additional gas from being released into the chamber to contain
the injectable volume, which can also serve as a mixing chamber.
        [0170]      FIG. 28 is a sectional view of an embodiment of a pressurized chamber.
The first and second housing members 1020, 1022 have contained therein a storage member
1030 or canister, such as a microcylinder, which contains a fluid such as gas.         In some
embodiments, the second member 1022 has at an end opposite the first member 1020 a
conical or frusto-conical surface forming the plunger end 1060. In some embodiments, the
second member 1022 and the plunger end 1060 form an integral unit. In other embodiments,
the second member 1022 and the plunger end 1060 are separate units which can be attached
using a variety of fastening devices and methods such as, but not limited to, fasteners such as
screws and pins, retention clips, adhesives, welding, or the like. The plunger end 1060 can
have an annular slot configured to receive a plunger seal 1061 such as a rubber o-ring to form
a chamber for the injectable volume, which can also serve as a mixing chamber.
        [0171]      The first housing member 1020 can include a recessed portion 1026 or
indented portion configured to contact and receive a first end of the storage member 1030.
The shape of the recessed portion 1026 should preferably correspond to the shape of the first
end of the storage member 1030. In other embodiments, the first housing member 1020 may
                                              -46-

not include a recessed portion 1026.      The second housing member 1022 can include an
interior space 1028 sized and configured to receive a second end of the storage member 1030.
In some embodiments, the interior space 1028 can include a housing seal 1029 in contact
with the second end of the storage member 1030. In some embodiments, the housing seal
1029 creates a sufficient seal such that little to no gas leaks rearward through the interior
space 1028. In some embodiments, the interior space 1028 can also provide a generally snug
fit around the storage member 1030 to ensure that the storage member 1030 generally only
translates in a frontward and rearward direction. This advantageously reduces the likelihood
of the seal between the second end of the storage member 1030 and the housing seal 1029
from being broken.
         [0172]     With continued reference to FIG. 28, the storage member 1030, such as
the illustrated canister or microcylinder, can include a body portion 1040 and a head 1042.
As shown in the illustrated embodiment, the body portion 1040 can have a generally
cylindrical shape with a semi-spherical first end. The body portion 1040, in conjunction with
the head 1042, can form an internal volume 1041 to contain a fluid such as a gas in either
gaseous or liquid form, or a combination of both, at a first pressure and concentration which
can be different than atmospheric gas. For example, such gases can include, but are not
limited to, expansile gases, ophthalmic gases such as SF 6 , C3F8 , C 2F6 , or similar gases,
propellant gases such as C0 2, refrigerant gases such as N 20, and other various types of gases.
The size of the interior space 1041 can be chosen such that a unit or single-use dose can be
contained within the volume. Other shapes can be chosen for the body portion 1040.
         [0173]     The head 1042 can have a generally tubular shape with an outer diameter
matching the inner diameter of the body portion 1040. The head 1042 can have an internal
channel and a flange 1044. As shown in the illustrated embodiment, the first end of the head
1042 can have an opening with a diameter that matches the diameter of the channel and the
second end of the head can have an opening 1046 with a diameter that is less than the
diameter of the channel. In some embodiments, the body portion 1040 and the head 1042 can
be separate components which are later attached. This potentially advantageously allows for
the assembly of internal components of the head 1042 prior to assembly.                Once all
components are assembled within the head 1042, the head 1042 can be received within the
                                              -47-

body portion 1040 and fastened using devices and mechanisms such as adhesives, welding, or
the like. In some embodiments, such as that illustrated in FIG. 28, the flange 1044 can abut
the body portion 1040 and adhered or welded along this surface. In other embodiments, the
body portion 1040 and head 1042 can form an integral unit.
         [0174]     The head 1042 can contain a storage member pressure regulation system,
which can form part of a first pressure regulation system, and which can take the form of an
internal valve mechanism within the channel. The internal valve mechanism can include a
retaining ring 1048, a valve seat 1050, an internal biasing member or mechanism 1052 such
as a spring, a valve piston 1054, and a piston seal 1056. The retaining ring 1048 can be
placed within an annular slot 1058 located on the head 1042. The retaining ring 1048 can be
made of an elastic material such that the retaining ring can be deformed prior to fitting into
slot 1058. The valve seat 1050 can be placed between the retaining ring 1048 and the second
end of the head 1042. In some embodiments, the valve seat 1050 can be a ring having an
outer diameter approximately equal to the internal diameter of the head 1042.
         [0175]     The valve piston 1054 can have a generally cylindrical shape and be
placed between the seat 1050 and the second end of the head 1042. The outer diameter of the
valve piston 1054 can be chosen to be approximately equal to the internal diameter of the
head 1042. As shown in the illustrated embodiment, the valve piston can include an annular
slot configured to receive the piston seal 1056, fluid pathways 1055 or channels located along
the perimeter of the piston, and a protrusion 1057.         The fluid pathways 1055 can be
configured to allow fluid to pass between the valve piston 1054 and the head 1042. In the
illustrated embodiment, a total of four fluid pathways are included; however, fewer or greater
numbers of pathways can be used.        In some embodiments, the protrusion 1057 can be a
cylindrical member having a smaller diameter that corresponds to the diameter of the opening
1046. The protrusion 1057 can be configured to fit within the opening 1046.           In some
embodiments, the protrusion 1057 can be flush with the end surface of the head 1042. In
other embodiments, the protrusion 1057 can be recessed within the opening or extend beyond
the end surface. A biasing mechanism 1052 can be placed between the seat 1050 and the
piston 1054 to apply a force on the valve piston 1054 in a frontward direction such that a seal
is formed between the piston seal 1056 and the head 1042. In other embodiments, other
                                               -48-

types of valve designs can be used such as a ball valve, poppet valve, or any other valve
mentioned herein or known in the art.
         [0176]     In some embodiments, the internal biasing mechanism 1052 can be
configured such that, when an activation switch is in a first or "pre-activation" position, the
internal valve mechanism will not open as a result of any forces applied to it such as the force
applied to the storage member 1030 via the first housing member 1020 as a result of the rod
biasing mechanism 924. In some embodiments, the internal biasing mechanism 1052 can be
configured such that, when an activation switch is in a second or "open" position, the internal
valve mechanism will open as a result of forces applied to it.      In some embodiments, the
internal biasing mechanism 1052 can be configured such that, when an activation switch is in
a third or "closed" position, the internal valve mechanism will not open as a result of any
forces applied to it such as the force applied to the storage member 1030 via the first housing
member 1020 as a result of the rod biasing mechanism 924.
         [0177]     In some embodiments, the storage member 1030 can include other
structures such as filters integrated in portions of the storage member 1030 such as the head
1042. The storage member 1030 can include membranes or other sealing structures placed
over the head 1042 and over the opening 1046 to provide an additional seal which can
advantageously extend the shelf life of the storage member 1030. The membrane or sealing
structure can be punctured by a protruding member, such as a pin 1059, or any other similar
release mechanism. In some embodiments, the release mechanism can be a porous material,
for example, known as "frit". The storage member 1030 can also include additional valve
members which can serve as a relief valve to reduce the likelihood of rupturing if the
pressure contained within the storage member 1030 exceeds certain operational limits. The
storage member 1030 can also be configured to rupture in a controlled manner to reduce the
likelihood of catastrophic failure.
         [0178]     In some embodiments, the storage member 1030, and the internal
components such as the internal valve, is manufactured from materials that are both small
and light-weight. The material can also be flexible. In some embodiments, the materials and
dimensions of the storage member 1030 can be chosen such that the storage member 1030
resists diffusion of gas through the walls of the storage member 1030. This can provide the
                                               -49-

advantage of increasing storage life of the storage member 1030 when a gas is contained
therein. In some embodiments, the length of the storage member 1030 from a rearward most
end of the body 1040 and a frontward most end of the head 1042 can range from
approximately 15mm to approximately 65mm, from approximately 20mm to approximately
45mm, and from approximately 25mm to approximately 35mm, such as 29mm.              In some
embodiments, the outer diameter of the body 1040 can range from approximately 4mm to
approximately 25mm, from approximately 6mm to approximately 20mm, and from
approximately 8mm to approximately 15mm, such as 9.5mm. In some embodiments, the
outer diameter of the head 1042, not including a flange portion can range from approximately
2mm to approximately 20mm, from approximately 4mm to approximately 15mm, and from
approximately 6mm to approximately 10mm, such as 7.5mm.
        [0179]     With continued reference to FIG. 28, the second housing member 1022
can include a release mechanism 1059 located within a channel 1062.              The release
mechanism 1059 can be substantially centered over the protrusion 1057 of the valve piston
 1054 and have a diameter which matches the diameter of the opening 1046. As illustrated in
FIG. 29, during operation, when the storage member 1030 is translated in a frontward
direction towards the release mechanism 1059, the release mechanism 1059 remains
stationary such that the release mechanism 1059 can cause the valve piston 1056 to unseat
from the head 1042 thereby allowing the flow of fluid from the storage member 1030, past
the pathways 1055 and the release mechanism 1059, and through the channel 1062 where it
ultimately can flow into a chamber for the injectable volume, such as a mixing chamber. In
some embodiments, the release mechanism 1059 can be made out of a porous material such
that the release mechanism 1059 itself serves as a preliminary filtering mechanism for fluid
flowing through channel 1062.     In some embodiments, filters can be added between the
release mechanism 1059 and the end of the channel 1062 or at any other location to filter out
materials.
        [0180]     With reference to FIG. 30, an embodiment of a chamber for an injectable
volume, such as a mixing chamber, is shown which can include a syringe body 1120, a
syringe pressure regulation system, which can form part of a second pressure regulation
system, and various components of the above-mentioned systems.        Syringe body 1120 can
                                             -50-

have a cylindrical body and a nose 1122 at a front end. In some embodiments, a threaded
nozzle 1124, which can include multiple components of a pressure regulation system, can be
removably attached to the nose 1122 of the syringe body 1120.           This can advantageously
facilitate assembly of the apparatus by allowing the pressure regulation system to be
assembled within the smaller nozzle 1124 prior to being incorporated with the syringe body
1120. The nozzle 1124 can be attached to the nose 1122 using multiple fastening devices and
means such as screws, adhesives, snap fits, welding, or the like.           The chamber for an
injectable volume can be defined by the inner walls of the syringe body 1120 and the plunger
seal 1061. Furthermore, as with other embodiments of the syringe, the syringe body 1120 can
also include indicators along its outer surface corresponding to a chosen concentration and a
flange at a rear end of the body 1120 configured to be attached to a metering dial.
         [0181]     With continued reference to FIG. 30, an embodiment of the syringe
pressure regulation system is shown comprising a valve body 1220, a valve end 1222, a valve
piston 1224, a piston seal 1226, a piston biasing member or mechanism 1228, a valve biasing
member or mechanism 1230, and a valve end seal 1232. Similar to other embodiments of the
pressure regulation system, the valve body 1220 and valve end 1222 can slidingly translate
within the threaded nozzle 1124.
         [0182]     In a first position, such as that illustrated in FIG. 30, the valve end 1222
can rest against a lip 1234 of the threaded nozzle 1124 due to force exerted by the valve
biasing member 1230 on the valve body 1220 and valve end 1222 in a frontward direction.
In the first position, the valve piston 1224 and valve seal 1226 can form a seal and limit, or
prevent, the passage of fluid through the valve body 1220. However, when the pressure in
the chamber for an injectable volume increases beyond a threshold value to overcome the
biasing force exerted by the piston biasing member 1228, the valve piston 1224 can be
translated in a frontward direction against the force applied by the piston biasing member
1228 and fluid can pass through the valve body 1220 and valve end 1222 and into the
atmosphere. Once the pressure reduces back to a threshold value, the equilibrium of forces
allows the valve piston 1224 and valve seal 1226 to once again sealingly contact the valve
body 1220.
                                                -51-

         [0183]      In a second position, the valve body 1220 and valve end 1222 can be
translated in a rearward direction against the valve biasing member 1230. For example, this
can be accomplished by applying a force in the rearward direction upon the valve end 1222.
In the second position, contact between the valve piston 1224 and an internal protruding
member 1126 of the syringe body 1120 can cause the valve piston 1224 to move in a
rearward direction relative to the valve body 1220 and valve end 1222 such that the valve
piston 1224 no longer sealingly contacts the valve body 1220.           This could, in some
embodiments, allow the passage of fluid to and from the chamber for an injectable volume.
In some embodiments, the pressure regulation system can be forced into a second position
when an inline filter is threaded onto the threaded nozzle 1124. For example, an attachment
760 as illustrated in FIG. 14. Other types of attachments, such as stopcocks, valves, tubing,
or the like, can also be attached to the threaded nozzle 1124.
External Gas Filling
         [0184]      In some embodiments, the pressurized chamber can be external to the
apparatus. In such embodiments, the pressurized chamber can be a tank or other canister
containing the gas in liquid or gaseous (or a combination) form. In some embodiments, the
tank can be attached to the threaded nozzle via tubing or other mechanisms. The connection
between the threaded nozzle and tubing can cause the pressure regulation system located on
the apparatus to be forced open thereby allowing the gas from the tank to be input into the
chamber. In some embodiments, introduction of the gas from the tank can be performed
during a first phase of operation. As such, the gas from the tank can fill the apparatus with
gas until the apparatus reaches a configured first volume. In some embodiments, the tank can
have a regulator such that the apparatus is filled with gas at a regulated pressure.     The
connection can then be removed from the threaded nozzle, allowing the valve to function
normally. In some embodiments, since the gas can be at a higher pressure than atmospheric
air and can exceed a threshold value for the pressure regulation system, the gas can be
expelled or bled from the system until a configured pressure is achieved in the apparatus.
Once the configured pressure is achieved in the apparatus, the remaining phases of operation
can then be completed in a similar manner to those in the above-described embodiments.
                                                -52-

          [0185]     The foregoing description is that of an apparatus and method for mixing
and/or injecting gases having certain features, aspects, and advantages in accordance with the
present inventions.     Various changes and modifications also can be made to the above
described gas mixture apparatus and method without departing from the spirit and scope of
the inventions. Thus, for example, those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention
can be embodied or carried out in a manner that achieves or optimizes one advantage or
group of advantages as taught herein without necessarily achieving other objects or
advantages as can be taught or suggested herein. In addition, while a number of variations of
the invention have been shown and described in detail, other modifications and methods of
use, which are within the scope of this invention, will be readily apparent to those of skill in
the art based upon this disclosure.         It is contemplated that various combinations or
subcombinations of the specific features and aspects of the embodiments can be made and
still fall within the scope of the invention. Accordingly, it should be understood that various
features and aspects of the disclosed embodiments can be combined with or substituted for
one another in order to form varying modes of the disclosed gas mixture apparatus.
          [0186]     The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge
in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
          [0187]     Throughout this specification and claims which follow, unless the context
requires    otherwise, the word       "comprise",    and variations   such as    "comprises"    or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of
integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
                                                -53-

THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
         1. A hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly, including:
                 a syringe body with an outlet, the outlet including a nozzle and a valve
         disposed in the nozzle, the valve having a closed configuration and an open
         configuration;
                 a plunger slidably disposed in the syringe body and, with the syringe body,
         defining a first chamber within the syringe body, the first chamber fluidically
         connected to the outlet such that fluid can be drawn into the first chamber through the
         outlet and discharged from the first chamber through the outlet;
                 a filter having a first end connectable to the outlet of the syringe body and
         configured to maintain the valve in the open configuration when connected to the
         outlet of the syringe body.
         2. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of Claim 1, wherein the first end
of the filter includes a flange configured to engage a threaded interior section of the nozzle.
         3. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of Claim 1 or Claim 2, wherein
the filter includes a second end including a filter orifice and a lumen extending between the
first end and the second end, the filter configured to filter fluid flowing between the first end
and the second end.
         4. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of Claim 3, wherein the filter
further includes a filter element positioned between the first end and the second end.
         5. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of any one of the Claims 1 to 4,
wherein the valve includes a valve body, a piston, a seal, a valve biasing member, and an
internal protruding member.
         6. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of Claim 5, wherein at least a
portion of an inner surface of the filter tapers so as to correspond to a shape of the valve
body.
         7. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of any one of the Claims 1 to 6,
further including a filling mechanism configured to direct a first fluid into the first chamber
so as to move the plunger and expand the first chamber.
                                                -54-

        8. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of Claim 7, further including a
second chamber, the second chamber including an internal volume containing at least the first
fluid in a concentration different than that in atmospheric air and at a pressure greater than
that of surrounding atmospheric air.
        9. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of Claim 8, wherein the valve
includes a first valve, wherein the second chamber includes an opening at a first end and a
second valve located adjacent the first end, the second valve configured to seal the opening.
         10. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of Claim 9, wherein the second
valve includes a piston, a seal, and a biasing member, the second valve configured to seal the
opening at least prior to activation of the assembly.
         11. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of Claim 8, wherein the second
chamber includes a relief valve configured to release the first fluid from the second chamber
when the pressure within the second chamber exceeds a preconfigured value.
         12. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of any one of the Claims 1 to 11,
further including a release mechanism, wherein the release mechanism includes a pin.
         13. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of any one of the Claims 1 to 12,
further including an adjustable volume limiter configured to limit movement of plunger to a
plurality of user-selectable positions corresponding to a plurality of volumes of the first
chamber.
         14. The hand-held gas mixer and injector assembly of any one of the Claims 1 to 13,
wherein the plunger is slidably disposed within the syringe body and moveable along an axial
direction, the outlet including an outlet passage extending along the axial direction.
         15. A method for mixing gases, including:
                providing a syringe including:
                a syringe body with an outlet, the outlet including a nozzle and a valve
        disposed in the nozzle, the valve having a closed configuration and an open
        configuration; and
                a plunger slidably disposed in the syringe body and, with the syringe body,
        defining a first chamber within the syringe body; and
                                                -55-

                 connecting a first end of a filter to the nozzle and thereby transitioning the
         valve from the closed configuration to the open configuration.
         16. The method of Claim 15, wherein the valve includes a valve body, a piston, a seal,
a valve biasing member, and an internal protruding member and wherein connecting the first
end of the filter to the nozzle causes the piston to move in a rearward direction relative to the
valve body so as to disrupt a sealing contact between the valve piston and valve body.
         17. The method of Claim 15 or Claim 16, wherein connecting the first end of the filter
to the nozzle includes engaging a flange of the filter with a threaded interior section of the
nozzle.
         18. The method of any one of the Claims 15 to 17, further including adjusting a
volume selector to a first volume value on an adjustable volume limited syringe, the selected
first volume value corresponding to a first volume of a first chamber of the syringe.
         19. The method of Claim 18, further including:
                 releasing a first fluid into the first chamber of the syringe, the first fluid having
         a pressure higher than that of surrounding atmospheric air; and
                 expanding the first chamber to the first volume, wherein the expansion of the
         first chamber to the first volume occurs as a result of an increase in pressure in the
         first chamber due to filling of the first chamber with the first fluid.
         20. The method of Claim 19, wherein releasing the first fluid into the first chamber
includes releasing the first fluid from a second chamber disposed within at least one of the
syringe body and the plunger.
                                                  -56-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
