                                              45
ABSTRACT
The present invention provides for monitoring or managing electricity consumption in an
electric utility network, the electric utility network comprising electricity consumption
meters, each of which consumption meters generates metered usage output data, each
such metered usage output data being generated when the meter measures a
predetermined incremental quantity of energy consumption; comprising the steps of:
      receive and/or store the metered usage output data generated by the electricity
consumption meter with a bridge device which includes a system on chip and is in
communication with the electricity consumption meter;
      communicate the received and/or stored metered usage output data to a digital
computer networked electronic processing device that is autonomous with respect to the
electric utility network,
      utilising the digital computer networked electronic processing device to continuously
search for the presence of the bridge device; and,
      establishing operable communication between the digital computer networked
electronic processing device and the bridge device when the digital computer networked
electronic processing device is in proximity with the bridge device.
Figure 12

                         CCD
                                 r
                    CnC
                    (DD
                       0
                             0
                CCD
,n                           ClC
(D
                 C&
        (Dg
                E-;
   -9CD
        0e
           (
             DC
        0
        (D

                                                                                                       P1/001002
                                                                                                  Regulation 3.28
                                                AUSTRALIA
                                             Patents Act 1990
                                                  ORIGINAL
                              COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                         INNOVATION PATENT
Application No.
Lodged:
Innovation Title:Method      and     System        for    Power       Consumption        Monitoring         and
                Management
The following statement is a full description of this innovation, including the best method of performing it
known to the Applicant,

                                                1
      METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR POWER CONSUMPTION MONITORING AND
                                       MANAGEMENT
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[001]      This application claims priority to Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
<removed-apn> in the name of PowerPal Pty Ltd, which was filed on 29 January 2018, entitled
"Method and System for Power Consumption Monitoring and Management" and the
specification thereof is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.
FIELD OF INVENTION
[002]      The present invention relates to the field of utility consumption monitoring and
management.      In one form, the invention relates to power consumption monitoring and
management in a utility reticulation network which employs on site usage meters.
Throughout this specification (including the claims) the term "impulse meter" is used to
mean consumption meters for use in utility distribution networks, which such meters
generate electromagnetic output pulses, each such electromagnetic output pulse being
generated when the meter measures a predetermined incremental quantity of utility
consumption. Although certain embodiments of the present invention are described in the
context of use with impulse meters for monitoring and managing electricity consumption,
the invention is not limited to that use, only.
BACKGROUND ART
[003]      Throughout this specification the use of the word "inventor' in singular form may
be taken as reference to one (singular) inventor or more than one (plural) inventor of the
present invention.
[004]      It is to be appreciated that any discussion of documents, devices, acts or
knowledge in this specification is included to explain the context of the present invention.
Any discussion of material such as documents, devices, acts or knowledge in this
specification is included to explain the context of the invention in terms of the inventor's
knowledge and experience and, accordingly, any such discussion should not be taken as
an admission that any of the material forms part of the prior art base or the common
general knowledge in the relevant art in Australia, or elsewhere, on or before the priority
date of the disclosure and claims herein.

                                                  2
[005]       Worldwide studies have shown that when consumers have access to real time
visibility of their energy usage they are able to reduce their bills through increased
efficiency in the order of about 5% to about 15%.
[006]       However, it is often difficult for consumers to access this information, even when
it is available. For example, where "SMART" electricity meters have been installed access
to the usage information is heavily regulated, requiring consumers to go through a
complicated process of establishing authority to receive the data.
[007]       In some cases, ZigBee-based In-Home Displays (IHDs) can be connected to a
SMART meter, allowing the consumer to view their energy usage in real time. However,
these devices are options which must be purchased outright by the consumer and are
expensive, namely in the order of about $100+. Consequently, uptake of this technology
is low.
[008]       Existing "behind the meter' solutions which essentially install another SMART
meter behind the utility provided meter are available but are expensive, namely, in the
order of about $100+ and often need to be installed by a qualified electrician.
[009]       An example of prior art is disclosed in US patent No. 6,956,500 (Ducharme et
al), which, as described, is an attempt at addressing the long-felt need of consumers to
monitor their daily energy consumption. The disclosure of Ducharme relates to utility meter
reading systems, in particular, an optical sensor for reading meters that use a rotating
wheel configuration. Ducharme addresses problems with efforts to allow consumers to
monitor energy usage noted at column 1, line 34 to column 2, line 3, namely, devices that
require physical interference with a utility meter, which can be illegal and are costly and
laborious to install; devices can obstruct the reading of the rotating meter disk; some
reading devices require alignment to disk markers that lead to false readings; these
devices lack real-time readings; many devices require qualified technical skills for
installation, and/or power disruption during installation, and may malfunction during power
shortages. Ducharme also notes portable solutions have problems with the need for use
by professionals rather than residential use, and don't allow for display of power usage,
history usage and projected usage. The solution described in Ducharme comprises a
mounted sensor spaced apart from a utility meter, detecting the speed of the utility meter's
disk, remotely transmitting wirelessly the detected speed of the meter disk and, displaying
energy usage on a custom device display dedicated to mounted sensor that receives the

                                                3
wireless transmission of the disk speed. However, Ducharme is limited to a method and
apparatus including a rotatable arm mounted optical camera to use with rotating wheel
meters and requires a specific and custom design of an indoor display receiver/monitor for
connection to the optical sensor.           The system disclosed by Ducharme has the
disadvantage of two large and relatively elaborate custom designed physical components,
namely, the sensor apparatus and the custom indoor display. As would be evident to those
skilled in the art the cost of manufacture for such custom components is significant, taking
into account moulding costs of the enclosures, electronic components and batteries to
power them. In addition, the large size of these components means the operational cost
of handling, stocking and distributing the finished product is substantial and can add
significantly to the overall cost to consumers of purchasing the product. Furthermore the
functionality of the system as described by Ducharme is intrinsically limited to review of
the data available within the meter monitor. Although Ducharme discloses that the meter
monitor can be connected to a home PC, the system when so configured simply displays
similar information as would be available on the indoor display. This limits the functionality
that can be made available through the system. For example, it does not allow for large
scale sharing of energy data between households for comparison purposes, nor does it
allow for sharing of data with  3 rd parties. A related deficiency is that as the data is siloed
within meter monitor, the systems which can be used to analyse the collected data are
restricted to those available within the consumer's home. Such systems would not typically
be of industrial grade and may not be capable, for example, to run intensive data
processing tasks such as machine learning or artificial intelligence algortihms. This further
limits the features that can be offered by the system and consequently its overall utility.
[0010]      Another example of prior art is disclosed in international patent application
publication No. WO 2016/025990 in the name of Wattcost Pty Ltd. This method describes
a "beacon" device for collection and transmission of utility meter data to a server and then
to a mobile phone app. However, there are a number of priactical disadvantages to the
method disclosed by WattCost.         One key disadvantage of the method is the need to
communicate efficiently with a proximal device which in turn is connected to the sever,
which in the preferred embodiment of WattCost is disclosed as an internet connected WiFi
router. Furthermore, integral with the advance provided by the WattCost system is the
"communications module power management", whereby there is described various
compression and power optimisation algorithms designed to reduce power usage of the
beacon's communications and allow it to be battery powered for practical application.

                                                 4
However, even with the disclosed advanced power management strategies such an
approach can only reduce power usage down to around 3mA or preferably 1mA, as the
disclosed at paragraph [000132] of WattCost. In practicality this requires the beacon to
be powered by large batteries which must be changed relatively frequently.           In further
description on the WattCost system at the website www.wattcost.com it is states "The
Wattcost Beacon has been designed to operate for 6-12 months on regular C-size
batteries or optionally from a 5VDC micro-B USB plug adaptor. An alert is automatically
sent to your smartphone when it's time to replace the batteries." Use of C-size batteries
has obvious implications for the size and cost of the device, as well as the cost of shipping
the device to the consumer due to the significant weight of the batteries.        Furthermore
having to replace such batteries at 6-12 month intervals presents a significant cost and
inconvenience to the consumer in on-going management of the beacon over its lifetime.
A further deficiency of the WattCost product is that in order to monitor solar energy
exported from the household to the energy grid, CT clamps must be installed on the output
of the solar invertor, and this operation may be required to be undertaken by a qualified
electrician.   Indeed, in relation to installation of solar monitoring, the WattCost website
states "Click sensors onto the main electricity and solar inverter circuits*. *We recommend
a pro-install." This adds expense and inconvenience for the householder when installing
the system.
[0011]     Brazilian patent application publication No. BR P10900264 in the name of Hst
Equipamentos Eletrenicos Ltda et al is directed to meter reading by utility companies and
discoses a modular wireless optical converter for converting optical output signals from an
energy meter to digital signals for transmission via Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, ZigBee or FM
protocols and which is adapted for attachment to a meter via magnets with a retractable
switch for powering the device only when in physical attachment to the meter. No detailed
description is provided for any use of the converted optical meter read out data other than
the solution provided by BR P10900264 is directed at the specific problems for data
collection by utility companies from meter readings. Specifically data collection for utility
company workers was via cable connection to laptops that were subject to being stolen,
there is also a low cost benefit to using notebooks for data collection because of a large
equipment capability and infinite functions being used only for data collection, a need to
replace "palm tops" for site visits due to breakage of the cable connection, in that case
cable often has poor contact, loss of data during transmission and, finally infrared does
not work properly with the incidence of sunlight at the reading point.

                                                 5
[0012]      Chinese Utility Model publication No. CN 203825085U to State Grid of China
Corp et al discloses an intelligent electric energy meter system based on NFC (Near Field
Communications) and Bluetooth technologies. The system is directed at the identified
problems associated with pre-paid watt-hour meters that allow for pre-purchasing
electricity and then reusing the purchased electricity. Such pre-paid meters do not need
manual meter reading and avoid the difficulty in collecting electricity fees and can
automatically turn off the electricity after the electricity count reaches zero. The described
pre-paid power meter with a power-off device can also provide some auxiliary functions,
such as load control, over-current protection and, in recent years, in order to reduce the
workload of manual meter reading and implement early collection of electricity, a prepaid
electricity meter that uses an IC card as a payment medium has appeared. But there are
drawbacks described such as, there is a need to go to the business hall to recharge the
IC card in the function of prepayment, and they cannot support current mainstream
network payment methods, and cannot give the user a pre-refill prompt. In addition, the
pre-paid energy meter can only interact with the background power supply company.
Furthermore, the information volume subject to the current meter reading system rate limit
means the meter is not convenient for maintenance personnel to quickly and accurately
locate any problem. The solution provided comprises a method involving the user first
presenting with his own smart phone to the power company's business hall to register to
complete their own smart meters and NFC smart phone key registration and exchange;
secondly, users through the Internet or other third-party payment means recharge their
own NFC mobile wallet; thirdly the user will locate their own NFC smart phone near the
smart meter, cell phone and meter to establish a secure connection through NFC for
identity verification; authentication is completed, the meter through the wireless sensor
network and power supply company background establishes a connection to update the
recharge data to complete the recharge operation. After the recharge is completed, the
user gets back his smart phone, the meter displays a prompt message on the LCD, the
content of the message is the recharge amount, the account balance and the power
consumption of this month or relevant period; after the message is displayed for 30
seconds, the meter returns to the initial display state. The system disclosed also provides
a flow of acquiring information about a user's electricity usage or a meter's operation log
and fault information by firstly, the user locates their own smart phone close to the meter,
the meter and the smart phone exchange the identity of both parties, both sides of the
address and randomly generated Bluetooth PIN password, two devices automatically

                                               6
verify the establishment of Bluetooth secure connection. Secondly, if it is a user, the meter
starts the sending process through the Bluetooth socket connection, and transmits the
user's time sharing information and account information to the smart phone, and the smart
phone presents the result to the user through the corresponding APP for the user to check
the power supply company data of their account. Thirdly, if it is maintenance personnel,
the meter starts the sending process through the Bluetooth socket and transmits the
operation log and fault information of the meter to the maintenance personnel's smart
phone. The smart phone analyzes the data through the corresponding APP and locates
the fault.
[0013]       Mexican patent application publication No. MX 2014005596 in the name of
Instituto De Investigaciones Electricas also discloses a system for the prepayment of
electric power in electronic meters by means of a portable device with a mobile computer
platform.
[0014]       German    patent   application    publication   No.   DE    102013004384      to
Fachhochschule Dortmund discloses a system and device for secure detection and display
of counter information of electricity meters by means of smart-metering, which addresses
the issue of providing the electricity and tariff data generated in smart meters on the one
hand to the power company and on the other hand to the consumer in a suitable form and
clarity as soon as possible. An objective to be achieved in a known solution is to connect
the smart metering meter wired via a network connection to the Internet and to a
corresponding server of the power company and then provide the consumer also over the
Internet access to the transmitted consumption data available.           However, the data
technology integration of the smart metering counter into the Internet with regard to the
necessary cable connection and device technology is often complex and therefore
expensive. In addition, this way of transmitting the consumption and tariff data has the
disadvantage that the actual transmission of consumption data is usually quite different
than the ones that can be displayed to the consumer in this way by the necessary
transmission paths. There also arises the problem that the smart metering counter can be
reached by their permanent connection to the Internet from the Internet and therefore the
counter or the data can be manipulated or corrupted by third parties and, accordingly
fulfilling security measures is technically complex and therefore expensive. The solution
provided comprises a method for recording and displaying meter information of electricity
meters, in which a smart meter for recording energy consumption values and a data

                                              7
concentrator connected to the smart meter, in the form of a Multi Utility Communication
Controller, for storing billing-relevant consumption information the energy consumption is
used, characterized in that between the data concentrator and a display and evaluation
device of the consumer (which can be a smartphone), a protected local data transfer is
established, with the current energy consumption values promptly or continuously
transmitted from the data concentrator to the display and evaluation device of the
consumer. The protected local data transfer consists of connection of the consumer's
smartphone device to the Internet is completely switched off when the smartphone
connects to the smart energy network and vice versa, the connection of the smartphone
with the smart energy network is completely switched off when the smartphone connects
to the home network or the Internet.
[0015]     US patent application publication No. US 2007/0096765 in the name of Kagan
also discloses a secure technique for measuring and retrieving revenue metering data
from a power meter having wireless communication capabilities including Bluetooth. The
system includes at least one intelligent electronic device such as a meter, including a
transceiver configured for receiving calculated energy consumption data from a processor
and transmitting the calculated energy consumption data via a spread-spectrum frequency
hopping technique; and a data collection device configured for receiving the calculated
energy consumption data from the at least one intelligent electronic device in response to
supplying a pairing passkey to the intelligent electronic device, ie meter.
[0016]     German patent application publication No. DE 10<removed-apn> in the name of
Heinz Lackmann Gmbh & Co Kg discloses a method for controlling an electric
consumption counter and for data readout via an optical interface.            The described
problems    concern conventional systems for households with installed electricity
consumption counters that are based on a rotating roller counter, which merely sums total
consumption. For the consumer, it is thus not possible, within a certain period of time to
determine consumption of electrical energy costs incurred and the electricity supply
company must always determine a final reading of the consumption counter on site. The
solution provided comprises a method for controlling an electrical base meter which
comprises a data display for displaying measured data and a data release device with an
optical sensor, via which a control or release code in the form of light pulses is received; a
smartphone or a portable computer is used which has an optical transmitting device and
preferably also a camera. The method for controlling the base counter is carried out by

                                             8
positioning the smartphone with the optical transmitter within sight of the sensor of the
base counter, and sending a control and I or release code for the base counter
corresponding signal sequence via the optical transmitting device to the sensor of the base
counter.
[0017]      European patent publication No. EP 2631600 in the name of Electricite De
France discloses a system for the presentation to a customer of an electrical network of
data from its communicating electricity meter.       Problems with existing systems for
retrieving counter data are discussed.     In an example, the communicating counter is
connected to a concentrator located in a transformer station.      The information of the
concentrator is communicated, for example by GPRS, to an electricity grid monitoring
center which is able to supply consumption information to the customer of the electricity
network corresponding to the electricity meter.       However, such systems providing
consumption information to the customer via a large upstream counter infrastructure
involve a high cost both for their implementation and for their daily management. In
addition, the information that can be provided by such systems to the customer is limited.
These systems involve a delay in the information, which must pass through the distribution
network of the energy supplier before reaching the customer, who receives them only
periodically. The solution provided is a system for presenting data from a communicating
electrical meter producing energy consumption data, the system comprising a mobile
terminal, such as a mobile phone, and an intermediate device of dedicated custom design
comprising means for physically connecting (in the form of a USB connection) the
communicating electric meter and arranged in a housing. A first communication interface
of the intermediate device is configured so that it automatically retrieves energy
consumption data provided by the communicating electric meter via the physical USB
connection. The intermediate device includes time stamping of said data and means for
storing said timestamped data along with a second communication interface capable of
implementing wireless local communication with the mobile phone terminal, a processor
configured for the intermediate device is also included to transmit all or part of the time
stamped data to the mobile phone terminal via the second communication interface of the
intermediate device on request of the mobile terminal.        The intermediate device is
electrically powered via the physical connection means to the communicating electric
meter.

                                                9
[0018]     Some systems are dedicated to the utility companies for remotely or otherwise
monitoring energy meters for billing and consumer usage. One example of this is in UK
patent application publication No. GB 2399707 in the name of Zarlink Semiconductor
Limited.   Another example is disclosed in UK patent application publication No. GB
2482326. A further example is disclosed in US patent No. 6,208,266 to Lyons et al.
[0019]     UK patent application publication No. GB 2452072 discloses a system for
monitoring energy use for home management and includes standard utility meters having
a FLAG port for optical transmission of data or having a magnetic pulse output, dongles
mounted mechanically or magnetically to the meter, the dongles including electronics for
receiving data from the meters and transmitting data to a monitoring WiFi equipped radio
phone or WiFi enabled PC. The dongles have processing capability for managing the data
and communication, memory for data storage.
[0020]     Australian granted patent No. AU 2002245954 B2 in the name of Gladwin et al
discloses a dedicated residential monitor for energy usage display. The electricity usage
rate monitor comprises a transducer mounted next to the electricity meter box or fuse box
such that current transducers engage the conductors after they have passed through
revenue meters.      The current transducers sense the rate of electrical energy being
supplied through each of the lines to provide respective output signals to an electronic
sampling, converting and summing circuit which adds the signals to produce an output
signal that corresponds to the root mean sqaure (RMS) total rate of electrical current being
supplied to the premises. The signal is sent to a consumer interface via a transmission
link 16. The transmission link may be a wireless transmitter and receiver or alternatively
an electrical conductor. The transmission link may also be a modulated signal which is
transmitted via a live conductor circuit into the premises to the receiver which is connected
to a power outlet point. The consumer interface is a portable display unit, which can be
positioned wherever it would be conveniently and frequently viewed in the premises.
Multiple interfaces may be positioned around the premises so that more occupants will
view the consumption rates more regularly.         The interface receives the RMS value of
electrical current signal from the receiver and inputs it to an RMS voltage multiplier,
programmable computer chip circuit which converts the signal into an electrical power
consumption rate.

                                             10
[0021]     Another system for sensing       power consumption using custom circuitry
dedicated to current sensing is disclosed in US patent application publication No. US
2001/0074382 to Patel.
[0022]     Korean patent application publication No. KR 101680226 in the name of Pyungil
Co Ltd et al discloses a system for managing an electronic watt-hour meter using a
smartphone. The system disclosed is specifically for managing an electronic watt-hour
meter having an RJ_1 1 connector and a DLMS/COSEM protocol using a smartphone. The
system comprises: an electronic watt-hour meter measuring wattage and performing self
diagnosis; and a smartphone communicating with the electronic watt-hour meter by a
RS458-USB       communication     module   or   by   a   wireless  communication      module
communicating in one of Wi-Fi, LTE, Bluetooth, ZigBee, RF RS485-wireless converting
communication manners. The electronic watt-hour meter includes a voltage detecting unit,
a current detecting unit, a watt-hour calculating unit, a failure detecting unit, a watt-hour
measuring and self diagnosis control unit, a display unit, and a communication unit. The
smartphone has an application installed thereon to measure wattage of the electronic watt
hour meter and perform self diagnosis of the electronic watt-hour meter. Thus, a user can
simply measure wattage of a consumer and can perform self diagnosis of the electronic
watt-hour meter, using the smartphone. It appears the system including the customised
communications modules is for utility company users for measuring consumer energy
usage.
[0023]     US patent application publication No. US 2003/0004660 to Hunter discloses an
electro-optical, automatic meter reader for enabling a consumer to view and manage
power consumption through a browser. A sensor attached to a bracket is mounted to the
outside cover of a utility meter without modification of the meter or removal of its housing.
A data-collector stores data obtained from the sensor via a serial port which may also
provide power for the sensor, thus avoiding use of a dedicated power supply. The data
collector connects to a computer which provides a centralized object through which to view
and manage power consumption. The real-time and combined historic data can be used
to forecast whether usage will fall above or below a predetermined usage level at the end
of a given period of time. In response to a forecast exceeding the level, the computer
displays the appropriate graph in a red colored bar within a quantity vs. time chart. The
computer may control power consuming devices.            A communication system may be

                                               11
established to the system for remote management by the consumer or by the utility
company for its own billing and management purposes
[0024]      US patent application publication No. US 2011/0093221 to Dhanjal discloses a
system to monitor energy use including a computer-implemented method that comprises
receiving energy consumption data from a gateway, wherein the gateway receives the
energy consumption data from an electricity meter.        The energy consumption data is
stored, and an energy consumption graph is calculated by using the energy consumption
data. The energy consumption graph is transmitted to an end device, such as a mobile
phone, and the energy consumption graph is displayed on the end device. The system
includes sensor hardware and software that enable users to view their live energy
consumption on the web or on mobile or other display devices.
[0025]      US patent application publication No. 2015/0012147 to Haghighat-Kashani et al
discloses a system for use in creating a profile of, managing and understanding power
consumption in a premise of a user, wherein said premise comprises two or more power
consuming devices comprises measuring, via at least one sensor, aggregate energy
consumption at the premise, receiving at a mobile computing device comprising a data
processor, said aggregated signal from the sensor, collecting and recording the aggregate
signal over a plurality of time resolutions and frequencies, therein to create a predicted
aggregate signal for each time x and frequency y, detecting changes in the predicted
aggregate signal at time x an frequency y (detected consumption pattern changes) and
conveying to at least one of the user, a utility company, and other third party a notification
of detected consumption pattern changes.
[0026]     Australian patent application publication No. AU-A 2015240426 in the name of
Kortek Industries Pty Ltd discloses a system for dynamically measuring at least one power
metric in a local power circuit and providing the measured power metric to a personal
controller such as smartphone. The system requires use of a primary shadow meter with
a power measurement module configured to measure a local power circuit and a plurality
of ancillary shadow meters that each have a power measurement module configured to
measure a single power circuit. The primary shadow meter and ancillary shadow meters
may be connected over a wired network and/or wireless network. Shadow meters include
a physical interface designed to use the mains power wiring in a structure to exchange
data with a meter reader and/or any other shadow meters. The shadow meters and/or

                                                12
meter reader preferably communicate by way of power line communications and include
the necessary capabilities for impressing a modulated carrier signal onto the mains power
wiring.
[0027]      US patent No. 7,385,524 to Orlosky provides an automatic commodity or
services billing and metering system that does not physically interfere with existing meters
or gauges, and has incorporated into the system programmable reading ability to allow
reading and accumulation of data by unit, hourly, daily, weekly, monthly or any other form
of counting required by the customer. The meters are read by various means including by
counting and or sensing radiation increases and decreases of radiation emitting from a
meter hand or gauge passing a sensor to generate a count. The read data is then sent
via the Internet through the telephone line, by satellite, or by cellular phone connection to
an offsite central billing and payment processing center where the rate payer and the utility
or customer will have various forms of programmable access to its consumption data.
International patent application publication No. W0<removed-apn> to Danfoss AS discloses
a method for transferring information between an utility meter and an electronic consumer
communication device via an electronic data transfer device of the utility meter.
Furthermore, the invention relates to an app adapted to provide such a method when
running on the electronic consumer communication device. Additionally, this invention
relates to the electronic consumer communication device adapted to transfer information
between the utility meter and the electronic consumer communication device via the
electronic data transfer device of the utility meter, the electronic consumer communication
device comprising and being adapted to run the app. In the system as described the utility
company service person has restricted access to the consumer communication device for
installation and associated administrative and maintenance actions.
[0028]      It would be desirable to provide a useful alternative to many of the above noted
prior art systems and/or provide the home consumer a more straightforward means to alter
their energy consumption behaviour.
[0029]      The preceding discussion of background art is intended to facilitate an
understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an acknowledgement
or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of the common general
knowledge as at the priority date of the application.

                                                13
SUMMARY OF INVENTION
[0030]      An object of the present invention is to provide a relatively low-cost method and
apparatus to enable consumers to monitor electricity usage.
[0031]      A further object of the present invention is to enable consumers to monitor
electricity usage without the need to resort to a "behind the meter solution.
[0032]      Yet a further object of the invention described herein is to overcome or alleviate
at least one of the above noted drawbacks of related art systems or to at least provide a
useful alternative to related or prior art systems.
[0033]      In a first aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided apparatus
for monitoring or managing electricity consumption in an electric utility network, the electric
utility network comprising electricity consumption meters, each of which consumption
meters generates metered usage output data, each such metered usage output data being
generated when the meter measures a predetermined incremental quantity of energy
consumption;      the apparatus for monitoring       or managing      electricity consumption
comprising: a bridge device in communication with an electricity consumption meter of the
electric utility network and which includes a system on chip adapted by a predetermined
instruction set to; receive and/or store the metered usage output data generated by the
electricity consumption meter and, communicate the received and/or stored metered
usage output data to a digital computer networked electronic processing device that is
autonomous with respect to the electric utility network.
[0034]      The bridge device may be further adapted to be in operable communication with
the digital computer networked electronic processing device when the digital computer
networked electronic processing device is in proximity with the bridge device.
[0035]      The digital computer networked electronic processing device may comprise one
or a combination of:
            a communication link;
            a home automation hub;
            a component of a home automation hub; and

                                              14
            a mobile device.
[0036]      Preferably, the mobile device comprises a mobile phone.
[0037]      The bridge device may comprise one or a combination of:
            in conjunction with the system on chip adapted by a predetermined instruction
set, a software defined radio stack which enables the system on chip to generate radio
transmissions;
            a power amplifier for amplifying transmissions of the system on chip which
comprise the received and/or stored metered usage output data;
            an antenna for communicating the transmissions of the system on chip and/or
receiving communication       signals from the digital computer         networked electronic
processing device.
[0038]      In another aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided a system
for monitoring or managing electricity consumption in an electric utility network, the electric
utility network comprising electricity consumption meters, each of which consumption
meters generates metered usage output data, each such metered usage output data being
generated when the meter measures a predetermined incremental quantity of energy
consumption; the system for monitoring or managing electricity consumption comprising:
            a bridge device in communication with an electricity consumption meter of the
electric utility network and which includes a system on chip adapted by a predetermined
instruction set to receive and/or store the metered usage output data generated by the
electricity consumption meter and communicate the received and/or stored metered usage
output data to a digital computer networked electronic processing device that is
autonomous with respect to the electric utility network;
            an engagement platform for receiving the metered usage output data from the
digital computer networked electronic processing device and analysing said data to
provide and return results of the analysis to the digital computer networked electronic
processing device comprising at least one behavioural nudge message for a consumer of
the metered electricity;

                                               15
            a receving app resident on the digital computer networked electronic processing
device for receiving the received and/or stored metered usage output data from the bridge
device and forwarding same to the engagement platform;
            a user interface for managing interactions between the consumer of the metered
electricity and the engagement platform.
[0039]      The receving app and the user interface are preferably combined in the form of
a smartphone app.
[0040]      The bridge device may be in communication with an electricity consumption
meter by one of:
            a detector for detecting the output pulses from the electricity consumption meter
operably connected to the system on chip;
            a ZigBee radio link.
[0041]      The bridge device may be adapted to communicate the received and/or stored
metered usage output data to a digital computer networked electronic processing device
by one of:
            a Bluetooth protocol;
            a ZigBee protocol;
            a near-field commuincations protocol.
[0042]      In yet a further aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided a
method for monitoring or managing electricity consumption in an electric utility network,
the electric utility network comprising electricity consumption meters, each of which
consumption meters generates metered usage output data, each such metered usage
output data being generated when the meter measures a predetermined incremental
quantity of energy consumption; the method comprising the steps of:
            receive and/or store the metered usage output data generated by the electricity
consumption meter and,

                                               16
            communicate the received and/or stored metered usage output data to a digital
computer networked electronic processing device that is autonomous with respect to the
electric utility network.
[0043]      The step of receive and/or store the metered usage output data is preferably
performed by a bridge device in communication with an electricity consumption meter of
the electric utility network and which includes a system on chip.
[0044]      The method may further comprise the steps of:
            analysing the received and/or stored metered usage output data for insights into
behaviour of a consumer of the metered electricity; and,
            sending at least one behavioural nudge message for the consumer to the digital
computer networked electronic processing device.
[0045]      The method may further comprise the steps of:
            utilising the digital computer networked electronic processing device to
continuously search for the presence of the bridge device; and,
            establishing operable communication between the digital computer networked
electronic processing device and the bridge device when the digital computer networked
electronic processing device is in proximity with the bridge device.
[0046]      In yet another aspect of embodiments described, there is provided apparatus
for monitoring or managing electricity consumption in an electricity reticulation network:
            the electricity reticulation network comprising electricity consumption meters,
each of which consumption meters generates usage output data, each such usage output
data being generated when the meter measures a predetermined incremental quantity of
energy consumption; and
            the apparatus for monitoring or managing electricity consumption comprising a
bridge device which comprises:
            a detector to detect the output from an electricity consumption meter; and

                                               17
           a transmitter to transmit data about energy consumption for receipt of that data
by another device, which is autonomous with respect to the electricity reticulation network.
[0047]     The transmitter may be adapted for wireless transmission of the data and, in
which the usage output data comprises pulses of light.
[0048]     The detector may be coupled to the bridge device by an electrical connection or
by an optical connection.
[0049]     In still another aspect of embodiments described there is provided apparatus for
monitoring or managing utility consumption in a utility reticulation network, that apparatus
comprising a bridge device which comprises:
           a detector to detect the output from a meter which generates usage output data;
and
           a transmitter to transmit data about energy consumption for receipt of that data
by another device which is autonomous with respect to the utility reticulation network.
[0050]     In essence, the present invention stems from the realization that utilising an
energy monitoring bridge based on an ultra-low power multiprotocol wireless SoC in
combination with a digital computer networked electronic processing device that is
autonomous with respect to the utility (such as a home automation hub, a component of a
home automation network or, networked mobile telecommunications device) to manage
gathering energy usage data rather than the energy data collection device of a utility
energy meter, "behind the meter" device or internet connected beacon will significantly
reduce the cost and/or complexity of providing energy usage data to the consumer for their
use in managing consumption.
[0051]     Advantages provided by the present invention comprise the following:
*      Extended battery life of up to 10 years on two AA batteries which has the advantage
       of reducing the overheads for the consumer in maintaining/regularly replacing the
       battery in the bridge device.
*      Significantly reduced bill of materials cost for the bridge device, allowing delivery of
       the solution to market at a lower price point and therefore encouraging greater
       adoption.

                                                18
*       Small size and light weight, which facilitates reduced overheads related to shipping
        and    handling   costs   for  the   bridge   device,  improving    profitability when
        commercialising the solution.
*       Data sharing, which may have a number of advantages, for example by allowing a
        potential supplier of energy efficiency equipment to perform a cost benefit analysis
        for the householder on the likely impact of installing their product.
[0052]      Further scope of applicability of embodiments of the present invention will
become apparent from the detailed description given hereinafter. However, it should be
understood that the detailed description and specific examples, while indicating preferred
embodiments of the invention, are given by way of illustration only, since various changes
and modifications within the spirit and scope of the disclosure herein will become apparent
to those skilled in the art from this detailed description.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0053]      Further disclosure, objects, advantages and aspects of preferred and other
embodiments of the present invention may be better understood by those skilled in the
relevant art by reference to the following description of embodiments taken in conjunction
with the accompanying drawings, which are given by way of illustration only, and thus are
not limitative of the disclosure herein, and in which:
      Figure 1 illustrates apparatus according to one embodiment of the present invention;
      Figures 2 to 6 illustrate aspects of the operation of embodiments of the present
      invention;
      Figure 7 is a flow chart illustrating a functional operation of the invention according
      to a preferred embodiment;
      Figure 8 is an external view of a bridge device according to a preferred embodiment
      of the invention;
      Figure 9 is an internal schematic of the bridge device of figure 9;
      Figure 10 is a schematic view of a sensor device in accordance with a preferred
      embodiment of the invention;
      Figure 11 is a high-level schematic diagram of the bridge device of figure 9;
      Figure 12 illustrates a data architecture of a system in accordance with a preferred
      embodiment of the invention;

                                                19
      Figure 13 is a flow chart illustrating the operation of a preferred embodiment of the
      invention;
      Figure 14 shows screen shots of a mobile device display in accordance with a
      preferred embodiment of the invention;
      Figure 15 shows configuration screens displayed on a mobile device in accordance
      with a preferred embodiment of the invention;
      Figure 16 is a further flow chart illustrating the operation of a preferred embodiment
      of the invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0054]       A preferred embodiment of the present invention provides a low cost, ultra-low
power System on Chip Bluetooth Low Energy system for use as a single chip solution to
capture energy data from utility electricity meters of an electric utility network, relay that
information to a consumer's smart phone or smart home hub over a Bluetooth Low Energy
link and forward that information over the internet to cloud servers for analysis. This allows
the majority of the complexity of gathering the energy data (such as management of the
internet link) to be managed by the pre-existing consumer device or system such as smart
phone or smart home hub rather than by the energy data collection apparatus itself,
significantly reducing the complexity and associated cost to manufacture an aftermarket
solution for providing energy usage data to a consumer as compared to prior and/or related
art systems.
[0055]       The presently-described embodiments of the invention may incorporate four
aspects of implementation, as follows:
    " A user-installed bridge device which collects energy usage data from the utility
        meter, stores that data on the device and forwards it to a communications link
        (which is preferably a Bluetooth link).
    " A receiving app which receives the data sent by the bridge device, optionally
        displays that data to the user in graphical and numeric format and which forwards
        it to an internet API.
    " A cloud-based engagement platform which receives the data from the internet API,
        and which provides one or more of the following functionality: storing the data in a
        database, analysis of the data for insights, and sending "nudges" back to a

                                                20
       smartphone or the like app with actions a user can take to improve either their
       personal energy efficiency or the efficiency of the energy utility grid as a whole.
    *  A user interface which displays the usage data to the consumer in graphical and
       numerical format as well as any "nudges" generated by the engagement platform.
       According to a preferred form of the invention, this user interface, and the receiving
       app described above, may be combined in the same component.
Bridge Device
[0056]     As is illustrated in figure 1, in one aspect, embodiments of the present invention
comprise a bridge device 1 which operates in conjunction with the utility-supplied smart
meter 6. The bridge device 1 connects by a connection 4, which is a wire or cable in the
example of Figure 1, to an impulse sensor 2 which in turn is mounted on the meter 6 in a
position where it can optically monitor the impulse output (which is obscured in figure 1) of
the meter 6.    In preferred embodiments, the cable 4 of figure 1 may be replaced by a
ZigBee radio link and, as such, the bridge device 1 may not need to be physically attached
to the meter. Typically, the impulse output of the meter is provided by either a red or infra
red LED and the impulse sensor 2 is a photo transistor, a photo diode or a photo resistor,
but any form of sensor which is suitable for the impulse output of the smart meter 6 can
be employed.      The bridge device 1 is based around a low-cost Bluetooth Low Energy
System on Chip device (such as the Nordic Semiconductor NRF52). A GPIO (General
Purpose 1/O) pin on the device is connected to an impulse sensor which monitors the
impulse output on the utility meter. With reference to Figure 11, which shows a simplified
schematic view of the bridge device, a phototransistor is connected via a screened cable
to a digital GPIO input on the SoC. To ensure optimal power usage GPIO ports which
support interrupt driven tasks and events sensing should be used, allowing the SoC to be
kept in a power saving state when no interval data is being transmitted. Depending on the
SoC employed an external timing crystal may be required for coordinating the logic
functions of the SoC and tracking wall time. The RF output of the SoC is connected to the
power amplifier, along with relevant signalling lines as required to synchronise the power
amplifier with the RF transmissions from the SoC. Finally, the power amplifier is connected
to the antenna to broadcast the Bluetooth and/or ZigBee transmissions.
[0057]     The BLE SoC (System on a Chip) contains a memory (typically implemented as
a ring buffer in RAM or FLASH), a timer and a BLE radio link which may be implemented

                                               21
via a software defined radio stack. Instantaneous energy usage is calculated by timing
the period between impulse outputs from the meter and multiplying this by the appropriate
impulse factor for the meter. The impulse factor is typically set by the manufacturer and
usually printed on the front of the meter - for example typical values may be 1000 or 3600
impulses per kWh of energy used. In addition, the BLE SoC counts the number of impulses
in a given measurement period, typically 1 minute, and stores this to its internal memory.
This allows for cumulative energy usage to be monitored in addition to instantaneous
energy usage, at a granularity (interval period) aligned with the measurement period.
[0058]     Simultaneously to storing instantaneous and cumulative energy usage in
internal memory the BLE SoC also publishes these readings via the BLE radio link to any
listening BLE peripheral - typically a smartphone 31 or "smart home" hub 32 (as is
described in detail below with reference to figures 2 to 6). Should no receiving peripheral
be connected at the time of the measurement the value will be transferred to the peripheral
when it next connects. This accounts for the scenario when a user may move out of range
of the meter with their smartphone, which could be expected to happen frequently as they
arrive and depart from their home while going about their usual business.
[0059]     According to alternative embodiments of the invention in which a ZigBee radio
interface is available on the meter 6, as indicted in Figure 8, the bridge device 1 emulates
the functions of an "In Home Display Device" as per the ZigBee Smart Energy Profile
Specification. Using this interface, measurements and information (such as net energy
usage, solar export to the grid, and energy tariff information) are retrieved from the meter
and are then made available via a BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) link using the same method
as is described above for impulse data.         Where such information is available via the
meter's ZigBee radio interface it is preferably used to complement or, in some cases,
replace the information gathered from the impulse output.
[0060]     Due to the long term accuracy of the BLE SoC's real-time counter (default
tolerance of plus/minus 2%), clock drift can be an issue, causing the time as perceived by
the device to drift from actual wall clock time. This could be resolved by adding an external
RTC chip that counts time but this would add cost to the solution implementation.
Alternatively, to provide a solution for this deficiency without adding cost, whenever a
peripheral device connects to the BLE SoC it may provide the current wall clock time,
allowing any drift to be corrected.

                                                 22
[0061]     The range of the Bluetooth link is of importance to the operation of the Bluetooth
enabled bridge device 1. Typically, utility meters may be located in a metal utility cabinet
at one corner of the building they monitor. This presents a challenge both in terms of
penetration of the BLE signal through the meter cabinet and reach to all areas of the
building where measurements may need to be received.              It is accordingly preferable to
attach a high gain antenna to the outside of the meter box (via a magnetic mount or similar)
which is connected to the BLE SoC inside the meter box via a coaxial cable. Alternatively,
the BLE SoC is housed in a weatherproof enclosure outside of the meter cabinet with a fly
lead from the GPIO pin connecting to the impulse sensor inside the meter cabinet as
depicted in Figure 8.
[0062]     As the bridge device 1 is typically optically coupled to the meter it can be safely
user installed. However, it will need to be powered by a battery source. An advantage of
using an ultra-low power BLE SoC combined with a Power Amplifier is very low average
power usage of around 60uA, allowing an approximate 10-year battery life on a two
standard AA batteries with a typical capacity of 5000mAh. The use of small batteries also
makes the system compact and lightweight, therefore low cost to ship to the consumer.
Receiving App
[0063]     As is illustrated in figures 2 to 6, a receiving app is installed on a BLE peripheral
device, such as a smartphone 31 or "smart home" hub 32. Current examples of smart
home hubs are products distributed under Google HomeTM, Amazon AlexaTM and Apple
Homepod    TM. The app is responsible for receiving measurements from the bridge device
1 and forwarding these measurement to a cloud based engagement platform via an
internet API. This may require the receiving app to translate data formats between the
measurement received via the BLE protocol and the same measurement sent to the
internet API, for example, a representational state transfer (REST) format.
[0064]     In addition, to correct any clock drift, each time that the receiving app connects
to the bridge device 1 it provides the current wall clock time.           The receiving app will
determine the correct wall time from an external source, typically via the host peripheral's
operating system which is in turn synchronised with an internet source such as the Network
Time Protocol (NTP). Optionally the receiving app may also provide the functionality of
the user interface as is set out below.

                                               23
Cloud Based Engagement Platform
[0065]       The cloud       based  engagement platform 34     is responsible for receiving
measurements sent by the receiving app to the internet API and storing these
measurements in a database 36. The platform 34 must be highly scalable and resilient to
cope with large volumes of received measurements based on wide scale deployment of
the bridge device 1.         As such, hosting on a modern cloud hosting environment is
appropriate, such as Amazon Web Services.
[0066]       Once the measurements have been stored in the database 36 analysis of those
measurements, both individually and collectively, is performed by the engagement
platform 34 to identify trends within the usage data. A preferred form of analysis uses
artificially intelligent algorithms which are developed using a modern machine learning
platform. Suitable platforms include Amazon Machine Learning. There is significant prior
art in the space of energy data analytics which is outside of the scope of this description.
The output of this analysis is a behavioural "nudge" 37 which is transmitted to the
smartphone 31 or other device, directing the consumer to take some specific action.
[0067]       Preferred types of analysis which can be performed are:
                 identification of high energy users in real time during demand response
                 events;
                 gamification of energy saving; and
                 disaggregation of high load appliances for the targeted application of energy
                 efficiency upgrades.
[0068]       Examples of behavioural nudges are illustrated in figures 4, 5 and 6. As is
illustrated in figure 4, one preferred form of behavioural nudge is a visible message which
advises about a high regional demand for electrical power and which asks the consumer
to reduce power usage. As is illustrated in figure 5, another preferred form of behavioural
nudge is a visible message which advises of a high temperature weather forecast and
which suggests a strategy for reducing energy usage. As is illustrated in figure 6, another
preferred form of behavioural nudge is a visible message which advises that a particular
appliance is energy-inefficient and which suggests a strategy for a subsided replacement
with a more energy-efficient appliance.
User interface

                                                 24
[0069]      The user interface is responsible for managing interactions between the user
and the cloud-based engagement platform 34. The user interface is preferably in the form
of a smartphone app. Other preferred forms of user interface comprise a web interface,
or a voice driven interface. As is illustrated in figure 3, the user interface allows users to
review their instantaneous energy usage in real time, as well as historic usage. Preferred
forms of display of energy usage include graphical, numerical and audible format, or a
combination of formats. As is described above with reference to figures 4 to 6, the user
interface also presents any behavioural nudges generated by the engagement platform.
A preferred form of delivering these nudges is by an "in app push" with an inbox
implemented within the app to receive and display the nudges.
[0070]      It is preferred that the user interface also provides controls for the system, such
as allowing the user to configure the impulse factor applicable to their meter and cost per
kWh for energy on their current tariff. By way of explanation, the impulse factor relates to
the number of times an indicating LED on a meter flashes for each kWh of energy
consumed. For example, some meters flash 800 times for each kWh of usage (so each
flash represents 1.25Wh of usage) while others flash 3600 times (so each flash represents
0.28Wh of usage). Accordingly, the app must know the impulse factor in order to be able
to accurately calculate the amount of energy being consumed between each recorded LED
impulse. Whilst reference is made here to 'controls for the system', it is also contemplated
that the user can, from their smart device, modify the operation of the bridge device 1.
Alternatively, the appropriate scaling factor may be applied at the level of the cloud-based
engagement platform 33.            According to preferred embodiments of the invention
configuration information (such as the tariff information) is captured automatically such as
by using the smartphone's camera 31 to capture the data by scanning a recent utility bill
and performing optical character recognition.
[0071]     According to yet further preferred forms of the invention, either the engagement
platform or the user interface integrate with other smart home devices for direct control.
For example, some embodiments of the invention provide for the control of appliances,
such as by adjusting a consumer's air conditioning unit to reduce usage during peak times.
[0072]      Figure 7 is a flow chart showing a typical implementation and working of an
exemplary system 800 for monitoring or managing electricity consumption in an electricity
reticulation network of the invention in accordance with a preferred embodiment. At step

                                                 25
801 of the flow chart, a search for the bridge device is conducted by use of a standard
Bluetooth advertising for discovery.         Briefly, the bridge device sends radio packets
advertising its name (e.g. PowerPal) and its Bluetooth service to all listening Bluetooth
central devices, such as a Smartphone in the role of a central device. When the app
receives an advertising packet with the correct name it requests a connection to the
corresponding Bluetooth address. Establishing the connection may also involve pairing
the device, whereby cryptographic keys are exchanged. This again may also be part of
the Bluetooth standard       A continuous search is conducted for the bridge device, which
may be implemented by the operating system of the phone. In essence, the app makes a
call to the operating system that instructs "wake the app when you see a device within
range that is advertising the bridge device service" and then exits. The operating system
will then wake the app when it discovers a matching device. Once the bridge device is
located from step 802, at step 803 a request for connection to the bridge device is sent.
At step 804 the bridge device is confirmed connected and then at step 806 the current wall
time is sent to the bridge device. This can be determined as necessary or alternatively the
current wall time may be sent regardless of whether the bridge device has drifted or not.
At step 807 a request is made for an available data period and at step 808 the device
enters a low power state to wait for notifications.
[0073]     The wait performed at step 808 will be interrupted when a notification is
received. If a data period notification is received at step 809 the operation progresses to
step 811 where a check is performed of the data period against the cloud data store. The
data store is timestamped. The check is performed by retrieving the newest entry in the
data store and comparing this against the available data period. If newer data is available
than that already in the data store it is then requested and forwarded to bring the data
store up to date. At 812 it is determined whether new data is available. If so, at step 813
a request for the new data is performed. If, at 812, it is determined that there is no new
data available, the program reverts to step 808 where another wait is performed.
[0074]     If a data period is not received at step 809 then at step 814, it is determined
whether an impulse notification is received. If so, the impulse width is converted to energy
usage in the manner outlined above at step 816 and at step 817 the converted energy
usage data is sent to the cloud.      If there is no impulse notification at step 814 then an
interval notification is determined at step 818. If an interval notification is available, at step
819 the impulse count received is converted to energy usage in kWh in the manner

                                              26
outlined above and, at step 821 the converted energy usage data is sent to the cloud. If
no interval notification is received/available then at step 822 it is determined whether or
not a disconnection notification is issued. If so, the program reverts to the connection
request for the bridge device at step 803. If there is no disconnection notification, the
program reverts to step 808 for a further wait notification.
[0075]     With reference to Figure 8, the bridge device may take the form of a waterproof
enclosure housing the electronics. In some cases, the meter may be enclosed in a metal
meter box. In such cases to ensure good radio signal propagation the bridge device is
mounted outside of the meter box. One envisaged method of attachment is via a magnetic
base, or affixing to the wall next to the meter. Where available the bridge device may
connect to the meter via a ZigBee radio link by emulating the functions of an "In Home
Display Device" as per the ZigBee Smart Energy Profile Specification. Where no ZigBee
connection is available to connect to the meter wirelessly an optional impulse sensor may
be required. Typically, in accordance with the above described embodiments, the impulse
output from the meter may take the form of a flashing red or infrared LED, in which case
the impulse sensor may comprise a low-cost phototransistor, matched to trigger at red and
infrared wavelengths, connected to the meter via a length of screened and insulated cable.
The length of this cable needs to be sufficient such that the cable can loop below the meter
box to avoid the risk of rain water dripping down the cable and penetrating the meter box.
Typically, 1.5m to 2m would be sufficient. The impulse reader is then attached to the
bridge device either permanently or via a detachable waterproof electrical contact. It is
then generally attached over the impulse output of the meter directly, for example by using
an adhesive pad such as       3MTM  CommandTM adhesive strips. In some cases, a small
adapter may be required in order to ensure adequate adhesion, which may take the form
of a plastic component moulded to the shape of the meter's impulse output port.
[0076]     With reference to Figure 9, the bridge device comprises a printed circuit board
enclosed in a waterproof housing.       The housing may take the form of a rectangular
moulded plastic enclosure of dimensions approx. 7cm x 7cm x 2cm, optionally with a
waterproof hatch to provide access for the householder to replace the batteries.        The
enclosure may optionally also include a magnetic base for ease of attachment to a metal
meter box, typically provided by the addition of self-adhesive magnetic tape or sheeting to
the bottom of the enclosure or the inclusion of "rare earth" neodymium disc magnets which
may be moulded inside the bottom edge of the housing.           In some embodiments, this

                                              27
magnetic base may be detachable. Alternative fixing methods may also be used, for
example self-adhesive tape.
[0077]      The printed circuit board holds a System on Chip (SoC) which supports the
Bluetooth Low Energy and ZigBee protocols via a software defined radio stack or "soft
device", for example the Nordic Semiconductor nRF52840.           The SoC connects to the
batteries, a power amplifier and optionally the impulse sensor. In some configurations, an
external clock for the SoC may also be required.
[0078]      Due to the long range required for the bridge device and the typically noisy radio
environment of a household meter box selection of an appropriate power amplifier is of
importance to ensure an appropriate radio range is delivered while not exhausting the
battery life too quickly. Suitable power amplifiers may include the Skyworks SKY66112
which provides up to +21db of TX gain and will provide approximately 100m of range in a
typical household deployment with more than ten years of battery life when powered by
two AA batteries.
[0079]      The power amplifier is connected to an antenna within the enclosure. Typically,
this may be facilitated via either a PCB trace antenna (for example an inverted F or
meandered inverted F design) or a ceramic chip antenna. Care should be taken to ensure
suitable impedance matching of the antenna based on the circuit design and additional
matching components may be required to achieve this.
[0080]      The batteries are matched to the required voltage of the SoC (3V in the case of
the nRF52840) and may take coin cell, AA, AAA or other forms.             Typically, they are
attached to the PCB via a battery holder suitable for the battery type used although some
embodiments may solder the batteries to the PCB directly.
[0081]      With reference to Figure 10 an example embodiment of an optical impulse
sensor is shown comprising a photodiode embedded in a plastic housing. The photodiode
may be integrated into the moulded part or glued in place. The end of the sensor housing
provides sufficient area to allow an adhesive pad to be attached, which allows for the
sensor to be attached over the optical LED output on the meter.              Other preferred
embodiments may use a mated plastic receiver in place of or in addition to the adhesive
pad to assist with accurate alignment of the sensor over the LED output. Alternative fixings

                                               28
may also be required depending on the physical properties of the meter to which the
sensor is attached.
[0082]     While     this invention  has   been    described    in   connection with specific
embodiments thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further modification(s). This
application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention
following in general, the principles of the invention and including such departures from the
present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to which the
invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth.
[0083]     As the present invention may be embodied in several forms without departing
from the spirit of the essential characteristics of the invention, it should be understood that
the above described embodiments are not to limit the present invention unless otherwise
specified, but rather should be construed broadly within the spirit and scope of the
invention as defined in the appended claims.          The described embodiments are to be
considered in all respects as illustrative only and not restrictive.
[0084]     Various modifications and equivalent arrangements are intended to be included
within the spirit and scope of the invention and appended claims. Therefore, the specific
embodiments are to be understood to be illustrative of the many ways in which the
principles of the present invention may be practiced. In the following claims, any means
plus-function clauses are intended to cover structures as performing the defined function
and not only structural equivalents, but also equivalent structures. For example, although
a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical
surface to secure wooden parts together, whereas a screw employs a helical surface to
secure wooden parts together, in the environment of fastening wooden parts, a nail and a
screw are equivalent structures.
The following sections I - VII provide a guide to interpreting the present specification.
1. Terms
[0085]     The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and/or composition of
matter, unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0086]     The term "process" means any process, algorithm, method or the like, unless
expressly specified otherwise.

                                              29
[0087]     Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently
includes one or more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a process
have an inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term 'process' or a like
term. Accordingly, any reference in a claim to a 'step' or 'steps' of a process has sufficient
antecedent basis.
[0088]     The term "invention" and the like mean "the one or more inventions disclosed in
this specification", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0089]     The terms "an embodiment", "embodiment", "embodiments", "the embodiment",
"the embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some embodiments", "certain
embodiments", "one embodiment", "another embodiment" and the like mean "one or more
(but not all) embodiments of the disclosed invention(s)", unless expressly specified
otherwise.
[0090]     The term "variation" of an invention means an embodiment of the invention,
unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0091]     A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does not
imply that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment
(e.g., an embodiment described before the referenced embodiment), unless expressly
specified otherwise.
[0092]     The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean "including but
not limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0093]     The terms "a", "an" and "the" mean "one or more", unless expressly specified
otherwise.
[0094]     The term "plurality" means "two or more", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0095]     The term "herein" means "in the present specification, including anything which
may be incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
[0096]     The phrase "at least one of", when such phrase modifies a plurality of things
(such as an enumerated list of things), means any combination of one or more of those
things, unless expressly specified otherwise. For example, the phrase "at least one of a
widget, a car and a wheel" means either (i) a widget, (ii) a car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget

                                               30
and a car, (v) a widget and a wheel, (vi) a car and a wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a
wheel. The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things, does
not mean "one of each of the plurality of things.
[0097]      Numerical terms such as "one", "two", etc. when used as cardinal numbers to
indicate quantity of something (e.g., one widget, two widgets), mean the quantity indicated
by that numerical term, but do not mean at least the quantity indicated by that numerical
term. For example, the phrase "one widget" does not mean "at least one widget", and
therefore the phrase "one widget" does not cover, e.g., two widgets.
[0098]      The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly
specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" describes both "based only on"
and "based at least on". The phrase "based at least on" is equivalent to the phrase "based
at least in part on".
[0099]      The term "represent" and like terms are not exclusive, unless expressly specified
otherwise. For example, the term "represents" do not mean "represents only", unless
expressly specified otherwise. In otherwords, the phrase "the data represents a credit card
number' describes both "the data represents only a credit card number" and "the data
represents a credit card number and the data also represents something else".
[00100]     The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of words
that express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something that is
previously and explicitly recited. Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in a claim, the
clause or other words that the term "whereby" modifies do not establish specific further
limitations of the claim or otherwise restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.
[00101]     The term "e.g." and like terms mean "for example", and thus does not limit the
term or phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (e.g.,
instructions, a data structure) over the Internet", the term "e.g." explains that "instructions"
are an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet, and also explains
that "a data structure" is an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet.
However, both "instructions" and "a data structure" are merely examples of "data", and
other things besides "instructions" and "a data structure" can be "data".
[00102]     The term "i.e." and like terms mean "that is", and thus limits the term or phrase
it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (i.e., instructions) over

                                                31
the Internet", the term "i.e." explains that "instructions" are the "data" that the computer
sends over the Internet.
[00103]      Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers within
the range. For example, the range "1 to 10" shall be interpreted to specifically include
whole numbers between 1 and 10 (e.g., 2, 3, 4...        9) and non-whole numbers (e.g., 1.1,
1.2 ,... 1.9).
II. Determining
[00104]      The term "determining" and grammatical variants thereof (e.g., to determine a
price, determining a value, determine an object which meets a certain criterion) is used in
an extremely broad sense. The term "determining" encompasses a wide variety of actions
and therefore "determining" can include calculating, computing, processing, deriving,
investigating, looking up (e.g., looking up in a table, a database or another data structure),
ascertaining and the like. Also, "determining" can include receiving (e.g., receiving
information), accessing (e.g., accessing data in a memory) and the like. Also, "determining"
can include resolving, selecting, choosing, establishing, and the like.
[00105]      The term "determining" does not imply certainty or absolute precision, and
therefore "determining" can include estimating, extrapolating, predicting, guessing and the
like.
[00106]      The term "determining" does not imply that mathematical processing must be
performed, and does not imply that numerical methods must be used, and does not imply
that an algorithm or process is used.
[00107]      The term "determining" does not imply that any particular device must be used.
For example, a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.
Ill. Indication
[00108]      The term "indication" is used in an extremely broad sense. The term "indication"
may, among other things, encompass a sign, symptom, or token of something else.
[00109]      The term "indication" may be used to refer to any indicia and/or other information
indicative of or associated with a subject, item, entity, and/or other object and/or idea.

                                                32
[00110]     As used herein, the phrases "information indicative of' and "indicia" may be used
to refer to any information that represents, describes, and/or is otherwise associated with
a related entity, subject, or object.
[00111]     Indicia of information may include, for example, a symbol, a code, a reference,
a link, a signal, an identifier, and/or any combination thereof and/or any other informative
representation associated with the information.
[00112]     In some embodiments, indicia of information (or indicative of the information)
may be or include the information itself and/or any portion or component of the information.
In some embodiments, an indication may include a request, a solicitation, a broadcast,
and/or any other form of information gathering and/or dissemination.
IV. Forms of Sentences
[00113]     Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more
than one of a feature (e.g., a limitation such as "at least one widget" covers one widget as
well as more than one widget), and where in a second claim that depends on the first claim,
the second claim uses a definite article "the" to refer to the limitation (e.g., "the widget"),
this does not imply that the first claim covers only one of the feature, and this does not
imply that the second claim covers only one of the feature (e.g., "the widget" can cover
both one widget and more than one widget).
[00114]     When an ordinal number (such as "first", "second", "third" and so on) is used as
an adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly specified
otherwise) merely to indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish that particular
feature from another feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For
example, a "first widget" may be so named merely to distinguish it from, e.g., a "second
widget". Thus, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term
"widget" does not indicate any other relationship between the two widgets, and likewise
does not indicate any other characteristics of either or both widgets. For example, the mere
usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" (1) does not
indicate that either widget comes before or after any other in order or location; (2) does
not indicate that either widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time; and (3) does
not indicate that either widget ranks above or below any other, as in importance or quality.
In addition, the mere usage of ordinal numbers does not define a numerical limit to the

                                                33
features identified with the ordinal numbers. For example, the mere usage of the ordinal
numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not indicate that there must be
no more than two widgets.
[00115]     When a single device or article is described herein, more than one device/article
(whether or not they cooperate) may alternatively be used in place of the single
device/article that is described. Accordingly, the functionality that is described as being
possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one device/article
(whether or not they cooperate).
[00116]     Similarly, where more than one device or article is described herein (whether or
not they cooperate), a single device/article may alternatively be used in place of the more
than one device or article that is described. For example, a plurality of computer-based
devices may be substituted with a single computer-based device. Accordingly, the various
functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one device or article may
alternatively be possessed by a single device/article.
[00117]     The functionality and/or the features of a single device that is described may be
alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described but are not
explicitly described as having such functionality/features. Thus, other embodiments need
not include the described device itself, but rather can include the one or more other devices
which would, in those other embodiments, have such functionality/features.
V. Disclosed Examples and Terminology Are Not Limiting
[00118]     Neither the Title nor the Abstract in this specification is intended to be taken as
limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention(s). The title and headings of
sections provided in the specification are for convenience only, and are not to be taken as
limiting the disclosure in any way.
[00119]     Numerous embodiments are described in the present application, and are
presented for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and are not
intended to be, limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention(s) are widely
applicable to numerous embodiments, as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of
ordinary skill in the art will recognise that the disclosed invention(s) may be practised with
various modifications and alterations, such as structural, logical, software, and electrical
modifications. Although particular features of the disclosed invention(s) may be described

                                              34
with reference to one or more particular embodiments and/or drawings, it should be
understood that such features are not limited to usage in the one or more particular
embodiments or drawings with reference to which they are described, unless expressly
specified otherwise.
[00120]     The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the
invention(s). Also, the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the invention(s)
which must be present in all embodiments.
[00121]     Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be in
continuous communication with each other, unless expressly specified otherwise. On the
contrary, such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable, and
may actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example, a machine in
communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other
machine for long period of time (e.g. weeks at a time). In addition, devices that are in
communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or
more intermediaries.
[00122]     A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not
imply that all or even any of such components/features are required. On the contrary, a
variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible
embodiments of the present invention(s). Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no
component/feature is essential or required.
[00123]     Although process steps, operations, algorithms or the like may be described in
a particular sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in different orders.
In other words, any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described does not
necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of
processes described herein may be performed in any order practical. Further, some steps
may be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non
simultaneously (e.g., because one step is described after the other step). Moreover, the
illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated
process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto, does not imply that the
illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention(s), and does not imply
that the illustrated process is preferred.

                                                35
[00124]    Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that does
not imply that all or any of the steps are preferred, essential or required. Various other
embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include other processes that
omit some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no step is
essential or required.
[00125]    Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other
products or methods, in an embodiment the process may interact with other products or
methods. For example, such interaction may include linking one business model to another
business model. Such interaction may be provided to enhance the flexibility or desirability
of the process.
[00126]    Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components,
aspects, qualities, characteristics and/or features, that does not indicate that any or all of
the plurality are preferred, essential or required. Various other embodiments within the
scope of the described invention(s) include other products that omit some or all of the
described plurality.
[00127]    An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified otherwise.
Likewise, an enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category, unless expressly specified
otherwise. For example, the enumerated list "a computer, a laptop, a PDA" does not imply
that any or all of the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that
any or all of the three items of that list are comprehensive of any category.
[00128]    An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
that any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted for each other.
[00129]    All embodiments are illustrative, and do not imply that the invention or any
embodiments were made or performed, as the case may be.
VI. Computing
[00130]    It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various
processes described herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately programmed
general purpose computers, special purpose computers and computing                      devices.

                                            36
TypicallyTypically, a processor (e.g., one or more microprocessors, one or more micro
controllers, one or more digital signal processors) will receive instructions (e.g., from a
memory or like device), and execute those instructions, thereby performing one or more
processes defined by those instructions.
[00131]    A "processor" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units
(CPUs), computing devices, micro-controllers, digital signal processors, or like devices or
any combination thereof.
[00132]    ThusThus, a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus
for performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include, e.g., a
processor and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to perform the
process.
[00133]    Further, programs that implement such methods (as well as other types of data)
may be stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer readable media)
in a number of manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired circuitry or custom hardware
may be used in place of, or in combination with, some or all of the software instructions
that can implement the processes of various embodiments. Thus, various combinations of
hardware and software may be used instead of software only.
[00134]    The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any medium, a plurality of the
same, or a combination of different media, that participate in providing data (e.g.,
instructions, data structures) which may be read by a computer, a processor or a like
device. Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile
media, volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example,
optical or magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic
random-access     memory    (DRAM),    which   typically constitutes the main      memory.
Transmission media include coaxial cables, copper wire and fibre optics, including the
wires that comprise a system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may
include or convey acoustic waves, light waves and electromagnetic emissions, such as
those generated during radio frequency (RF) and infra-red (IR) data communications.
Common forms of computer-readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible
disk, hard disk, magnetic tape, any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD, any other
optical medium, punch cards, paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of
holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM, a FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory chip or

                                               37
cartridge, a carrier wave as described hereinafter, or any other medium from which a
computer can read.
[00135]     Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data
(e.g. sequences of instructions) to a processor. For example, data may be (i) delivered
from RAM to a processor; (ii) carried over a wireless transmission medium; (iii) formatted
and/or transmitted according to numerous formats, standards or protocols, such as
Ethernet (or IEEE 802.3), SAP, ATP, Bluetooth T M , and TCP/IP, TDMA, CDMA, and 3G;
and/or (iv) encrypted to ensure privacy or prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well
known in the art.
[00136]     Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer-readable
medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer-readable medium
can store (in any appropriate format) those program elements which are appropriate to
perform the method.
[00137]     Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all
the described         steps are    required,  embodiments     of an    apparatus   include a
computer/computing device operable to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the
described process.
[00138]     Likewise, just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate
that all the described steps are required, embodiments of a computer-readable medium
storing a program or data structure include a computer-readable medium storing a
program that, when executed, can cause a processor to perform some (but not necessarily
all) of the described process.
[00139]     Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in
the art that (i) alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed,
and (ii) other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any
illustrations or descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative
arrangements        for stored   representations   of information.   Any   number    of other
arrangements may be employed besides those suggested by, e.g., tables illustrated in
drawings or elsewhere. Similarly, any illustrated entries of the databases represent
exemplary information only; one of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the number
and content of the entries can be different from those described herein. Further, despite

                                              38
any depiction of the databases as tables, other formats (including relational databases,
object-based models and/or distributed databases) could be used to store and manipulate
the data types described herein. Likewise, object methods or behaviours of a database
can be used to implement various processes, such as the described herein. In addition,
the databases may, in a known manner, be stored locally or remotely from a device which
accesses data in such a database.
[00140]     Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment
including a computer that is in communication (e.g., via a communications network) with
one or more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or
indirectly, via any wired or wireless medium (e.g. the Internet, LAN, WAN or Ethernet,
Token Ring, a telephone line, a cable line, a radio channel, an optical communications
line,  commercial      on-line service   providers,   bulletin board   systems,    a satellite
communications link, a combination of any of the above). Each of the devices may
themselves comprise computers or other computing devices that are adapted to
communicate with the computer. Any number and type of devices may be in
communication with the computer.
[00141]     In an embodiment, a server computer or centralised authority may not be
necessary or desirable. For example, the present invention may, in an embodiment, be
practised on one or more devices without a central authority. In such an embodiment, any
functions described herein as performed by the server computer or data described as
stored on the server computer may instead be performed by or stored on one or more such
devices.
[00142]     Where a process is described, in an embodiment the process may operate
without any user intervention. In another embodiment, the process includes some human
intervention (e.g., a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human).
[00143]     It should be noted that where the terms "server', "secure server" or similar terms
are used herein, a communication device is described that may be used in a
communication system, unless the context otherwise requires, and should not be
construed to limit the present invention to any particular communication device type. Thus,
a communication device may include, without limitation, a bridge, router, bridge-router
(router), switch, node, or other communication device, which may or may not be secure.

                                                39
[00144]     It should also be noted that where a flowchart is used herein to demonstrate
various aspects of the invention, it should not be construed to limit the present invention
to any particular logic flow or logic implementation. The described logic may be partitioned
into different logic blocks (e.g., programs, modules, functions, or subroutines) without
changing the overall results or otherwise departing from the true scope of the invention.
Often, logic elements may be added, modified, omitted, performed in a different order, or
implemented using different logic constructs (e.g., logic gates, looping primitives,
conditional logic, and other logic constructs) without changing the overall results or
otherwise departing from the true scope of the invention.
[00145]     Various embodiments of the invention may be embodied in many different
forms, including computer program logic for use with a processor (e.g., a microprocessor,
microcontroller, digital signal processor, or general purpose computer and for that matter,
any commercial processor may be used to implement the embodiments of the invention
either as a single processor, serial or parallel set of processors in the system and, as such,
examples of commercial processors include, but are not limited to Merced T M , Penti um       TM
                                                                                                 ,
Pentium    ITM,  Xeon TM, Celeron  TM
                                      , Pentium  ProTM, Efficeon TM , Athlon TM , AMD TM and the
like), programmable logic for use with a programmable logic device (e.g., a Field
Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) or other PLD), discrete components, integrated
circuitry (e.g., an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC)), or any other means
including any combination thereof. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention,
predominantly all of the communication between users and the server is implemented as
a set of computer program instructions that is converted into a computer executable form,
stored as such in a computer readable medium, and executed by a microprocessor under
the control of an operating system.
[00146]     Computer program logic implementing all or part of the functionality where
described herein may be embodied in various forms, including a source code form, a
computer executable form, and various intermediate forms (e.g., forms generated by an
assembler, compiler, linker, or locator). Source code may include a series of computer
program instructions implemented in any of various programming languages (e.g., an
object code, an assembly language, or a high-level language such as Fortran, C, C++,
JAVA, or HTML. Moreover, there are hundreds of available computer languages that may
be used to implement embodiments of the invention, among the more common being Ada;
Algol; APL; awk; Basic; C; C++; Conol; Delphi; Eiffel; Euphoria; Forth; Fortran; HTML;

                                            40
Icon; Java; Javascript; Lisp; Logo; Mathematica; MatLab; Miranda; Modula-2; Oberon;
Pascal; Perl; PL/I; Prolog; Python; Rexx; SAS; Scheme; sed; Simula; Smalltalk; Snobol;
SQL; Visual Basic; Visual C++; Linux and XML.) for use with various operating systems or
operating environments. The source code may define and use various data structures and
communication messages. The source code may be in a computer executable form (e.g.,
via an interpreter), or the source code may be converted (e.g., via a translator, assembler,
or compiler) into a computer executable form.
[00147]    The computer program may be fixed in any form (e.g., source code form,
computer executable form, or an intermediate form) either permanently or transitorily in a
tangible storage medium, such as a semiconductor memory device (e.g, a RAM, ROM,
PROM, EEPROM, or Flash-Programmable RAM), a magnetic memory device (e.g., a
diskette or fixed disk), an optical memory device (e.g., a CD-ROM or DVD-ROM), a PC
card (e.g., PCMCIA card), or other memory device. The computer program may be fixed
in any form in a signal that is transmittable to a computer using any of various
communication technologies, including, but in no way limited to, analog technologies,
digital technologies, optical technologies, wireless technologies (e.g.,          Bluetooth),
networking technologies, and inter-networking technologies. The computer program may
be distributed in any form as a removable storage medium with accompanying printed or
electronic documentation (e.g., shrink wrapped software), preloaded with a computer
system (e.g., on system ROM or fixed disk), or distributed from a server or electronic
bulletin board over the communication system (e.g., the Internet or World Wide Web).
[00148]    Hardware logic (including programmable logic for use with a programmable logic
device) implementing all or part of the functionality where described herein may be
designed using traditional manual methods, or may be designed, captured, simulated, or
documented electronically using various tools, such as Computer Aided Design (CAD), a
hardware description language (e.g., VHDL or AHDL), or a PLD programming language
(e.g., PALASM, ABEL, or CUPL). Hardware logic may also be incorporated into display
screens for implementing embodiments of the invention and which may be segmented
display screens, analogue display screens, digital display screens, CRTs, LED screens,
Plasma screens, liquid crystal diode screen, and the like.
[00149]    Programmable logic may be fixed either permanently or transitorily in a tangible
storage medium, such as a semiconductor memory device (e.g., a RAM, ROM, PROM,

                                               41
EEPROM, or Flash-Programmable RAM), a magnetic memory device (e.g., a diskette or
fixed disk), an optical memory device (e.g., a CD-ROM or DVD-ROM), or other memory
device.    The programmable logic may be fixed in a signal that is transmittable to a
computer using any of various communication technologies, including, but in no way
limited to, analog technologies, digital technologies, optical technologies, wireless
technologies (e.g., Bluetooth), networking technologies, and internetworking technologies.
The programmable logic may be distributed as a removable storage medium with
accompanying printed or electronic documentation (e.g., shrink wrapped software),
preloaded with a computer system (e.g., on system ROM or fixed disk), or distributed from
a server or electronic bulletin board over the communication system (e.g., the Internet or
World Wide Web).
[00150]     "Comprises/comprising" and "includes/including" when used in this specification
is taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or components but does
not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps,
components or groups thereof.         Thus, unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
throughout the description and the claims, the words 'comprise', 'comprising', 'includes',
'including' and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive
or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of "including, but not limited to".

                                                42
CLAIMS:
1.          Apparatus for monitoring or managing electricity consumption in an electric
utility network, the electric utility network comprising electricity consumption meters, each
of which consumption meters generates metered usage output data, each such metered
usage output data being generated when the meter measures a predetermined
incremental quantity of energy consumption; the apparatus for monitoring or managing
electricity consumption comprising:
       a bridge device in communication with an electricity consumption meter of the
electric utility network and which includes a system on chip adapted by a predetermined
instruction set to;
       receive and/or store the metered usage output data generated by the electricity
consumption meter and,
       communicate the received and/or stored metered usage output data to a digital
computer networked electronic processing device that is autonomous with respect to the
electric utility network
       wherein the bridge device comprises:
       a software defined radio stack;
       an antenna for communicating the transmissions of the system on chip and/or
receiving communication signals from the digital computer networked electronic
processing device, and
       the bridge device is further adapted to be in operable communication with the digital
computer networked electronic processing device when the digital computer networked
electronic processing device is in proximity with the bridge device.
2.          Apparatus as claimed in claim 1 wherein the digital computer networked
electronic processing device comprises one or a combination of:
       a communication link;
       a home automation hub;
       a component of a home automation hub; and

                                                43
       a mobile device.
3.          A system for monitoring or managing electricity consumption in an electric
utility network, the electric utility network comprising electricity consumption meters, each
of which consumption meters generates metered usage output data, each such metered
usage output data being generated when the meter measures a predetermined
incremental quantity of energy consumption; the system for monitoring or managing
electricity consumption comprising:
       a bridge device in communication with an electricity consumption meter of the
electric utility network and which includes a system on chip adapted by a predetermined
instruction set to receive and/or store the metered usage output data generated by the
electricity consumption meter and communicate the received and/or stored metered
usage output data to a digital computer networked electronic processing device that is
autonomous with respect to the electric utility network;
       an engagement platform for receiving the metered usage output data from the
digital computer networked electronic processing device and analysing said data to
provide and return results of the analysis to the digital computer networked electronic
processing device comprising at least one behavioural nudge message for a consumer
of the metered electricity;
       a receving app resident on the digital computer networked electronic processing
device for receiving the received and/or stored metered usage output data from the
bridge device and forwarding same to the engagement platform;
       a user interface for managing interactions between the consumer of the metered
electricity and the engagement platform, and
       wherein the bridge device is adapted to communicate the received and/or stored
metered usage output data to a digital computer networked electronic processing device
in accordance with a Bluetooth protocol.
4.          A method for monitoring or managing electricity consumption in an electric
utility network, the electric utility network comprising electricity consumption meters, each
of which consumption meters generates metered usage output data, each such metered

                                              44
usage output data being generated when the meter measures a predetermined
incremental quantity of energy consumption; the method comprising the steps of:
      receive and/or store the metered usage output data generated by the electricity
consumption meter with a bridge device which includes a system on chip and is in
communication with the electricity consumption meter;
      communicate the received and/or stored metered usage output data to a digital
computer networked electronic processing device that is autonomous with respect to the
electric utility network,
      utilising the digital computer networked electronic processing device to continuously
search for the presence of the bridge device; and,
      establishing operable communication between the digital computer networked
electronic processing device and the bridge device when the digital computer networked
electronic processing device is in proximity with the bridge device.
5.           The method as claimed in claim 4 wherein the digital computer networked
electronic processing device comprises one or a combination of:
      a communication link;
      a home automation hub;
      a component of a home automation hub; and
      a mobile device.

           <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
&sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03ED>
                        <U+03EE>
                        <U+03F0>
                        <U+03F2>                 1/16
                    <U+03ED>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                                                                <U+03EF><U+03ED>
                   <U+03EF><U+03F0>                    W<U+01C1>G<U+018C>WAu
                                    YOAOGwGYlWuAlI<U+018C>w
                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                         w<U+01C7>GYG<U+018C>O<U+01C7>dsuu
                                                                                                           uUsYO<U+034D>
            ZGAulswGGYG<U+018C>O<U+01C7>             YAu<U+01C7>ls<U+0190>
            <U+01B5><U+0190>AOGEAlAI<U+018C>w
3/16        W<U+01C1>G<U+018C>WAud<U+018C>sEOG
                                                          ZGAudswGYG<U+018C>O<U+01C7>
                                                                h<U+0190>AOG
                                                            GSA|s<U+01B5><U+018C>Au
                           <U+03EF><U+03F2>                                                  
                                         ^l<U+018C>AOG
                                                                                     &sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03EF>
       <removed-date>              <removed-apn>

                      <U+03EF><U+03F0>                       W<U+01C1>G<U+018C>WAu
                                          YOAOGwGYlWuAlI<U+018C>w                                                                  <U+03EF><U+03ED>
                                                                                                    tZE/E'<U+0357>uAU<U+01B5>l<U+018C>s<U+0190>U
                                                                                                       <U+01B5>GlG<U+01C6>GlsYAu
                                                                                                     EGwAYElSGGuGl<U+018C>ssl<U+01C7>
                                                                                                       O<U+018C>sEsY<U+01C7><U+01B5><U+018C>A<U+018C>GAs<U+0190>
                                                                                                      <U+01B5><U+018C><U+018C>GYlu<U+01C7>|G<U+018C>uAEGE
            ^GOwGYlAlsYI                    YAu<U+01C7>ls<U+0190>
           <U+018C>GlAsuGYG<U+018C>O<U+01C7><U+01B5><U+0190>G<U+018C><U+0190>                                                                       WuGA<U+0190>G<U+018C>GE<U+01B5>GAuuYY<U+0372>
4/16
                                                                                                     G<U+0190><U+0190>GYlsAuGYG<U+018C>O<U+01C7><U+01B5><U+0190>AOG
           dA<U+0190>GEY<U+018C>GAulswG
                                                                                                    I<U+018C>lSGYG<U+01C6>l<U+03EF><U+03EC>wsY<U+01B5>lG<U+0190><U+0358>
                  <U+01B5><U+0190>AOG
                                                                GSA|s<U+01B5><U+018C>Au
                                 <U+03EF><U+03F2>                                                
                                               ^l<U+018C>AOG
                                                                                         &sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03F0>
       <removed-date>                    <removed-apn>

                      <U+03EF><U+03F0>                       W<U+01C1>G<U+018C>WAu
                                          YOAOGwGYlWuAlI<U+018C>w                                                                                                                                                               <U+03EF><U+03ED>
                                                                                                        SsuutslS<U+01B5>llSGsuu<U+034A>
                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                      A<U+0190><U+018C>SG<U+018C>lw<U+018C><U+018C><U+01C1>
                                                                                                      <U+01C1>slSlGwG<U+018C>Al<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+0190>sY
                                                                                                    ^<U+01C7>EYG<U+01C7><U+0190>Gll<U+018C>GAS<U+03F0><U+03EC><U+0358>
            ^GOwGYlAlsYI                    YAu<U+01C7>ls<U+0190>                                            tS<U+01C7>YllAUGlSGIAwsu<U+01C7>
           <U+018C>GlAsuGYG<U+018C>O<U+01C7><U+01B5><U+0190>G<U+018C><U+0190>                                                                       <U+01B5>llEsYYG<U+018C>AYESsuu
5/16
            dA<U+0190>GEYSs<U+0190>l<U+018C>s                                                                       <U+01B5>lsYlSGs<U+01C7>uEAs<U+018C>Y
             <U+01B5><U+0190>AOGAllG<U+018C>Y<U+0190>                                                                          AllSGGu<U+018C><U+0190>G SlGu<U+034D>
                                                                                                        Y<U+01B5>lG|<U+01B5>SG<U+018C>EG
                                                                                                                                                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                            YG<U+018C>O<U+01C7><U+01C1>suu<U+01B5>l<U+03A8><U+03EE><U+03EC>
                                                                                                             l<U+01C1>A<U+018C>E<U+0190><U+01C7><U+01B5><U+018C>dsuu<U+0358>
                                                                GSA|s<U+01B5><U+018C>Au
                                 <U+03EF><U+03F2>                                                
                                               ^l<U+018C>AOG
                                                                                         &sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03F1>
       <removed-date>                    <removed-apn>

                      <U+03EF><U+03F0>                       W<U+01C1>G<U+018C>WAu
                                          YOAOGwGYlWuAlI<U+018C>w                                                                   <U+03EF><U+03ED>
                                                                                                        hO<U+018C>AEGKIIG<U+018C>
                                                                                                    W<U+01C1>G<U+018C>WAuSA<U+0190>sEGYlsIsGE
                                                                                                    lSAl<U+01C7><U+01B5><U+018C>u<U+01B5>ws<U+0190>
                                                                                                     <U+0190>lsYO<U+03A8><U+03EF><U+03EC><U+03EC>G<U+018C><U+01C7>GA<U+018C>
                                                                                                      w<U+018C>Gl<U+018C><U+01B5>YlSAYsl
                                                                                                            <U+0190>S<U+01B5>uE<U+0358>
            ^GOwGYlAlsYI                    YAu<U+01C7>ls<U+0190>
           <U+018C>GlAsuGYG<U+018C>O<U+01C7><U+01B5><U+0190>G<U+018C><U+0190>                                                                       sE<U+01C7><U+01B5>UY<U+01C1>lSGE^t
6/16
            dA<U+0190>GEYSs<U+0190>l<U+018C>s                                                                       O|G<U+018C>YwGYl<U+01C1>suu<U+018C>|sEG
             <U+01B5><U+0190>AOGAllG<U+018C>Y<U+0190>                                                                          IsYAYsAuA<U+0190><U+0190>s<U+0190>lAYGl
                                                                                                     <U+018C>GuAGsl<U+01C1>slSAw<U+018C>G
                                                                                                    GYG<U+018C>O<U+01C7>GIIssGYlwEGu<U+034D>
                                                                                                     usUSG<U+018C>GlIsYE<U+01B5>l
                                                                                                           w<U+018C>G<U+0380>usYU<U+0381>
                                                                GSA|s<U+01B5><U+018C>Au
                                 <U+03EF><U+03F2>                                                
                                               ^l<U+018C>AOG
                                                                                         &sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03F2>
       <removed-date>                    <removed-apn>

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
&sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03F3>
                                      7/16

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<U+018C>sEOGG|sG /YlG<U+018C>s<U+018C>ssG<U+01C1>
              
                                         Wd<U+018C>AGYlGYYA
                                                               tAlG<U+018C><U+018C>I,<U+01B5><U+0190>sYO
       u<U+01B5>GllS<U+036C>sOdGG ^
                                                             W<U+01C1>G<U+018C>wusIsG<U+018C>
9/16
         W<U+018C>sYlGEs<U+018C><U+01B5>slA<U+018C>E
             /w<U+01B5>u<U+0190>G^GY<U+0190><U+018C>
                                                                 DAOYGlsdA<U+0190>G
                                           AllG<U+018C>sG<U+0190>
                                            &sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03F5>
       <removed-date>          <removed-apn>

/w<U+01B5>u<U+0190>G^GY<U+0190><U+018C> <U+01C6>lG<U+018C>s<U+018C>ssG<U+01C1>
              
                                               ^GuIESG<U+0190>s|GWAE
                    ^<U+018C>GGYGEAduG
 10/16
                                     ,<U+01B5><U+0190>sYO                       WSlEsEG
                                                  &sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03ED><U+03EC>
         <removed-date>     <removed-apn>

<U+018C>sEOGG|sG ^SGwAlsssG<U+01C1>
                
                                              dswsYO<U+018C><U+01C7><U+0190>lAu
                    'W/K/Y<U+01B5>l                                                     YlGYYA
                                                                              W
11/16                                   ^
        WSll<U+018C>AY<U+0190>sl<U+018C>                                         Z&AYE<U+0190>sOYAuusYO
                                                         &sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03ED><U+03ED>
         <removed-date>             <removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
&sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03ED><U+03EF>
                                        13/16
                                 AlA&u<U+01C1><U+0190>

 s<U+0190>uA<U+01C7>
  ZGAulswGGYG<U+018C>O<U+01C7><U+01B5><U+0190>AOG                                ZGAulswG<U+0190>l
<U+01B5>w<U+01B5>uAls|GEAsu<U+01C7>GYG<U+018C>O<U+01C7><U+01B5><U+0190>G                             <U+01B5>w<U+01B5>uAls|GEAsu<U+01C7><U+0190>l
                                                          dswGIEA<U+01C7>SGAlwA
   14/16
             <U+01B5>EOGll<U+018C>AUsYO
                                                          ^l<U+018C>GYOlSIu<U+01B5>GllSusYU
                                            &sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03ED><U+03F0>
           <removed-date>         <removed-apn>

        YIsO<U+01B5><U+018C>AlsY
           dA<U+018C><U+018C>sII /YI<U+018C>wAlsY                            W<U+018C>sGG<U+018C>UtS
                                                          dswGIdA<U+018C><U+018C>sII
15/16
         DYlSu<U+01C7><U+01B5>EOGl
        DGlG<U+018C>/w<U+01B5>u<U+0190>G&Al<U+018C>
                                              &sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03ED><U+03F1>
              <removed-date>        <removed-apn>

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
&sO<U+01B5><U+018C>G<U+03ED><U+03F2>
                                       16/16

