                                             ABSTRACT
             Methods and kits for determining the presence or severity of oral inflammation, such as
gingivitis or periodontitis wherein the determination method comprises: (a) obtaining a test
sample of oral material from said subject; (b) determining the amount of polymorphonuclear
neutrophil indicator substance in said test sample; and (c)             comparing the amount of
polymorphonuclear neutrophil indicator substance in the test sample to a control sample.
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

                                       ASSAY FOR ORAL INFLAMMATION
                                                  BACKGROUND
[0001]             Oral tissue inflammation can be caused by surgery, localized injury, trauma, necrosis,
improper oral hygiene or various systemic origins. Gingiva (gums) are part of the soft tissue
lining in the mouth surrounding the teeth. Gingivitis is an inflammation of the gums that often
appears as swollen, red, or bleeding gums. Gingivitis is the inflammation or infection of the
gums and the alveolar bones that support the teeth. Periodontitis is a progressively worsened
state of disease as compared to gingivitis, where the gums are inflamed and begin to recede from
the teeth and pockets form, which ultimately may result in destruction of the bone and
periodontal ligament.
[0002]             It is generally believed that plaque-forming bacteria that live in the mouth and on tooth
surfaces are a cause of oral inflammation, such as gingivitis, and certain substances released by
the bacteria cause the oral inflammation. Among other things, the bacteria associated with oral
inflammation generate, as waste products, metabolites including gases such as hydrogen sulfide,
methyl mercapatan and other sulfur gases. These gases and metabolites are believed to be one of
the major contributing causes of the odor of halitosis.
[0003]             Clinical observations from the 1960's have established the relationship between
accumulated dental plaque and the initiation of gingivitis. Recognition of these relationships
have been pivotal in establishing clinical practices in dentistry and have aided the discovery of
therapeutic agents for preventative approaches such as triclosan, chlorhexidine, cetylpyridinium
chloride and others. Despite these advances, it is clear that clinical measurements of gingivitis
have some limitations and do not permit detection of the earliest events associated with
gingivitis.
[0004]             Described in the literature are studies on the role of the polymorphonuclear neutrophils
(PMN) in the defense mechanisms during inflammatory conditions of the mouth (Komman et al.,
1997). While studies have primarily focused on the role of PMN in defense mechanisms those
evaluating PMN in the oral cavity or in the saliva are lacking. In addition, there is not much
information that describes the effects of specific oral hygiene formulations on the levels of PMN.
[0005] As with most medical conditions, it is desirable to detect oral inflammation early in order
to start early treatment to avoid worsening the inflammation. This is especially true with respect
                                                           1
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

to gingivitis and periodontitis, i.e. while the former is an undersirable condition, its effect can be
reversed. In contrast, periodontitis is a more severe oral condition beyond gingivitis wherein the
damage to the oral tissue is essentially irreversible.
[0006] Moreover, a complicating factor for determining the degree of oral inflammation for
many patients around the world is limited access to professional dental care either by way of
proximity to the dental care professional or due to the cost of the diagnosis and treatment
method.
[0007] As such, there is still a need in the art for safe, non-invasive, facile and cost-effective
means of monitoring the status of oral inflammation in a patient and/or monitoring the progress
of an oral inflammation treatment.
                                           BRIEF SUMMARY
[0008] It            has been surprisingly discovered  that  the  amount,    number or       level  of
polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) or PMN indicator substance in a subject's saliva is
correlated to the level or degree of oral inflammation in said subject. Accordingly, the present
invention concerns a method of determining the presence, absence, or severity of oral
inflammation, or monitoring the oral inflammation disease state, in a subject comprising
(a) obtaining a test sample of an oral material from said subject,
(b) determining the amount of PMN, or PMN indicator substance, in said test sample,
(c) comparing the amount of PMN, or PMN indicator substance, in the test sample to a control.
[0009] The methods of the invention are easy to implement at point of care settings, e.g., chair
side, dental clinics, dental camps, and the like. Because of the facile, safe, and non-invasive
nature of the methods of the invention, in some embodiments the methods can be carried out by
the patient who can record/report the results.
[0010] Further areas of applicability of the present invention will become apparent from the
detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description
and specific examples, while indicating the preferred embodiment of the invention, are intended
for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.
                                        DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0011] The following description of the preferred embodiment(s) is merely exemplary in nature
and is in no way intended to limit the invention, its application, or uses.
                                                    2
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

[0012] As used throughout, ranges are used as shorthand for describing each and every value
that is within the range. Any value within the range can be selected as the terminus of the range.
In addition, all references cited herein are hereby incorporated by referenced in their entireties.
In the event of a conflict in a definition in the present disclosure and that of a cited reference, the
present disclosure controls. Unless otherwise specified, all percentages and amounts expressed
herein and elsewhere in the specification should be understood to refer to percentages by weight.
All percentages expressed herein are on a weight by dry matter basis unless specifically stated
otherwise.
[0013] In the context of the invention, the term "treating" or "treatment", as used herein, means
reversing, alleviating, mitigating or inhibiting the progress of the disorder or condition to which
such term applies, or one or more symptoms of such disorder or condition. As used herein and in
the appended claims, the singular forms "a", "an", and "the" include plural reference unless the
context clearly dictates otherwise.
[0014] The term "normal control" refers to a subject or pool of subjects that does not have oral
inflammation.
[0015] The term "swab" refers to any device suitable for collecting oral fluid formed from an
absorbent material. Preferably, the absorbent material is attached to a holder, but the term swab,
as used herein, includes free standing devices made from absorbent material that may be placed
in the mouth or mouth surface to absorb the saliva located therein.
[0016] The term "oral material" refers to any substance in the oral cavity that can be sampled,
e.g., saliva, gingival crevicular fluid, oral scrapings from the tongue or cheek, gingival plaque,
and the like. A preferred oral material for the methods of the invention is saliva.
[0017] As used herein, "measure" or "determine" refers to any qualitative or quantitative
determinations.
[0018] In the methods of the invention, the subject can be any animal, and is preferably a
mammal such as a human, mouse, rat, cat, dog, horse, cow, donkey, sheep, or pig. Humans are
most preferred.
[0019] In some aspects, the methods comprise obtaining a test sample of oral material such as
saliva from the subject. The saliva can be obtained by any means suitable in the art. For example,
various oral fluid collection devices and kits are known in the art and are commercially available.
The oral fluid collection device can be comprised of or otherwise shaped or formed as particles,
                                                    3
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

fibers, plates, and the like. Saliva can be collected by aspiration or absorption. Suitable oral fluid
collection devices are commercially available from Oasis Diagnostics Corp., Vancouver, WA,
such as Super-SAL TM, VerOFy@, Versi-SAL@, and UltraSal-2 TM.
[0020] In some aspects, the oral material, e.g., saliva, is obtained by means of a device such as a
swab. The swab can be comprised of any material suitable in the art such as alginate, sponge,
capillary matrix, filter paper, calcium fibers, cellulose-based materials, or synthetic polymers
such as a polyurethane, polyester, rayon, or a polymer of ethylene glycol and terephthalic acid.
Polymers of ethylene glycol and terephthalic acid (i.e., polyethylene terephthalate) sold under the
trade name DACRON® (DuPont) are particularly suited to the present invention. It is preferred
that the swab not contain cotton or other natural cellulose-based materials, because cotton may
be contaminated with metals from the soil in which the cotton plant was grown, thereby
potentially contaminating the assay and producing inaccurate or false positive results. The
absorbent material of the swab can be impregnated with salts or a hypertonic solution to facilitate
absorption. The absorbent material can also be impregnated with a flavorant to make the
sampling more pleasant to the subject. The swab can be on the end of a holder or an applicator
made from plastic, wood, aluminum, and the like, with synthetic materials such as plastic being
preferred. The swab can then be placed in an aqueous solution, preferable sterile and buffered.
The swab can be swirled, vortexed, etc. to dislodge the PMN and/or their derivatives or
components from the swab material into the aqueous solution.
[0021] In another embodiment the saliva is obtained by expectoration. For example, a subject
rinses the oral cavity with an aqueous solution, preferably sterile and/or buffered. Examples of
buffered solutions include Hanks Balanced Salt solution, phosphate buffered saline, TRIS buffer,
and the like. The contents of the oral cavity, i.e., salivary samples, are then expectorated into
containers, preferable sterile.
[0022] The number of PMN can be determined in the samples via conventional techniques
known in the art, e.g., via cell counters, microscopy, and the like. If microscopy is used, the
salivary samples can then be concentrated, e.g., by centrifugation, filtration, etc. and then
resuspended. Cell stains, conventional or fluorescent, such as acridine orange, and the like can
be used to stain the PMN to make them more visible. In one embodiment the number of PMN
can be determined by the methodology disclosed in the paper: Bender JS, Thang H, Glogauer M,
                                                    4
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

(2006) "Novel rinse assay for the quantification of oral neutrophils and the monitoring of chronic
periodontal disease", J. PeriodontalRes. 2006, 41:214-220, incorporated herein by reference.
[0023] The time required to collect saliva from the subject can vary. In some aspects, the oral
fluid collection device or buffered solution is to remain in the subject's mouth for at least about 5
seconds, or at least about 10 seconds, or at least about 15 seconds, or at least about 20 seconds,
or at least about 30 seconds. In some aspects, the oral fluid collection device or buffer solution
can remain in the subject's mouth for at least about 1 minute, or more.
[0024] The method of the invention is for aiding in the diagnosis, prognosis and disease
monitoring of oral inflammation, such as gingivitis or periodontitis, and associated conditions,
e.g., bad breadth or halitosis.             The methods of the invention can also be used for evaluating
potential therapeutic agents to treat and/or ameliorate the symptoms associated with oral
inflammation. The methods of the invention can be used to determine the presence, absence or
severity of oral inflammation.
[0025] In one embodiment of the invention the amount of PMN or PMN indicator substance in a
test sample is compared to a control. If the method of the invention is to detect the presence,
absence or severity of oral inflammation, the control is from normal healthy subjects, i.e.,
subjects that are known to not have oral inflammation.
[0026] In a particular aspect, the invention provides a method for diagnosing oral inflammation,
gingivitis or peridontitis, and/or determining the severity thereof, in a test subject, by providing
an oral material sample such as a saliva sample from a normal healthy subject or oral materials
samples such as saliva samples from a plurality of normal healthy subjects, determining the
amount of PMN or PMN indicator substance in the healthy subject(s) samples, and obtaining
one or more                 samples from the test subject and determining the amount of PMN is the test
subject oral material, and comparing the amount of PMN or PMN indicator substance in the
normal oral material sample(s) to the amount of PMN or PMN indicator substance in the test oral
material sample(s),
[0027] If the method of the invention is to monitor the effectiveness of oral inflammation
treatment or monitoring the oral inflammation disease state, then the control is a test sample
taken from the same subject at a prior time, which can be before or after treatment is initiated.
The results obtained from practicing the monitoring method of the invention can be used to
                                                           5
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

adjust or modify the oral inflammation treatment, that is, change the practices, behavior,
regimen, dose and/or substance, e.g., dentifrice or medicament, used to treat the inflammation.
[0028] In a further aspect, the invention provides a method for monitoring the disease state in a
subject having oral inflammation, by comparing the level of PMN or PMN indicator substance in
one or more oral material samples at a first time point to the level of PMIN or PMN indicator
substance at a second time point; and correlating a decrease in the level of PMN or PMN
indicator substance at the second time point as compared to the first time point with an
improvement in the subject's disease state, and/or correlating an increase in the level of PMN or
PMN indicator substance at the second time point as compared to the first time point with an
increase in the severity of the subject's disease state.
[0029] The present invention encompasses measuring PMN indicator substances instead of
measuring PMIN directly. The amounts of PMIN indicator substances are any substances that can
be measured in oral materials such as saliva wherein the amount of substance is correlated with
the amounts of PMN.                 Such PMN indicator substances include, for example, metabolites,
components, enzymes, cytokines, PMN excretions, PMN breakdown products, and the like.
Specific examples of PMIN indicator substances include salivary lactoferrin, calprotectin, and
salivary leukocyte esterase. In most embodiments, the correlation with PMN is positive, e.g., the
greater the amount of lactoferrin and/or leukocyte esterase, the greater the amount of PMN.
However, it is also contemplated that a negative correlation may exist, i.e., the greater the
amount of a particular measured substance, the lesser amount of PMN. In either case, standards
can be developed by techniques known in the art, e.g., development of data tables or standard
curves, to compare the amount of a particular substance in the oral cavity to the presence,
absence or severity of oral inflammation.
[0030] Assays are known in the art for determining the presence and/or amount of leukocyte
esterase, calprotectin, and/or lactoferrin in biological samples.      Such assays can be based on
detecting reactions of the substance to be measured, or complexes formed therewith, by color
changes, fluorescence, luminescence, radioisotopic detection, ELSIA, and the like.
[0031] U.S. Patent 5,776,780, which is incorporated herein by reference, discloses a reagent
system for detecting and measuring leukocyte esterase. The color generating mechanism or
indicator of the reagent system is the result of leukocyte esterase acting upon compatible esters.
This ester/esterase reaction produces a relatively unstable indoxyl moiety that is oxidized to form
                                                      6
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

an indigo color that is monitored by monochromatic spectrophotometry. The addition of
dehydrogenase to the reagent will enhance the speed of reaction and completeness of the reaction
of the indoxyl moiety. The dehydrogenase oxidizes the alcohol group on the indoxyl group and
promotes formation of a ketone. This transitional indoxyl ketone radical enhances color
development, specificity, and accuracy and sensitivity of the reaction. The reagent system may
contain one or more of the following compounds, 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine, hydroxylamine, or
semicarbizide, which in the presence of indoxide ketones will give color development that can be
monitored at the same wavelength as the indigo. A further enhancement of the method
concerning the indoxyl intermediate, is the addition of p-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde or p-nitro
benzenediazonium tetrafluroborate or other azo indicators.
[0032] In one embodiment, the invention provides a diagnostic kit for determining the amount of
PMN in saliva sample by determining the amount of leukocyte esterase in said sample
comprising:
(a) an ester compatible with leukocyte esterase;
(b) means for contacting the ester with the sample to produce indoxyl moieties that from the
reaction of the ester with any leukocyte esterase present in the sample; and
(c) means for measuring production of indoxyl moieties.
[0033] In one embodiment the means for determining production of the indoxyl moieties is by
detecting a color change.
[0034] Assays for lactoferrin can be based on detecting antibody/antigen complexes. A further
aspect of the invention provides a diagnostic kit for determining the amount of PMN in saliva
sample by determining the amount of lactoferrin in said sample specifically reactive with an
antibody specific for lactoferrin, comprising:
(a) a lactoferrin specific antibody;
(b) means for contacting the lactoferrin specific antibody with the sample to produce complexes
comprising the lactoferrin specific antibody and any lactoferrin present in the sample; and
(c) means for measuring production of the complexes.
[0035] The lactoferring specific antibodies are commercially available or can be obtained
through techniques known in the art, for example:
(a) administering lactoferrin to at least one mouse to produce at least one immunized mouse;
(b) removing B-lymphocytes from the at least one immunized mouse;
                                                  7
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

(c) fusing the B-lymphocytes from the at least one immunized mouse with myeloma cells,
thereby producing hybridomas;
(d) cloning the hybridomas;
(e) selecting clones which produce anti-lactoferrin antibody;
(f) culturing the anti-lactoferrin antibody-producing clones; and then
(g) isolating anti-lactoferrin antibodies from the cultures.
[0036] In one embodiment, the lactoferrin is an antigen in immunoassays including enzyme
linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA), RIAs and other non-enzyme linked antibody binding
assays or procedures known in the art for the detection of antibodies.
[0037] In ELISA assays, the lactoferrin specific antibody is immobilized onto a selected surface,
for example, a surface capable of binding proteins such as filter paper or the wells of a
polystyrene microtiter plate. After washing to remove incompletely adsorbed lactoferrin specific
antibody, a nonspecific protein, such as a solution of bovine serum albumin (BSA) that is known
to be antigenically neutral with regard to the test sample, may be bound to the selected surface.
This allows for blocking of nonspecific adsorption sites on the immobilizing surface and thus
reduces the background caused by nonspecific bindings onto the surface.          The immobilizing
surface is then contacted with a saliva sample to be tested in a manner conducive to immune
complex (antigen/antibody) formation. This may include diluting the sample with diluents, such
as solutions of BSA, bovine gamma globulin (BGG) and/or phosphate buffered saline
(PBS)/Tween. The sample is then allowed to incubate for from about 2 to 4 hours, at
temperatures such as of the order of about 250 to 370 C. Following incubation, the sample
contacted surface is washed to remove non-immunocomplexed material. The washing procedure
may include washing with a solution, such as PBS/Tween or a borate buffer. Following
formation of specific immunocomplexes between the test sample and the bound lactoferrin
specific          antibody,         and subsequent washing, the occurrence, and even  amount,  of
immunocomplex formation may be determined by subjecting the immunocomplex to a second
antibody having specificity for the lactoferrin specific antibody.
[0038] If the lactoferrin specific antibody is of human origin, the second antibody can an
antibody having specificity for human immunoglobulins and in general IgG. To provide
detecting means, the second antibody may have an associated activity such as an enzymatic
activity that will generate, for example, a colour development upon incubating with an
                                                         8
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

appropriate chromogenic substrate. Quantification may then be achieved by measuring the
degree of colour generation using, for example, a visible spectra spectrophotometer.
Modifications to this procedure can be made via techniques known in the art. For example,
sandwich lateral flow chromatographic immunoassays can be employed.
[0039] In other embodiments, the assays for PMN indicator substances, such as lactoferrin,
calprotectin and leukocyte esterase, can be miniaturized and/or streamlined. For example, the
necessary reagents can be incorporated into a saliva absorbent material, such as a water
absorbent material such as cellulose. The saliva absorbent material can be in the form of sheets
or strips or be incorporated into devices such as a dipstick that can be directly contacted with an
oral material such as saliva. In such embodiments the strip or dipstick can be directly contacted
with saliva in the oral cavity, thus obviating the need to collect a separate sample. In such assays
the presence and/or amount of PMN indicator substance can be determined by a color change
and comparing the test color to a standard color chart.
[0040] Such assays are commercially available for detecting substances in urine or feces, e.g.,
OnSite FOB Hi Rapid Test-Cassette, available from CTK Biotech, Inc; Urinalysis Reagent Test
Strips, available from Tigermedical; CLIA-URS-10 Urine Reagent Strips, available from
CLIAwaived, Inc., calprotectin ELISA kits available from Alpha Laboratories such as
CALcheck BlueTM and Quantum Blue®; and the like. Some commercially available assays have
the capability of testing for PMN indicator substances such as leukocyte esterase, typically
concomitantly for other substances as well, and can be used in the methods of the invention
without modification. However, in some embodiments the assays are tailored to test for saliva
and only for PMN indicator substances.
[0041] The level of lactoferrin in an oral material such as saliva is correlated with the amount of
PMN in the oral material such as saliva. Thus the present invention in another embodiment
concerns a method for diagnosing oral inflammation, gingivitis or peridontitis, and/or
determining the severity thereof, in a test subject, by providing an oral material sample such as a
saliva sample from a normal healthy subject or oral material samples such as saliva samples from
a plurality of normal healthy subjects, determining the amount of lactoferrin in the healthy
subject(s) sample(s), and obtaining one or more samples from the test subject and determining
the amount of lactoferrin in the test subject sample(s), and comparing the amount of lactoferrin
in the normal sample(s) to the amount of lactoferrin in the test sample(s).
                                                   9
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

[0042] In another embodiment the invention concerns a method for monitoring the disease state
in a subject having oral inflammation, by comparing the level of lactoferrin in one or more oral
material samples at a first time point to the level of lactoferrin at a second time point; and
correlating a decrease in the level of lactoferrin at the second time point as compared to the first
time point with an improvement in the subject's disease state, and/or correlating an increase in
the level of lactoferrin at the second time point as compared to the first time point with an
increase in the severity of the subject's disease state.
[0043] The level of leukocyte esterase in an oral material such as saliva is correlated with the
amount of PMIN in the oral material such as saliva. Thus, the present invention concerns a
method for diagnosing oral inflammation, gingivitis or peridontitis, and/or determining the
severity thereof, in a test subject, by providing an oral material sample such as a saliva sample
from a normal healthy subject or samples from a plurality of normal healthy subjects,
determining the amount of leukocyte esterase in the healthy subject(s) sample(s), and obtaining
one or more samples from the test subject and determining the amount of leukocyte esterase in
the test subject sample(s), and comparing the amount of leukocyte esterase in the normal
sample(s) to the amount of leukocyte esterase in the test sample(s).
[0044] In another embodiment the invention concerns a method for monitoring the disease state
in a subject having oral inflammation, by comparing the level of leukocyte esterase in one or
more oral material samples at a first time point to the level of leukocyte esterase at a second
time point; and correlating a decrease in the level of leukocyte esterase at the second time point
as compared to the first time point with an improvement in the subject's disease state, and/or
correlating an increase in the level of leukocyte esterase at the second time point as compared to
the first time point with an increase in the severity of the subject's disease state.
[0045] The level of calprotectin in an oral material such as saliva is correlated with the amount
of PMN in the oral material such as saliva. Thus, the present invention in another embodiment
concerns a method for diagnosing oral inflammation, gingivitis or peridontitis, and/or
determining the severity thereof, in a test subject, by providing an oral material sample such as a
saliva sample from a normal healthy subject or oral material samples such as saliva samples from
a plurality of normal healthy subjects, determining the amount of calprotectin in the healthy
subject(s) sample(s), and obtaining one or more samples from the test subject and determining
                                                  10
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

the amount of calprotectin in the test subject sample(s), and comparing the amount of
calprotectin in the normal sample(s) to the amount of calprotectin in the test sample(s).
[0046] In another embodiment the invention concerns a method for monitoring the disease state
in a subject having oral inflammation, by comparing the level of calprotectin in one or more oral
material samples at a first time point to the level of calprotectin at a second time point; and
correlating a decrease in the level of calprotectin at the second time point as compared to the first
time point with an improvement in the subject's disease state, and/or correlating an increase in
the level of calprotectin at the second time point as compared to the first time point with an
increase in the severity of the subject's disease state.
[0047] The methods on the invention for monitoring the disease state of a subject can be used to
initiate, change or modify oral inflammation treatments.
[0048] In one embodiment the invention concerns a method for selecting a treatment regimen in
a subject suspected of having oral inflammation comprising
(a) obtaining a test sample of an oral material such as saliva from said subject,
(b) determining the amount of PMN, or PMN indicator substance, in said test sample,
(c) comparing the amount of PMN, or PMIN indicator substance, in the test sample to a control,
(d) selecting a treatment regimen based on the comparison made in step (c).
[0049] In the selecting method, the additional step of the subject carrying out the selected
treatment regimen is preferred, in one embodiment, in consultation with a dental professional.
[0050] The treatment regimen will vary depending on the comparison of the test sample with the
control (step(c)).                  In some instances, the comparison will show little or no inflammation, in
which case the treatment regimen may comprise toothbrushing with a suitable dentifrice once or
twice per day. If the comparison indicates some degree of oral inflammation, then one or more
of several types of treatment regimens may be selected, for example;
1. Toothbrushing more than twice per day, e.g., 3, 4, 5, or 6 times,
2. The use of antimicrobial agents. The antimicrobial agent can in incorporated into a dentifrice,
e.g., toothpaste or mouthwash, or can be administered via other means, e.g., in tablet,
suppository, transdermal patch, or injectable form. The amount administered will be an effective
anti-microbial amount, i.e., an amount sufficient to eliminate or lessen the severity of the oral
inflammation.
                                                              11
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

3. The use of anti-inflammatory agents. The anti-inflammatory agent can in incorporated into a
dentifrice, e.g., toothpaste or mouthwash, or can be administered via other means, e.g., in tablet,
suppository, transdermal patch, or injectable form. The amount administered will be an effective
anti-inflammatory amount, i.e., an amount sufficient to eliminate or lessen the severity of the oral
inflammation.
[0051]             The antimicrobial agent useful in the present invention is not particularly limited, and
may be selected from halogenated diphenyl ether (e.g. triclosan), herbal extracts or essential oils
(e.g., rosemary extract, thymol, menthol, eucalyptol, methyl salicylate), bisguanide antiseptics
(e.g., chlorhexidine (CHX), alexidine, or octenidine), phenolic antiseptics, hexetidine, povidone
iodine, delmopinol, salifluor, metal ions and their salts (e.g., zinc chloride, zinc lactate, zinc
citrate, stannous fluoride, and stannous chloride), sanguinarine, propolis, oxygenating agents
(e.g., hydrogen peroxide, buffered sodium peroxyborate, or peroxycarbonate), cetyl pyridinium
chloride, magnolia extract, magnolol, honokiol, butyl magnolol, propyl honokiol, and mixtures
thereof. Anti-attachment agents such as Solrol also can be included in dentifrices, as well as
plaque dispersing agents such as enzymes (papain, glucoamylase, etc.).
[0052]             Suitable anti-inflammatory agents include without limitation steroidal agents such as
flucinolone              and hydrocortisone, and nonsteroidal      agents (NSAIDs) such as ketorolac,
flurbiprofen, ibuprofen, naproxen, indomethacin, diclofenac, etodolac, indomethacin, sulindac,
tolmetin, ketoprofen, fenoprofen, piroxicam, nabumetone, aspirin, diflunisal, meclofenamate,
mefenamic acid, oxyphenbutazone and phenylbutazone.
[0053]             Other known actives for oral care compositions can also be used in the treatment
regimen such as a fluoride ion source (e.g. an amine fluoride, sodium fluoride, sodium
monofluorophosphate, stannous fluoride, etc.) or a basic amino acid (e.g. arginine, an active
ingredient in Colgate's Pro-ArginT M technology.
[0054]             It is an advantage of the present invention that the facile, safe, and non-invasive nature
of the methods of the invention allows for, in some embodiments, the methods to be carried out
by the subject or patient who can record/report the results. On a routine basis patients need
several motivated and compliance based approaches to help maintain and monitor their oral
health status. The methods herein off a simple, cost-effective, rapid and easy means to perform
routine evaluations of the oral health status in the privacy of their own homes.                    Thus, the
methods herein provide suitable approaches that can be implemented in the home setting, i.e., are
                                                         12
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

"at home" methods and kits. The methods allow subjects to monitor their oral health routinely
and maintain a periodic record of their findings that can be discussed and used in consultation
with their professional dental provider. The methods can be used subsequent to a dental visit to
monitor and evaluate their oral health status and seek or modulate dental care based on the
results of the methods. In some embodiments the results can be computerized, electronically
stored, and/or automatically submitted to a dental professional.
[0055] In the methods of the invention, the oral material samples such as saliva samples are
compared on the same unit basis, e.g., 1, 0.1, 0.001 or 0.0001 ml. or other volumes of oral
material as long as the volumes are the same.
[0056] The invention thus provides in one embodiment, a method (Method 1). For determining
the presence, absence, or severity of oral inflammation, or monitoring the oral inflammation
disease state, in a subject comprising
(a) obtaining a test sample of an oral material such as saliva from said subject,
(b) determining the amount of PMN, or PMN indicator substance, in said test sample,
(c) comparing the amount of PMN, or PMN indicator substance, in the test sample to a control.
[0057] For example, the invention provides
1.1.                       The method of method 1 wherein the control is a sample from a normal healthy
subject or a plurality of healthy subjects;
1.2.                       The method of method 1 wherein the control is a different test sample from the
same subject taken at a prior time;
1.3.                       The method of any foregoing method wherein an increased amount of PMN or
PMN indicator substance relative to the control indicates the presence of oral inflammation;
1.4.                       The method of any foregoing method wherein an increased level of PMN or PMN
indicator substance in the test sample indicates ineffective oral inflammation treatment and a
decreased level of PMN or PMN indicator substance in the test sample indicates effective oral
inflammation treatment;
1.5.                       The method of any foregoing method wherein the oral inflammation is gingivitis;
1.6.                       The method of any foregoing claim wherein the oral inflammation is
periodontitis;
1.7.                       The method of any foregoing method wherein an associated condition of the oral
inflammation is halitosis;
                                                         13
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

1.8.                       The method of any foregoing method wherein the test sample is obtained with a
swab;
1.9.                       The method of any foregoing method wherein the test sample is obtained by
expectoration;
1.10.        The method of any of the foregoing method wherein the amount of polymorphonuclear
neutrophils is determined by microscopy;
1.11.        The method of any of the foregoing method wherein the polymorphonuclear neutrophil
indicator substance is lactoferrin;
1.12.        The method of any foregoing method wherein the polymorphonuclear neutrophil
indicator substance is leukocyte esterase;
1.13.        The method of any foregoing method wherein the polymorphonuclear neutrophil
indicator substance is calprotectin;
1.14.         The method of any of the foregoing method wherein the amount of PMN indicator
substance is determined by contacting saliva with a saliva absorbent material which contains the
necessary reagents to determine the presence and/or amount of PMN indicator substance;
1.15.        The method of the immediately preceding method wherein the presence and/or amount of
PMN indicator substance is identified by a color change.
1.16.        A method for selecting a treatment regimen in a subject suspected of having oral
inflammation comprising
(a) obtaining a test sample of an oral material such as saliva from said subject,
(b) determining the amount of PMN, or PMN indicator substance, in said test sample,
(c) comparing the amount of PMN, or PMN indicator substance, in the test sample to a control,
(d) selecting a treatment regimen based on the comparison made in step (c);
1.17.        The method of 1.16 including one or more of the embodiments of 1.1-1.16;
1.18.        The method of 1.16 or 1.17 including the additional step of the subject carrying out the
selected treatment regimen;
1.19.        The method of 1.16 or 1.17 wherein the treatment regimen is selected from toothbrushing
twice daily, toothbrushing more than twice daily, treating the subject with anti-inflammatory
agents, treating the subject with antimicrobial agents, or a combination thereof;
                                                        14
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

1.20.        The method of 1.19 wherein the              antimicrobial agent is selected from halogenated
diphenyl ether (triclosan), herbal extracts or essential oils (e.g., rosemary extract, thymol,
menthol, eucalyptol, methyl salicylate), bisguanide antiseptics (e.g., chlorhexidine, alexidine, or
octenidine), phenolic antiseptics, hexetidine, povidone iodine, delmopinol, salifluor, metal ions
and their salts (e.g., zinc chloride, zinc lactate, zinc citrate, stannous fluoride, and stannous
chloride), sanguinarine, propolis, oxygenating agents (e.g., hydrogen peroxide, buffered sodium
peroxyborate, or peroxycarbonate), cetyl pyridinium chloride, magnolia extract, magnolol,
honokiol, butyl magnolol, propyl honokiol, and combinations thereof. Anti-attachment agents
such as Solrol also can be included, as well as plaque dispersing agents such as enzymes (papain,
glucoamylase, etc.).
1.21.        The method of 1.19 or 1.20 wherein the anti-inflammatory agent is selected from
steroidal agents such as flucinolone and hydrocortisone, and nonsteroidal agents (NTHEs) such
as      ketorolac,              flurbiprofen, ibuprofen, naproxen,   indomethacin,   diclofenac,  etodolac,
indomethacin, sulindac, tolmetin, ketoprofen, fenoprofen, piroxicam, nabumetone, aspirin,
diflunisal,             meclofenamate,        mefenamic  acid,   oxyphenbutazone,    phenylbutazone;   and
combinations thereof.
1.22.        The method of any foregoing method which is an at home method.
[0058] The invention also features kits for practicing the inventive methods, for example, kits for
assaying a subject. In one embodiment a diagnostic kit for identifying a subject having oral
inflammation or as being at elevated risk of developing a disease or condition resulting from oral
inflammation, comprising a saliva absorbent material which contains the necessary reagents to
determine the presence and/or amount of PMN indicator substance together with instructions for
use.
[0059] The invention is illustrated by the following non-limiting examples.
                                                       EXAMPLES
Example 1:
[0060] Objective: This clinical study evaluated the levels of polymorphonuclear leukocytes
(PMN), a type of immune cell in comparison to the clinical parameters of dental plaque (plaque
index) and gingivitis (gingival Index) respectively.
                                                           15
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

[0061] Procedure: For this study, subjects were evaluated by these methods at Baseline, Visit 1
(7 days), and Visit 2 (14 days). For the study period, all subjects were provided a commercially
available fluoride toothpaste for oral hygiene.
[0062] DentalPlaqueAssessment:
[0063] The dentition is disclosed with disclosing solution and plaque is scored at the disto-, mid
, mesio-buccal, and disto-, mid-, mesio-lingual surfaces of each tooth according to the criteria of
the modified Quigley and Hein Index (Turesky et al., 1970 and Quigley & Hein, 1962), which is
scored on a 0 to 5 scale. Subjectwise scores are calculated by summing all scores for all sites and
dividing by the total number of sits scored.
[0064] GingivitisAssessment
[0065] The degree of gingivitis is scored at 6 sites (same sites listed above) of each tooth
according to the criteria of the Gingival Index System (L6e and Silness, 1963), which is scored
on a 0 to 3 scale.                  Subjectwise scores are calculated by summing all scores for all sites and
dividing by the total number of sites scored.
[0066] PMN Measurement
[0067] Prior to clinical assessments, subjects are instructed to rinse vigorously with Hank's
Balanced Salt solution (Gibco@ HBSS, Life Technologies) for 30 seconds and then expectorated
into sterile tubes.                  Formaldehyde is added to the samples which are then centrifuged.     The
resulting pellets are resuspended and stained with acridine orange in a dark room at room
temperature for 20 minutes prior to analysis by fluorescence microscopy.
[0068] Results: One hundred fifty-nine (159) adults (61 men and 98 women; age range 19-61
years) were enrolled in study.
[0069] Subject demographics are shown in Table 1. Summaries from clinical evaluations are
shown in Tables 2 through 4 below.
Table 1: Summary of Age and Sex Characteristics for enrolled subjects.
                                     Number (Percent) of subjects          Age of subjects
                                    Male        Female         Total       Mean      Range
                                  61(38.4)     98(61.6)      159(100)      30.8      19-61
                                                              16
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

[0070] In order to compare PMN with Plaque Index and Gingival Index a graphical display and
a corresponding correlation analysis was performed.               Prior to analysis, due to the skewed
distribution of the PMN scores, a log10 data transformation was employed.              The analysis shows
that the correlation coefficient of Log(PMN) with Plaque Index is 0.57 and the correlation
coefficient of Log(PMN) with Gingival Index is 0.66.                   Both correlation coefficients are
significantly (P<0.0001) different from zero.
[0071] The analysis above demonstrates that Log(PMN) is giving results that are strongly
correlated with the Plaque Index and the Gingival Index.               The final phase of the analysis is
designed to assess the statistical sensitivity of Log(PMN) compared to the Plaque Index and the
Gingival Index, with respect to the ability of the measure to detect changes from Baseline.
Tables 2, 3, and 4 summarize the data that are analyzed and the results of the analysis.
[0072] In Table 2 the baseline data are summarized for each of the three indices.
Table 2
Baseline
                                                     Gingival
                                    Plaque Index      Index         Log(PMN)
                                     2.88 ± 0.94   1.37 ± 0.82      5.28 ± 0.56
[0073] In Tables 3 and 4 the change from baseline data to visits 1 and 2, respectively, are
summarized and the analysis is summarized through the t-Statistic and P-Value for the
significance of the mean change from Baseline.             The t-Statistic is an outcome measure of this
analysis and is used to determine the P-value used to assess the statistical significance of the
change from Baseline.
Table 3
Change from Baseline to Visit 1 (Visit 1 - Baseline)
                                                 Plaque Index     Gingival Index       Log(PMN)
            Mean Change ± Std.                   -0.11 ± 0.40      -0.25 ± 0.29       -0.22 ± 0.45
            P-Value                                 0.0007            <0.0001           <0.0001
            Absolute Value of t-Statistic            3.47               10.66             6.19
                                                        17
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

Table 4
Change from Baseline to Visit 2 (Visit 2 - Baseline)
                                                     Plaque Index   Gingival Index      Log(PMN)
             Mean Change ± Std.                       0.02 ± 0.36    -0.41 ± 0.39      -0.27 ± 0.46
             P-Value                                    0.5127         <0.0001           <0.0001
             Absolute Value of t-Statistic               0.66            13.44             7.34
[0074] The summaries shown in Table 2 give the average and standard deviation of the Baseline
value for each measure. In Tables 3 and 4 all analyses show statistically significant (p<0.0001)
mean changes from Baseline except for the change between Visit 2 and Baseline for the Plaque
Index. However, in both Tables 3 and 4 the largest t-statistic is associated with the Gingival
Index. Since the larger the t-Statistic the greater the statistical sensitivity of the measure it can be
concluded that in this study the Gingival Index has more statistical sensitivity than the other two
measures in terms of detecting changes from baseline.                The Log(PMN), while showing more
statistical sensitivity than the Plaque Index, shows less sensitivity than the Gingival Index.
[0075] The population of the 159 adults evaluated could be categorized into discrete groups
based on plaque index, gingival index and PMN counts with lower number indices being
indicative of a healthier oral environment.
                                    Variable               Group  Count     Mean
                                    Plaque index           A           45         1.79
                                                           B           11         1.99
                                                           C           19         3.16
                                                           D           38         3.35
                                                           E           46         3.64
                                    Gingival index         A           45         0.29
                                                           B           11         0.65
                                                           C           19         1.30
                                                           D           38         1.79
                                                           E           46         2.29
                                    PMN (Counts per ml)    A           45       65556
                                                           B           11      139545
                                                           C           19      313487
                                                           D           38      535230
                                                           E           46      690435
Example 2:
                                                             18
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

[0076] Objective: This clinical study evaluated the levels of polymorphonuclear leukocytes
(PMN) in conjunction with clinical parameters i.e. dental plaque (PI), gingival inflammation (GI)
and periodontal pocket probing depth (PD) amongst the following groups of subjects stratified
on the basis of their initial clinical status:
- healthy: subjects with no gingivitis and in good oral health
- gingivitis: subjects with gingivitis based on clinical evaluation
- periodontal disease: subjects with periodontal disease based on clinical evaluation
[0077] Shown in table 5 are demographic characteristics of enrolled subjects and results from
clinical evaluations (table 6) and levels of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (table 7) prior to and
after 28 day use of the triclosan/copolymer toothpaste (Colgate® Total - triclosan and
polymethylvinylether/maleic anhydride copolymer) for oral hygiene.
Procedures are described herein or are similar to those described in Example 1.
Table 5: Demographics of enrolled subjects.
Parameter                           Healthy       Gingivitis      Periodontal disease
Number of subjects                      17             17                  13
Mean Age                              29.87            30               47.08
Age SD                                 8.52           6.54               11.70
Minimum Age                             21             22                 26
Maximum Age                             52             45                 64
Number of males                          6             12                  7
Number of females                       11              5                  6
                                                   19
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

                                                          Before             After
                                                        treatment         treatment
                                                         Average           Average
Population              Clinical assessment               scores            scores    p value
Healthy                 Dental plaque (PI)                 0.77              0.45      0.000
Healthy                 Gingival score (GI)                0.47              0.38      0.046
Healthy                 Pocket Depth (PD)                  2.36              2.10      0.000
Gingivitis              Dental plaque (PI)                 1.35              0.68      0.000
Gingivitis              Gingival score (GI)                1.43              0.59      0.000
Gingivitis              Pocket Depth (PD)                  2.67              2.25      0.000
Periodontal
Disease                 Dental plaque (PI)                 1.75              0.94      0.000
Periodontal
Disease                 Gingival score (GI)                1.78              0.88      0.000
Periodontal
Disease                 Pocket Depth (PD)                  3.58              2.65      0.000
Table 6: Results from clinical evaluations of subjects prior to and after 28 day use of the
triclosan/copolymer toothpaste
Results indicate significant reductions in each evaluated clinical parameter for all groups of
evaluated subjects.
Table 7: Counts for polymorphonuclear leukocytes prior to and after 28 day use of the
triclosan/copolymer dentifrice.
                                     Before treatment              After treatment                Comparing before
                                                                                           %       treatment to after
        Population                  Average numbers of       Average numbers of PMN    reduction treatment scores (p
                                 PMN (X1 04) Cells per ml        (X1 04) Cells per ml                    value)
     Healthy                               1.84                          1.313            28.6    <0.05 (Significant)
     Gingivitis                            6.56                          2.813            57.1    <0.05 (Significant)
     Periodontitis                        28.37                           16.5            41.8    <0.05 (Significant)
Results indicate significant reductions in PMN scores in each group of evaluated subjects.
Example 3:
[0078] Objective: This clinical study evaluated the levels of polymorphonuclear leukocytes
(PMN), amongst subjects assigned either a commercially available fluoride toothpaste or the
                                                                     20
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

triclosan/copolymer toothpaste for oral hygiene. Subjects were evaluated prior to and after 30
day use of each toothpaste.
[0079] Shown in table 8 are results from this study.
[0080] Procedures are as described herein or are similar to the prior examples.
Table 8: Counts for polymorphonuclear leukocytes amongst subjects prior to and after 30
days use of a fluoride toothpaste or the triclosan/copolymer dentifrice.
    Treatment group                  # of subjects   Baseline score ± SEM          Day 30 score ± SEM    reduction
  Fluoride toothpaste
  (Crest)                           37             14.05 ±2.06                 11.65 ±1.6                  17.08
  Triclosan/copolymer               37             20.03 ± 4                   13.08 ± 2.85                34.69
                                                   No significant differences  Significant differences
                                                   between treatments          between treatments at Day
                                    t-Test         at baseline. P value =      30.
                                    Results        0.100                       P value 0.00014
[0081] Results indicate significant reductions in PMN scores amongst those provided the
triclosan/copolymer toothpaste for oral hygiene.                     A similar effect was not observed amongst
those using the fluoride toothpaste.
                                                               21
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

Example 4:
[0082] This clinical study evaluates the levels of poylmorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN), in
conjunction with the following well accepted clinical and microbiological parameters prior to
and after 2 week use of a 0.12% chlorhexidine (CHX) mouthrinse for oral hygiene:
*            Clinical parameters:
o            Malodor based on organoleptic and halimeter evaluations.
o            An evaluation of tongue coating based on a tongue coat clinical index.
*            Microbiological parameters:
o            Total viable organisms of the dental plaque, saliva and tongue surface.
o            Malodor organisms in the dental plaque, saliva and tongue surface.
Shown in table 9 are demographics of enrolled subjects.
Table 9: Patient Demographics
  Status                   N        Mean Age
  Control                  15       39.6
  Gingivitis               21       44.76
  Halitosis                18       54.72
[0083]             The numbers of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) from all subjects prior to and
after use of the CHX mouthrinse are determined. Results indicate reductions in PMN scores for
all groups of subjects after two week use of the CHX mouthrinse.
[0084] Summarized in tables 10-12 are results from clinical evaluations of subjects by a
halimeter, organoleptic scores and by the tongue coat index.
                                                     22
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

Table 10: Halitosis evaluation (using a Halimeter)
                                     Mean          Mean halitosis
                                    baseline     scores after 2 week
                                  scores for        use of 0.12%
         Status                     halitosis       chlorhexidine
  Control                            79.53              52.87
  Gingivitis                         111.62               51
  Halitosis                          253.5              107.7
Table 11: Halitosis evaluation (Organoleptic Scores)
                                                     Mean halitosis
                                                     scores after 2
                                    Mean baseline     week use of
                                      scores for         0.12%
          Status                       halitosis     chlorhexidine
  Control                                1.467             0.6
  Gingivitis                             2.476             1.19
  Halitosis                              3.684            1.632
  Table 12: Tongue Coat Index
                                       Mean       Mean scores after 2
                                      baseline     week use of 0.12%
         Status                        scores        chlorhexidine
  Control                               1.667             0.667
  Gingivitis                           2.619              1.619
  Halitosis                            3.632              2.053
[0085] Results indicate significant reductions in each clinical score after subjects were assigned
the CHX rinse.
[0086] Summarized in tables 13-18 are results from microbiological evaluations of subjects for
viable organisms in dental plaque, saliva and tongue surface in addition to malodor organisms in
each of these samples.
                                                                23
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

             Table 13: Total Viable Bacteria in Dental Plaque (Log CFU/ml)
Status                           Mean               Mean score
                                 baseline           after 2 week
                                 scores             use of 0.12%
                                                    chlorhexidine
Control                          7.18               5.86
Gingivitis                       7.49               6.25
Halitosis                        7.58               6.15
Table 14: Viable Dental Plaque Malodor Bacteria (Log CFU/ml).
                                          Mean scores
                             Mean         after 2 week
                          baseline        use of 0.12%
  Status                    scores       chlorhexidine
  Control                      6.7             5.71
  Gingivitis                  6.86             5.86
  Halitosis                   6.83              5.4
Table 15: Total Viable Bacteria on Tongue Surface (Log CFU/ml).
                                          Mean scores
                             Mean          after 2 week
                          baseline        use of 0.12%
  Status                    scores        chlorhexidine
  Control                     7.26              6.5
  Gingivitis                  7.63             6.67
  Halitosis                   7.72             6.83
Table 16: Viable Tongue Surface Malodor Bacteria (Log CFU/ml)
                                          Mean scores
                             Mean          after 2 week
                          baseline        use of 0.12%
  Status                    scores        chlorhexidine
  Control                     6.75             6.13
  Gingivitis                  6.95             6.25
  Halitosis                   7.18             6.09
                                                                24
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

Table 17: Total Viable Salivary Bacteria (Log CFU/ml)
                                    Mean scores
                             Mean    after 2 week
                          baseline  use of 0.12%
  Status                    scores  chlorhexidine
  Control                     7.81       6.97
  Gingivitis                  7.86       7.01
  Halitosis                   7.78       7.16
Table 18: Viable Salivary Malodor Bacteria (Log CFU/ml)
                                    Mean scores
                             Mean    after 2 week
                          baseline  use of 0.12%
  Status                    scores  chlorhexidine
  Control                     7.03        6.2
  Gingivitis                  7.09       6.09
  Halitosis                    7.1       6.13
[0087] Subjects demonstrated significant reductions in all types of organisms in each oral sample
evaluated following the use of the CHX rinse.
Example 5
[0088] This study determines how quickly subjects brushing with Total or fluoride toothpaste
begin to show changes in oral PMN and clinical outcomes.
Study design:
1. Subjects brushed with either a fluoride toothpaste or with the Total toothpaste.
2. Subjects were evaluated at study entry (baseline or prior to issuing any toothpaste) and were
also evaluated after brushing with provided paste for 1 week and 2 weeks.
The following evaluations were conducted for all subjects at baseline and after 1 week and 2
week use of assigned toothpaste:
1. PMN
2. Clinical parameters (dental plaque index, gingivitis index, bleeding index).
                                                  25
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

Table 19
Summary of Age &Gender
For Subjects Who Completed the Clinical Study
                                                       Number of Subjects                 Age3
    Treatment                                     Male      Female     Total3      Mean      Range
    Test Toothpaste Group'                        6          19        25          44.8      19-70
    Control Toothpaste Group2                     7          18        25          42.7      19-65
1.           Dentifrice formulation containing 0.3% triclosan, 2.0% copolymer
(polymethylvinylether/maleic anhydride copolymer), 0.243% sodium
fluoride in a silica base (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY)
2.           Colgate Cavity Protection Great Regular Flavor Toothpaste (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New
York, NY)
3.           No statistically significant difference was indicated between the treatment groups with
respect to either gender or age.
                                                       26
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

 Table 20
 Subject Mean (SD) Polymorphonuclear Leukocytes (Log Cells/ml) Samples at Baseline, 1
 Week and 2-Weeks
 For Subjects Who Completed the Clinical Study
                                                                       Baseline           1-Week           2-Week
                                                                      Summary            Summary          Summary
     Parameter                             Treatment            n   (Mean S.D.)       (Mean S.D.)      (Mean S.D.)
Polymorphonuclear                  Test Toothpaste Group1      25    5.17   0.32       4.93   0.23       4.77  0.28
Leukocytes (Log
Cells/ml)                          Control Toothpaste
                                   Group 2                     25    5.08   0.40       5.08   0.36       5.11  0.38
  1.          Dentifrice formulation containing 0.3% triclosan, 2.0% copolymer
 (polymethylvinylether/maleic anhydride copolymer), 0.243% sodium fluoride in a silica base
 (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
 2.           Colgate Cavity Protection Great Regular Flavor Toothpaste (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New
 York, NY).
 3.           No statistically significant difference was indicated between the two treatment groups at
 baseline with respect to polymorphonuclear leukocytes (Log Cell/ml) samples.
 Table 21
 Subject Mean (SD) Gingival Index, Bleeding Index, Plaque Index Scores and Pocket Depth
 at Baseline and 2-Weeks
 For Subjects Who Completed the Clinical Study
                                                                                Baseline         2-Week
                                                                                Summary          Summary
         Parameter                       Treatment                    n         (Mean ± S.D.)    (Mean ± S.D.)
                                         Test Toothpaste Group1       25         1.42   0.32     1.01 ± 0.35
         Gingival Index                  Control Toothpaste Group 2   25        1.38   0.26      1.32 ± 0.25
                                         Test Toothpaste Group1       25        0.55   0.22      0.35 ± 0.25
         Bleeding Index                  Control Toothpaste Group 2   25        0.65   0.33      0.59 ± 0.30
         Plaque Index                    Test Toothpaste Group1       25        2.17   0.57      1.81 ± 0.49
                                                                 27
 10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

                                         Control Toothpaste Group 2      25        2.16 ± 0.51   2.02 ± 0.49
                                         Test Toothpaste Group1          25        2.18 ± 0.46    1.92 ± 0.43
          Pocket Depth                   Control Toothpaste Group 2      25        2.06 ± 0.41   2.02 ± 0.38
  1.           Dentifrice formulation containing 0.3% triclosan, 2.0% copolymer
  (polymethylvinylether/maleic anhydride copolymer), 0.243% sodium fluoride in a silica base
  (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
  2.           Colgate Cavity Protection Great Regular Flavor Toothpaste (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New
  York, NY).
  3.           No statistically significant difference was indicated among the two treatment groups at
  baseline with respect to gingival index, bleeding index, plaque index scores and pocket depth
  (mm).
  Table 22
  Baseline-Adjusted Subject Mean (SE) Polymorphonuclear Leukocytes (Log Cells/ml)
  Samples at 1-Week
  For Subjects Who Completed the Clinical Study
                                                                          Within Treatment       Between-Treatment
                                                                          Analysis               Comparisons
                                                      1-Week
                                                      Summary
Index                            Treatment       n    (Mean ± S.E.)       Reduction'     Sig. 4  Difference'  Sig.'
                                 Test
                                 Toothpaste
                                 Group 1         25   4.91          0.05  38.3%          P=0.001
Polymorphonuclear                Control
Leukocytes (Log                  Toothpaste
Cells/ml)                        Group 2         25   5.10          0.05  4.5%           P=0.752 35.4%        P=0.009
  1.           Dentifrice formulation containing 0.3% triclosan, 2.0% copolymer
  (polymethylvinylether/maleic anhydride copolymer), 0.243% sodium fluoride in a silica base
  (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
  2.           Colgate Cavity Protection Great Regular Flavor Toothpaste (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New
  York, NY).
                                                                  28
  10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

3.           Reduction exhibited by the 1-week mean relative to the baseline mean. A positive value
indicates a reduction in polymorphonuclear leukocytes (Log Cells/ml) at the 1-week
examination.
4.           Significance of paired t-test comparing the baseline and 1-week examinations.
5.           Difference between the 1-week means expressed as a reduction of the 1-week mean for
the Control Toothpaste Group. A positive value indicates a reduction in polymorphonuclear
leukocytes (Log Cells/ml) for the Test Toothpaste Group relative to Control Toothpaste Group.
6.           Significance of ANCOVA comparison of baseline-adjusted means.
Table 23
Baseline-Adjusted Subject Mean (SE) Polymorphonuclear Leukocytes (Log Cells/ml)
Samples at 2-Weeks
For Subjects Who Completed the Clinical Study
                                                                Within Treatment     Between-Treatment
                                                                    Analysis             Comparisons
                                                  2-Week
                                                 Summary
         Index                   Treatment  n  (Mean S.E.)    Reduction3     Sig. 4 Difference5    Sig. 6
                                Test
                                Toothpaste
                                Group1     25 4.75       0.05   57.3%      P<0.001    59.3%      P<0.001
 Polymorphonuc                  Control
 lear Leukocytes                Toothpaste
 (Log Cells/ml)                 Group 2    25 5.14       0.05   -4.7%       P=815
1.           Dentifrice formulation containing 0.3% triclosan, 2.0% copolymer
(polymethylvinylether/maleic anhydride copolymer), 0.243% sodium fluoride in a silica base
(Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
2.           Colgate Cavity Protection Great Regular Flavor Toothpaste (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New
York, NY).
3.           Reduction exhibited by the 2-week mean relative to the baseline mean. A positive value
indicates a reduction in polymorphonuclear leukocytes (Log Cells/ml) at the 2-week
examination.
4.           Significance of paired t-test comparing the baseline and 2-week examinations.
                                                           29
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

     5.           Difference between the 2-week means expressed as a reduction of the 2-week mean for
     the Control Toothpaste Group. A positive value indicates a reduction in polymorphonuclear
     leukocytes (Log Cells/ml) for the Test Toothpaste Group relative to Control Toothpaste Group.
     6.           Significance of ANCOVA comparison of baseline-adjusted means.
     Table 24
     Baseline-Adjusted Subject Mean (SE) Gingival Index, Bleeding Index, Plaque Index Scores
     and Pocket Depth
     For Subjects Who Completed the Clinical Study
                                              2-Week         Within Treatment          Between-Treatment
                                              Summary        Analysis                  Comparisons
                               Treatment   N  (Mean  S.E.)   Reduction3     Sig. 4     Difference 5 Sig.6
                               Test
                               Toothpaste  25 0.99      0.05 29.3%          P<0.001
Gingival Index                 Group1
                               Con
                                                                                       25.6%        P<0.001
                                           25 1.33      0.05 5.0%           P=0.008
                               Index trol
                               Toothpaste
                                         2
                               Group
                               Test
                               Toothpaste  25 0.39      0.03 35.0%          P<0.001
Bleeding Index                 Crol                                                    29.1%        P<0.001
                               Toothpaste  25 0.55      0.03 8.3%           P=0.045
                               Group 2
                               Test
                               Toothpaste  25 1.80      0.05  16.7%         P<0.001
Plaque Index                   Crol                                                    11.3%        P=0.004
                               Toothpaste  25 2.03      0.05 6.0%           P<0.001
                               Group 2
                               Test
                               Toothpaste  25 1.87      0.04 0.25mm         P<0.001
Pocket Depth                   Group1                                                  0.2mm        P=0.001
(mm)                           Control
                               Toothpaste  25 2.07      0.04 0.05mm         P=0.218
                               Group 2
                                                         30
     10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

1.           Dentifrice formulation containing 0.3% triclosan, 2.0% copolymer
(polymethylvinylether/maleic anhydride copolymer), 0.243% sodium fluoride in a silica base
(Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
2.           Colgate Cavity Protection Great Regular Flavor Toothpaste (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New
York, NY).
3.           Reduction exhibited by the 2-week mean relative to the baseline mean. A positive value
indicates a reduction in index scores at the 2-week examination.
4.           Significance of paired t-test comparing the baseline and 2-week examinations.
5.           Difference between the 2-week means expressed as a reduction of the 2-week mean for
the Control Toothpaste Group. A positive value indicates a reduction in index scores for the Test
Toothpaste Group relative to Control Toothpaste Group.
6.           Significance of ANCOVA comparison of baseline-adjusted means.
Results Summary:
- subjects brushing with Total begin to show reductions in PMN after only one week use of this
toothpaste.
- additional reductions in PMN amongst subjects brushing with Total in the second week of use.
In other words, the effects of Total get better from the week 1 to week 2.
Signficance of results:
1. PMN (or neutrophil) changes commence in the initial days following use of an effective
toothpaste (Total).
2. Furthermore, the % changes for PMN are higher for Total than a fluoride toothpaste.
3. The % differences for PMN in the Total group are far higher than those for conventional
clinical indices i.e. gingivitis index, bleeding index and plaque index.
Example 6
Study Objective: Determine how quickly subjects brushing with Total or
fluoride toothpaste begin to show changes in oral PMN and clinical
outcomes.
Study design:
1. Subjects brushed with either a fluoride toothpaste or with the Total
                                                      31
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

toothpaste.
2. Subjects were evaluated at study entry (baseline or prior to issuing
any toothpaste) and were also evaluated after brushing with provided paste
for 1 week and 2 weeks.
The following evaluations were conducted for all subjects at baseline and
after 1 week and 2 week use of assigned toothpaste:
1. PMN
2. Clinical parameters (dental plaque index, gingivitis index, bleeding
index).
The results are in the tables below.
Conclusions
- subjects brushing with Total begin to show reductions in PMN after only
one week use of this toothpaste.
- additional reductions in PMN amongst subjects brushing with Total in the
second week of use, i.e. the effects of Total get better from
the week 1 to week 2.
                                                  32
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

                                                                    Table 25
                                                        Summary of Age &Gender
                                         For Subjects Who Completed the Clinical Study
                                                                            Number of Subjects                       Age 3
                                     Treatment                            Male       Female      Total 3     Mean         Range
                           Test Toothpaste Group1                           6          19          25         44.8         19-70
                        Control Toothpaste Group 2                          7          18          25         42.7         19-65
 1.            Dentifrice formulation containing 0.3% triclosan, 2.0% copolymer (polymethylvinylether/maleic anhydride copolymer),
 0.243% sodium fluoride in a silica base (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY)
 2.           Colgate Cavity Protection Great Regular Flavor Toothpaste (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY)
 3.            No statistically significant difference was indicated between the treatment groups with respect to either gender or age.
                                                                    Table 26
                 Subject Mean (SD) Polymorphonuclear Leukocytes (Log Cells/ml) Samples at
                                                    Baseline, 1-Week and 2-Weeks
                                         For Subjects Who Completed the Clinical Study
                                                                                 Baseline               1-Week                2-Week
                                                                                Summary               Summary                Summary
       Parameter                             Treatment                  n         (Mean                (Mean                  (Mean
                                                                                    S.D.)                S.D.)                  S.D.)
                                        Test Toothpaste                25      5.17 0.32             4.93 0.23              4.77 0.28
Polymorphonuclear                               Group2
  Leukocytes (Log                     Control Toothpaste               25      5.08     0.40         5.08     0.36          5.11     0.38
         Cells/ml)                              Group2                2        5        0        I
 1.            Dentifrice formulation containing 0.3% triclosan, 2.0% copolymer (polymethylvinylether/maleic anhydride copolymer),
 0.243% sodium fluoride in a silica base (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
 2.            Colgate Cavity Protection Great Regular Flavor Toothpaste (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
 3. No statistically significant difference was indicated between the two treatment groups at baseline with respect to
 polymorphonuclear leukocytes (Log Cell/ml) samples.
                                                                        33
 10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

                                                                 Table 27
     Subject Mean (SD) Gingival Index, Bleeding Index, Plaque Index Scores and Pocket Depth at
                                                        Baseline and 2-Weeks
                                            For Subjects Who Completed the Clinical Study
                                                                                           Baseline                      2-Week
                                                                                           Summary                      Summary
      Parameter                                 Treatment                      n        (Mean ± S.D.)                (Mean S.D.)
                                          Test Toothpaste Group 1             25          1.42 ± 0.32                  1.01      0.35
  Gingival Index
                                        Control Toothpaste Group 2            25          1.38 ± 0.26                  1.32      0.25
                                          Test Toothpaste Group 1             25          0.55 ± 0.22                  0.35      0.25
  Bleeding Index
                                        Control Toothpaste Group 2            25          0.65 ± 0.33                  0.59      0.30
                                          Test Toothpaste Group 1             25         2.17 ± 0.57                   1.81      0.49
   Plaque Index
                                        Control Toothpaste Group 2            25         2.16 ± 0.51                   2.02      0.49
                                          Test Toothpaste Group 1             25         2.18 ± 0.46                   1.92      0.43
   Pocket Depth
                                        Control Toothpaste Group 2            25         2.06 ± 0.41                   2.02      0.38
  1. Dentifrice formulation containing 0.3% triclosan, 2.0% copolymer (polymethylvinylether/maleic anhydride copolymer), 0.243%
  sodium fluoride in a silica base (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
  2. Colgate Cavity Protection Great Regular Flavor Toothpaste (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
  3. No statistically significant difference was indicated among the two treatment groups at baseline with respect to gingival index,
  bleeding index, plaque index scores and pocket depth (mm).
                                                                 Table 28
    Baseline-Adjusted Subject Mean (SE) Polymorphonuclear Leukocytes (Log Cells/ml) Samples
                                                                at 1-Week
                                            For Subjects Who Completed the Clinical Study
                                                                                     Within Treatment             Between-Treatment
                                                                                          Analysis                     Comparisons
                                                                 1-Week
                                                               Summary
         Index                        Treatment      n       (Mean ±S.E.)        Reduction3           gig.4      Difference5          Sig. 6
                                         Test
                                    Toothpaste      25      4.91    ±   0.05         38.3%          P=0.001
Polymorphonuclear                      Group1                                                                         35.4%           P=0.0
 Leukocytes (Log                       Control                                                                                         09
      Cells/ml)                     Toothpaste      25      5.10    ±   0.05          4.5%          P=0.752
                                              2
                                       Group
                                                                    34
  10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

 1. Dentifrice formulation containing 0.3% triclosan, 2.0% copolymer (polymethylvinylether/maleic anhydride copolymer), 0.243%
 sodium fluoride in a silica base (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
 2. Colgate Cavity Protection Great Regular Flavor Toothpaste (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
 3.    Reduction exhibited by the 1-week mean relative to the baseline mean.            A positive value indicates a reduction in
 polymorphonuclear leukocytes (Log Cells/ml) at the 1-week examination.
 4. Significance of paired t-test comparing the baseline and 1-week examinations.
 5. Difference between the 1-week means expressed as a reduction of the 1-week mean for the Control Toothpaste Group. A
 positive value indicates a reduction in polymorphonuclear leukocytes (Log Cells/ml) for the Test Toothpaste Group relative to
 Control Toothpaste Group.
 6. Significance of ANCOVA comparison of baseline-adjusted means.
                                                               Table 29
    Baseline-Adjusted Subject Mean (SE) Polymorphonuclear Leukocytes (Log Cells/ml) Samples
                                                             at 2-Weeks
                                          For Subjects Who Completed the Clinical Study
                                                                                 Within Treatment              Between-Treatment
                                                                                      Analysis                    Comparisons
                                                             2-Week
                                                            Summary
          Index                       Treatment     n     (Mean S.E.)        Reduction3           gig.4          Diff.5       Sig.6
                                         Test
                                     Toothpaste    25    4.75    ± 0.05         57.3%          P<0.001
Polymorphonuclear                      Group1                                                                   59.3%      P<0.001
 Leukocytes (Log                       Control
       Cells/ml)                     Toothpaste    25    5.14    ± 0.05          -4.7%           P=815
                                              2
                                       Group
 1. Dentifrice formulation containing 0.3% triclosan, 2.0% copolymer, 0.243% sodium fluoride in a silica base (Colgate-Palmolive
 Co., New York, NY).
 2. Colgate Cavity Protection Great Regular Flavor Toothpaste (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
 3. Reduction exhibited by the 2-week mean relative to the baseline mean.               A positive value indicates a reduction in
 polymorphonuclear leukocytes (Log Cells/ml) at the 2-week examination.
 4. Significance of paired t-test comparing the baseline and 2-week examinations.
 5. Difference between the 2-week means expressed as a reduction of the 2-week mean for the Control Toothpaste Group. A
 positive value indicates a reduction in polymorphonuclear leukocytes (Log Cells/ml) for the Test Toothpaste Group relative to
 Control Toothpaste Group.
 6. Significance of ANCOVA comparison of baseline-adjusted means.
                                                               Table 30
  Baseline-Adjusted Subject Mean (SE) Gingival Index, Bleeding Index, Plaque Index Scores and
                                                            Pocket Depth
                                          For Subjects Who Completed the Clinical Study
                                                                                                              Between-Treatment
                                                                                                                  Comparisons
                                                                       Within Treatment Analysis
                                                        2-Week
                                                       Summary
  Index                   Treatment             n    (Mean ± S.E.)     Reduction3          Sig. 4         Difference 5         Sig. 6
                                                                   35
 10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

                              Test
                        Toothpaste        25      0.99     ±    0.05        29.3%          P<0.001
Gingival                    Group    1
                                                                                                             25.6%         P<0.001
  Index                     Control
                        Toothpaste        25      1.33     ±    0.05         5.0%          P=0.008
                            Group 2
                              Test
                        Toothpaste        25      0.39     ±    0.03        35.0%          P<0.001
Bleeding                    Group 1                                                                          29.1%         P<0.001
  Index                     Control
                        Toothpaste        25      0.55     ±    0.03         8.3%          P=0.045
                            Group 2
                              Test
                        Toothpaste        25      1.80     ±    0.05        16.7%          P<0.001
 Plaque                     Group 1                                                                           11.3%        P=0.004
  Index                     Control
                        Toothpaste        25      2.03     ±    0.05        6.0%           P<0.001
                            Group 2
                              Test
                        Toothpaste        25      1.87     ±    0.04       0.25mm          P<0.001
 Pocket                     Group'                                                                           0.2mm         P=0.001
 Depth                      Control
  (mm)                  Toothpaste        25      2.07     ±    0.04       0.05mm          P=0.218
                            Group 2
 1. Dentifrice formulation containing 0.3% triclosan, 2.0% copolymer (polymethylvinylether/maleic anhydride copolymer), 0.243%
 sodium fluoride in a silica base (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
 2. Colgate Cavity Protection Great Regular Flavor Toothpaste (Colgate-Palmolive Co., New York, NY).
 3. Reduction exhibited by the 2-week mean relative to the baseline mean. A positive value indicates a reduction in index scores at
 the 2-week examination.
 4. Significance of paired t-test comparing the baseline and 2-week examinations.
 5. Difference between the 2-week means expressed as a reduction of the 2-week mean for the Control Toothpaste Group. A
 positive value indicates a reduction in index scores for the Test Toothpaste Group relative to Control Toothpaste Group.
 6. Significance of ANCOVA comparison of baseline-adjusted means.
                                                                    36
 10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

                                                        CLAIMS
1.           A method of detecting the presence, absence or severity of oral inflammation, or
monitoring the oral inflammation disease state, in a subject comprising:
             (a)           obtaining a test sample of oral material from said subject,
             (b)           determining the amount of polymorphonuclear neutrophil indicator substance in
             said test sample,
             (c)           comparing the amount of polymorphonuclear neutrophil indicator substance in the
             test sample to a control sample.
2.           The method of claim 1 wherein the control sample is a sample from a healthy subject or
from a plurality of healthy subjects.
3.           The method of claims 1-2 wherein the oral material is saliva.
4.           The method of claims 1-3 wherein an increased amount of polymorphonuclear neutrophil
indicator substance relative to the control sample indicates the presence of oral inflammation.
5.           The method of any of the foregoing claims 1-4 wherein an increased level of
polymorphonuclear neutrophil indicator substance in the test sample indicates ineffective oral
inflammation treatment and a decreased level of polymorphonuclear neutrophil indicator
substance in the test sample indicates effective oral inflammation treatment.
6.           The method of any foregoing claims 1-5 wherein the oral inflammation is gingivitis.
7.           The method of any foregoing claims 1-5 wherein the oral inflammation is periodontitis.
8.           The method of any foregoing claims 1-5 wherein an associated condition of the oral
inflammation is halitosis.
9.           The method of any foregoing claims 1-8 wherein the test sample is obtained with a swab.
                                                            37
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

10.          The method of any foregoing claims 1-8 wherein the test sample is obtained by
expectoration.
11.          The method of any of the foregoing claims 1-10 wherein the polymorphonuclear
neutneutrophil indicator substance is lactoferrin.
12.          The method of any foregoing claims 1-10 wherein the polymorphonuclear neutrophil
indicator substance is leukocyte esterase.
13.          The method of any foregoing claims 1-10 wherein the polymorphonuclear neutrophil
indicator substance is calprotectin.
14.          The method of any foregoing claims 1-13 wherein the oral material is contacted with an
absorbent              material     containing   reagents  to   determine    the   presence    or  amount of
POLYMORPHONUCLEAR NEUTROPHIL indicator substance.
15.          The method of claim 14 wherein the absorbent material is a strip or in a dipstick.
16.          A method for selecting a treatment regimen in a subject determined to have oral
inflammation from claim 1 comprising:
             (a)           obtaining a test sample of an oral material such as saliva from said subject,
             (b)           determining the amount of POLYMORPHONUCLEAR                     NEUTROPHIL, or
             POLYMORPHONUCLEAR NEUTROPHIL indicator substance, in said test sample,
             (c)           comparing the amount of POLYMORPHONUCLEAR                      NEUTROPHIL, or
             POLYMORPHONUCLEAR NEUTROPHIL indicator substance, in the test sample to a
             control,
             (d)           selecting a treatment regimen based on the comparison made in step (c).
17.          The method of claim 16 including the additional steps of the subject administering a
therapeutically effective amount of a dentifrice composition.
                                                            38
10467017_1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

18.            The method of claims 16 or 17, wherein the dentifrice composition comprises of an
active agent selected from the group consisting of antimicrobial agent, anti-inflammatory agent,
fluoride ion source, a basic amino acid and mixtures thereof.
19.          The method of any one of claims 16-18 wherein the treatment regimen is selected from
toothbrushing twice daily, toothbrushing more than twice daily, treating the subject with anti
inflammatory agents, treating the subject with antimicrobial agents, or a combination thereof.
20.          The method of any one of claims 16-19 wherein the antimicrobial agent is selected from
the group consisting of halogenated diphenyl ether, triclosan, herbal extracts, essential oils,
rosemary extract, thymol, menthol, eucalyptol, methyl salicylate, bisguanide antiseptics,
chlorhexidine,                 alexidine, octenidine, phenolic antiseptics, hexetidine, povidone iodine,
delmopinol, salifluor, metal ions and their salts, zinc chloride, zinc lactate, zinc citrate, stannous
fluoride, and stannous chloride, sanguinarine, propolis, oxygenating agents, hydrogen peroxide,
buffered sodium peroxyborate, peroxycarbonate, cetyl pyridinium chloride, magnolia extract,
magnolol, honokiol, butyl magnolol, propyl honokiol, and mixtures thereof; and
the anti-inflammatory agent is selected from the group consisting of steroidal agents, flucinolone,
hydrocortisone, nonsteroidal agents (NSAIDs), ketorolac, flurbiprofen, ibuprofen, naproxen,
indomethacin, diclofenac, etodolac, indomethacin, sulindac, tolmetin, ketoprofen, fenoprofen,
piroxicam, nabumetone, aspirin, diflunisal, meclofenamate, mefenamic acid, oxyphenbutazone,
phenylbutazone and combinations thereof.
21.          The method of any one of claims 16-20 wherein the active agent is selected from the
group consisting of triclosan, chlorhexidine, fluoride ion source, arginine and mixtures thereof.
22.          The method of any foregoing claims 16-21 which is an at home method.
23.          A diagnostic kit for detecting the presence, absence or severity of oral inflammation, or
monitoring the oral inflammation disease state, comprising a saliva absorbent material which
contains reagents to determine the presence and/or amount of POLYMORPHONUCLEAR
                                                           39
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

NEUTROPHIL indicator substance together with instructions for application of the saliva
absorbent material to the oral cavity and instructions for a treatment method based on the amount
of POLYMORPHONUCLEAR NEUTROPHIL indicator substance detected.
24.          The diagnostic kit of claim 23, wherein the instructions for application of the saliva
absorbent material to the oral cavity comprise:
             (a)           obtaining a test sample of oral material from said subject,
             (b)           determining the amount of polymorphonuclear neutrophil indicator substance in
             said test sample,
             (c)           comparing the amount of polymorphonuclear neutrophil indicator substance in the
             test sample to a control sample.
25.          The diagnostic kit of any one of claims 23-24 wherein the treatment method is the
administration of a dentifrice composition which comprises an active agent selected from the
group consisting of antimicrobial agent, anti-inflammatory agent, fluoride ion source, a basic
amino acid and mixtures thereof.
26.          The diagnostic kit of any one of claims 23-25 wherein the treatment regimen is selected
from toothbrushing twice daily, toothbrushing more than twice daily, treating the subject with
anti-inflammatory agents, treating the subject with antimicrobial agents, or a combination
thereof.
27.          The diagnostic kit of any one of claims 23-26 wherein the antimicrobial agent is selected
from the group consisting of halogenated diphenyl ether, triclosan, herbal extracts or essential
oils, rosemary extract, thymol, menthol, eucalyptol, methyl salicylate), bisguanide antiseptics,
chlorhexidine, alexidine, or octenidine), phenolic antiseptics, hexetidine, povidone iodine,
delmopinol, salifluor, metal ions and their salts, zinc chloride, zinc lactate, zinc citrate, stannous
fluoride, and stannous chloride, sanguinarine, propolis, oxygenating agents, hydrogen peroxide,
buffered sodium peroxyborate, or peroxycarbonate, cetyl pyridinium chloride, magnolia extract,
magnolol, honokiol, butyl magnolol, propyl honokiol, and mixtures thereof; and the anti
inflammatory agent is selected from the group consisting of steroidal agents, flucinolone,
                                                            40
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

hydrocortisone, nonsteroidal agents (NSAIDs), ketorolac, flurbiprofen, ibuprofen, naproxen,
indomethacin, diclofenac, etodolac, indomethacin, sulindac, tolmetin, ketoprofen, fenoprofen,
piroxicam, nabumetone, aspirin, diflunisal, meclofenamate, mefenamic acid, oxyphenbutazone,
phenylbutazone and combinations thereof.
28.          The diagnostic kit of any one of claims 23-27 wherein the active agent is selected from
the group consisting of triclosan, chlorhexidine, fluoride ion source, arginine and mixtures
thereof.
                                                    41
10467017 1 (GHMatters) P104559.AU.1

