                      FEDERATED APPLICATION SERVICES
ABSTRACT
        In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a request from an application for access
to a service. The application is one of a number of applications that each includes software for
accessing the service. The method includes selecting one of the applications to use to access the
service, and providing the requesting application access to the service through the selected
application's software for accessing the service.

                  2/4
                        200
    Receive a request from an application
            f)r access to a service
220    Select an application that has an
    instance of the service to use to access
                   the service
230   Provide the requesting application
     access to the selected instance of the
                      service
                   FIG. 2

                                                    1
                        FEDERATED APPLICATION SERVICES
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[1]         This application is related to US Patent Application Serial No. 14/593,215 filed
9 January 2015, International Patent Application No. PCT/US2015/010978 titled "Federated
application services" and filed 12 January 2015 in the name of Facebook, Inc., and Australian
Patent Application No.         2015375511    titled "Federated    application   services"  and filed
12 January 2015 in the name of Facebook, Inc., the entire content of each of which is
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[2]         This disclosure generally relates to services for client applications.
BACKGROUND
[3]         Computing devices may execute software applications, such as games, web browsers,
messaging services, or social-networking applications. With social-networking applications,
users may connect, communicate, and share information with other users in their social
networks. Applications may interface with hardware and software to provide functionality to a
user. For example, a mobile device may include applications that access sensor output to locate
the client device, such as output from a global positioning system (GPS) chipset on the mobile
device. As another example, applications on a computing device may use functionality of an
operating system, such as memory management functionality, during execution of the
application.
SUMMARY OF PARTICULAR EMBODIMENTS
[4]         In a first aspect, the present disclosure provides one or more computer-readable non
transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
        receive, from one of a plurality of applications of a client device, a request for access to a
service, each of the plurality of applications comprising software for accessing the service;
        select one of the plurality of applications to provide access to the service; and

                                                   2
        provide the requesting application access to the service through the selected application's
software for accessing the service.
151         In a second aspect, the present disclosure provides a method comprising:
        by a computing device, receiving, from one of a plurality of applications of a client
device, a request for access to a service, each of the plurality of applications comprising software
for accessing the service;
        by a computing device, selecting one of the plurality of applications to use to access the
service; and
        by a computing device, providing the requesting application access to the service through
the selected application's software for accessing the service.
[6]         In a third aspect, the present disclosure provides a system comprising:
        one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions
executable by the processors, the processors being operable when executing the instructions to:
                receive, from one of a plurality of applications of a client device, a request for
        access to a service, each of the plurality of applications comprising software for accessing
        the service;
                select one of the plurality of applications to provide access to the service; and
                provide the requesting application access to the service through the selected
        application's software for accessing the service.
[71         Applications on a client device may utilize one or more services to provide
functionality to a user and/or to interface with hardware or software. In particular embodiments,
the software of an application on a client device that uses or has access to a particular service
may include both a software client for the application and an instance of the service, i.e., the
software for accessing or providing the service. In particular embodiments, the clients of
multiple applications may share use of or share access to a service associated with a particular
application on the client device, such as a push service, even if each of those applications
includes its own instance of the service.
[8]         After an application requests access to a service, a determination is made regarding
which instance of the service should be accessed or used by the application. The instance used
may be an instance that is included in the requesting application or, alternatively, may be an

                                                  3
instance associated with another application on the client device. The determination may be
made based on any suitable criteria. For example, a protocol version of the instance, an attribute
of an application associated with the instance, the version of the instance, or any combination
thereof may be used to determine whether the particular instance of the service should be used by
one or more applications of the client device requesting the service.
191         In particular embodiments, a service may be a selection service that determines which
instance of a service, such as another service, a requesting application should use. If multiple
instances of the selection service exist (for example, if multiple applications each include an
instance of the selection service), then the appropriate instance of the selection service may be
determined and used to select the instance of the requested service. The instance of the selection
service selected based on any suitable criteria, including but not limited to the criteria described
above.
[10]        The embodiments disclosed above are only examples, and the scope of this disclosure
is not limited to them. Particular embodiments may include all, some, or none of the
components, elements, features, functions, operations, or steps of the embodiments disclosed
above. Embodiments according to the invention are in particular disclosed in the attached claims
directed to a method, a storage medium, a system and a computer program product, wherein any
feature mentioned in one claim category, e.g. method, can be claimed in another claim category,
e.g. system, as well. The dependencies or references back in the attached claims are chosen for
formal reasons only. However any subject matter resulting from a deliberate reference back to
any previous claims (in particular multiple dependencies) can be claimed as well, so that any
combination of claims and the features thereof are disclosed and can be claimed regardless of the
dependencies chosen in the attached claims. The subject-matter which can be claimed comprises
not only the combinations of features as set out in the attached claims but also any other
combination of features in the claims, wherein each feature mentioned in the claims can be
combined with any other feature or combination of other features in the claims. Furthermore, any
of the embodiments and features described or depicted herein can be claimed in a separate claim
and/or in any combination with any embodiment or feature described or depicted herein or with
any of the features of the attached claims.

                                                 4
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[11]         FIG. 1 illustrates an example network environment associated with a social
networking system.
[12]         FIG. 2 illustrates an example method for determining which of two or more instances
of a service an application should use.
[13]         FIG. 3 illustrates an example method for determining which of two or more instances
of a service an application should use.
[14]         FIG. 4 illustrates an example computer system.
DESCRIPTION OF EXAMPLE EMBODIMENTS
[15]         FIG. 1 illustrates an example network environment 100 associated with a social
networking system. Network environment 100 includes a user 101, a client system 130, a social
networking system 160, and a third-party system 170 connected to each other by a network 110.
Although FIG. 1 illustrates a particular arrangement of user 101, client system 130, social
networking system 160, third-party system 170, and network 110, this disclosure contemplates
any suitable arrangement of user 101, client system 130, social-networking system 160, third
party system 170, and network 110. As an example and not by way of limitation, two or more of
client system 130, social-networking system 160, and third-party system 170 may be connected
to each other directly, bypassing network 110. As another example, two or more of client system
130, social-networking system 160, and third-party system 170 may be physically or logically
co-located with each other in whole or in part. Moreover, although FIG. 1 illustrates a particular
number of users 101, client systems 130, social-networking systems 160, third-party systems
170, and networks 110, this disclosure contemplates any suitable number of users 101, client
systems 130, social-networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110. As an
example and not by way of limitation, network environment 100 may include multiple users 101,
client system 130, social-networking systems 160, third-party systems 170, and networks 110.
[161         In particular embodiments, user 101 may be an individual (human user), an entity
(e.g., an enterprise, business, or third-party application), or a group (e.g., of individuals or
entities) that interacts or communicates with or over social-networking system 160. In particular
embodiments, social-networking system 160 may be a network-addressable computing system

                                                  5
hosting an online social network. Social-networking system 160 may generate, store, receive,
and send social-networking data, such as, for example, user-profile data, concept-profile data,
social-graph information, or other suitable data related to the online social network. Social
networking system 160 may be accessed by the other components of network environment 100
either directly or via network 110. In particular embodiments, social-networking system 160 may
include an authorization server (or other suitable component(s)) that allows users 101 to opt in to
or opt out of having their actions logged by social-networking system 160 or shared with other
systems (e.g., third-party systems 170), for example, by setting appropriate privacy settings. A
privacy setting of a user may determine what information associated with the user may be
logged, how information associated with the user may be logged, when information associated
with the user may be logged, who may log information associated with the user, whom
information associated with the user may be shared with, and for what purposes information
associated with the user may be logged or shared. Authorization servers may be used to enforce
one or more privacy settings of the users of social-networking system 30 through blocking, data
hashing, anonymization, or other suitable techniques as appropriate. In particular embodiments,
third-party system 170 may be a network-addressable computing system. Third-party system 170
may generate, store, receive, and send data. Third-party system 170 may be accessed by the other
components of network environment 100 either directly or via network 110. In particular
embodiments, one or more users 101 may use one or more client systems 130 to access, send
data to, and receive data from social-networking system 160 or third-party system 170. Client
system 130 may access social-networking system 160 or third-party system 170 directly, via
network 110, or via a third-party system. As an example and not by way of limitation, client
system 130 may access third-party system 170 via social-networking system 160. Client system
130 may be any suitable computing device, such as, for example, a personal computer, a laptop
computer, a cellular telephone, a smartphone, or a tablet computer.
[171        This disclosure contemplates any suitable network 110. As an example and not by
way of limitation, one or more portions of network 110 may include an ad hoc network, an
intranet, an extranet, a virtual private network (VPN), a local area network (LAN), a wireless
LAN (WLAN), a wide area network (WAN), a wireless WAN (WWAN), a metropolitan area
network (MAN), a portion of the Internet, a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network

                                                  6
(PSTN), a cellular telephone network, or a combination of two or more of these. Network 110
may include one or more networks 110.
[181        Links 150 may connect client system 130, social-networking system 160, and third
party system 170 to communication network 110 or to each other. This disclosure contemplates
any suitable links 150. In particular embodiments, one or more links 150 include one or more
wireline (such as for example Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) or Data Over Cable Service
Interface Specification (DOCSIS)), wireless (such as for example Wi-Fi or Worldwide
Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX)), or optical (such as for example Synchronous
Optical Network (SONET) or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SDH)) links. In particular
embodiments, one or more links 150 each include an ad hoc network, an intranet, an extranet, a
VPN, a LAN, a WLAN, a WAN, a WWAN, a MAN, a portion of the Internet, a portion of the
PSTN, a cellular technology-based network, a satellite communications technology-based
network, another link 150, or a combination of two or more such links 150. Links 150 need not
necessarily be the same throughout network environment 100. One or more first links 150 may
differ in one or more respects from one or more second links 150.
[19]        Applications on a client device may utilize one or more services to provide
functionality to a user and/or to interface with hardware or software. For example, an application
may access one or more application programming interfaces (APIs) to communicate with an
operating system; other software programs (such as, for example, a graphics rendering program);
hardware on the client device; or external hardware, such as one or more servers or wireless
network communication points, or software running on servers or other external or remote
computing devices. The functionality provided by an API or the software or hardware that the
API interfaces with is an example of a service. For example, a client computing device may,
through an API, communicate with an external push server to receive push notifications. Push
notifications may be provided by one or more servers to one or more specific applications. For
example, a social-networking application may receive push notifications from one or more
servers of a social-networking system associated with the application when activity relevant to a
user of the application occurs on the social-networking system. As another example, a service
may include access to hardware or software functionality of a computing device, such as the GPS
sensors (or data they output) on the computing device, or the computing device's clock. While

                                                  7
this disclosure discusses particular examples of services, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable service.
[20]         In particular embodiments, the software of an application that uses or has access to a
service may include a client and an instance of the service, e.g., the software for accessing or
providing the service. For example, a messaging application may include a messaging client and
one or more APIs to access a push service, and a navigation application may include a navigation
client and also include one or more APIs to access a push service, even if the push service in
each case is provided by communication with the same (or associated) server(s) using the same
(or associated) communication protocols. For example, the messaging application and the
navigation application may each use their own associated instances of the push service to receive
notifications, even though the push notifications in both cases are provided by the same servers,
e.g., of a social-networking system.
[21]         In particular embodiments, applications may share use of or share access to a
particular instance of a service, such as a push service, even if each of those applications includes
its own unique instance of the particular service. In other words, several applications may each
include an instance of a service, yet two or more of the applications may access the service
through a particular one of the instances of the service. For example, the instance of a push
service associated with one application may communicate with one or more push servers to
provide push services to multiple applications, even though each of those applications may
include the capability (e.g. include or have access to their own instance of the necessary
software) to communicate with the push servers. Thus, in particular embodiments, one
application may have a socket open to communicate with a server, and data from the server is
multiplexed over the single socket connection to provide the service to multiple applications.
[22]         FIG. 2 illustrates an example method 200 for determining which of two or more
instances of a service an application should use. The method may be performed by any suitable
software. For example, all or some of the applications on a client computing device may be
capable of performing method 200. As another example, all or some of the applications on a
client computing device may access software, such as another application, for performing the
method. For example, as described more fully herein, method 200 may be performed by an
independent selection service that is accessible by one or more applications on a device.

                                                   8
[231        The method of FIG. 2 may begin at step 210, where a request from an application
(such as, for example, from an application's client for accessing the selection service) for access
to a service is received, e.g., by an instance of a selection service or by software associated with
the instance of the selection service. As described above, the request may be received by an
instance of the selection service that is part of the application submitting the request. In other
words, receiving the request may involve receiving by a selection service a request generated by
the application associated with that selection service. In particular embodiments, a request for
access to service may be made by an application each time the application is started up on the
client device. In other words, the application being loaded into random access memory on the
client device, whether running in the background or foreground of the client device, may
constitute a request by the application for one or more services. For example, each time a social
networking application is loaded on the client device, the application may submit a request for
access to a push service to receive push notifications relevant to the application. As another
example, each time the social-networking application is loaded on the client device a notification
of that event may be provided to software implementing method 200, which constitutes a request
by the social-networking application for access to the push service
[24]        In particular embodiments, each time an application that includes an instance of a
service is installed on a device, the installation may be interpreted by the selection service (or by
software that monitors installation and is accessible by the selection service) as a request by an
application to access the service. For example, suppose that multiple applications are sharing
access to an instance of a push service associated with a particular application. In other words,
the instance of the push service associated with the particular application was determined to be
the instance that each application on the client device should access for the push service. When
another application with an instance of the push service is installed on the client device, that
newly installed instance may be the appropriate instance for the applications to use., e.g.,
because the service associated with the newly installed application may be the newest instance of
the service Thus, the installation may trigger a determination of which instance of the push
service to use (the determination taking into account some or all installed applications, including
the just installed application), for example, by performing the example determination method of
FIG. 2. All or some of the applications using the instance of the service may submit their own

                                                 9
request for access to the service when an application is installed, or alternatively the installation
of an application may be considered a request from all or some of the applications using the
service for access to the service.
[25]        In particular embodiments, each time an application that includes an instance of a
service is updated on a device, the update may be interpreted as a request by an application to
access the service. In particular embodiments, each time an application that includes an instance
of a service is updated, the update may be interpreted by the selection service (or by software
that monitors updates and is accessible by the selection service) as a request by an application to
access the service. For example, suppose that multiple applications are sharing access to an
instance of a push service associated with a particular application. In other words, the instance of
the push service associated with the particular application was determined to be the instance that
each application on the client device should access for the push service. When another
application with an instance of the push service is updated on the client device, that newly
updated instance may be the appropriate instance for the applications to use, e.g., because the
service associated with the newly updated application may be the newest instance of the service.
Thus, the update may trigger a determination of which instance of the push service to use (the
determination taking into account some or all applications or just some or all updated
applications), for example, by performing the example determination method of FIG. 2. All or
some of the applications using the instance of the service may submit their own request for
access to the service when an application is updated, or alternatively the update of an application
may be considered a request from all or some of the applications using the service for access to
the service. In particular embodiments, a request may be made when the update applies at least in
part to the instance of the service included in the application being updated, e.g. when the
instance of the service is updated.
[26]        At step 220, one of the applications that includes an instance of the service requested
in step 210 is selected. In particular embodiments, the desired instance of the service (e.g., the
application that contains that desired instance of the service) is selected by submitting a request
to a selection service, which may be software included in the requesting application or may be
software independent of the requesting application (e.g., in an independent application). The
selection service may determine the application to use to access the service (e.g. the application

                                                 10
containing the desired instance of the service) and return an identification of that application. In
particular embodiments, the selection service may itself be a service that is selected for an
application, for example by using the example method 200 to determine which instance of a
selection service to use to a select a service for an application. In particular embodiments, a
digital signature or other data identifying an application associated with an instance of a service
may be checked, e.g. to ensure that the application is a known or trusted application.
[271        In particular embodiments, the application to use to access the service may be
determined according to one or more predetermined criteria. For example, the criteria may
include a protocol version of the instance of the service. In particular embodiments, the protocol
version may indicate that the instance of the service corresponds to a particular version of the
service, such as the version of software on a server or other external computing device that
provides the service. For example, for a push service, the protocol version may correspond to a
version of the software on a server for providing the push service, to a version of the protocol
used to communicate information between the server and the client device, or both. A higher
protocol version may indicate that the instance of the push service on the client device is
compatible with the software that provides the push service (including the communication
protocol used to access the push service) on the server, or that the instance is capable of
providing enhanced functionality (such as, for example, security features) corresponding to the
version of the software or communication protocol.
[28]        In particular embodiments, criteria for determining an instance of a service to use
may include an attribute or aspect of an application that includes the instance of the service. For
example, some applications may be more desirable to use to access a service than others. For
example, an application that have higher permissions to access data, hardware, or software
functionality (such as access to sensor output) may be selected over applications that have fewer
permissions to access such data, hardware, or software. In particular embodiments, applications
that are pre-installed on a client computing device may have higher permissions than
applications that a user installs. In particular embodiments, applications may have higher
permissions based on user settings or preferences. In particular embodiments, an attribute may
include the type of application. For example, a messaging application's instance of a service may
be more desirable to use when the desired service relates to messaging. In particular

                                                  11
embodiments, an attribute may include the developer or publisher of an application. For
example, an application that desires access to a service may prefer to use instances of the service
that are part of an application that is designed, made, or distributed by the same developer or
publisher that designed, made, or distributed the requesting application. This disclosure
contemplates any suitable attribute to use to select an instance of a service. In particular
embodiments, the attributes used may be changed or varied, for example by a user of the device
or by an update to the software determining the instance of the service to use.
[29]        In particular embodiments, criteria for determining an instance of a service to use
may include information identifying the version of the application used to access the service. In
particular embodiments, the version may be the version of the instance of the service. The
version of the application or service may correspond to software updates for the application or
the service. Thus, the most recently updated application, and, in particular embodiments, the
most recently updated instance of the service, may be selected over applications or instance of
the service that have not been updated to the latest version of the application or service.
[30]        In particular embodiments, the criteria used to determine an instance of a service may
be ranked or weighted. For example, the criteria could include: 1) a protocol version of the
instance of the service; 2) an attribute or aspect of the applications that include the instance of
the service; and 3) information identifying the version of the application used to access the
service. The criteria corresponding to 1) may take precedence over the criteria corresponding to
2), which may take precedence over the criteria corresponding to 3). In other words, an instance
of the service that has a higher protocol version may always be selected over an instance of a
service that is associated with an application having a more desirable attribute. In particular
embodiments, the criteria may be weighted, such that an application with a very desirable
attribute may be selected even when it has a lower protocol version. This disclosure
contemplates any suitable method for ranking or weighting any suitable criteria.
[31]        At step 230, access to the service (e.g. the instance of the service selected in step 220)
is provided to the requesting application. In particular embodiments, when an application is
already accessing the service through an instance of the service and a determination is made
about which instance is the appropriate one (for example, when an instance of the service is
updated on the client device), step 230 may include determining that the instance the application

                                                 12
is already using is the appropriate instance. In particular embodiments, step 230 may include
determining whether the application including the instance to be used is running at least in the
background of the client device. If the application is not running at least in the background of the
client device, then step 230 may include loading the application into the background of the client
device such that the requesting application can access the desired instance of the service. In
particular embodiments, loading the application may involve loading only the portion of the
application necessary to implement the desired service. In other words, other executable portions
of the application that are not necessary to use the desired service may not be loaded into the
background of the client device. In particular embodiments, step 230 may include closing an
instance of the service, or the application including the instance of a service, that an application
was using to access a service but that is no longer the desired instance to use.
[32]        Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of FIG. 2, where
appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of
FIG. 2 as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the
method of FIG. 2 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover, although this disclosure describes
and illustrates an example method for determining which of two or more instances of a service
an application should use including the particular steps of the method of FIG. 2, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable method for determining which of two or more instances of a service an
application should use including any suitable steps, which may include all, some, or none of the
steps of the method of FIG. 2, where appropriate. Furthermore, although this disclosure describes
and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out particular steps of the
method of FIG. 2, this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable
components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 2.
[33]        As described more fully herein, an example service may be a selection service to
determine which instance of a service one or more applications should use. The selection service
may part of the applications that desire access to a service, or may be independent software. The
selection service may perform all or some of the steps for determining which of two or more
instances of a service an application should use, for example by implementing some or all of the
steps of method 200. When multiple instances of a selection service exist, the appropriate
instance of a selection service to use may be determined. For example, any of the criteria

                                                  13
discussed in connection with step 220 of method 200 may be used to determine which instance
of a selection service to use to select an instance of another service. The selection service may
then determine which instance of the other service to use, for example by executing the steps of
method 200.
[34]         FIG. 3 illustrates an example method 300 for determining which of two or more
instances of a service an application should use. Method 300 is described from the viewpoint of a
client application requesting a service.
[351         Method 300 may begin at step 310, where a client application requests access to a
service. In particular embodiments, a request for access may occur when the client application is
installed. In particular embodiments, a request for access may occur when any client application
hosting an instance of the requested service is installed. In particular embodiments, a request for
access may occur when the client application is updated. In particular embodiments, a request for
access may occur when any client application hosting an instance of the requested service is
updated. In particular embodiments, a request may occur at periodic intervals, or on demand
(e.g., initiated by a user, by the client application, by another application, or any suitable
combination thereof). In particular embodiments, the client application's request may be made to
a selection service. In particular embodiments, a selection service may submit requests on behalf
of a client application, e.g., when the selection service determines that an installation or update
of the client application has occurred.
[36]         At step 320, the client may receive a response to the request. In particular
embodiments, the response may include an identification of one or more instances of a service
that can satisfy the client's request to access the service. In particular embodiments, the request
may be for all instances that can provide the service or for only some instances that can provide
the service, and the corresponding response may identify all instances or some instances, as
appropriate. As an example, Application A may request access to a service and receive a
response that identifies Application A, Application C, Application D, and Application F as
applications that all contain (or are associated with) instances of the requested service. In
particular embodiments, the identified instances may be ranked or scored, as described more
fully above, prior to receipt by the requesting client application. In particular embodiments, the
client application may rank or score the instances, e.g. at least in part by using a selection service

                                                  14
associated with that client application. In particular embodiments, receiving a response may
include receiving only an identification of a selected instance of the requested service that the
client application should use, e.g., the instance with the highest score as selected by a selection
service. As described more fully herein, the selection service may be part of the client
application, part of another client application, or its own dedicated application.
[371        In particular embodiments, after a client application has identified the selected
instance of a service to use to access a service, the client application may notify the instance, the
application associated with the instance, the selection service, a proxy for the instance or
application associated with the instance, or any suitable combination thereof, that the client
application will use the selected instance to access the service. In particular embodiments, the
client application may communicate directly with the instance of the service. In particular
embodiments, the client application may use an intermediary, such as a stand-alone selection
service, to communicate with the instance of the service.
[381        Particular embodiments may repeat one or more steps of the method of FIG. 3, where
appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of
FIG. 3 as occurring in a particular order, this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the
method of FIG. 3 occurring in any suitable order. Moreover, although this disclosure describes
and illustrates an example method for determining which of two or more instances of a service
an application should use including the particular steps of the method of FIG. 3, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable method for determining which of two or more instances of a service an
application should use including any suitable steps, which may include all, some, or none of the
steps of the method of FIG. 3, where appropriate. Furthermore, although this disclosure describes
and illustrates particular components, devices, or systems carrying out particular steps of the
method of FIG. 3, this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable
components, devices, or systems carrying out any suitable steps of the method of FIG. 3.
[391        FIG. 4 illustrates an example computer system 400. In particular embodiments, one
or more computer systems 400 perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or
illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, one or more computer systems 400 provide
functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments, software running on one
or more computer systems 400 performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or

                                                   15
illustrated   herein   or provides    functionality   described   or illustrated herein. Particular
embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems 400. Herein,
reference to a computer system may encompass a computing device, and vice versa, where
appropriate. Moreover, reference to a computer system may encompass one or more computer
systems, where appropriate.
[40]         This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems 400. This
disclosure contemplates computer system 400 taking any suitable physical form. As example and
not by way of limitation, computer system 400 may be an embedded computer system, a system
on-chip (SOC), a single-board computer system (SBC) (such as, for example, a computer-on
module (COM) or system-on-module (SOM)), a desktop computer system, a laptop or notebook
computer system, an interactive kiosk, a mainframe, a mesh of computer systems, a mobile
telephone, a personal digital assistant (PDA), a server, a tablet computer system, or a
combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate, computer system 400 may include one
or more computer systems 400; be unitary or distributed; span multiple locations; span multiple
machines; span multiple data centers; or reside in a cloud, which may include one or more cloud
components in one or more networks. Where appropriate, one or more computer systems 400
may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more
methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation, one or more
computer systems 400 may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or
more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems 400 may perform
at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or
illustrated herein, where appropriate.
[41]         In particular embodiments, computer system 400 includes a processor 402, memory
404, storage 406, an input/output (I/O) interface 408, a communication interface 410, and a bus
412. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a
particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement, this disclosure
contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable
components in any suitable arrangement.
[42]         In particular    embodiments,    processor   402   includes   hardware  for executing
instructions, such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of

                                                 16
limitation, to execute instructions, processor 402 may retrieve (or fetch) the instructions from an
internal register, an internal cache, memory 404, or storage 406; decode and execute them; and
then write one or more results to an internal register, an internal cache, memory 404, or storage
406. In particular embodiments, processor 402 may include one or more internal caches for data,
instructions, or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor 402 including any suitable
number of any suitable internal caches, where appropriate. As an example and not by way of
limitation, processor 402 may include one or more instruction caches, one or more data caches,
and one or more translation lookaside buffers (TLBs). Instructions in the instruction caches may
be copies of instructions in memory 404 or storage 406, and the instruction caches may speed up
retrieval of those instructions by processor 402. Data in the data caches may be copies of data in
memory 404 or storage 406 for instructions executing at processor 402 to operate on; the results
of previous instructions executed at processor 402 for access by subsequent instructions
executing at processor 402 or for writing to memory 404 or storage 406; or other suitable data.
The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor 402. The TLBs may speed
up virtual-address translation for processor 402. In particular embodiments, processor 402 may
include one or more internal registers for data, instructions, or addresses. This disclosure
contemplates processor 402 including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers,
where appropriate. Where appropriate, processor 402 may include one or more arithmetic logic
units (ALUs); be a multi-core processor; or include one or more processors 402. Although this
disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor, this disclosure contemplates any
suitable processor.
[43]        In particular embodiments, memory 404 includes main memory for storing
instructions for processor 402 to execute or data for processor 402 to operate on. As an example
and not by way of limitation, computer system 400 may load instructions from storage 406 or
another source (such as, for example, another computer system 400) to memory 404. Processor
402 may then load the instructions from memory 404 to an internal register or internal cache. To
execute the instructions, processor 402 may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or
internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions, processor 402 may
write one or more results (which may be intermediate or final results) to the internal register or
internal cache. Processor 402 may then write one or more of those results to memory 404. In

                                                17
particular embodiments, processor 402 executes only instructions in one or more internal
registers or internal caches or in memory 404 (as opposed to storage 406 or elsewhere) and
operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory 404 (as
opposed to storage 406 or elsewhere). One or more memory buses (which may each include an
address bus and a data bus) may couple processor 402 to memory 404. Bus 412 may include one
or more memory buses, as described below. In particular embodiments, one or more memory
management units (MMUs) reside between processor 402 and memory 404 and facilitate
accesses to memory 404 requested by processor 402. In particular embodiments, memory 404
includes random access memory (RAM). This RAM may be volatile memory, where appropriate
Where appropriate, this RAM may be dynamic RAM (DRAM) or static RAM (SRAM).
Moreover, where appropriate, this RAM may be single-ported or multi-ported RAM. This
disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory 404 may include one or more memories
404, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.
[44]        In particular embodiments, storage 306 includes mass storage for data or instructions.
As an example and not by way of limitation, storage 306 may include a hard disk drive (HDD), a
floppy disk drive, flash memory, an optical disc, a magneto-optical disc, magnetic tape, or a
Universal Serial Bus (USB) drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage 306 may
include removable or non-removable (or fixed) media, where appropriate. Storage 306 may be
internal or external to computer system 300, where appropriate. In particular embodiments,
storage 306 is non-volatile, solid-state memory. In particular embodiments, storage 306 includes
read-only memory (ROM). Where appropriate, this ROM may be mask-programmed ROM,
programmable ROM (PROM), erasable PROM                 (EPROM), electrically      erasable PROM
(EEPROM), electrically alterable ROM (EAROM), or flash memory or a combination of two or
more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage 306 taking any suitable physical form.
Storage 306 may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between
processor 302 and storage 306, where appropriate. Where appropriate, storage 306 may include
one or more storages 306. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage,
this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

                                                 18
[451        In particular embodiments, I/O interface 308 includes hardware, software, or both,
providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system 300 and one or
more 11O devices. Computer system 300 may include one or more of these I/O devices, where
appropriate. One or more of these I/O devices may enable communication between a person and
computer system 300. As an example and not by way of limitation, an I/O device may include a
keyboard, keypad, microphone, monitor, mouse, printer, scanner, speaker, still camera, stylus,
tablet, touch screen, trackball, video camera, another suitable I/O device or a combination of two
or more of these. An I/O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates
any suitable I/O devices and any suitable I/O interfaces 308 for them. Where appropriate, I/O
interface 308 may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor 302 to
drive one or more of these I/O devices. I/O interface 308 may include one or more I/O interfaces
308, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I/O
interface, this disclosure contemplates any suitable I/O interface.
[461        In particular embodiments, communication           interface 310 includes hardware,
software, or both providing one or more interfaces for communication (such as, for example,
packet-based communication) between computer system 300 and one or more other computer
systems 300 or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation,
communication interface 310 may include a network interface controller (NIC) or network
adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire-based network or a wireless NIC
(WNIC) or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network, such as a WI-Fl
network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication
interface 310 for it. As an example and not by way of limitation, computer system 300 may
communicate with an ad hoc network, a personal area network (PAN), a local area network
(LAN), a wide area network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), or one or more
portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or
more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example, computer system 300 may
communicate with a wireless PAN (WPAN) (such as, for example, a BLUETOOTH WPAN), a
WI-Fl network, a WI-MAX network, a cellular telephone network (such as, for example, a
Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) network), or other suitable wireless network
or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system 300 may include any suitable

                                                 19
communication interface 310 for any of these networks, where appropriate. Communication
interface 310 may include one or more communication interfaces 310, where appropriate.
Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface, this
disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.
[471        In particular embodiments, bus 312 includes hardware, software, or both coupling
components of computer system 300 to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation,
bus 312 may include an Accelerated Graphics Port (AGP) or other graphics bus, an Enhanced
Industry Standard Architecture (EISA) bus, a front-side bus (FSB), a HYPERTRANSPORT
(HT) interconnect, an Industry Standard Architecture (ISA) bus, an INFINIBAND interconnect,
a low-pin-count (LPC) bus, a memory bus, a Micro Channel Architecture (MCA) bus, a
Peripheral Component Interconnect (PCI) bus, a PCI-Express (PCIe) bus, a serial advanced
technology attachment (SATA) bus, a Video Electronics Standards Association local (VLB) bus,
or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus 312 may include one or
more buses 312, where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular
bus, this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.
[48]        Herein, a computer-readable non-transitory storage medium or media may include
one or more semiconductor-based or other integrated circuits (ICs) (such, as for example, field
programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) or application-specific ICs (ASICs)), hard disk drives
(HDDs), hybrid hard drives (HHDs), optical discs, optical disc drives (ODDs), magneto-optical
discs, magneto-optical drives, floppy diskettes, floppy disk drives (FDDs), magnetic tapes, solid
state drives (SSDs), RAM-drives, SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives, any other suitable
computer-readable non-transitory storage media, or any suitable combination of two or more of
these, where appropriate. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium may be volatile,
non-volatile, or a combination of volatile and non-volatile, where appropriate.
[49]        Herein, "or" is inclusive and not exclusive, unless expressly indicated otherwise or
indicated otherwise by context. Therefore, herein, "A or B" means "A, B, or both," unless
expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover, "and" is both joint
and several, unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore,
herein, "A and B" means "A and B, jointly or severally," unless expressly indicated otherwise or
indicated otherwise by context.

                                                    20
[50]         In the context of this specification, the word "comprising" and its associated
grammatical constructions mean "including principally but not necessarily solely" or "having" or
"including", and not "consisting only of'.           Variations of the word "comprising", such as
"comprise" and "comprises" have correspondingly varied meanings.
[51]         The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes, substitutions, variations,
alterations, and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a
person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not
limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover, although this
disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular
components, elements, feature, functions, operations, or steps, any of these embodiments may
include any combination or permutation of any of the components, elements, features, functions,
operations, or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill
in the art would comprehend. Furthermore, reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or
system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to, arranged to, capable of,
configured to, enabled to, operable to, or operative to perform a particular function encompasses
that apparatus, system, component, whether or not it or that particular function is activated,
turned on, or unlocked, as long as that apparatus, system, or component is so adapted, arranged,
capable, configured, enabled, operable, or operative.
Further Embodiments
[52]         One embodiment provides one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage
media embodying software that is operable when executed to:
         receive, from one of a plurality of applications of a client device, a request for access to a
service, each of the plurality of applications comprising software for accessing the service;
         select one of the plurality of applications to provide access to the service; and
         provide the requesting application access to the service through the selected application's
software for accessing the service.
[53]         In one arrangement, the service comprises a push service.
[54]         In one arrangement, one or more of the plurality of applications further comprise the
software that is operable when executed to:

                                                   21
        receive a request from an application for access to a service, the application comprising
one of a plurality of applications that each comprises software for accessing the service;
        select one of the plurality of applications to use to access the service; and
        provide the requesting application access to the service through the application
determined to be used access the service.
[55]        In one arrangement, the software that is operable when executed to select one of the
plurality of applications to use to access the service comprises software that is further operable
when executed to determine, based on one or more criteria, one of the plurality of application to
use to access the service.
[56]        In one implementation, the criteria comprise information identifying a protocol
version of the software for accessing the service.
[571        In one implementation, the criteria comprise an attribute of the one of the plurality of
applications. In one implementation, the attribute comprises one or more permissions to access
data on a client device on which the one of the plurality of applications resides.
[58]        In one implementation, the criteria comprise information identifying a version of the
software for accessing the service.
[59]        In one implementation, the criteria comprise:
                first criterion comprising information identifying a protocol version of the
        software for accessing the service;
                second criterion comprising an attribute of the one of the plurality of applications;
        and
                third criterion comprising information identifying a version of the software for
        accessing the service; and
        the first criterion takes precedence over the second criterion, and the second criterion
takes precedence over the third criterion.
[60]        In one arrangement, the software that is operable when executed to provide the
requesting application access to the service comprises software that is further operable when
executed to:
        determine whether the application to be used to access the service is running at least in
the background on a client device; and

                                                  22
        when the application is not running at least in the background on the client device, cause
at least the portion of the application comprising the software for accessing the service to be
executed by the client device.
[61]        In one implementation, the software that is operable when executed to cause at least
the portion of the application comprising the software for accessing the service to be executed by
the client device comprises software that is further operable when executed to cause only the
portion of the application comprising the software for accessing the service to be executed by the
client device.
[62]        In one arrangement, the software that is operable when executed to select one of the
plurality of applications to use to access the service comprises software that is further operable
when executed to:
        submit a request to access the service to a selection service for selecting one of the
plurality of applications to use to access the service; and
        receive from the selection service an identification of the selected application.
[63]        In one implementation, each application further comprises an instance of the selection
service; and
        the software that is operable when executed to submit a request to access the service to a
selection service comprises software that is further operable when executed to:
                select one of the instances of the selection service; and
                submit the request to the selected instance of the selection service.
[64]        In one implementation, the software that is operable when executed to select one of
the instances of the selection service comprises software that is further operable when executed
to select, based on one or more criteria, the instance of the selection service, the criteria
comprising one or more of:
                first criterion comprising information identifying a protocol version of the
        instance of the selection service;
                second criterion comprising an attribute of the application comprising the instance
        of the selection service; and
                third criterion comprising information identifying a version of the instance of the
        selection service.

                                                  23
[651        In one arrangement, the software that is operable when executed to receive a request
from an application for access to a service comprises software that is further operable when
executed to receive a notification that the application is running on a client device.
[661        In one arrangement, the software that is operable when executed to receive a request
from an application for access to a service comprises software that is further operable when
executed to receive a notification that one of the plurality of applications was installed on a client
device.
[671        In one arrangement, the software that is operable when executed to receive a request
from an application for access to a service comprises software that is further operable when
executed to receive a notification that an update for one of the plurality of applications was
installed on a client device.
[68]        Another embodiment provides a method comprising:
        by a computing device, receiving, from one of a plurality of applications of a client
device, a request for access to a service, each of the plurality of applications comprising software
for accessing the service;
        by a computing device, selecting one of the plurality of applications to use to access the
service; and
        by a computing device, providing the requesting application access to the service through
the selected application's software for accessing the service.
[69]        In one arrangement, selecting one of the plurality of applications to use to access the
service comprises determining, based on one or more criteria, one of the plurality of application
to use to access the service, the criteria comprising:
                first criterion comprising information identifying a protocol version of the
        software for accessing the service;
                second criterion comprising an attribute of the one of the plurality of applications;
        and
                third criterion comprising information identifying a version of the software for
        accessing the service, wherein the first criterion takes precedence over the second
        criterion, and the second criterion takes precedence over the third criterion.

                                                  24
[701       A further embodiment provides a system comprising:
       one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions
executable by the processors, the processors being operable when executing the instructions to:
               receive, from one of a plurality of applications of a client device, a request for
       access to a service, each of the plurality of applications comprising software for accessing
       the service;
               select one of the plurality of applications to provide access to the service; and
               provide the requesting application access to the service through the selected
       application's software for accessing the service.

                                                   25
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
        1. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that
is operable when executed to:
        receive, from one of a plurality of applications of a client device, a request for access to a
service, each of the plurality of applications comprising software for accessing the service;
        select one of the plurality of applications to provide access to the service; and
        provide the requesting application access to the service through the selected application's
software for accessing the service.
        2. The media of Claim 1, wherein the service comprises a push service.
        3. The media of either one of Claim 1 and Claim 2, wherein one or more of the plurality
of applications further comprise the software that is operable when executed to:
        receive a request from an application for access to a service, the application comprising
one of a plurality of applications that each comprises software for accessing the service;
        select one of the plurality of applications to use to access the service; and
        provide the requesting application access to the service through the application
determined to be used access the service.
        4. The media of Claim 1, wherein the software that is operable when executed to select
one of the plurality of applications to use to access the service comprises software that is further
operable when executed to determine, based on one or more criteria, one of the plurality of
application to use to access the service.
        5. The media of Claim 4, wherein the criteria comprises information identifying a
protocol version of the software for accessing the service.
        6. The media of Claim 4, wherein the criteria comprises an attribute of the one of the
plurality of applications.

                                                 26
        7. The media of Claim 6, wherein the attribute comprises one or more permissions to
access data on a client device on which the one of the plurality of applications resides.
        8. The media of Claim 4, wherein the criteria comprises information identifying a version
of the software for accessing the service.
        9. The media of Claim 4, wherein:
        the criteria comprise:
                 first criterion comprising information identifying a protocol version of the
        software for accessing the service;
                 second criterion comprising an attribute of the one of the plurality of applications;
        and
                 third criterion comprising information identifying a version of the software for
        accessing the service; and
        the first criterion takes precedence over the second criterion, and the second criterion
takes precedence over the third criterion.
        10. The media of Claim 1, wherein the software that is operable when executed to
provide the requesting application access to the service comprises software that is further
operable when executed to:
        determine whether the application to be used to access the service is running at least in
the background on a client device; and
        when the application is not running at least in the background on the client device, cause
at least the portion of the application comprising the software for accessing the service to be
executed by the client device.
        11. The media of Claim 10, wherein the software that is operable when executed to cause
at least the portion of the application comprising the software for accessing the service to be
executed by the client device comprises software that is further operable when executed to cause

                                                   27
only the portion of the application comprising the software for accessing the service to be
executed by the client device.
         12. The media of Claim 1, wherein the software that is operable when executed to select
one of the plurality of applications to use to access the service comprises software that is further
operable when executed to:
         submit a request to access the service to a selection service for selecting one of the
plurality of applications to use to access the service; and
         receive from the selection service an identification of the selected application.
         13. The method of Claim 12, wherein each application further comprises an instance of
the selection service; and
         the software that is operable when executed to submit a request to access the service to a
selection service comprises software that is further operable when executed to:
                 select one of the instances of the selection service; and
                 submit the request to the selected instance of the selection service.
         14. The method of Claim 13, wherein the software that is operable when executed to
select one of the instances of the selection service comprises software that is further operable
when executed to select, based on one or more criteria, the instance of the selection service, the
criteria comprising one or more of:
                 first criterion comprising information identifying a protocol version of the
         instance of the selection service;
                 second criterion comprising an attribute of the application comprising the instance
         of the selection service; and
                 third criterion comprising information identifying a version of the instance of the
         selection service.

                                                   28
         15. The media of Claim 1, wherein the software that is operable when executed to receive
a request from an application for access to a service comprises software that is further operable
when executed to receive a notification that the application is running on a client device.
         16. The media of Claim 1, wherein the software that is operable when executed to receive
a request from an application for access to a service comprises software that is further operable
when executed to receive a notification that one of the plurality of applications was installed on a
client device.
         17. The media of Claim 1, wherein the software that is operable when executed to receive
a request from an application for access to a service comprises software that is further operable
when executed to receive a notification that an update for one of the plurality of applications was
installed on a client device.
         18. A method comprising:
        by a computing device, receiving, from one of a plurality of applications of a client
device, a request for access to a service, each of the plurality of applications comprising software
for accessing the service;
        by a computing device, selecting one of the plurality of applications to use to access the
service; and
        by a computing device, providing the requesting application access to the service through
the selected application's software for accessing the service.
         19. The method of Claim 18, wherein, selecting one of the plurality of applications to use
to access the service comprises determining, based on one or more criteria, one of the plurality of
application to use to access the service, the criteria comprising:
                first criterion comprising information identifying a protocol version of the
        software for accessing the service;
                second criterion comprising an attribute of the one of the plurality of applications;
        and

                                                 29
               third criterion comprising information identifying a version of the software for
       accessing the service, wherein the first criterion takes precedence over the second
       criterion, and the second criterion takes precedence over the third criterion.
       20. A system comprising:
       one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions
executable by the processors, the processors being operable when executing the instructions to:
               receive, from one of a plurality of applications of a client device, a request for
       access to a service, each of the plurality of applications comprising software for accessing
       the service;
               select one of the plurality of applications to provide access to the service; and
    provide the requesting application access to the service through the selected application's
                                 software for accessing the service.
                                        Facebook, Inc.
                               By Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                     COTTERS
                                  Patent & Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
