                                    ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
             An oral care implement that includes a handle and a head with a front surface. A plurality
of tooth cleaning elements extend from the front surface. In one embodiment the plurality of tooth
cleaning elements include a conical tuft that is formed by a wall of bristles. The tooth cleaning
elements may also include first and/or second sets of peripheral tooth cleaning elements located
adjacent to opposing lateral edges of the head. The peripheral tooth cleaning elements may include
elastomeric sleeve portions and bristle tuft portions.       The elastomeric sleeve portions may be
formed as a part of an integrally formed elastomeric component.
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

                           4/63
                                         129 121
                                     125
                           170                   124
                       148       178             122
                 196                              123
                                     158          129
                195                            -122
                                                   125
                                                 129
   149
       145           146
                                                122
147
             -  -155            190
                                    192
                       157
               210      FIG. 4
         115

                                     ORAL CARE IMPLEMENT
                                    RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] The present application is (1) a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014414808, filed <removed-date>, which is a national stage entry of PCT Application No.
PCT/US2014/072038, filed 23 December 2014, the entireties of which are incorporated herein by
reference.
[0002] The present application is (2) a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, filed 5 July 2018, which is itself a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2014414810, filed <removed-date>, which is a national stage entry of PCT
Application No. PCT/US2014/072048, filed 23 December 2014, the entireties of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
[0003] The present application is (3) a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014414812, filed <removed-date>, which is a national stage entry of PCT Application No.
PCT/US2014/072052, filed 23 December 2014, the entireties of which are incorporated herein by
reference.
[0004] The present application is (4) a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, filed 21 June 2018, which is a which is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2014414820, filed <removed-date>, which is a national stage entry of PCT
Application No. PCT/US2014/072066, filed 23 December 2014, the entireties of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
[0005] The present application is (5) a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
<removed-apn>, filed 5 July 2018, which is a which is a divisional application of Australian Patent
Application No. 2014414823, filed <removed-date>, which is a national stage entry of PCT
Application No. PCT/US2014/072073, filed 23 December 2014, the entireties of which are
incorporated herein by reference.
[0006] The present application is (6) a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014414825, filed <removed-date>, which is a national stage entry of PCT Application No.
PCT/US2014/072075, filed 23 December 2014, the entireties of which are incorporated herein by
reference.
                                                  1
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0007] The present application is (7) a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014414815, filed <removed-date>, which is a national stage entry of PCT Application No.
PCT/US2014/072057, filed 23 December 2014, the entireties of which are incorporated herein by
reference.
                                           BACKGROUND
[0008] A toothbrush is used to clean the teeth by removing plaque and debris from the tooth
surfaces. Conventional toothbrushes having a flat bristle trim are limited in their ability to conform
to the curvature of the teeth, to penetrate into the interproximal areas between the teeth, to sweep
away the plaque and debris, and to clean along the gum line. Additionally, such toothbrushes have
a limited ability to retain dentifrice for cleaning the teeth. During the brushing process, the
dentifrice typically slips through the tufts of bristles and away from the contact between the bristles
and the teeth. As a result, the dentifrice is often spread around the mouth, rather than being
concentrated on the contact of the bristles with the teeth. Therefore, the efficiency of the cleaning
process is reduced.
[0009] While substantial efforts have been made to modify the cleaning elements of toothbrushes
to improve the efficiency of the oral cleaning process, the industry continues to pursue
arrangements of cleaning elements that will improve upon the existing technology. In typical oral
care implements, bristles having circular transverse cross-sectional profiles are bundled together
in a bristle tuft and mounted within tuft holes having circular transverse cross-sectional profiles.
However, such a configuration results in gaps being present between adjacent bristles in the tuft
and between the bristles of the tuft and the walls of the tuft holes, thereby resulting in a looser
packing of the tuft hole and a less than optimal packing factor. These gaps can also reduce the
effectiveness of the oral care implement and can cause the oral care implement to effectuate an
uncomfortable feeling during brushing. Therefore, a need exists for an oral care implement having
an improved arrangement of bristles.
[0010] Certain oral care implements, such as toothbrushes, include tongue scrapers in order to
remove bacteria from the tongue. Existing tongue scrapers, however, are found to be inadequate
with respect to their effectiveness on the soft tissue surface of the tongue. This gives rise to a
problem because a major source of bad breath in healthy people is microbial deposits on the
tongue, where a bacterial coating harbors organisms and debris that contribute to bad breath. Oral
                                                     2
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

care implements with tongue scrapers may also be limited in that the tissue cleanser is provided
only on one major surface of the head and tends to be small in size and can be ineffective in
scraping debris off of the tongue. These oral care implements are further limited in that the oral
care implement provides inadequate comfort when contacting the surface of a user's gums during
cleaning. Therefore, a need exists for an oral care implement having improved soft tissue cleaning
features that that are both aesthetically pleasing and more effective at removing bacteria from a
user's tongue and soft tissue surfaces.
[0011] Certain toothbrushes have a handle for gripping and a head which is inserted into a user's
mouth for tooth and oral surface cleaning. The head typically has bristles formed of nylon and
sometimes also cleaning elements formed from elastomeric materials to perform the cleaning
function. Furthermore, some toothbrushes have been developed that include a tongue or soft tissue
cleanser formed of an elastomeric material on the opposite surface of the head relative to the
bristles. Conventional toothbrushes may also include a handle and/or thumb grip that is formed
with elastomeric materials for ease and comfort during handling and use. There are countless
different toothbrushes that are available to consumers for purchase, and thus a great deal of
innovation goes into the design of each toothbrush in order to capture the attention of consumers
while also attempting to improve the effectiveness of the toothbrush at performing its cleaning
function. Thus, a need exists for a toothbrush or other oral care implement that has aesthetically
pleasing and attractive features while still being effective at removing bacteria from a user's teeth
and other oral surfaces.
[0012] In addition, certain oral care implements, such as toothbrushes, are mass-produced articles
and must therefore allow cost-effective production. Toothbrushes made of a single plastic material
and toothbrushes made of two plastic components, which are produced for example by a two
component injection molding process, are known. In the latter case, known toothbrushes generally
comprise two parts: a first part made of a hard plastic material, for example polypropylene; and a
second part made of a resilient plastic material, for example a thermoplastic elastomer. Typically,
the first part, which is made of the hard plastic material, forms the structural portion of the handle
and has a recess or channel formed therein. This recess is filled with the resilient plastic material,
thereby forming the second part which acts as a gripping surface or cover.
[0013] The hard plastic and the resilient soft plastic are selected so that they bond with one another
at the surface where the two plastic parts touch. In comparison with a toothbrush made of only one
                                                   3
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

plastic material, this provides greater scope for design. Since, however, the two plastic materials
have to bond with one another during the injection-molding operation, there are restrictions in the
selection of the plastic materials and consequently in the design of the toothbrush.
[0014] One solution to the limitation that two plastic materials must bond with one another during
the injection molding operation has been introduced by which a handle can be formed by two
plastics that do not chemically bond within one another during the injection molding operation but
rather utilize a mechanical connection, such as by inter-fitting portions of the two plastic
components or by shrinking one plastic component about the other.
[0015] A need exists for an oral care implement, and method of manufacturing the same, that has
a handle having greater design flexibility, is more cost-effective to mass produce, and/or affords
comfort and control to the user during use.
                                        BRIEF SUMMARY
[0016] Exemplary embodiments according to the present disclosure are directed to an oral care
implement that includes a handle and a head with a front surface. A plurality of tooth cleaning
elements extend from the front surface. In one embodiment the plurality of tooth cleaning elements
include a conical tuft that is formed by a continuous wall of bristles. The tooth cleaning elements
may also include first and/or second sets of peripheral tooth cleaning elements located adjacent to
opposing lateral edges of the head. The peripheral tooth cleaning elements may include elastomeric
sleeve portions and bristle tuft portions. The elastomeric sleeve portions may be formed as a part
of an integrally formed elastomeric component.
[0017] Exemplary embodiments according to the present disclosure are also directed to an oral
care implement that includes a handle and a head with a front surface. A plurality of tooth cleaning
elements extend from the front surface. The plurality of tooth cleaning elements include one or
more conical tufts that are formed by a continuous wall of bristles. The conical tufts have an inner
surface that defines a cavity. The cavity has a transverse cross-sectional area that increases with
distance from the front surface of the head. The tooth cleaning elements may also include one or
more arcuate cleaning elements that surround the conical tufts. The tooth cleaning elements may
also include multi-height bristle tufts that include smaller and taller bristles positioned within a
single tuft hole.
[0018] Exemplary embodiments according to the present disclosure are also directed to an oral
care implement that includes a handle and a head with a front surface. A plurality of tooth cleaning
                                                  4
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

elements extend from the front surface of the head. The plurality of tooth cleaning elements include
a conical tuft that has a bristle wall having an inner surface defining a cavity, the cavity having a
transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from the front surface of the head.
Furthermore, in some embodiments the bristle wall terminates in an annular top surface that is
inclined relative to the front surface of the head. In some embodiments, the head includes more
than one of the conical tufts, such as two of the conical tufts or four of the conical tufts.
[0019] Exemplary embodiments according to the present disclosure are also directed to an oral
care implement that includes an elastomeric component that includes a bumper portion that forms
a distal-most section of the peripheral surface and a wall portion located along a distal-most section
of the perimeter edge and protruding above the front surface. The wall portion may comprise a
first ramped portion, an apex portion, and a second ramped portion in certain embodiments. The
wall portion may include a plurality of spaced-apart ridges protruding from an outer surface of the
bumper portion and an outer surface of the wall portion in certain embodiments, In still other
embodiments, an oral care implement is disclosed that includes a soft tissue cleanser having a
plurality of protuberances of differing heights.
[0020] Exemplary embodiments according to the present disclosure are also directed to an oral
care implement that may include a handle and a head. The head may have a front surface, a rear
surface, and a peripheral surface extending therebetween. An elastomeric soft tissue cleanser may
be positioned along the peripheral surface of the head such that an undulating upper edge of the
elastomeric soft tissue cleanser has high points that protrude beyond the rear surface of the head.
The head may also include tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface.
[0021] Exemplary embodiments according to the present disclosure are also directed to an oral
care implement that may include a handle and a head coupled thereto. The head has a front surface
and an opposite rear surface. The oral care implement includes an elastomeric soft tissue cleanser
comprising a plurality of protuberances extending from the rear surface of the head and a plurality
of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface of the head. The free ends of the
protuberances collectively define a convex longitudinal profile and comprise at least one convex
transverse top profile. The free ends of the tooth cleaning elements collectively define a concave
longitudinal side profile and comprise at least one concave transverse top profile.
[0022] Exemplary embodiments according to the present disclosure are also directed to oral care
implements having a multi-component handle.
                                                   5
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0023] In one aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle; a head
coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface and a longitudinal axis extending from
a proximal end of the head to a distal end of the head; a plurality of tooth cleaning elements
extending from the front surface of the head; the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising
a conical tuft comprising a bristle wall having an inner surface defining a cavity along a cavity
axis, the cavity having a transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from the front
surface of the head, the conical tuft terminating in an annular top surface, the annular top surface
being a first height from the front surface of the head; the plurality of tooth cleaning element further
comprising: a first set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements located adjacent to a first lateral edge
of the head; a second set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements located adjacent to a second lateral
edge of the head; and each peripheral tooth cleaning element of the first and second sets comprising
an elastomeric sleeve portion and a bristle tuft portion extending through a sleeve cavity of the
elastomeric sleeve portion along a sleeve axis, the bristle tuft portion protruding from a distal end
of the elastomeric sleeve portion.
[0024] In another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle; a head
coupled to the handle and comprising a front surface; a plurality of tooth cleaning elements
extending from the front surface of the head; the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising
a first set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements located adjacent to a first lateral edge of the head,
each of the peripheral tooth cleaning elements of the first set comprising an elastomeric sleeve
portion and a bristle tuft portion protruding from the elastomeric sleeve portion; one or more first
channels in the front surface of the head that extend between adjacent ones of the peripheral tooth
cleaning elements of the first set; an integrally formed elastomeric component comprising: the
elastomeric sleeve portions of the first set of the peripheral tooth cleaning elements; and one or
more first elastomeric sleeve strips that extend between and connect the elastomeric sleeve
portions of adjacent ones of the peripheral tooth cleaning elements of the first set, the one or more
first elastomeric sleeve strips located within the one or more first channels.
[0025] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle; a
head coupled to the handle and comprising a head plate, the head plate comprising a lower surface,
an upper surface that forms a front surface of the head, and a plurality of through holes extending
from the lower surface of the head plate to the upper surface of the head plate; one or more channels
in the lower surface of the head plate; one or more channels in the upper surface of the head plate;
                                                    6
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

a plurality of bristle tufts extending through the plurality of through holes, each of the plurality of
bristle tufts comprising a cleaning portion protruding from the upper surface of the head plate and
a melt matte located adjacent the lower surface of the head plate; an integrally formed elastomeric
component comprising a plurality of elastomeric elements protruding from the upper surface of
the head plate, one or more elastomeric strips disposed within the one or more channels in the
lower surface of the head plate that connect at least two of the plurality of elastomeric elements,
and one or more elastomeric strips disposed within the one or more channels in the upper surface
of the head plate that connect at least two of the plurality of elastomeric elements.
[0026] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle; a
head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface and a longitudinal axis extending
from a proximal end of the head to a distal end of the head; a plurality of tooth cleaning elements
extending from the front surface of the head; the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising
a conical tuft comprising a bristle wall having an inner surface defining a cavity along a cavity
axis, the cavity having a transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from the front
surface of the head, the conical tuft terminating in an annular top surface, the annular top surface
being a first height from the front surface of the head; the plurality of tooth cleaning elements
comprising an arcuate cleaning element at least partially surrounding the conical tuft, the arcuate
cleaning element having a top surface having a high point being a second height from the front
surface of the head and a first low point being a third height from the front surface of the head;
and wherein the first height is greater than the third height and less than the second height.
[0027] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle; a
head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface and a longitudinal axis extending
from a proximal end of the head to a distal end of the head; a plurality of tooth cleaning elements
extending from the front surface of the head; the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising
a conical tuft comprising a bristle wall having an inner surface defining a cavity along a cavity
axis, the cavity having a transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from the front
surface of the head; the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising an arcuate cleaning
element at least partially surrounding the conical tuft; and wherein the arcuate cleaning element is
either a distal-most tooth cleaning element on the head or a proximal-most tooth cleaning element
on the head.
                                                   7
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0028] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle; a
head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface and a longitudinal axis extending
from a proximal end of the head to a distal end of the head; a plurality of tooth cleaning elements
extending from the front surface of the head; the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising
a first conical tuft comprising a first bristle wall having an inner surface defining a first cavity
along a first cavity axis, the first cavity having a first transverse cross-sectional area that increases
with distance from the front surface of the head, the first bristle wall having an outer surface that
forms a first acute angle with the front surface; the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising
a second conical tuft comprising a second bristle wall having an inner surface defining a second
cavity along a second cavity axis, the second cavity having a second transverse cross-sectional
area that increases with distance from the front surface of the head, the second bristle wall having
an outer surface that forms a second acute angle with the front surface; and wherein the first and
second acute angles are different from one another.
[0029] In yet another embodiment, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a
handle; a head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface; a plurality of tooth
cleaning elements extending from the front surface of the head; the plurality of tooth cleaning
elements comprising a multi-height bristle tuft extending from a single tuft hole along a tuft axis,
the multi-height bristle tuft comprising a first bristle tuft section formed by taller bristles and a
second bristle tuft section formed by shorter bristles, the second bristle tuft section having a U
shaped transverse cross-section that partially surrounds a transverse cross-section of the first bristle
tuft section, and the first bristle tuft section axially protrudes from an upper surface of the second
bristle tuft section.
[0030] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle; a
head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface and a longitudinal axis that extends
from a proximal end of the head to a distal end of the head; a plurality of tooth cleaning elements
extending from the front surface of the head; the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising
a first conical tuft comprising a first bristle wall having an inner surface defining a first cavity
along a first cavity axis, the first cavity having a transverse cross-sectional area that increases with
distance from the front surface of the head, wherein the first bristle wall of the first conical tuft
terminates in a first annular top surface that is inclined relative to the front surface from a first high
point to a first low point; the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising a second conical tuft
                                                      8
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

comprising a second bristle wall having an inner surface defining a second cavity along a second
cavity axis, the second cavity having a transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance
from the front surface of the head, wherein the second bristle wall of the second conical tuft
terminates in a second annular top surface that is inclined relative to the front surface from a second
high point to a second low point; and the first and second conical tufts arranged on the head such
that the first and second high points are adjacent to one another.
[0031] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle; a
head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface and a longitudinal axis that extends
from a proximal end of the head to a distal end of the head; a plurality of tooth cleaning elements
extending from the front surface of the head; the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising
a first conical tuft comprising a first bristle wall having an inner surface defining a first cavity
along a first cavity axis, the first cavity having a transverse cross-sectional area that increases with
distance from the front surface of the head; the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising a
second conical tuft comprising a second bristle wall having an inner surface defining a second
cavity along a second cavity axis, the second cavity having a transverse cross-sectional area that
increases with distance from the front surface of the head; and the first and second conical tufts
arranged on a transverse axis of the head that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis; the plurality
of tooth cleaning elements comprising a third conical tuft comprising a third bristle wall having an
inner surface defining a third cavity along a third cavity axis, the third cavity having a transverse
cross-sectional area that increases with distance from the front surface of the head; the plurality of
tooth cleaning elements comprising a fourth conical tuft comprising a fourth bristle wall having
an inner surface defining a fourth cavity along a fourth cavity axis, the fourth cavity having a
transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from the front surface of the head; and
the third and fourth conical tufts located on the longitudinal axis of the head.
[0032] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle; a
head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface and a longitudinal axis that extends
from a proximal end of the head to a distal end of the head; a plurality of tooth cleaning elements
extending from the front surface of the head; and the plurality of tooth cleaning elements
comprising a first conical tuft comprising a first bristle wall having an inner surface defining a first
cavity along a first cavity axis, the first cavity having a transverse cross-sectional area that
increases with distance from the front surface of the head, wherein the first bristle wall of the first
                                                     9
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

conical tuft terminates in a first annular top surface that is inclined relative to the front surface
from a first high point to a first low point.
[0033] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle
and a head extending along a longitudinal axis from a proximal end to a distal end; the head
comprising: a front surface, a rear surface opposite the front surface, a peripheral surface extending
between the front and rear surfaces and defining a perimeter edge of the front surface, a plurality
of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface, an elastomeric component including
a bumper portion that forms a distal-most section of the peripheral surface and a wall portion
located along a distal-most section of the perimeter edge and protruding above the front surface,
the wall portion extending along the perimeter edge in a continuous manner from a first point of
the perimeter edge to a second point of the perimeter edge, the first and second points located on
opposite sides of the longitudinal axis, the wall portion comprises a first ramped portion, an apex
portion, and a second ramped portion, the apex portion disposed between the first and second
ramped portions.
[0034] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle
and a head extending along a longitudinal axis from a proximal end to a distal end, the head
comprising: a front surface, a rear surface opposite the front surface, a peripheral surface extending
between the front and rear surfaces and defining a perimeter edge of the front face, a plurality of
tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface, an integrally formed elastomeric
component including: a bumper portion that forms a distal-most section of the peripheral surface,
a wall portion located along a distal-most section of the perimeter edge and protruding above the
front surface, a plurality of spaced-apart ridges protruding from an outer surface of the bumper
portion and an outer surface of the wall portion, and a soft tissue cleanser on the rear surface of
the head, the soft tissue cleanser comprising a plurality of protuberances.
[0035] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle
and a head extending along a longitudinal axis from a proximal end to a distal end, the head
comprising: a front surface, a rear surface, a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from
the front surface, and a soft tissue cleanser on the rear surface of the head; the soft tissue cleanser
comprising: a plurality of first protuberances protruding from the rear surface of the head and
arranged in a first annular zone on the rear surface, each of the first plurality of protuberances
having a height between a first predetermined height and a second predetermined height, the
                                                   10
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

second predetermined height being greater than the first predetermined height, a plurality of
second protuberances protruding from the rear surface of the head and arranged in a second annular
zone on the rear surface, the first annular zone surrounding the second annular zone, each of the
second plurality of protuberances having a height between the second predetermined height and a
third predetermined height, the third predetermined height being greater than the second
predetermined height; and a plurality of third protuberances protruding from the rear surface of
the head and arranged in a third zone on the rear surface, the second annular zone surrounding the
third zone, each of the third plurality of protuberances having a height between the third
predetermined height and a fourth predetermined height, the fourth predetermined height being
greater than the third predetermined height.
[0036] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle, a
head extending along a longitudinal axis from a proximal end to a distal end, the head comprising:
a front surface, a rear surface, a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front
surface, and a soft tissue cleanser on the rear surface of the head; the soft tissue cleanser
comprising: a plurality of cylindrical nubs protruding from the rear surface of the head, wherein
free ends of the plurality of protuberances collectively form a convex side profile and a convex
top profile.
[0037] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle
and a head extending along a longitudinal axis from a proximal end to a distal end, the head
comprising: a front surface, a rear surface, a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from
the front surface, and a soft tissue cleanser on the rear surface of the head; the soft tissue cleanser
comprising: a plurality of first protuberances protruding from the rear surface of the head, each of
the first plurality of protuberances having a height between a first predetermined height and a
second predetermined height, the second predetermined height being greater than the first
predetermined height; a plurality of second protuberances protruding from the rear surface of the
head, each of the second plurality of protuberances having a height between the second
predetermined height and a third predetermined height, the third predetermined height being
greater than the second predetermined height; and a plurality of third protuberances protruding
from the rear surface of the head, each of the third plurality of protuberances having a height
between the third predetermined height and a fourth predetermined height, the fourth
predetermined height being greater than the third predetermined height.
                                                   11
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0038] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle;
and a head coupled to the handle, the head comprising: a front surface; a rear surface opposite the
front surface; a peripheral surface extending between the rear surface and the front surface; a first
elastomeric soft tissue cleanser comprising a bumper portion that extends along the peripheral
surface, the bumper portion comprising an undulating upper edge that includes a plurality of high
points protruding above the rear surface and a plurality of low points located at or below the rear
surface; and a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface.
[0039] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle; a
head coupled to the handle, the head comprising: a front surface; a rear surface opposite the front
surface; a peripheral surface extending between the rear surface and the front surface, the
peripheral surface and the rear surface intersecting to form a perimeter of the rear surface of the
head; a base formed of a hard material, the base comprising an exposed annular surface that forms
a portion of the rear surface of the head; a first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser coupled to the base,
the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser comprising a bumper portion on the peripheral surface, the
bumper portion comprising a plurality of lower portions on the peripheral surface and a plurality
of raised portions protruding above the rear surface along the perimeter; a second elastomeric soft
tissue cleanser coupled to the base on the rear surface of the head, the exposed annular surface of
the base circumscribing the second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser, the second elastomeric soft
tissue cleanser comprising a plurality of protuberances that extend from the rear surface; the first
and second elastomeric soft tissue cleansers being separate and distinct components from one
another; and a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface.
[0040] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising a handle; a
head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface and a rear surface opposite the
front surface, the head extending from a proximal end to a distal end along a longitudinal axis; an
elastomeric soft tissue cleanser comprising a plurality of protuberances extending from the rear
surface of the head and terminating in free ends, the free ends of the protuberances collectively
defining a convex longitudinal side profile and comprising at least one convex transverse top
profile; and a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface of the head and
terminating in free ends, the free ends of the tooth cleaning elements collectively defining a
concave longitudinal side profile and comprising at least one concave transverse top profile.
                                                    12
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0041] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising a handle; a
head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface, a rear surface opposite the front
surface, a longitudinal axis extending from a proximal end to a distal end, and a central transverse
plane, the longitudinal axis intersecting and orthogonal to the central transverse plane; an
elastomeric soft tissue cleanser comprising a plurality of protuberances extending from the rear
surface of the head and terminating in free ends, the free ends of the protuberances collectively
forming a longitudinal side profile having a height, measured from the rear surface of the head,
that decreases with longitudinal distance from the central transverse plane, and the free ends of the
protuberances comprising at least one transverse top profile having a height, measured from the
rear surface of the head, that decreases with transverse distance from the longitudinal axis; and a
plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface of the head and terminating
in free ends, the free ends of the tooth cleaning elements collectively defining a longitudinal side
profile having a height, measured from the front surface of the head, that increases with
longitudinal distance from the central transverse plane, and the free ends of the tooth cleaning
elements comprising at least one transverse top profile having a height, measured from the front
surface of the head, that increases with transverse distance from the longitudinal axis.
[0042] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising a handle; a
head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface and a rear surface opposite the
front surface, the head extending from a proximal end of the head to a distal end of the head along
a longitudinal axis; an elastomeric soft tissue cleanser comprising a plurality of protuberances
extending from the rear surface of the head and terminating in free ends, each of the protuberances
having a height measured from the rear surface of the head to its free end, and wherein the free
ends of the protuberances comprise at least one convex transverse top profile formed by a variation
in the heights of the protuberances along a first transverse plane that intersects and is substantially
orthogonal to the longitudinal axis; and a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from the
front surface of the head and terminating in free ends, each of the tooth cleaning elements having
a height measured from the front surface of the head to its free end, the free ends of the tooth
cleaning elements comprising at least one concave transverse top profile formed by a variation in
the heights of the tooth cleaning elements along a second transverse plane that intersects and is
substantially orthogonal to the longitudinal axis.
                                                   13
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0043] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising an oral care
implement comprising: a handle extending along a longitudinal axis; a head at a distal end of the
handle; at least one tooth cleaning element extending from the head; the handle comprising: a first
component constructed of a first hard plastic, the first component comprising a first component
aperture; a second component constructed of a second hard plastic, the second component
comprising the head and an anchor, the anchor located within the first component aperture and
comprising a second component aperture; and a third component constructed of a first elastomeric
material, the third component located within the second component aperture.
[0044] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle
extending along a longitudinal axis; a head coupled to the handle; at least one tooth cleaning
element extending from the head; the handle comprising: a first component constructed of a first
hard material, the first component comprising a first component aperture; a second component
constructed of a second hard material, the second component comprising the head and an anchor,
the anchor located within the first component aperture and comprising a second component
aperture; and a third component disposed within the second component aperture.
[0045] In yet another aspect, the invention can be a method of forming an oral care implement
comprising: forming a first component of a first hard plastic, the first component having a first
component aperture; forming a second component of a second hard plastic on the first component
so that an anchor of the second component is located within the first component aperture, the
anchor comprising a second component aperture; and forming a third component of a first
elastomeric material in the second component aperture.
[0046] In yet another aspect, the invention may be an oral care implement comprising: a handle
extending along a longitudinal axis; a head at the distal end of the handle; at least one tooth
cleaning element extending from the head; the handle comprising: a first component constructed
of a first hard plastic; and a second component constructed of a second hard plastic, the second
component comprising a body portion and a plurality of strips extending from the body portion
and forming a strap network that wraps around the first component.
[0047] In yet another aspect, the invention can be an oral care implement comprising: a handle; a
head coupled to the handle; at least one tooth cleaning element extending from the head; the handle
comprising: a first component constructed of a first material; and a second component constructed
                                                  14
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

of a second material, the second component comprising a plurality of strips that collectively form
a strap network that wraps around the first component.
[0048] In yet another aspect, the invention can be a method of forming an oral care implement
comprising: forming a first component of a first hard plastic; and forming a second component of
a second hard plastic on the first component, the second component comprising: a plurality of
strips that form a strap network that wraps around the first component; and a portion extending
from a distal end of the first component, the portion comprising a head of the oral care implement.
[0049] Further areas of applicability of the present invention will become apparent from the
detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed description and
specific examples, while indicating the preferred embodiment of the invention, are intended for
purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.
                                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0050] The present invention will become more fully understood from the detailed description and
the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[0051] Figure 1 is a front perspective view of an oral care implement in accordance with one
embodiment of the present invention;
[0052] Figure 2 is a close-up view of a head of the oral care implement of FIG. 1 as indicated by
area II of FIG. 1;
[0053] Figure 3 is a front view of the head of the oral care implement of FIG. 2;
[0054] Figure 4 is an exploded view of a head plate, an integrally formed elastomeric component,
and tooth cleaning elements of the oral care implement of FIG. 1;
[0055] Figure 5A is a front view of the head plate of FIG. 4;
[0056] Figure 5B is a rear view of the head plate of FIG. 4;
[0057] Figure 6A is a front perspective view of the integrally formed elastomeric component of
FIG. 4;
[0058] Figure 6B is a rear perspective view of the integrally formed elastomeric component of
FIG. 4;
[0059] Figure 7 is a side view of the head of the oral care implement of FIG. 2;
[0060] Figure 8 is a cross-sectional view taken along line VIII-VIII of FIG. 3;
[0061] Figure 9 is a cross-sectional view taken along line IX-IX of FIG. 3;
[0062] Figure 10 is a cross-sectional view taken along line X-X of FIG. 3;
                                                    15
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0063] Figure 11 is a cross-sectional view taken along line XI-XI of FIG. 3;
[0064] 10130
[0065] Figure 12 is a front perspective view of an oral care implement in accordance with one
embodiment of the present invention;
[0066] Figure 13 is a close-up view of a head of the oral care implement of FIG. 12 as indicated
by area XIII of FIG. 12;
[0067] Figure 14 is a front view of the head of the oral care implement of FIG. 13;
[0068] Figure 15 is a side view of the head of the oral care implement of FIG. 13;
[0069] Figure 16 is a cross-sectional view taken along line XVI-XVI of FIG. 14;
[0070] Figure 17 is a cross-sectional view taken along line XVII-XVII of FIG. 14;
[0071] Figure 18 is a cross-sectional view taken along line XVIII-XVIII of FIG. 14;
[0072] Figure 19 is a cross-sectional view taken along line XIX-XIX of FIG. 14;
[0073] Figure 20 is a front perspective view of an oral care implement in accordance with one
embodiment of the present invention;
[0074] Figure 20A is a close-up view of area XXA of FIG. 20;
[0075] Figure 21 is a front view of the head of the oral care implement of FIG. 20A;
[0076] Figure 22 is a side view of the head of the oral care implement of FIG. 20A;
[0077] Figure 23 is a cross-sectional view taken along line XXIII-XXIII of FIG. 21;
[0078] Figure 24 is a cross-sectional view taken along line XXIV-XXIV of FIG. 21;
[0079] Figure 25 is a cross-sectional view taken along line XXV-XXV of FIG. 21;
[0080] Figure 26 is a cross-sectional view taken along line XXVI-XXVI of FIG. 21;
[0081] Figure 27 is an alternative cross-section taken along line XXV-XXV of FIG. 21;
[0082] Figure 28 is a front perspective view of an oral care implement according to an embodiment
of the present invention;
[0083] Figure 29 is a close-up view of the head of the oral care implement of Figure 28;
[0084] Figure 30 is a front view of the head of the oral care implement of Figure 28;
[0085] Figure 31 is a longitudinal cross-sectional view of the head of the oral care implement of
Figure 28 along view XXXI-XXXI of Figure 30;
[0086] Figure 32 is a right-side view of the head of the oral care implement of Figure 28;
[0087] Figure 33 is a left-side view of the head of the oral care implement of Figure 28;
[0088] Figure 34 is an enlarged top view of the head of the oral care implement of Figure 28;
                                                 16
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0089] Figure 35 is a rear view of the head of the oral care implement of Figure 28;
[0090] Figure 36 is a rear perspective view of the head of the oral care implement of Figure 28;
[0091] Figure 37 is front perspective view of an oral care implement in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention;
[0092] Figure 38 is a rear perspective view of the oral care implement of FIG. 37;
[0093] Figure 39 is a close-up view of area XXXIX of FIG. 38;
[0094] Figure 40 is an exploded view of a head of the oral care implement of FIG. 37;
[0095] Figure 41 is a rear view of the head of the oral care implement of FIG. 37;
[0096] Figure 42 is a side view of the head of the oral care implement of FIG. 37;
[0097] Figure 43 is a cross-sectional view taken along line XLIII-XLIII of FIG. 42;
[0098] Figure 44 is a cross-sectional view taken along line XLIV-VIII of FIG. 42;
[0099] Figure 45 is front perspective view of an oral care implement in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention;
[0100] Figure 46 is a rear perspective view of the oral care implement of FIG. 45;
[0101] Figure 47 is a close-up front view of a head of the oral care implement of FIG. 45;
[0102] Figure 48 is a top view of the head of the oral care implement of FIG. 45;
[0103] Figure 49 is a side view of the head of the oral care implement of FIG. 45;
[0104] Figure 50 is a cross-section taken along line L-L of FIG. 47;
[0105] Figure 51 is a cross-section taken along line LI-LI of FIG. 47;
[0106] Figure 52 is a rear view of the head of the oral care implement of FIG. 45;
[0107] Figure 53 is a rear perspective view of an oral care implement according to an embodiment
of the present invention;
[0108] Figure 54 is a front perspective view of the oral care implement of FIG. 53;
[0109] Figure 55 is a front view of the oral care implement of FIG. 53;
[0110] Figure 56 is a front perspective of the oral care implement of FIG. 53 with the handle in an
exploded state;
[0111] Figure 57 is a rear perspective of the oral care implement of FIG. 53 with the handle in an
exploded state;
[0112] Figure 58 is a front perspective view of a first component of the handle of the oral care
implement of FIG. 53;
[0113] Figure 59 is a rear perspective view of the first component of FIG. 58;
                                                 17
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0114] Figure 60 is a left-side view of the first component of FIG. 58, wherein the right-side view
is a mirror image;
[0115] Figure 61 is a front perspective view of a second component of the handle of the oral care
implement of FIG. 53;
[0116] Figure 62 is a rear perspective view of the second component of FIG. 61;
[0117] Figure 63 is longitudinal cross-sectional view of the oral care implement of FIG. 53 taken
along view LXIII-LXIII of FIG. 55, wherein the tooth cleaning element assembly has been
omitted;
[0118] Figure 64 is transverse cross-sectional view of the oral care implement of FIG. 53 taken
along view LXIV-LXIV of FIG. 55;
[0119] Figure 65 is transverse cross-sectional view of the oral care implement of FIG. 53 taken
along view LXV-LXV of FIG. 55;
[0120] Figure 66 is transverse cross-sectional view of the oral care implement of FIG. 53 taken
along view LXVI-LXVI of FIG. 55; and
[0121] Figure 67 is transverse cross-sectional view of the oral care implement of FIG. 53 taken
along view LXVII-LXVII of FIG. 55.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0122] The following description of the preferred embodiment(s) is merely exemplary in nature
and is in no way intended to limit the invention, its application, or uses.
[0123] The description of illustrative embodiments according to principles of the present invention
is intended to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings, which are to be considered
part of the entire written description. In the description of embodiments of the invention disclosed
herein, any reference to direction or orientation is merely intended for convenience of description
and is not intended in any way to limit the scope of the present invention. Relative terms such as
"lower," "upper," "horizontal," "vertical," "above," "below," "up," "down," "top" and "bottom"
as well as derivatives thereof (e.g., "horizontally," "downwardly," "upwardly," etc.) should be
construed to refer to the orientation as then described or as shown in the drawing under discussion.
These relative terms are for convenience of description only and do not require that the apparatus
be constructed or operated in a particular orientation unless explicitly indicated as such. Terms
such as "attached," "affixed," "connected," "coupled," "interconnected," and similar refer to a
relationship wherein structures are secured or attached to one another either directly or indirectly
                                                   18
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

through intervening structures, as well as both movable or rigid attachments or relationships,
unless expressly described otherwise. Moreover, the features and benefits of the invention are
illustrated by reference to the exemplified embodiments. Accordingly, the invention expressly
should not be limited to such exemplary embodiments illustrating some possible non-limiting
combination of features that may exist alone or in other combinations of features; the scope of the
invention being defined by the claims appended hereto.
[0124] As used throughout, ranges are used as shorthand for describing each and every value that
is within the range. Any value within the range can be selected as the terminus of the range. In
addition, all references cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties. In the
event of a conflict in a definition in the present disclosure and that of a cited reference, the present
disclosure controls.
[0125] In certain embodiments within the following description, the invention may be discussed
in terms of a manual toothbrush. However, in other forms, the invention could be in the form of
other oral care implements including a soft-tissue cleansing implement, a powered toothbrush, a
refill head, or other ansate implements designed for oral care.
[0126] In certain embodiments within the following description, the invention may be discussed
in terms of a manual toothbrush, and method of manufacturing the same, having the inventive
multi-component handle. However, in other forms, the invention could be in the form of other oral
care implements including a soft-tissue cleansing implement, an inter-proximal pick, a flossing
tool, a plaque scraper, a powered toothbrush, or other ansate implement designed for oral care. It
is also to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized, and that structural and functional
modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.
[0127] The disclosure is divided into seven sections. Section I discusses arrangements of cleaning
elements on the head of an oral care implement. Section II discusses another set of arrangements
of cleaning elements on the head of an oral care implement. Section III discusses a third set of
arrangements of cleaning elements on the head of an oral care implement. Section IV discusses a
soft tissue cleaner for the head of an oral care implement. Section V discusses another soft tissue
cleaner for the head of an oral care implement. Section VI discusses yet another arrangement for
cleaning elements arranged on two sides of the head of an oral care implement.              Section VII
discusses arrangements for the handle of an oral care implement. Different embodiments disclosed
in the respective sections can be used together as part of a single oral care implmeent. To the
                                                    19
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

extent a term, reference number, or symbol is used differently in different sections, context should
be taken from the relevant section and not the other sections.
                                              SECTION I
[0128] Referring to FIGS. 1-3 concurrently, an oral care implement 100 is illustrated in accordance
with one embodiment of the present invention. In the exemplified embodiment, the oral care
implement 100 is in the form of a manual toothbrush. However, in certain other embodiments the
oral care implement 100 can take on other forms such as being a powered toothbrush, a tongue
scraper, a gum and soft tissue cleanser, a water pick, an interdental device, a tooth polisher, a
specially designed ansate implement having tooth engaging elements, or any other type of
implement that is commonly used for oral care. Thus, it is to be understood that the inventive
concepts discussed herein can be applied to any type of oral care implement unless a specific type
of oral care implement is specified in the claims.
[0129] The oral care implement 100 extends from a proximal end 101 to a distal end 102 along a
longitudinal axis A l-A1. The oral care implement 100 generally comprises a head 110 and a handle
120. The head 110 extends from a proximal end 118 to a distal end 119 along a longitudinal axis
B1-B1 that is coextensive with the longitudinal axis Al-Al of the oral care implement 100.
Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the distal end 102 of the oral care implement 100 is
the same as the distal end 119 of the head 110.
[0130] The handle 120 is an elongated structure that provides the mechanism by which the user
can hold and manipulate the oral care implement 100 during use. In the exemplified embodiment,
the handle 120 is generically depicted having various contours for user comfort. Of course, the
invention is not to be limited by the specific shape illustrated for the handle 120 in all embodiments
and in certain other embodiments the handle 120 can take on a wide variety of shapes, contours,
and configurations, none of which are limiting of the present invention unless so specified in the
claims.
[0131] In the exemplified embodiment, the handle 120 is formed of a rigid plastic material, such
as for example without limitation polymers and copolymers of ethylene, propylene, butadiene,
vinyl compounds, and polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate. Of course, the invention is
not to be so limited in all embodiments and the handle 120 may include a resilient material, such
as a thermoplastic elastomer, as a grip cover that is molded over portions of or the entirety of the
handle 120 to enhance the gripability of the handle 120 during use. For example, portions of the
                                                   20
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

handle 120 that are typically gripped by a user's palm during use may be overmolded with a
thermoplastic elastomer or other resilient material to further increase comfort to a user.
Furthermore, materials other than those noted above can be used including metal, wood, or any
other desired material that has sufficient structural rigidity to permit a user to grip the handle 120
and manipulate the oral care implement 100 during toothbrushing.
[0132] The head 110 of the oral care implement 100 is coupled to the handle 120 and comprises a
front surface 111 and an opposing rear surface 112. Furthermore, the head 110 has a peripheral
side surface extending between the front and rear surfaces 111, 112. The peripheral side surface
of the head 110 includes a first lateral edge 113, a second lateral edge 114, and a distal edge 116.
In the exemplified embodiment, the head 110 is formed integrally with the handle 120 as a single
unitary structure using a molding, milling, machining, or other suitable process. However, in other
embodiments the handle 120 and the head 110 may be formed as separate components which are
operably connected at a later stage of the manufacturing process by any suitable technique known
in the art, including without limitation thermal or ultrasonic welding, a tight-fit assembly, a
coupling sleeve, threaded engagement, adhesion, or fasteners. Thus the head 110 may, in certain
embodiments, be formed of any of the rigid plastic materials described above as being used for
forming the handle 120, although the invention is not to be so limited in all embodiments and other
materials that are commonly used during toothbrush head manufacture may also be used.
[0133] The oral care implement 100 also comprises a plurality of tooth cleaning elements 115
extending from the front surface 111 of the head 110. The details of certain ones of the plurality
of tooth cleaning elements 115 will be discussed below, including specific details with regard to
the structure, pattern, orientation, and material of such tooth cleaning elements 115. However,
where it does not conflict with the other disclosure provided herein, it should be appreciated that
the term "tooth cleaning elements" may be used in a generic sense to refer to any structure that can
be used to clean, polish, or wipe the teeth and/or soft oral tissue (e.g. tongue, cheek, gums, etc.)
through relative surface contact. Common examples of "tooth cleaning elements" include, without
limitation, bristle tufts, filament bristles, fiber bristles, nylon bristles, spiral bristles, rubber bristles,
elastomeric protrusions, flexible polymer protrusions, combinations thereof and/or structures
containing such materials or combinations. Thus, any combination of these tooth cleaning
elements may be used within the tooth cleaning elements 115 in some embodiments. However, as
                                                      21
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

described herein below, in certain embodiments one or more of the tooth cleaning elements 115
may be formed as tufts of bristles.
[0134] In embodiments that use elastomeric elements as one or more of the tooth cleaning
elements 115, suitable elastomeric materials may include any biocompatible resilient material
suitable for uses in an oral hygiene apparatus. To provide optimum comfort as well as cleaning
benefits, the elastomeric material of any such tooth or soft tissue engaging elements may have a
hardness property in the range of A8 to A25 Shore hardness. One suitable elastomeric material is
styrene-ethylene/butylene-styrene block copolymer (SEBS) manufactured by GLS Corporation.
Nevertheless, SEBS material from other manufacturers or other materials within and outside the
noted hardness range could be used.
[0135] Referring now to FIGS. 1-4 and 8-11 concurrently, one manner in which the tooth cleaning
elements 115 are secured to the head 110 will be described. Specifically, in the exemplified
embodiment the tooth cleaning elements 115 are formed as a cleaning element assembly on a head
plate 121 such that one or more of the tooth cleaning elements 115 are mounted onto the head plate
121 and then the head plate 121 is coupled to or secured to the head 110. The head plate 121 has
a lower surface 123 and an upper surface 124, the upper surface 124 forming a portion of (or in
some instances the entirety of) the front surface 111 of the head 110. In embodiments that use the
head plate 121, the head plate 121 is a separate and distinct component from the head 110 of the
oral care implement 100. However, the head plate 121 is connected to the head 110 at a later stage
of the manufacturing process by any suitable technique known in the art, including without
limitation thermal or ultrasonic welding, any fusion techniques such as thermal fusion, melting, a
tight-fit assembly, a coupling sleeve, threaded engagement, adhesion, or fasteners. Thus, the head
plate 121 and the head 110 are separately formed components that are secured together during
manufacture of the oral care implement 100.
[0136] In certain embodiments, the head plate 121 may comprise a plurality of holes 122 formed
therethrough, and the tooth cleaning elements 115 may be mounted to the head plate 121 within
the holes 122. This type of technique for mounting the tooth cleaning elements 115 to the head
110 via the head plate 121 is known as anchor free tufting (AFT). Specifically, in AFT a plate or
membrane (i.e., the head plate 121) is created separately from the head 110. The tooth cleaning
elements 115 (such as bristles, elastomeric elements, and combinations thereof) are positioned into
the head plate 121 so as to extend through the holes 122 of the head plate 121. The free ends of
                                                 22
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

the tooth cleaning elements 115 on one side of the head plate 121 perform the cleaning function.
The ends of the tooth cleaning elements 115 on the other side of the head plate 121 are melted
together by heat to be anchored in place. As the tooth cleaning elements 105 are melted together,
a melt matte 106 is formed. After the tooth cleaning elements 115 are secured to the head plate
121, the head plate 121 is secured to the head 110 such as by ultrasonic welding. When the head
plate 121 is coupled to the head 110, the melt matte 106 is located between the lower surface 123
of the head plate 121 and a floor 107 of a basin 108 of the head 110 in which the head plate 121 is
disposed. The melt matte 106, which is coupled directly to and in fact forms a part of the tooth
cleaning elements 115, prevents the tooth cleaning elements 115 from being pulled through the
holes 122 in the head plate 121 to ensure that the tooth cleaning elements 105 remain attached to
the head plate 121 during use of the oral care implement 100.
[0137] In another embodiment, the tooth cleaning elements may be connected to the head 110
using a technique known in the art as AMR. In this technique, the handle is formed integrally with
the head plate as a one-piece structure (thus, the head plate actually forms an upper portion of the
head to which the cleaning elements are attached, as noted herein below). After the handle and
head plate are formed, the bristles are inserted into holes in the head plate so that free/cleaning
ends of the bristles extend from the front surface of the head plate and bottom ends of the bristles
are adjacent to the rear surface of the head plate. After the bristles are inserted into the holes in the
head plate, the bottom ends of the bristles are melted together by applying heat thereto, thereby
forming a melt matte at the rear surface of the head plate. The melt matte is a thin layer of plastic
that is formed by melting the bottom ends of the bristles so that the bottom ends of the bristles
transition into a liquid, at which point the liquid of the bottom ends of the bristles combine together
into a single layer of liquid plastic that at least partially covers the rear surface of the head plate.
After the heat is no longer applied, the melted bottom ends of the bristles solidify/harden to form
the melt matte/thin layer of plastic (this same process occurs in the formation of the melt matte
106 described above with regard to AFT). In some embodiments, after formation of the melt matte,
a tissue cleaner is injection molded onto the rear surface of the head plate, thereby trapping the
melt matte between the tissue cleaner and the rear surface of the head plate. In other embodiments,
other structures may be coupled to the rear surface of the head plate to trap the melt matte between
the rear surface of the head plate and such structure without the structure necessarily being a tissue
                                                    23
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

cleaner (the structure can just be a plastic material that is used to form a smooth rear surface of the
head, or the like).
[0138] Although described herein above with regard to using AFT or AMR, in certain
embodiments any suitable form of cleaning elements and attachment may be used in the broad
practice of this invention. Specifically, the tooth cleaning elements 115 of the present invention
can be connected to the head 110 in any manner known in the art. For example, staples/anchors or
in-mold tufting (IMT) could be used to mount the cleaning elements/tooth engaging elements. In
certain embodiments, the invention can be practiced with various combinations of stapled, IMT or
AFT bristles. Alternatively, the tooth cleaning elements 115 could be mounted to tuft blocks or
sections by extending through suitable openings in the tuft blocks so that the base of the tooth
cleaning elements 115 is mounted within or below the tuft block. Furthermore, in a modified
version of the AFT process discussed above, the head plate 121 may be formed by positioning the
tooth cleaning elements 115 within a mold, and then molding the head plate 121 around the tooth
cleaning elements 115 via an injection molding process.
[0139] Although not illustrated herein, in certain embodiments the head 110 may also include a
soft tissue cleanser coupled to or positioned on its rear surface 112. An example of a suitable soft
tissue cleanser that may be used with the present invention and positioned on the rear surface of
the head 110 is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 7,143,462, issued December 5, 2006 to the assignee
of the present application, the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In certain
other embodiments, the soft tissue cleanser may include protuberances, which can take the form
of elongated ridges, nubs, or combinations thereof. Of course, the invention is not to be so limited
and in certain embodiments the oral care implement 100 may not include any soft tissue cleanser.
[0140] Referring to FIGS. 1-3, 7, and 8 concurrently, the plurality of tooth cleaning elements 115
of the oral care implement 100 will be further described. In the exemplified embodiment, the
plurality of tooth cleaning elements 115 comprises a conical tuft 130. The conical tuft 130 is a tuft
or grouping of bristles that are arranged together into a tuft and then secured into a single tuft hole
within the head 110 (or within the head plate 121). The conical tuft 130 is described herein as
being conical due to the conical tuft 130 having a conical shape. Thus, as can best be seen in FIG.
10, the bristles of the conical tuft 130 converge and form an apex that is located within the tuft
hole within which the conical tuft 130 is positioned. The apex may be located at the upper surface
124 of the head plate 121, within the tuft hole of the head plate 121 between the upper and lower
                                                   24
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

surfaces 123, 124, or near the lower surface 123 of the head plate 121. In other embodiments the
apex may be located above the upper surface 124 of the head plate 121. In still other embodiments,
the conical tuft 130 may be in the shape of a truncated cone wherein the portion of the conical tuft
130 that is positioned within the head 110 is the truncated (i.e., cut off) portion of the cone such
that the conical tuft 130 is in the shape of an inverted truncated cone. In such an embodiment, the
bristles of the conical tuft 130 will not converge prior to reaching the melt matte 106.
[0141] The conical tuft 130 comprises a continuous bristle wall 135 having an inner surface 131
and an outer surface 136. The outer surface 136 of the conical tuft 130 is oriented at an acute angle
relative to the front surface 111 of the head 110. In one embodiment, the acute angle may be
between 800 and 890, more specifically between 82' and 85', or between 86' and 89', or between
83.5' and 87.50.
[0142] Furthermore, the conical tuft 130 terminates in an annular top surface 133 that is located at
a first height H1.1 from the front surface 111 of the head 110. The inner surface 131 of the
continuous bristle wall 135 of the conical tuft 130 defines a cavity 132 that extends along a cavity
axis Cl-Cl. The conical tuft 130 extends in a 360 manner about the cavity axis Cl-Cl. The cavity
132 of the conical tuft 130 has an open top end and is bounded by the inner surface 131 of the
continuous bristle wall 135 and by the front surface 111 of the head 110. As noted above, the
conical tuft 130 in the exemplified embodiment is formed by a plurality of bristles. Specifically,
the plurality of bristles are clumped together and positioned collectively into a single tuft hole so
that the plurality of bristles collectively form the conical tuft 130 having no gaps in the continuous
bristle wall 135 for its entire 3600 extension about the cavity axis Cl-C1. Thus, the term continuous
bristle wall 135 is intended to mean that the conical tuft 130 is a single tuft of bristles that are
clumped together into a single tuft hole in a non-spaced apart manner. However, the invention is
not to be limited to the bristle wall 135 being continuous in all embodiments.
[0143] Thus, in the exemplified embodiment the conical tuft 130 is a single tuft formed from a
plurality of individual bristles that are positioned together within a single tuft hole. As a result, in
the exemplified embodiment the conical tuft 130 has the continuous bristle wall 135 that extends
without discontinuity about the cavity axis Cl-C1. Thus, in the exemplified embodiment there are
no gaps formed into the outer surface 136 of the conical tuft 130. Of course, in other embodiments
the conical tuft 130 may have small gaps therein as desired while still being a single tuft positioned
within a single tuft hole. In such an embodiment, the bristle wall may not be considered continuous.
                                                    25
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

Such gaps in the bristle wall may prevent dentifrice from being trapped within the cavity 132 of
the conical tuft 130 by providing means of egress from the cavity 132.
[0144] Due to the conical shape of the conical tuft 130, and more specifically, the inverted conical
shape of the conical tuft 130, the cavity 132 of the conical tuft 130 has a transverse cross-sectional
area that increases with distance from the front surface 111 of the head 110. Specifically, the
transverse cross-sectional area of the cavity 132 of the conical tuft 130 only increases and never
decreases with distance from the front surface 111 of the head 110. Thus, the greater the distance
between a particular axial location within the cavity 132 of the conical tuft 130 and the front
surface 111 of the head 110, the greater the transverse cross-sectional area of the cavity 132 at that
particular axial location. Referring briefly to FIGS. 3 and 10, the transverse cross-sectional area of
the cavity 132 of the conical tuft 130 has a maximum diameter DL.1 located at the annular top
surface 133 of the conical tuft 130.
[0145] Although not illustrated in the exemplified embodiment, in certain embodiments the oral
care implement 100 may include a central cleaning element that is located within the cavity 132
of the conical tuft 130. In such an embodiment, the conical tuft 130 may surround the central
cleaning element. Using the conical tuft 130 in conjunction with a central cleaning element may
enhance cleaning by enabling the conical tuft 130 to surround a user's tooth while the central
cleaning element cleans in the interproximal areas and the spaces between the teeth and gums. In
one exemplary embodiment, the central cleaning element may be a bristle tuft, although the
invention is not to be so limited in all embodiments and in certain other embodiments the central
cleaning element may be an elastomeric element or the like as discussed above. Furthermore, the
central cleaning element may be formed with tapered bristles, rounded/non-tapered bristles, spiral
bristles, or combinations thereof. In an embodiment that includes a central tuft, the conical tuft 130
and the central cleaning element may be secured to the head 110 by anchor free tufting.
Specifically, the ends of the bristles that form the conical tuft 130 and the ends of the bristles that
form the central cleaning element may be melted together to form at least a portion of the melt
matte 106 as discussed above.
[0146] As noted above, the head 110 extends along the longitudinal axis BI-BI from its proximal
end 118 to its distal end 119. In the exemplified embodiment, the conical tuft 130 is aligned on the
longitudinal axis. Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the conical tuft 130 is also aligned
along a transverse axis that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis B1-B1 and that divides the
                                                   26
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

head 110 into two equal halves. Thus, in the exemplified embodiment the conical tuft 130 is
centrally located on the head 110. Of course, in other embodiments the conical tuft 130 can be
positioned at other locations on the head 110 as desired, such as being located along the
longitudinal axis B 1-B 1 and at the proximal or distal ends of the head 110, or the like. Furthermore,
in some embodiments more than one conical tuft may be included on the head 110. In the
exemplified embodiment, a set of four arcuate tooth cleaning elements are arranged so as to form
a loop that substantially surrounds the conical tuft 130. Each of the four arcuate tooth cleaning
elements has a concave surface facing the conical tuft 130 and a convex surface facing away from
the conical tuft 130. The four arcuate tooth cleaning elements are adjacent to the conical tuft 130
such that there are no cleaning elements positioned on the head in between the concave surfaces
of the four arcuate tooth cleaning elements and the outer surface 136 of the conical tuft 130. In the
exemplified embodiment, the four arcuate tooth cleaning elements extend from the front surface
111 of the head 110 at the same angle as the outer surface 136 of the conical tuft 130 forms with
the front surface 111 of the head 110. However, the four arcuate tooth cleaning elements may be
perpendicular to the head 110 or may extend at angles relative to the front surface 111 of the head
110 that are different than the conical tuft 130 in other embodiments.
[0147] Still referring to FIGS. 1-3, and 7-11, the plurality of tooth cleaning elements 115 also
include a first set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140 and a second set of peripheral tooth
cleaning elements 150. The first set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140 are located on the
front surface of the head 111 adjacent to the first lateral edge 113 of the head 110. The second set
of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150 are located on the front surface of the head 111 adjacent
to the second lateral edge 114 of the head 110. Each of the first and second sets of peripheral tooth
cleaning elements 140, 150 are the peripheral-most cleaning elements on the respective sides of
the head 110 such that there are no cleaning elements positioned outboard of the first and second
sets of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140, 150. Stated another way, there are no cleaning
elements positioned between the first set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140 and the first
lateral edge 113 of the head 110 and there are no cleaning elements positioned between the second
set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150 and the second lateral edge 114 of the head 110.
However, the first and second sets of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140, 150 are set inwardly
from the first and second lateral edges 113, 114 of the head 110 such that a portion of the front
                                                  27
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

surface 111 of the head 110 separates the first and second sets of peripheral tooth cleaning elements
140, 150 from the first and second lateral edges 113, 114 of the head 110, respectively.
[0148] The first set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140 comprises a central peripheral tooth
cleaning element 141, a proximal peripheral tooth cleaning element 142, and a distal peripheral
tooth cleaning element 143. The central peripheral tooth cleaning element 141 of the first set of
peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140 is located axially between the proximal and distal
peripheral tooth cleaning elements 142, 143 of the first set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements
140. The second set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150 comprises a central peripheral tooth
cleaning element 151, a proximal peripheral tooth cleaning element 152, and a distal peripheral
tooth cleaning element 153. The central peripheral tooth cleaning element 151 of the second set of
peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150 is located axially between the proximal and distal
peripheral tooth cleaning elements 152, 153 of the second set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements
150. The central peripheral tooth cleaning elements 141, 151 are longitudinal aligned such that a
transverse plane that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis BI-BI and to the front surface 111
of the head 110 intersects both of the central peripheral tooth cleaning elements 141, 151. The
proximal peripheral tooth cleaning elements 142, 152 are longitudinal aligned such that a
transverse plane that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis BI-BI and to the front surface 111
of the head 110 intersects both of the proximal peripheral tooth cleaning elements 142, 152. The
distal peripheral tooth cleaning elements 143, 153 are longitudinal aligned such that a transverse
plane that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis B 1-B 1 and to the front surface 111 of the head
110 intersects both of the distal peripheral tooth cleaning elements 143, 153.
[0149] Each of the peripheral tooth cleaning elements 141, 142, 143, 151, 152, 153 of the first and
second sets 140, 150 comprises an elastomeric sleeve portion and a bristle portion. Thus, the
central peripheral tooth cleaning element 141 has an elastomeric sleeve portion 144 and a bristle
tuft portion 145, the proximal peripheral tooth cleaning element 142 has an elastomeric sleeve
portion 146 and a bristle tuft portion 147, and the distal peripheral tooth cleaning element 143 has
an elastomeric sleeve portion 148 and a bristle tuft portion 149. Similarly, the central peripheral
tooth cleaning element 151 has an elastomeric sleeve portion 154 and a bristle tuft portion 155,
the proximal peripheral tooth cleaning element 152 has an elastomeric sleeve portion 156 and a
bristle tuft portion 157, and the distal peripheral tooth cleaning element 153 has an elastomeric
sleeve portion 158 and a bristle tuft portion 159.
                                                  28
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0150] The bristle tuft portions 145, 147, 149, 155, 157, 159 of each of the peripheral tooth
cleaning elements 141, 142, 143, 151, 152, 153 are separately formed of a plurality of bristles that
are collected together into a tuft and inserted into a tuft hole. The sleeve portions 144, 146, 148,
154, 156, 158 of the peripheral tooth cleaning elements 141, 142, 143, 151, 152, 153 are formed
of an elastomeric material and circumferentially surround at least a portion of its respective bristle
tuft portion 145, 147, 149, 155, 157, 159. As will be discussed in more detail below with specific
reference to FIGS. 4, 6A, and 6B, in the exemplified embodiment the sleeve portions 144, 146,
148, 154, 156, 158 of the peripheral tooth cleaning elements 141, 142, 143, 151, 152, 153 are
formed as an integral mass of elastomeric material. Thus, the sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154,
156, 158 of the peripheral tooth cleaning elements 141, 142, 143, 151, 152, 153 are molded
together as a single, unitary structure that is affixed, coupled, or molded directly onto the head
plate 121.
[0151] Furthermore, each of the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 has a
sleeve cavity having a sleeve axis. More specifically, the elastomeric sleeve portion 144 of the
central peripheral tooth cleaning element 141 of the first set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements
140 has a sleeve cavity 161 extending along a sleeve axis Z1-Z1. The elastomeric sleeve portion
146 of the proximal peripheral tooth cleaning element 142 of the first set of peripheral tooth
cleaning elements 140 has a sleeve cavity 162 extending along a sleeve axis Y1-Y1. The
elastomeric sleeve portion 148 of the proximal peripheral tooth cleaning element 143 of the first
set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140 has a sleeve cavity 163 extending along a sleeve axis
X1-X1. The elastomeric sleeve portion 144 of the central peripheral tooth cleaning element 151 of
the second set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150 has a sleeve cavity 164 extending along
a sleeve axis Wi-Wi. The elastomeric sleeve portion 156 of the proximal peripheral tooth cleaning
element 152 of the second set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150 has a sleeve cavity 165
extending along a sleeve axis Vi-Vi. The elastomeric sleeve portion 158 of the distal peripheral
tooth cleaning element 153 of the second set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150 has a sleeve
cavity 166 extending along a sleeve axis U1-Ul.
[0152] Each of the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 has an outer surface
and an inner surface, the inner surface defining a hollow interior cavity (i.e., the sleeve cavity).
The bristle tuft portions 145, 147, 149, 155, 157, 159 are located within the hollow interior cavities
161-166 of the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 and protrude from the top
                                                  29
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

surfaces of the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 for cleaning a user's teeth
and other oral surfaces and from the bottom surfaces of the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146,
148, 154, 156, 158 for forming the melt matte 106 or otherwise being secured to the head 110.
Thus, the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 circumferentially surround a
portion of the bristle tuft portion 145, 147, 149, 155, 157, 159 that is located within its cavity 161
166. The elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 provide support for the bristle
tuft portions 145, 147, 149, 155, 157, 159 so that more force is required to bend the bristles, which
provides for an effective and thorough cleaning of a user's teeth and other oral surfaces. The
elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 may also provide a wiping action against
the teeth surfaces during brushing for an enhanced cleaning effect.
[0153] The bristle tuft portion 145 of the central tooth cleaning element 141 of the first set of
peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140 is located within and extends through the sleeve cavity 161
of the elastomeric sleeve portion 144 along the sleeve axis Z 1-Z 1. The bristle tuft portion 147 of
the proximal tooth cleaning element 142 of the first set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140
is located within and extends through the sleeve cavity 162 along the sleeve axis Y1-Y1. The
bristle tuft portion 149 of the distal tooth cleaning element 143 of the first set of peripheral tooth
cleaning elements 140 is located within and extends through the sleeve cavity 163 along the sleeve
axis X1-X1. Bottom ends of each of the bristle tuft portions 145, 147, 149 are melted together to
form a portion of the melt matte 106 as discussed above.
[0154] The bristle tuft portion 155 of the central tooth cleaning element 151 of the second set of
peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150 is located within and extends through the sleeve cavity 164
along the sleeve axis Wi-Wi. The bristle tuft portion 157 of the proximal tooth cleaning element
152 of the second set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150 is located within and extends
through the sleeve cavity 165 along the sleeve axis Vi-Vi. The bristle tuft portion 159 of the distal
tooth cleaning element 153 of the second set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150 is located
within and extends through the sleeve cavity 166 along the sleeve axis U1-U1. Bottom ends of
each of the bristle tuft portions 155, 157, 159 are melted together to form a portion of the melt
matte 106 as discussed above
[0155] In the exemplified embodiment, for each of the peripheral tooth cleaning elements, 141,
142, 143, 151, 152, 153 of the first and second sets 140, 150, the sleeve cavity 161-166 of the
elastomeric sleeve portion 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 has a transverse cross-section comprising
                                                   30
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

a major axis and a minor axis, the major axis being longer than the minor axis. Specifically, the
sleeve cavities 161-166 of each of the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158
has a maj or axis extending in the direction of the longitudinal axis B 1-B 1 of the head 110 and a
minor axis extending in a direction transverse to the longitudinal axis B 1-B 1 of the head 110 such
that each of the cavities 161-166 (and each of the) elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154,
156, 158) extends for a greater distance along the length of the head 110 (in the direction of the
longitudinal axis BI-B1) than along the width of the head 110.
[0156] In the exemplified embodiment, the central peripheral tooth cleaning elements 141, 151 of
the first and second sets 140, 150 has a first longitudinal length L1.1, the proximal peripheral tooth
cleaning elements 142, 152 of the first and second sets 140, 150 has a second longitudinal length
L1.2, and the distal peripheral tooth cleaning elements 143, 153 of the first and second sets 140,
150 has a third longitudinal length L1.3. Furthermore, as labeled in FIGS. 9-11, the central
peripheral tooth cleaning elements 141, 151 of the first and second sets 140, 150 has a first
transverse width W 1.1, the proximal peripheral tooth cleaning elements 142, 152 of the first and
second sets 140, 150 has a second transverse width Wi.2, and the distal peripheral tooth cleaning
elements 143, 153 of the first and second sets 140, 150 has a third transverse width W3. Although
the lengths are only labeled in the figures with regard to the first set of peripheral tooth cleaning
elements 140 and the widths are only labeled in the figures with regard to the second set of
peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150, it should be understood that the relative lengths and widths
provided and discussed herein are equally applicable to the first and second sets of peripheral tooth
cleaning elements 140, 150.
[0157] In the exemplified embodiment, the first longitudinal length Li.1 is greater than the first
transverse width Wi.1, the second transverse length Li.2 is greater than the second transverse
width W2, and the third transverse width Li.3 is greater than the third transverse width Wi.3.
Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the first longitudinal length Li.1 of the central
peripheral tooth cleaning elements 141, 151 of the first and second sets 140, 150 is greater than
each of the second and third longitudinal lengths Li.2, Li.3 of the proximal and distal tooth
cleaning elements 142, 143, 152, 153 of the first and second sets 140, 150. In one embodiment,
the second and third longitudinal lengths Li.2, Li.3 may be the same, although the invention is
not to be so limited and in certain other embodiments the second and third longitudinal lengths
Li.2, Li.3 may differ from one another. Furthermore, in one embodiment all of the first, second,
                                                   31
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

and third transverse widths Wi.1, Wi.2, Wi.3 may be the same, although the invention is not to
be so limited and in other embodiments the first, second, and third transverse widths W1. 1, W1.2,
W1.3 may be different from one another.
[0158] The oral care implement 100 also includes a grouping of proximal cleaning elements 210
and a grouping of distal cleaning elements 220, both of which are generically illustrated as
cylinders in dotted-line. Each of the groupings of proximal and distal cleaning elements 210, 220
may comprise one or more cleaning elements, such as bristle tufts, elastomeric elements, or
combinations thereof. In certain embodiments, each of the groupings of proximal and distal
cleaning elements 210, 220 may comprise arcuate bristle tufts respectively located at the proximal
most and distal-most ends of the head 100. In one such an embodiment, the arcuate proximal-most
bristle tuft of the grouping of proximal cleaning elements 210, the arcuate distal-most bristle tuft
of the grouping of distal cleaning elements 220, and the first and second sets of peripheral tooth
cleaning elements 140, 150, collectively form a loop about the periphery of the front surface 111
of the head 110. This loop surrounds the conical tuft 130 (although there are additional tooth
cleaning elements positioned between the conical tuft 130 and each of the tooth cleaning elements
that form the loop).
[0159] In the exemplified embodiment, the conical tuft 130 is located between the central
peripheral tooth cleaning element 141 of the first set 140 and the central peripheral tooth cleaning
element 151 of the second set 150. Specifically, the conical tuft 130 is located on the longitudinal
axis BI-BI of the head 110, the central peripheral tooth cleaning element 141 of the first set 140
is located on a first side of the longitudinal axis BI-BI of the head 110, and the central peripheral
tooth cleaning element 151 of the second set 150 is located on a second opposite side of the
longitudinal axis B1-B1 of the head 110. Furthermore, the conical tuft 130 is longitudinally aligned
with the central peripheral tooth cleaning elements 141, 151 of the first and second sets 140, 150
so that when viewed from the side of the head 110 no portion of the conical tuft 130 is visible
(unless the conical tuft 130 has a height that is greater than that of the central peripheral tooth
cleaning elements 141, 151). In the exemplified embodiment the first longitudinal length Li of
each of the central peripheral tooth cleaning elements 141, 151 of the first and second sets 140,
150 is greater than the maximum diameter Di.1 of the transverse cross-sectional area of the cavity
132 of the conical tuft 130. Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the first longitudinal
                                                   32
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

length Li of each of the central peripheral tooth cleaning elements 141, 151 is greater than the
outer diameter of the conical tuft 130.
[0160] Referring to FIGS. 4-6B and 8-11 concurrently, as noted above in the exemplified
embodiment the oral care implement 100 comprises the head plate 121 and the plurality of tooth
cleaning elements 115 that are coupled to the head plate 121. Furthermore, the oral care implement
100 also includes an integrally formed elastomeric component 170. The integrally formed
elastomeric component 170 is an integral mass of elastomeric material that comprises the sleeve
portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 of the first and second sets of peripheral tooth cleaning
elements 140, 150, a first elastomeric tooth cleaning element 190 and a second elastomeric tooth
cleaning element 195. Thus, the sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 of the first and second
sets of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140, 150 and the first and second elastomeric tooth
cleaning elements 190, 195 are integrally formed together as a single component that is either
coupled to the head plate 121 or directly injection molded onto the head plate 121 (or the head 110
in embodiments in which no head plate 121 is used).
[0161] As noted above, the head plate 121 has an upper surface 124 and an opposing lower surface
123. Furthermore, a plurality of through holes 122 are formed into the head plate 121 and extend
from the lower surface 123 of the head plate 121 to the upper surface 124 of the head plate 121.
Each of the plurality of tooth cleaning elements 115 comprises a cleaning portion 178 that
protrudes from the upper surface 124 of the head plate 121 and an anchor portion 179 that is located
adjacent to the lower surface 123 of the head plate 121. The anchor portions 179 of the plurality
of tooth cleaning elements 115 comprise or form a portion of the melt matte 106.
[0162] Referring now to FIGS. 4, 6A, and 6B concurrently, the integrally formed elastomeric
component 170 will be further described. As noted above, the integrally formed elastomeric
component 170 comprises the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 of the first
and second sets of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140, 150 and the first and second elastomeric
tooth cleaning elements 190, 195. Furthermore, the integrally formed elastomeric component 170
also comprises a first elastomeric base strip 171 comprising a first end 172 connected to the
elastomeric sleeve 146 of the first set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140 and a second end
173 connected to the elastomeric sleeve 156 of the second set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements
150. The integrally formed elastomeric component 170 further comprises a second elastomeric
base strip 174 comprising a first end 175 connected to the elastomeric sleeve 148 of the first set of
                                                  33
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140 and a second end 176 connected to the elastomeric sleeve
158 of the second set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150.
[0163] In the exemplified embodiment, each of the first and second elastomeric base strips 171,
174 is V-shaped and has two leg portions that connect at an apex that is located inward of each of
the elastomeric sleeves 146, 148, 156, 158 in a direction of the elastomeric sleeves 154, 144. Thus,
the apex of the elastomeric base strips 171, 174 are located closer to one another than the first and
second ends 172, 173, 175, 176 of the elastomeric base strips 171, 174. More specifically, the
integrally formed elastomeric component 170 extends along a longitudinal axis D1-D1. Each of
the first and second elastomeric base strips 171, 174 has two legs that are located on opposing
sides of the longitudinal axis D1-D1 and that intersect at the longitudinal axis D1-D1. Thus, one
of the legs of the first elastomeric base strip 171 extends from the longitudinal axis D1 -D1 to the
elastomeric sleeve portion 146 and the other leg of the first elastomeric base strip 171 extends
from the longitudinal axis DI-DI to the elastomeric sleeve portion 156. Similarly, one of the legs
of the second elastomeric base strip 174 extends from the longitudinal axis D1-D1 to the
elastomeric sleeve portion 148 and the other leg of the second elastomeric base strip 174 extends
from the longitudinal axis DI-DI to the elastomeric sleeve portion 158.
[0164] The first elastomeric tooth cleaning element 190 is arcuate in shape and has a concave
surface 191 and a convex surface 192. Furthermore, the first elastomeric tooth cleaning element
190 extends upwardly from the first elastomeric base strip 171 of the integrally formed elastomeric
component 170. More specifically, a pair of struts 177 extend upwardly from the first elastomeric
base strip 171 to the first elastomeric tooth cleaning element 190. The pair of struts 177 includes
a first strut that extends from the first leg of the first elastomeric base strip 171 to a bottom surface
of the first elastomeric tooth cleaning element 190 and a second strut that extends from the second
leg of the first elastomeric base strip 171 to the bottom surface of the first elastomeric tooth
cleaning element 190. Similarly, the second elastomeric tooth cleaning element 195 is arcuate in
shape and has a concave surface 196 and a convex surface 197. The second elastomeric tooth
cleaning element 195 extends upwardly from the second elastomeric base strip 174 of the
integrally formed elastomeric component 170. More specifically, a pair of struts 178 extend
upwardly from the second elastomeric base strip 174 to the second elastomeric tooth cleaning
element 195. The pair of struts 178 includes a first strut that extends from the first leg of the second
elastomeric base strip 174 to a bottom surface of the second elastomeric tooth cleaning element
                                                     34
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

195 and a second strut that extends from the second leg of the second elastomeric base strip 174
to the bottom surface of the second elastomeric tooth cleaning element 195.
[0165] As will be discussed in more detail below, when the integrally formed elastomeric
component is coupled to the head plate 121, the first and second elastomeric base strips 171, 174
are positioned adjacent the lower surface 123 of the head plate 121, the pairs of struts 177, 178 are
each located within a through hole 129 of the head plate 121 (see FIG. 5A), and the first and second
elastomeric tooth cleaning elements 190, 195 protrude from the upper surface 124 of the head plate
121. As can be seen in FIGS. 9-11, in the exemplified embodiment a lower portion of each of the
elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 extends into the head plate 121 beyond
the upper surface 124 of the head plate 121 so as to be recessed below the front surface 111 of the
head 110. Specifically, in one particular embodiment between 10% and 20%, more specifically
between 12% and 17%, and still more specifically between 14% and 15% of the height of the
elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 extends below the front surface 111 of
the head 110 with the remainder of the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158
protruding from the front surface 111 of the head 110. However, in other embodiments the bottom
ends of the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 may rest atop of the upper
surface 124 of the head plate 121.
[0166] The integrally formed elastomeric component 170 also comprises elastomeric sleeve strips
188 that extend between and connect the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148 of adjacent
ones of the first set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140. Specifically, a first elastomeric
sleeve strip 188 extends between and connects the elastomeric sleeve portion 144 to the
elastomeric sleeve portion 146. A second elastomeric sleeve strip 188 extends between and
connects the elastomeric sleeve portion 144 to the elastomeric sleeve portion 148. Similarly, the
integrally formed elastomeric component 170 comprises elastomeric sleeve strips 189 that extend
between and connect the elastomeric sleeve portions 154, 156, 158 of adjacent ones of the second
set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150. Specifically, a first elastomeric sleeve strip 189
extends between and connects the elastomeric sleeve portion 154 to the elastomeric sleeve portion
156. A second elastomeric sleeve strip 189 extends between and connects the elastomeric sleeve
portion 154 to the elastomeric sleeve portion 158. When the integrally formed elastomeric
component 170 is coupled to the head plate 121, the elastomeric sleeve strips 189 are located on
or adjacent to the upper surface 124 of the head plate 121.
                                                35
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0167] The elastomeric base strips 171, 174 and the elastomeric sleeve strips 188, 189 are located
at different elevations on the integrally formed elastomeric component 170. Specifically, the
elastomeric sleeve strips 188, 189 are flush/planar with a lower surface of the elastomeric sleeve
portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 and the elastomeric base strips 171, 174 are offset or below
the lower surface of the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158. This enables the
elastomeric sleeve strips 188, 189 to be on the upper surface 124 of the head plate 121 and the
elastomeric base strips 171, 174 to be on the lower surface 123 of the head plate 121 when the
integrally formed elastomeric component 170 is coupled to the head plate 121, as discussed below.
[0168] Referring to FIGS. 4, 5A, and 5B concurrently, the head plate 121 will be further described.
As discussed above, the head plate 121 has an upper surface 124, a lower surface 123, and holes
122, 129 that extend through the head plate 121 from the upper surface 124 to the lower surface
123. Furthermore, the head plate 121 has a longitudinal axis El-El. In addition to the holes 122,
the upper surface 124 of the head plate 121 comprises channels 125 that extend between the holes
122 that are located adjacent to the lateral sides of the head plate 121. Specifically, the channels
125 extend between the adjacent holes 122 through which the bristle portions 145, 147, 159, 155,
157, 159 of the first and second sets of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140, 150 extend. The
channels 125 extend along the head plate 121 adjacent to the lateral edges of the head plate 121 in
the direction of the longitudinal axis El-El of the head plate 121.
[0169] The channels 125 are grooves or recesses formed into the upper surface 124 of the head
plate 121 that do not extend all the way through the head plate 121, and thus do not form holes
through the head plate 121. Rather, the channels 125 form a grooved or recessed region of the head
plate 121 within which the elastomeric sleeve strips 188, 189 are positioned when the integrally
formed elastomeric component 170 is coupled to the head plate 121. Specifically, when the
integrally formed elastomeric component 170 is coupled to the head plate 121, the elastomeric
sleeve strips 188, 189 are located within the channels 125 in the upper surface 124 of the head
plate 121. In certain embodiments, the elastomeric sleeve strips 188, 189 are flush with the upper
surface 124 of the head plate 121 (because the channels 125 have a depth which is equal to a
thickness of the elastomeric sleeve strips 188, 189).
[0170] In addition to the channels 125 in the upper surface 124 of the head plate 121, at least one
channel 126 is formed in the lower surface 123 of the head plate 121. More specifically, in the
exemplified embodiment two of the channels 126 are formed into the lower surface 123 of the
                                                 36
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

head plate 121. One of the channels 126 extends between the tuft hole within which the bristle tuft
portion 149 is positioned to the tuft hole within which the bristle tuft portion 159 is positioned.
The other one of the channels 126 extends between the tuft hole within which the bristle tuft
portion 147 is positioned to the tuft hole within which the bristle tuft portion 157 is positioned.
Thus, each of the channels 126 extends transversely across the head plate 121 in a direction
transverse to the longitudinal axis E l-E l of the head plate 121. Furthermore, each of the channels
125 is a V-shaped channel having an apex portion that is positioned closer to the center of the head
plate 121 than the terminal ends of the legs which are in spatial communication with the tuft holes
within which the bristle tuft portions 147, 149, 157, 159 are positioned.
[0171] As can be seen in FIG. 5B, the through holes 129 are located within the channels 126. Thus,
when the integrally formed elastomeric component 170 is coupled to the head plate 121, the first
and second elastomeric base strips 171, 174 are located within the channels 126 on the rear surface
123 of the head plate 121, the strut portions 177, 178 are located within the through holes 129, and
the elastomeric tooth cleaning elements 190, 195 protrude from the upper surface 124 of the head
plate 121. In one embodiment, when the integrally formed elastomeric component 170 is coupled
to the head plate 121, the first and second elastomeric base strips 171, 174 are flush with the rear
surface 123 of the head plate 121.
[0172] Thus, the first and second elastomeric tooth cleaning elements 190, 195 protrude from the
front surface 111 of the head 110 and are coupled to the head plate 121 via the through holes 129.
The through holes 129 which couple the first and second elastomeric tooth cleaning elements 190,
195 to the head plate 121 do not have a similar shape to the shape of the first and second
elastomeric tooth cleaning elements 190, 195. Rather, it is only the strut portions 177, 178 that
must fit within the through holes 129, and thus in the exemplified embodiment the through holes
129 which affix the first and second elastomeric tooth cleaning elements 190, 195 to the head plate
121 have a cross-sectional area which is less than the cross-sectional area of the elastomeric tooth
cleaning elements 190, 195. More specifically, each of the first and second elastomeric tooth
cleaning elements 190, 195 is coupled to the head plate 121 via two of the through holes 129. The
collective cross-sectional area of the two through holes 129 that affix the first elastomeric tooth
cleaning element 190 to the head plate 121 is less than the cross-sectional area of the first
elastomeric tooth cleaning element 190. Similarly, the collective cross-sectional area of the two
                                                   37
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

through holes 129 that affix the second elastomeric tooth cleaning element 195 to the head plate
121 is less than the cross-sectional area of the second elastomeric tooth cleaning element 195.
[0173] Referring to FIGS. 2, 3, and 8-11 concurrently, the fully assembled head 110 with the head
plate 121 and the tooth cleaning elements 115 coupled thereto is illustrated. When viewed from
the front surface 111 of the head 110 as depicted in FIGS. 2 and 3, the elastomeric sleeve strips
188, 189 that interconnect the adjacent ones of the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146, 148, 154,
156, 158 of the first and second sets of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140, 150 are visible.
This is because the elastomeric sleeve strips 188, 189 are positioned within the channels 125 on
the front surface 124 of the head plate 121. Although the first and second elastomeric tooth
cleaning elements 190, 195 are formed integrally with the elastomeric sleeve portions 144, 146,
148, 154, 156, 158 of the first and second sets of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140, 150, the
first and second elastomeric base strips 171, 174 that interconnect the elastomeric sleeve portions
144, 146, 148, 154, 156, 158 with the first and second elastomeric tooth cleaning elements 190,
195 are not visible because the first and second elastomeric base strips 171, 174 are positioned
within the grooves 126 on the lower surface 123 of the head plate 121, which is completely hidden
from view in the assembled oral care implement 100. Thus, the first and second elastomeric tooth
cleaning elements 190, 195 appear to be free standing independent elements despite the fact that
they are in actuality formed as a part of the integrally formed elastomeric component 170.
[0174] The first and second elastomeric tooth cleaning elements 190, 195 are located between the
first and second sets of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 130, 140 and on opposite sides of the
conical tuft 130. Specifically, the first elastomeric tooth cleaning element 190 is located between
the proximal peripheral tooth cleaning element 142 of the first set of peripheral tooth cleaning
elements 140 and the proximal peripheral tooth cleaning element 152 of the second set of
peripheral tooth cleaning elements. Furthermore, the first elastomeric tooth cleaning element 190
is located between the conical tuft 130 and the proximal end 118 of the head 110. The concave
surface 191 of the first elastomeric component 190 faces the proximal end 118 of the head 110 and
the convex surface 192 of the first elastomeric component 190 faces the conical tuft 130. The
second elastomeric tooth cleaning element 195 is located between the distal peripheral tooth
cleaning element 143 of the first set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 140 and the distal
peripheral tooth cleaning element 153 of the second set of peripheral tooth cleaning elements 150.
Furthermore, the second elastomeric tooth cleaning element 195 is located between the conical
                                                  38
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

tuft 130 and the distal end 119 of the head 110. The concave surface 196 of the second elastomeric
component 195 faces the distal end 119 of the head and the convex surface 197 of the second
elastomeric component 195 faces the conical tuft 130.
[0175] The pattern of the tooth cleaning elements 115 is such that they have lateral and
longitudinal symmetry.
                                                 SECTION II
[0176] Referring to FIGS. 12-14 concurrently, an oral care implement 300 is illustrated in
accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. In the exemplified embodiment, the
oral care implement 300 is in the form of a manual toothbrush. However, in certain other
embodiments the oral care implement 300 can take on other forms such as being a powered
toothbrush, a tongue scraper, a gum and soft tissue cleanser, a water pick, an interdental device, a
tooth polisher, a specially designed ansate implement having tooth engaging elements or any other
type of implement that is commonly used for oral care. Thus, it is to be understood that the
inventive concepts discussed herein can be applied to any type of oral care implement unless a
specific type of oral care implement is specified in the claims.
[0177] The oral care implement 300 extends from a proximal end 301 to a distal end 302 along a
longitudinal axis A2-A2. The oral care implement 300 generally comprises a head 310 and a handle
320. The head 310 extends from a proximal end 318 to a distal end 319 along a longitudinal axis
B2-B2 that is coextensive with the longitudinal axis A2-A2 of the oral care implement 300.
Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the distal end 302 of the oral care implement 300 is
the same as the distal end 319 of the head 310.
[0178] The handle 320 is an elongated structure that provides the mechanism by which the user
can hold and manipulate the oral care implement 300 during use. In the exemplified embodiment,
the handle 320 is generically depicted having various contours for user comfort. Of course, the
invention is not to be limited by the specific shape illustrated for the handle 320 in all embodiments
and in certain other embodiments the handle 320 can take on a wide variety of shapes, contours,
and configurations, none of which are limiting of the present invention unless so specified in the
claims.
[0179] In the exemplified embodiment, the handle 320 is formed of a rigid plastic material, such
as for example without limitation polymers and copolymers of ethylene, propylene, butadiene,
vinyl compounds, and polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate. Of course, the invention is
                                                   39
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

not to be so limited in all embodiments and the handle 320 may include a resilient material, such
as a thermoplastic elastomer, as a grip cover that is molded over portions of or the entirety of the
handle 320 to enhance the gripability of the handle 320 during use. For example, portions of the
handle 320 that are typically gripped by a user's palm during use may be overmolded with a
thermoplastic elastomer or other resilient material to further increase comfort to a user.
Furthermore, materials other than those noted above can be used including metal, wood, or any
other desired material that has sufficient structural rigidity to permit a user to grip the handle 320
and manipulate the oral care implement 300 during toothbrushing.
[0180] The head 310 of the oral care implement 300 is coupled to the handle 320 and comprises a
front surface 311 and an opposing rear surface 312. In the exemplified embodiment, the head 310
is formed integrally with the handle 320 as a single unitary structure using a molding, milling,
machining, or other suitable process. However, in other embodiments the handle 320 and the head
310 may be formed as separate components which are operably connected at a later stage of the
manufacturing process by any suitable technique known in the art, including without limitation
thermal or ultrasonic welding, a tight-fit assembly, a coupling sleeve, threaded engagement,
adhesion, or fasteners. Thus the head 310 may, in certain embodiments, be formed of any of the
rigid plastic materials described above as being used for forming the handle 320, although the
invention is not to be so limited in all embodiments and other materials that are commonly used
during toothbrush head manufacture may also be used.
[0181] The oral care implement 300 also comprises a plurality of tooth cleaning elements 315
extending from the front surface 311 of the head 310. The details of certain ones of the plurality
of tooth cleaning elements 315 will be discussed below, including specific details with regard to
structure, pattern, orientation, and material of such tooth cleaning elements 315. However, where
it does not conflict with the other disclosure provided herein, it should be appreciated that the term
"tooth cleaning elements" may be used in a generic sense to refer to any structure that can be used
to clean, polish, or wipe the teeth and/or soft oral tissue (e.g. tongue, cheek, gums, etc.) through
relative surface contact. Common examples of "tooth cleaning elements" include, without
limitation, bristle tufts, filament bristles, fiber bristles, nylon bristles, spiral bristles, rubber bristles,
elastomeric protrusions, flexible polymer protrusions, combinations thereof and/or structures
containing such materials or combinations. Thus, any combination of these tooth cleaning
elements may be used within the tooth cleaning elements 315 in some embodiments. However, as
                                                      40
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

described herein below, in certain embodiments one or more of the tooth cleaning elements 315
may be formed as tufts of bristles.
[0182] In embodiments that use elastomeric elements as one or more of the tooth cleaning
elements 315, suitable elastomeric materials may include any biocompatible resilient material
suitable for uses in an oral hygiene apparatus. To provide optimum comfort as well as cleaning
benefits, the elastomeric material of any such tooth or soft tissue engaging elements may have a
hardness property in the range of A8 to A25 Shore hardness. One suitable elastomeric material is
styrene-ethylene/butylene-styrene block copolymer (SEBS) manufactured by GLS Corporation.
Nevertheless, SEBS material from other manufacturers or other materials within and outside the
noted hardness range could be used.
[0183] Referring now to FIGS. 12-19 concurrently, one manner in which the tooth cleaning
elements 315 are secured to the head 310 will be described. Specifically, in the exemplified
embodiment the tooth cleaning elements 315 are formed as a cleaning element assembly on a head
plate 321 such that one or more of the tooth cleaning elements 315 are mounted onto the head plate
321 and then the head plate 321 is coupled to the head 310. In such an embodiment, the head plate
321 is a separate and distinct component from the head 310 of the oral care implement 300.
However, the head plate 321 is connected to the head 310 at a later stage of the manufacturing
process by any suitable technique known in the art, including without limitation thermal or
ultrasonic welding, any fusion techniques such as thermal fusion, melting, a tight-fit assembly, a
coupling sleeve, threaded engagement, adhesion, or fasteners. Thus, the head plate 321 and the
head 310 are separately formed components that are secured together during manufacture of the
oral care implement 300.
[0184] In certain embodiments, the head plate 321 may comprise a plurality of holes 322 formed
therethrough, and the tooth cleaning elements 315 may be mounted to the head plate 321 within
the holes 322. This type of technique for mounting the tooth cleaning elements 315 to the head
310 via the head plate 321 is known as anchor free tufting (AFT). Specifically, in AFT a plate or
membrane (i.e., the head plate 321) is created separately from the head 310. The tooth cleaning
elements 315 (such as bristles, elastomeric elements, and combinations thereof) are positioned into
the head plate 321 so as to extend through the holes 322 of the head plate 321. The free ends of
the tooth cleaning elements 315 on one side of the head plate 321 perform the cleaning function.
The ends of the tooth cleaning elements 315 on the other side of the head plate 321 are melted
                                                 41
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

together by heat to be anchored in place. As the tooth cleaning elements 305 are melted together,
a melt matte 306 is formed. After the tooth cleaning elements 315 are secured to the head plate
321, the head plate 321 is secured to the head 310 such as by ultrasonic welding. When the head
plate 321 is coupled to the head 310, the melt matte 306 is located between a lower surface 323 of
the head plate 321 and a floor 307 of a basin 308 of the head 310 in which the head plate 321 is
disposed. The melt matte 306, which is coupled directly to and in fact forms a part of the tooth
cleaning elements 315, prevents the tooth cleaning elements 315 from being pulled through the
holes 322 in the head plate 321 to ensure that the tooth cleaning elements 305 remain attached to
the head plate 321 during use of the oral care implement 300.
[0185] Of course, techniques other than AFT can be used for mounting the tooth cleaning elements
315 to the head 310, such as known and used stapling techniques or the like. In such embodiments
the head plate 321 may be omitted and the tooth cleaning elements 315 may be coupled directly to
the head 310. Furthermore, in a modified version of the AFT process discussed above, the head
plate 321 may be formed by positioning the tooth cleaning elements 315 within a mold, and then
molding the head plate 321 around the tooth cleaning elements 315 via an injection molding
process.
[0186] Although described herein above with regard to using AFT, in certain embodiments any
suitable form of cleaning elements and attachment may be used in the broad practice of this
invention. Specifically, the tooth cleaning elements 315 of the present invention can be connected
to the head 310 in any manner known in the art. For example, staples/anchors or in-mold tufting
(IMT) could be used to mount the cleaning elements/tooth engaging elements. In certain
embodiments, the invention can be practiced with various combinations of stapled, IMT or AFT
bristles. Alternatively, the tooth cleaning elements 315 could be mounted to tuft blocks or sections
by extending through suitable openings in the tuft blocks so that the base of the tooth cleaning
elements 315 is mounted within or below the tuft block.
[0187] Although not illustrated herein, in certain embodiments the head 310 may also include a
soft tissue cleanser coupled to or positioned on its rear surface 312. An example of a suitable soft
tissue cleanser that may be used with the present invention and positioned on the rear surface of
the head 310 is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 7,143,462, issued December 5, 2006 to the assignee
of the present application, the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In certain
other embodiments, the soft tissue cleanser may include protuberances, which can take the form
                                                 42
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

of elongated ridges, nubs, or combinations thereof. Of course, the invention is not to be so limited
and in certain embodiments the oral care implement 300 may not include any soft tissue cleanser.
[0188] With reference to FIGS. 12-19, the oral care implement 300, and specifically the tooth
cleaning elements 315 of the oral care implement 300, will be further described. In the exemplified
embodiment, the plurality of tooth cleaning elements 315 comprises a first conical tuft 330 and a
second conical tuft 340. Each of the first and second conical tufts 330, 340 is a tuft or grouping of
bristles that are arranged together into a tuft and then secured into a single tuft hole within the head
310 (or within the head plate 321). The first and second conical tufts 330, 340 are described herein
as being conical due to the first and second conical tufts 330, 340 having a conical shape. More
specifically, as can best be seen in FIGS. 16, 17, and 19, the first and second conical tufts 330, 340
are in the shape of a truncated cone wherein the portion of the first and second conical tufts 330,
340 that are positioned within the head 310 is the truncated (i.e., cut off) portion of the cone such
that the first and second conical tufts 330, 340 are in the shape of an inverted truncated cone.
[0189] The first conical tuft 330 comprises a first continuous bristle wall 335 having an inner
surface 331 and an outer surface 336. The inner surface 331 of the first continuous bristle wall 335
of the first conical tuft 330 defines a first cavity 332 that extends along a first cavity axis C2-C2.
The first conical tuft 330, and specifically the first continuous bristle wall 335 thereof, extends in
a 3600 manner about the first cavity axis C2-C2. The first cavity 332 of the first conical tuft 330
has an open top end and is bounded by the inner surface 331 of the first continuous bristle wall
335 and by the front surface 311 of the head 310. As noted above, the first conical tuft 330 in the
exemplified embodiment is formed by a plurality of bristles. Specifically, the plurality of bristles
are clumped together and positioned collectively into a single tuft hole so that the plurality of
bristles collectively form the first conical tuft 330 having no gaps in the first continuous bristle
wall 335 for its entire 360' extension about the first cavity axis C2-C2. Thus, the first conical tuft
330 extends from a single tuft hole. The term continuous bristle wall is intended to mean that the
first conical tuft 330 is a single tuft of bristles that are clumped together into a single tuft hole in a
non-spaced apart manner.
[0190] Thus, in the exemplified embodiment the first conical tuft 330 is a single bristle tuft formed
from a plurality of individual bristles that are positioned together within a single tuft hole. As a
result, the first conical tuft 330 has the first continuous bristle wall 335 that extends without
discontinuity about the first cavity axis C2-C2. Thus, in the exemplified embodiment there are no
                                                      43
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

gaps formed into the outer surface 336 of the first conical tuft 330. Of course, in other embodiments
the first conical tuft 330 may have small gaps therein as desired while still being a single tuft
positioned within a single tuft hole. Such gaps in the bristle wall may prevent dentifrice from being
trapped within the first cavity 332 of the first conical tuft 330 by providing means of egress from
the first cavity 332. In such an embodiment, the bristle wall 335 of the first conical tuft 330 may
not be continuous.
[0191] Due to the conical shape of the first conical tuft 330, and more specifically, the inverted
conical shape of the first conical tuft 330, the first cavity 332 of the first conical tuft 330 has a first
transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from the front surface 311 of the head
310. Specifically, the first transverse cross-sectional area of the first cavity 332 of the first conical
tuft 330 only increases and never decreases with distance from the front surface 311 of the head
310. Thus, the greater the distance between a particular axial location within the first cavity 332
of the first conical tuft 330 and the front surface 311 of the head 310, the greater the transverse
cross-sectional area of the first cavity 332 at that particular axial location.
[0192] The second conical tuft 340 comprises a second continuous bristle wall 345 having an inner
surface 341 and an outer surface 346. The inner surface 341 of the second continuous bristle wall
345 of the second conical tuft 340 defines a second cavity 342 that extends along a second cavity
axis D2-D2. The second conical tuft 344 extends in a 3600 manner about the second cavity axis
D2-D2. The second cavity 342 of the second conical tuft 340 has an open top end and is bounded
by the inner surface 341 of the second continuous bristle wall 345 and by the front surface 311 of
the head 310. As noted above, the second conical tuft 340 in the exemplified embodiment is formed
by a plurality of bristles. Specifically, the plurality of bristles are clumped together and positioned
collectively into a single tuft hole so that the plurality of bristles collectively form the second
conical tuft 340 having no gaps in the second continuous bristle wall 345 for its entire 360'
extension about the second cavity axis D2-D2. Thus, the term continuous bristle wall is intended
to mean that the second conical tuft 340 is a single tuft of bristles that are clumped together into a
single tuft hole in a non-spaced apart manner.
[0193] Thus, in the exemplified embodiment the second conical tuft 340 is a single tuft formed
from a plurality of individual bristles that are positioned together within a single tuft hole. As a
result, the second conical tuft 340 has the second continuous bristle wall 345 that extends without
discontinuity about the second cavity axis D2-D2. Thus, in the exemplified embodiment there are
                                                    44
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

no gaps formed into the outer surface 346 of the second conical tuft 340. Of course, in other
embodiments the second conical tuft 340 may have small gaps therein as desired while still being
a single tuft positioned within a single tuft hole. Such gaps in the bristle wall may prevent dentifrice
from being trapped within the second cavity 342 of the second conical tuft 340 by providing means
of egress from the second cavity 342. In such an embodiment, the bristle wall 345 of the second
conical tuft 340 may not be continuous.
[0194] Due to the conical shape of the second conical tuft 340, and more specifically, the inverted
conical shape of the second conical tuft 340, the second cavity 342 of the second conical tuft 340
has a second transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from the front surface 311
of the head 310. Specifically, the second transverse cross-sectional area of the second cavity 342
of the second conical tuft 340 only increases and never decreases with distance from the front
surface 311 of the head 310. Thus, the greater the distance between a particular axial location
within the second cavity 342 of the second conical tuft 340 and the front surface 311 of the head
310, the greater the transverse cross-sectional area of the second cavity 342 at that particular axial
location.
[0195] In the exemplified embodiment, the first conical tuft 330 is located at a distal region of the
head 310 near the distal end 319 of the head 310 and the second conical tuft 340 is located at a
proximal region of the head 310 near the proximal end 318 of the head 310. However, in the
exemplified embodiment the first conical tuft 330 is not the distal-most tuft and the second conical
tuft 340 is not the proximal-most tuft. Rather, there are tufts positioned between the first conical
tuft 330 and the distal end 319 of the head 310 and there are tufts positioned between the second
conical tuft 340 and the proximal end 318 of the head 310, as discussed in more detail below. Of
course, in other embodiments the first and second conical tufts 330, 340 may be the proximal-most
and distal-most tufts on the head 310. Furthermore, there are several different tooth cleaning
elements positioned in between the first and second conical tufts 330, 340 in the direction of the
longitudinal axis B2-B2 as will be discussed in more detail below. In the exemplified embodiment,
each of the first and second conical tufts 330, 340 is aligned on the longitudinal axis B2-B2 such
that the longitudinal axis B2-B2 crosses through a center point of each of the first and second
conical tufts 330, 340. The first and second conical tufts 330, 340 are on opposite sides of a
transverse axis that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis B2-B2 and that divides the head 310
into two equal halves.
                                                    45
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0196] Referring briefly to FIGS. 34 and 36 concurrently, the first conical tuft 330 terminates in a
first annular top surface 337 that extends a first height H2.1 above the front surface 311 of the head
310. The first conical tuft 330 also has a first outer diameter D2.1 taken at the first annular top
surface 337 and at the outer surface 336. The second conical tuft 340 terminates in a second annular
top surface 347 that extends a second height H2.6 above the front surface 311 of the head 310. The
second conical tuft 340 also has a second outer diameter D2.2 taken at the second annular top
surface 347 and at the outer surface 336. In the exemplified embodiment, the first height H2.1 is
greater than the second height H2.6. However, in other embodiments the first and second heights
H2. 1, H2.6 may be the same, or the second height H2.6 may be greater than the first height H2. 1.
Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the first and second diameters D2. 1, D2.2 are
different, and more specifically the first diameter D2. 1, D2.2 is greater than the second diameter.
However, in certain other embodiments the first and second diameters D2.1, D2.2 may be the
same, or the second diameter D2.2 may be greater than the first diameter D2. 1.
[0197] Furthermore, the outer surface 336 of the first continuous bristle wall 335 of the first
conical tuft 330 is oriented at a first acute angle 02.1 relative to the front surface 311 of the head
310. The outer surface 346 of the second continuous bristle wall 345 of the second conical tuft 340
is oriented at a second acute angle 02.2 relative to the front surface 311 of the head 310. In the
exemplified embodiment, the first and second acute angles 02.1, 02.2 are different from one
another. Specifically, in the exemplified embodiment the second acute angle 02.2 is greater than
the first acute angle 02.1. Of course, the invention is not to be so limited in all embodiments and
in certain other embodiments the first acute angle 02.1 may be greater than the second acute angle
02.2, or the first and second acute angles 02.1, 02.2 may be substantially the same. In certain
embodiments, each of the first and second acute angles 02.1, 02.2 are between 800 and 890, more
specifically between 83.5' and 87.5'. In certain embodiments, one or both of the first and second
acute angles 02.1, 02.2 is between 82' and 85', and in other embodiments one or both of the first
and second acute angles 02.1, 02.2 is between 86' and 890. Furthermore, one of the first and
second acute angles 02.1, 02.2 may be between 820 and 850 while the other one of the first and
second acute angles 02.1, 02.2 is between 860 and 890.
[0198] Although not depicted herein, in certain embodiments a central cleaning element may be
positioned within each of the first and second cavities 332, 342 of the first and second conical tufts
330, 340. The central cleaning elements may be bristle tufts containing tapered bristles, spiral
                                                    46
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

bristles, rounded bristles, or combinations thereof. Alternatively, the central cleaning elements
may be elastomeric protrusions/elements.
[0199] In addition to the first and second conical tufts 330, 340, the plurality of tooth cleaning
elements 315 also comprises a first arcuate cleaning element 350 and a second arcuate cleaning
element 360. The first arcuate cleaning element 350 is at least partially located between the first
conical tuft 330 and the distal end 319 of the head 310 and the second arcuate cleaning element
360 is at least partially located between the second conical tuft 340 and the proximal end 318 of
the head 310. Thus, the first arcuate cleaning element 350 is the distal-most cleaning element on
the head 310 and the second arcuate cleaning element 360 is the proximal-most cleaning element
on the head 310. Stated another way, there are no intervening cleaning elements between the first
arcuate cleaning element 350 and the distal end 319 of the head 310 and there are no intervening
cleaning elements between the second arcuate cleaning element 360 and the proximal end 318 of
the head 310.
[0200] In the exemplified embodiment, the first arcuate cleaning element 350 is formed of a
plurality of bristle wall segments including a first segment 351, a second segment 352, a third
segment 353, and a fourth segment 354. In this embodiment, each of the first, second, third, and
fourth segments 351-354 is positioned within its own tuft hole that is spaced apart from the other
tuft holes of the segments of the first arcuate cleaning element 350. Thus, in the exemplified
embodiment the first segment 351 is spaced from the second segment 352 by a gap, the second
segment 352 is spaced from the third segment 353 by a gap, and the third segment 353 is spaced
from the fourth segment 354 by a gap. However, in certain other embodiments the first arcuate
cleaning element 350 may be formed by a single continuous cleaning element that is positioned
within a single tuft hole. Furthermore, in embodiments that include the spaced apart segments 351
354 that form the first arcuate cleaning element 350, the gaps between adjacent ones of the
segments 351-354 may be considered as a part of the first arcuate cleaning element 350.
[0201] In the exemplified embodiment, the second arcuate cleaning element 360 is formed of a
plurality of bristle wall segments including a first segment 361, a second segment 362, a third
segment 363, and a fourth segment 364. In this embodiment, each of the first, second, third, and
fourth segments 361-364 is positioned within its own tuft hole that is spaced apart from the other
tuft holes of the segments of the second arcuate cleaning element 360. However, in certain other
embodiments the second cleaning element 360 may be formed by a single continuous cleaning
                                                 47
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

element that is positioned within a single tuft hole. Thus, in the exemplified embodiment, the first
segment 361 is spaced from the second segment 362 by a gap, the second segment 362 is spaced
from the third segment 363 by a gap, and the third segment 363 is spaced from the fourth segment
364 by a gap. However, in certain other embodiments the second arcuate cleaning element 360
may be formed by a single continuous cleaning element that is positioned within a single tuft hole.
Furthermore, in embodiments that include the spaced apart segments 361-364 that form the first
arcuate cleaning element 360, the gaps between adjacent ones of the segments 361-364 may be
considered as a part of the second arcuate cleaning element 360.
[0202] Referring briefly to FIGS. 13-15 concurrently, the oral care implement 300 will be further
described. The first arcuate cleaning element 350 is arranged on the head 310 so as to at least
partially surround the first conical tuft 330. Specifically, in the exemplified embodiment the first
arcuate cleaning element 350 surrounds the first conical tuft 330 for at least 1800 about the
circumference of the first conical tuft 330, or between 1800 and 270' about the circumference of
the first conical tuft 330. In that regard, there are no other bristle tufts or cleaning elements
positioned between the first arcuate cleaning element 350 and the first conical tuft 330 where the
first arcuate cleaning element 350 surrounds the first conical tuft 330. In the exemplified
embodiment, the second and third segments 352, 353 of the first arcuate cleaning element 350 are
located between the first conical tuft 330 and the distal end 319 of the head 310 and the first and
fourth segments 351, 354 of the first arcuate cleaning element 350 are located between the first
conical tuft 330 and the lateral sides or peripheral edge of the head 310.
[0203] The first arcuate cleaning element 350 has a top surface 355 having a first high point 356a
and a second high point 356b. The first high point 356a is located on the second segment 352 and
the second high point 356b is located on the third segment 353. The first and second high points
356a, 356b are located on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis B2-B2. Furthermore, each of the
first and second high points 356a, 356b extends to a second height H2.2 from the front surface 311
of the head 310. The top surface 355 of the first arcuate cleaning element 350 also has a first low
point 357a and a second low point 357b. The first low point 357a is located on the first segment
351 and the second low point 357b is located on the fourth segment 354. The first and second low
points 357a, 357b are located on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis B2-B2 and on opposite
sides of the first conical tuft 330. Furthermore, each of the first and second low points 357a, 357b
extends to a third height H2.3 from the front surface 311 of the head 310.
                                                  48
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0204] Although noted herein as having first and second high points 356a, 356b, in certain
embodiments the second and third segments 352, 353 may be formed as a single segment having
a single high point located on the longitudinal axis B2-B2. Furthermore, in the exemplified
embodiment the first and second high points 356a, 356b are the same height, and thus the first and
second high points 356a, 356b may be considered a single high point in some embodiments.
[0205] The second arcuate cleaning element 360 is arranged on the head 310 so as to at least
partially surround the second conical tuft 340. Specifically, in the exemplified embodiment the
second arcuate cleaning element 360 surrounds the second conical tuft 340 for at least 1800 about
the circumference of the second conical tuft 340, or between 1800 and 270' about the circumference
of the second conical tuft 340. In that regard, there are no other bristle tufts or cleaning elements
positioned between the second arcuate cleaning element 360 and the second conical tuft 340 where
the second arcuate cleaning element 360 surrounds the second conical tuft 340. In the exemplified
embodiment, the second and third segments 362, 363 of the second arcuate cleaning element 360
are located between the second conical tuft 340 and the proximal end 318 of the head 310 and the
first and fourth segments 361, 364 of the second arcuate cleaning element 360 are located between
the second conical tuft 340 and the lateral sides or peripheral edge of the head 310.
[0206] The second arcuate cleaning element 360 has a top surface 365 having a first high point
366a and a second high point 366b. The first high point 366a is located on the second segment 362
and the second high point 366b is located on the third segment 363. The first and second high
points 366a, 366b are located on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis B2-B2. Furthermore, each
of the first and second high points 366a, 366b is located at a fourth height H2.4 from the front
surface 311 of the head 310. The top surface 355 of the second arcuate cleaning element 360 also
has a first low point 367a and a second low point 367b. The first low point 367a is located on the
first segment 361 and the second low point 367b is located on the fourth segment 364. The first
and second low points 367a, 367b are located on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis B2-B2 and
on opposite sides of the second conical tuft 340. Furthermore, each of the first and second low
points 367a, 367b is located at a fifth height H2.5 from the front surface 311 of the head 310.
[0207] Although noted herein as having first and second high points 366a, 366b, in certain
embodiments the second and third segments 362, 363 may be formed as a single segment having
a single high point located on the longitudinal axis B2-B2. Furthermore, in the exemplified
                                                 49
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

embodiment the first and second high points 366a, 366b may be the same height, and thus the first
and second high points 366a, 366b may be considered a single high point in some embodiments.
[0208] In the exemplified embodiment, the first height H2.1 (which is the height at which the
annular top surface 337 of the first conical tuft 330 extends from the front surface 311 of the head
310) is greater than the third height H2.3 and less than the second height H2.2. Similarly, in the
exemplified embodiment the sixth height H2.6 (which is the height at which the annular top surface
347 of the second conical tuft 340 extends from the front surface 311 of the head 310) is greater
than the fifth height H2.5 and less than the fourth height H2.4. Furthermore, in the exemplified
embodiment the third height H2.3 is greater than the fifth height H2.5, and the second height H2.2
is greater than the fourth height H2.4. Thus, each of the cleaning elements in the distal region of
the head 310 is taller than its counterpart in the proximal region of the head 310 (the high point
356a, 356b of the first arcuate cleaning element 350 is taller than the high point 366a, 366b of the
second arcuate cleaning element 360, the low point 357a, 357b of the first arcuate cleaning element
350 is taller than the low point 367a, 367b of the second arcuate cleaning element 360, and the
first conical tuft 330 is taller than the second conical tuft 340).
[0209] In the exemplified embodiment the top surface 355 of the first arcuate cleaning element
350 comprises a first ramped portion 358a extending from the first low point 357a to the first high
point 356a (visible in FIG. 15) and a second ramped portion 358b extending from the second low
point 357b to the second high point 356b (not visible in FIG. 15, but denoted in FIG. 413). In the
exemplified embodiment, each of the first and second ramped portions 358a, 358b of the top
surface 355 of the first arcuate cleaning element 350 have a constant slope (i.e., the ramped
portions 358a, 358b are linear), although in other embodiments the slope may gradually increase
or decrease when extending from the low points 357a, 357b to the high points 356a, 356b as
desired. Similarly, the top surface 365 of the second arcuate cleaning element 360 comprises a first
ramped portion 368a extending from the first low point 367a to the first high point 366a (visible
in FIG. 15) and a second ramped portion 368b extending from the second low point 367b to the
second high point 366b (not visible in FIG. 15, but denoted in FIG. 413). In the exemplified
embodiment, each of the first and second ramped portions 368a, 368b of the top surface 365 of the
second arcuate cleaning element 360 have a constant slope (i.e., the ramped portions 368a, 368b
are linear), although in other embodiments the slope may gradually increase or decrease when
extending from the low points 367a, 367b to the high points 366a, 366b as desired.
                                                   50
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0210] Furthermore, in embodiments wherein the first arcuate cleaning element 350 is a single
continuous cleaning element, the first and second high points 356a, 356b of the first arcuate
cleaning element 350 may be located along a reference plane that includes the longitudinal axis
B2-B2 and is perpendicular to the front surface 311 of the head 310. Furthermore, even when the
first arcuate cleaning element 350 is formed by separate bristle segments 351-354 having gaps
therebetween, conceptually the high points 356a, 356b may still be located along the reference
plane that includes the longitudinal axis B2-B2 and is perpendicular to the front surface 311 of the
head 310. Furthermore, as can be seen in FIG. 15, when viewed in side profile the first ramped
portion 358a (and also the second ramped portion 358b, although not visible in FIG. 15) of the top
surface 355 of the first arcuate cleaning element 350 intersects the annular top surface 337 of the
first conical tuft 330 at a first intersection point 359.
[0211] Similarly, in embodiments wherein the second arcuate cleaning element 360 is a single
continuous cleaning element, the first and second high points 366a, 366b of the second arcuate
cleaning element 360 may be located along a reference plane that includes the longitudinal axis
B2-B2 and is perpendicular to the front surface 311 of the head 310. Furthermore, even when the
second arcuate cleaning element 360 is formed by separate bristle segments 361-364 having gaps
therebetween, conceptually the high points 366a, 366b may still be located along the reference
plane that includes the longitudinal axis B2-B2 and is perpendicular to the front surface 311 of the
head 310. Furthermore, as can be seen in FIG. 15, when viewed in side profile the first ramped
portion 368a (and also the second ramped portion 368b, although not visible in FIG. 15) of the top
surface 365 of the second arcuate cleaning element 360 intersects the annular top surface 347 of
the second conical tuft 340 at a second intersection point 369.
[0212] Referring to FIGS. 312- 34 and 36 concurrently, the oral care implement 300 will be further
described. As noted above, in the exemplified embodiment the first arcuate cleaning element 350
only partially surrounds the first conical tuft 330 and the second arcuate cleaning element 360 only
partially surrounds the second conical tuft 340. However, the plurality of tooth cleaning elements
315 further comprise a first arcuate elastomeric wall 370 positioned adjacent to the first conical
tuft 330 and a second arcuate elastomeric wall 380 positioned adjacent to the second conical tuft
340. In the exemplified embodiment, each of the first and second arcuate elastomeric walls 370,
380 is formed of a resilient elastomeric material, such as a thermoplastic elastomer. This is
                                                    51
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

different than the first and second arcuate cleaning elements 350, 360 and the first and second
conical tufts 330, 340, which are formed as tufts of bristles.
[0213] The first arcuate elastomeric wall 370 has an arcuate section 371 and a support section 375.
The arcuate section 371 has an inner concave surface 372 and an outer convex surface 373. The
inner concave surface 372 of the arcuate section 371 of the first elastomeric wall 370 is adjacent
to and faces the first conical tuft 330. The first arcuate elastomeric wall 370 is located on the head
310 in between the first conical tuft 330 and the proximal end 318 of the head 310. Thus, as can
be seen, the first arcuate cleaning element 350 and the first arcuate elastomeric wall 370
collectively completely surround the first conical tuft 330. The support section 375 of the first
arcuate elastomeric wall 370 extends from the outer convex surface 373 of the arcuate section 371
of the first arcuate elastomeric wall 370. More specifically, the support section 375 extends from
the outer convex surface 373 of the arcuate section 371 along and in the direction of the
longitudinal axis B2-B2 and in a direction away from the first conical tuft 330. The first arcuate
elastomeric wall 370 provides support for the first conical tuft 330 such that flexing of the bristles
of the first conical tuft 330 in the direction of the first arcuate elastomeric wall 370 will be kept to
a minimum during brushing.
[0214] The arcuate section 371 of the first arcuate elastomeric wall 370 terminates in a top surface
374. Furthermore, the support section 375 of the first arcuate elastomeric wall 370 terminates in a
top surface 376. The top surface 374 of the arcuate section 371 of the first arcuate elastomeric wall
370 extends a greater height from the front surface 311 of the head 310 than the top surface 376
of the support section 375 of the first arcuate elastomeric wall 370.
[0215] The second arcuate elastomeric wall 380 has an arcuate section 381 and a support section
385. The arcuate section 381 has an inner concave surface 382 and an outer convex surface 383.
The inner concave surface 382 of the arcuate section 381 of the second elastomeric wall 380 is
adjacent to and faces the second conical tuft 340. The second arcuate elastomeric wall 380 is
located on the head 310 in between the second conical tuft 340 and the distal end 319 of the head
310. Thus, as can be seen, the second arcuate elastomeric element 360 and the second arcuate
elastomeric wall 380 collectively completely surround the second conical tuft 340. The support
section 385 of the second arcuate elastomeric wall 380 extends from the outer convex surface 383
of the arcuate section 381 of the second arcuate elastomeric wall 380. More specifically, the
support section 385 extends from the outer convex surface 383 of the arcuate section 381 along
                                                    52
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

and in the direction of the longitudinal axis B2-B2 and in a direction away from the second conical
tuft 340. The second arcuate elastomeric wall 380 provides support for the second conical tuft 340
such that flexing of the second conical tuft 340 in the direction of the second arcuate elastomeric
wall 380 will be kept to a minimum during brushing.
[0216] The arcuate section 381 of the second arcuate elastomeric wall 380 terminates in a top
surface 384. Furthermore, the support section 385 of the second arcuate elastomeric wall 380
terminates in a top surface 386. The top surface 384 of the arcuate section 381 of the second arcuate
elastomeric wall 380 extends a greater height from the front surface 311 of the head 310 than the
top surface 386 of the support section 385 of the second arcuate elastomeric wall 380.
[0217] Referring now to FIGS. 413- 35 and 38 concurrently, the oral care implement 300 will be
further described. In addition to the above, the tooth cleaning elements 315 also comprise at least
one multi-height bristle tuft 390 that extends from a single tuft hole along a tuft axis. In certain
embodiments, the invention may be directed to the inclusion of one or more of the multi-height
bristle tufts 390 on the head 310 regardless of the structure, pattern, shape, and configuration of
the other tooth cleaning elements that are on the head.
[0218] In the exemplified embodiment, a plurality of the multi-height bristle tufts 390 are
positioned on opposing sides of the longitudinal axis B2-B2. Specifically, in the exemplified
embodiment there are four multi-height bristle tufts 390 positioned between the first segment 351
of the first arcuate cleaning element 350 and the first segment 361 of the second arcuate cleaning
element 360 along a first lateral edge of the head 310. Similarly, in the exemplified embodiment
there are four multi-height bristle tufts 390 positioned between the fourth segment 354 of the first
arcuate cleaning element 350 and the fourth segment 364 of the second arcuate cleaning element
360 along a second lateral edge of the head 310. Of course, more or less than four of the multi
height bristle tufts 390 can be used on the opposing lateral sides of the head 310 in other
embodiments as desired. The specific details of the multi-height bristle tufts 390 will only be
denoted in the drawings with regard to one or a couple of the multi-height bristle tufts 390 in order
to avoid clutter, it being understood that each of the multi-height bristle tufts 390 has an identical
structure.
[0219] Each of the multi-height bristle tufts 390 comprises a first bristle tuft section 391 and a
second bristle tuft section 392. The first bristle tuft section 391 has a rectangular transverse cross
sectional shape and the second bristle tuft section 392 has a U-shaped transverse cross-sectional
                                                    53
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

shape. Despite the multi-height bristle tufts 390 being formed of two different bristle tuft sections
having two different shapes, each multi-height bristle tuft 390 is positioned within a single tuft
hole 389. Thus, the tuft holes 389 within which the multi-height bristle tufts 390 are positioned
have a U-shaped portion and a rectangular-shaped portion that are in spatial communication with
each other.
[0220] As noted above, the second bristle tuft section 392 of the multi-height bristle tufts 390 has
a U-shaped transverse cross-sectional shape. Thus, the second bristle tuft sections 392 have edges
at the top of each of the legs of the "U" and a cavity defined between the legs of the "U." The first
bristle tuft section 391 is positioned within the U-shaped cavity formed by the second bristle tuft
section 392 such that the second bristle tuft sections 392 at least partially surround the first bristle
tuft sections 391. Each of the first bristle tuft sections 391 has first and second major surfaces and
first and second minor surfaces. In the exemplified embodiment, one of the minor surfaces and a
portion of each of the major surfaces is surrounded by (and in the exemplified embodiment in
contact with) the second bristle tuft section 392. The other minor surface and the remainder of the
major surfaces of the first bristle tuft sections 391 is exposed and not surrounded by the second
bristle tuft section 392.
[0221] In the exemplified embodiment, approximately one-half of the transverse-cross section of
the first bristle tuft sections 391 is positioned within the U-shaped cavity of the second bristle tuft
sections 392, the other half of the transverse cross-section of the first bristle tuft sections 391
extending from the U-shaped cavity. Thus, the first bristle tuft sections 391 extend further laterally
away from the longitudinal axis B2-B2 than the second bristle tuft sections 392. The first bristle
tuft sections 391 comprise a first portion 393 that is nested within the U-shape of the second bristle
tuft section 392 and a second portion 394 that transversely protrudes from the U-shape of the
second bristle tuft sections 392 in the direction of the lateral sides of the head 310. The first portion
393 of the first bristle tuft sections 391 that are nested within the U-shape of the second bristle tuft
sections 392 are in surface contact with the second bristle tuft section 392. The second bristle tuft
sections 392 are positioned closer to the longitudinal axis B2-B2 of the head 310 than the first
bristle tuft sections 391 because the "U" of the second bristle tuft sections 392 wraps around the
side of the first bristle tuft sections 391 that is closest to the longitudinal axis B2-B2 of the head
310.
                                                     54
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0222] The multi-height bristles 390 on the first lateral side of the head 310 are longitudinally
aligned with the multi-height bristles 390 on the second lateral side of the head 310. Furthermore,
the convex portions of the "U" of the second bristle tuft sections 392 of the multi-height bristles
390 on the first lateral side of the head 310 are in facing relation with the convex portions of the
U of the second bristle tuft sections 392 of the multi-height bristles 390 on the second lateral side
of the head 310. The first bristle tuft sections 391 of the multi-height bristles 390 extend a greater
height from the front surface 311 of the head 310 than the second bristle tuft sections 392. Thus,
the second bristle tuft sections 392 partially surround the first bristle tuft sections 391 and the first
bristle tuft sections 391 axially protrude from an upper surface of the second bristle tuft sections
392.
[0223] The tooth cleaning elements 315 also include first and second arcuate walls 410, 411 and
a central elastomeric wall 412. The first and second arcuate walls 410, 411 and the central
elastomeric wall 412 are located centrally on the head in between the first and second arcuate
elastomeric walls 370, 380. The first and second arcuate walls 410, 411 each have a convex surface
and a concave surface. The convex surface of the first and second arcuate walls 410, 411 are facing
each other. The concave surface of the first arcuate wall 410 is facing the first set of the multi
height bristle tufts 390 on the first lateral side of the head. The concave surface of the second
arcuate wall 411 is facing the second set of multi-height bristle tufts 390 on the second lateral side
of the head. The central elastomeric wall 412 is positioned on and elongated along the longitudinal
axis B2-B2 and is adjacent to the convex surfaces of each of the first and second arcuate walls 410,
411.
[0224] In the exemplified embodiment, the collection of the tooth cleaning elements 315 are all
symmetric about the longitudinal axis B2-B2 and about a transverse axis that is perpendicular to
the longitudinal axis B2-B2 and that divides the head 310 into two equal halves. Thus, the pattern
of the tooth cleaning elements 315 is such that they have lateral and longitudinal symmetry.
                                                 SECTION III
[0225] Referring to FIGS. 20, 20A, and 21 concurrently, an oral care implement 500 is illustrated
in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. In the exemplified embodiment, the
oral care implement 500 is in the form of a manual toothbrush. However, in certain other
embodiments the oral care implement 500 can take on other forms such as being a powered
toothbrush, a tongue scraper, a gum and soft tissue cleanser, a water pick, an interdental device, a
                                                   55
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

tooth polisher, a specially designed ansate implement having tooth engaging elements or any other
type of implement that is commonly used for oral care. Thus, it is to be understood that the
inventive concepts discussed herein can be applied to any type of oral care implement unless a
specific type of oral care implement is specified in the claims.
[0226] The oral care implement 500 extends from a proximal end 501 to a distal end 502 along a
longitudinal axis A3-A3. The oral care implement 500 generally comprises a head 510 and a handle
520. The head 510 extends from a proximal end 518 to a distal end 519 along a longitudinal axis
B3-B3 that is coextensive with the longitudinal axis A3-A3 of the oral care implement 500.
Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the distal end 502 of the oral care implement 500 is
the same as the distal end 519 of the head 510.
[0227] The handle 520 is an elongated structure that provides the mechanism by which the user
can hold and manipulate the oral care implement 500 during use. In the exemplified embodiment,
the handle 520 is generically depicted having various contours for user comfort. Of course, the
invention is not to be limited by the specific shape illustrated for the handle 520 in all embodiments
and in certain other embodiments the handle 520 can take on a wide variety of shapes, contours,
and configurations, none of which are limiting of the present invention unless so specified in the
claims.
[0228] In the exemplified embodiment, the handle 520 is formed of a rigid plastic material, such
as for example without limitation polymers and copolymers of ethylene, propylene, butadiene,
vinyl compounds, and polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate. Of course, the invention is
not to be so limited in all embodiments and the handle 520 may include a resilient material, such
as a thermoplastic elastomer, as a grip cover that is molded over portions of or the entirety of the
handle 520 to enhance the gripability of the handle 520 during use. For example, portions of the
handle 520 that are typically gripped by a user's palm during use may be overmolded with a
thermoplastic elastomer or other resilient material to further increase comfort to a user.
Furthermore, materials other than those noted above can be used including metal, wood, or any
other desired material that has sufficient structural rigidity to permit a user to grip the handle 520
and manipulate the oral care implement 500 during toothbrushing.
[0229] The head 510 of the oral care implement 500 is coupled to the handle 520 and comprises a
front surface 511 and an opposing rear surface 512. In the exemplified embodiment, the head 510
is formed integrally with the handle 520 as a single unitary structure using a molding, milling,
                                                   56
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

machining, or other suitable process. However, in other embodiments the handle 520 and the head
510 may be formed as separate components which are operably connected at a later stage of the
manufacturing process by any suitable technique known in the art, including without limitation
thermal or ultrasonic welding, a tight-fit assembly, a coupling sleeve, threaded engagement,
adhesion, or fasteners. Thus the head 510 may, in certain embodiments, be formed of any of the
rigid plastic materials described above as being used for forming the handle 520, although the
invention is not to be so limited in all embodiments and other materials that are commonly used
during toothbrush head manufacture may also be used.
[0230] The oral care implement 100 also comprises a plurality of tooth cleaning elements 515
extending from the front surface 511 of the head 510. The details of certain ones of the plurality
of tooth cleaning elements 515 will be discussed below, including specific details with regard to
structure, pattern, orientation, and material of such tooth cleaning elements 515. However, where
it does not conflict with the other disclosure provided herein, it should be appreciated that the term
"tooth cleaning elements" may be used in a generic sense to refer to any structure that can be used
to clean, polish, or wipe the teeth and/or soft oral tissue (e.g. tongue, cheek, gums, etc.) through
relative surface contact. Common examples of "tooth cleaning elements" include, without
limitation, bristle tufts, filament bristles, fiber bristles, nylon bristles, spiral bristles, rubber bristles,
elastomeric protrusions, flexible polymer protrusions, combinations thereof, and/or structures
containing such materials or combinations. Thus, any combination of these tooth cleaning
elements may be used within the tooth cleaning elements 515 in some embodiments. However, as
described herein below, in certain embodiments one or more of the tooth cleaning elements 515
may be formed as tufts of bristles.
[0231] In embodiments that use elastomeric elements as one or more of the tooth cleaning
elements 515, suitable elastomeric materials may include any biocompatible resilient material
suitable for uses in an oral hygiene apparatus. To provide optimum comfort as well as cleaning
benefits, the elastomeric material of any such tooth or soft tissue engaging elements may have a
hardness property in the range of A8 to A25 Shore hardness. One suitable elastomeric material is
styrene-ethylene/butylene-styrene block copolymer (SEBS) manufactured by GLS Corporation.
Nevertheless, SEBS material from other manufacturers or other materials within and outside the
noted hardness range could be used.
                                                      57
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0232] Referring to FIGS. 20-26 concurrently, one manner in which the tooth cleaning elements
515 are secured to the head 510 will be described. Specifically, in the exemplified embodiment
the tooth cleaning elements 515 are formed as a cleaning element assembly on a head plate 540
such that one or more of the tooth cleaning elements 515 are mounted onto the head plate 540 and
then the head plate 540 is coupled to the head 510. In such an embodiment, the head plate 540 is
a separate and distinct component from the head 510 of the oral care implement 100. However,
the head plate 540 is connected to the head 510 at a later stage of the manufacturing process by
any suitable technique known in the art, including without limitation thermal or ultrasonic welding,
any fusion techniques such as thermal fusion, melting, a tight-fit assembly, a coupling sleeve,
threaded engagement, adhesion, or fasteners. Thus, the head plate 540 and the head 510 are
separately formed components that are secured together during manufacture of the oral care
implement 100.
[0233] In certain embodiments, the head plate 540 may comprise a plurality of holes 541 formed
therethrough, and the tooth cleaning elements 515 may be mounted to the head plate 540 within
the holes 541. This type of technique for mounting the tooth cleaning elements 515 to the head
510 via the head plate 540 is known as anchor free tufting (AFT). Specifically, in AFT a plate or
membrane (i.e., the head plate 540) is created separately from the head 510. The tooth cleaning
elements 515 (such as bristles, elastomeric elements, and combinations thereof) are positioned into
the head plate 540 so as to extend through the holes 541 of the head plate 540. The free ends of
the tooth cleaning elements 515 on one side of the head plate 540 perform the cleaning function.
The ends of the tooth cleaning elements 515 on the other side of the head plate 540 are melted
together by heat to be anchored in place. As the tooth cleaning elements 105 are melted together,
a melt matte 106 is formed, which is a layer of plastic formed from the collective ends of the tooth
cleaning elements 515 that prevents the tooth cleaning elements 515 from being pulled through
the tuft holes 541.
[0234] After the tooth cleaning elements 515 are secured to the head plate 540, the head plate 540
is secured to the head 510 such as by ultrasonic welding. When the head plate 540 is coupled to
the head 510, the melt matte 106 is located between a lower surface 542 of the head plate 540 and
a floor 107 of a basin 108 of the head 510 in which the head plate 540 is disposed. The melt matte
106, which is coupled directly to and in fact forms a part of the tooth cleaning elements 515,
prevents the tooth cleaning elements 515 from being pulled through the holes 541 in the head plate
                                                 58
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

540 thus ensuring that the tooth cleaning elements 105 remain attached to the head plate 540 during
use of the oral care implement 100.
[0235] In another embodiment, the tooth cleaning elements may be connected to the head 510
using a technique known in the art as AMR. In this technique, the handle is formed integrally with
the head plate as a one-piece structure. After the handle and head plate are formed, the bristles are
inserted into holes in the head plate so that free/cleaning ends of the bristles extend from the front
surface of the head plate and bottom ends of the bristles are adjacent to the rear surface of the head
plate. After the bristles are inserted into the holes in the head plate, the bottom ends of the bristles
are melted together by applying heat thereto, thereby forming a melt matte at the rear surface of
the head plate. The melt matte is a thin layer of plastic that is formed by melting the bottom ends
of the bristles so that the bottom ends of the bristles transition into a liquid, at which point the
liquid of the bottom ends of the bristles combine together into a single layer of liquid plastic that
at least partially covers the rear surface of the head plate. After the heat is no longer applied, the
melted bottom ends of the bristles solidify/harden to form the melt matte/thin layer of plastic. In
some embodiments, after formation of the melt matte, a tissue cleaner is injection molded onto the
rear surface of the head plate, thereby trapping the melt matte between the tissue cleaner and the
rear surface of the head plate. In other embodiments, other structures may be coupled to the rear
surface of the head plate to trap the melt matte between the rear surface of the head plate and such
structure without the structure necessarily being a tissue cleaner (the structure can just be a plastic
material that is used to form a smooth rear surface of the head, or the like, and the structure can be
molded onto the rear surface of the head plate or snap-fit (or other mechanical coupling) to the rear
surface of the head plate as desired).
[0236] Of course, techniques other than AFT and AMR can be used for mounting the tooth
cleaning elements 515 to the head 510, such as known and used stapling techniques or the like. In
such embodiments the head plate 540 may be omitted and the tooth cleaning elements 515 may be
coupled directly to the head 510. Furthermore, in a modified version of the AFT process discussed
above, the head plate 540 may be formed by positioning the tooth cleaning elements 515 within a
mold, and then molding the head plate 540 around the tooth cleaning elements 515 via an injection
molding process. However, it should be appreciated that certain of the bristle tufts disclosed herein
cannot be adequately secured to the head using staple techniques, and one of AFT or AMR is
therefore use for securing such bristle tufts (i.e., the conical tufts described below) to the head.
                                                    59
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0237] Although described herein above with regard to using AFT, in certain embodiments any
suitable form of cleaning elements and attachment may be used in the broad practice of this
invention. Specifically, the tooth cleaning elements 515 of the present invention can be connected
to the head 510 in any manner known in the art. For example, staples/anchors or in-mold tufting
(IMT) could be used to mount the cleaning elements/tooth engaging elements. In certain
embodiments, the invention can be practiced with various combinations of stapled, IMT, AMR, or
AFT bristles. Alternatively, the tooth cleaning elements 515 could be mounted to tuft blocks or
sections by extending through suitable openings in the tuft blocks so that the base of the tooth
cleaning elements 515 is mounted within or below the tuft block.
[0238] Although not illustrated herein, in certain embodiments the head 510 may also include a
soft tissue cleanser coupled to or positioned on its rear surface 512. An example of a suitable soft
tissue cleanser that may be used with the present invention and positioned on the rear surface of
the head 510 is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 7,143,462, issued December 5, 2006 to the assignee
of the present application, the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference. In certain
other embodiments, the soft tissue cleanser may include protuberances, which can take the form
of elongated ridges, nubs, or combinations thereof. Of course, the invention is not to be so limited
and in certain embodiments the oral care implement 100 may not include any soft tissue cleanser.
[0239] Still referring to FIGS. 20-26, the oral care implement 100, and specifically the tooth
cleaning elements 515 of the oral care implement 100, will be further described. In the exemplified
embodiment, the plurality of tooth cleaning elements 515 comprise a first conical tuft 530, a second
conical tuft 150, a third conical tuft 560, and a fourth conical tuft 570. Each of the first, second,
third, and fourth conical tufts 530, 150, 560, 570 is a tuft or grouping of bristles that are arranged
together into a tuft and then secured into a single tuft hole within the head 510 (or within the head
plate 540). The first, second, third, and fourth conical tufts 530, 150, 560, 570 are described herein
as being conical due to the first, second, third, and fourth conical tufts 530, 150, 560, 570 having
a conical shape. More specifically, as can best be seen in FIGS. 21 and 23-26, the first, second,
third, and fourth conical tufts 530, 150, 560, 570 are in the shape of a truncated cone wherein the
portion of the first, second, third, and fourth conical tufts 530, 150, 560, 570 that is positioned
within the head 510 is the truncated (i.e., cut off) portion of the cone such that the first, second,
third, and fourth conical tufts 530, 150, 560, 570 are in the shape of an inverted truncated cone.
                                                   60
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0240] Referring now to FIGS. 20A, 21, and 25 concurrently, the first and second conical tufts
530, 150 will be further described. The first conical tuft 530 comprises a first continuous bristle
wall 535 having an inner surface 531 and an outer surface 536. The inner surface 531 of the first
continuous bristle wall 535 of the first conical tuft 530 defines a first cavity 532 that extends along
a first cavity axis C3-C3. In the exemplified embodiment, the first conical tuft 530, and specifically
the first continuous bristle wall 535 thereof, extends in a 3600 manner about the first cavity axis
C3-C3 without any breaks or gaps.
[0241] The first cavity 532 of the first conical tuft 530 has an open top end and is bounded by the
inner surface 531 of the first continuous bristle wall 535 and by the front surface 511 of the head
510. As noted above, the first conical tuft 530 in the exemplified embodiment is formed by a
plurality of bristles. Specifically, the plurality of bristles are clumped together and positioned
collectively into a single tuft hole so that the plurality of bristles collectively form the first conical
tuft 530 having no gaps in the first continuous bristle wall 535 for its entire 360' extension about
the first cavity axis C3-C3. Thus, the first conical tuft 530 extends from a single tuft hole. The
term continuous bristle wall is intended to mean that the first conical tuft 530 is a single tuft of
bristles that are clumped together into a single tuft hole in a non-spaced apart manner.
[0242] Thus, the first conical tuft 530 is a single tuft formed from a plurality of individual bristles
that are positioned together within a single tuft hole. As a result, in the exemplified embodiment
the first conical tuft 530 has the first continuous bristle wall 535 that extends without discontinuity
about the first cavity axis C3-C3. Thus, in the exemplified embodiment there are no gaps formed
into the outer surface 536 of the first conical tuft 530. Of course, in other embodiments the first
conical tuft 530 may have small gaps therein as desired while still being a single tuft positioned
within a single tuft hole. Such gaps in the bristle wall may prevent dentifrice from being trapped
within the first cavity 532 of the first conical tuft 530 by providing means of egress from the first
cavity 532. In such an embodiment, the first bristle wall 535 may not be continuous. In one
embodiment, the first conical tuft 530 is secured to the head 510 by anchor free tufting or AMR.
[0243] Due to the conical shape of the first conical tuft 530, and more specifically, the inverted
conical shape of the first conical tuft 530, the first cavity 532 of the first conical tuft 530 has a first
transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from the front surface 511 of the head
510. Specifically, the first transverse cross-sectional area of the first cavity 532 of the first conical
tuft 530 only increases and never decreases with distance from the front surface 511 of the head
                                                    61
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

510. Thus, the greater the distance between a particular axial location within the first cavity 532
of the first conical tuft 530 and the front surface 511 of the head 510, the greater the transverse
cross-sectional area of the first cavity 532 at that particular axial location. Stated another way, the
diameter of the first cavity 532 increases with distance from the front surface 511 of the head 510
so that the diameter of the first cavity 532 is greater at the terminal ends of the bristles of the first
conical tuft 530 than at the front surface 511 of the head 510.
[0244] The first continuous bristle wall 535 of the first conical tuft 530 terminates in a first annular
top surface 533. In the exemplified embodiment, the first annular top surface 533 is inclined
relative to the front surface 511 of the head 510 such that the height of the first conical tuft 530
increases with distance from the peripheral edge of the head 510 towards the center of the head
510. Thus, the first annular top surface 533 has a first low point 534 and a first high point 537. The
first annular top surface 533 is inclined relative to the front surface 511 of the head 510 from the
first low point 534 to the first high point 537. Specifically, the first annular top surface 533 may
be inclined at approximately between 100 and 200 relative to the front surface 511 of the head 510,
and more specifically between 100 and 150 relative to the front surface 511 of the head 510. In
other embodiments the angle may be greater than 200, such as between 200 and 300 or the like.
[0245] The second conical tuft 150 comprises a second continuous bristle wall 555 having an inner
surface 551 and an outer surface 556. The inner surface 551 of the second continuous bristle wall
555 of the second conical tuft 150 defines a second cavity 552 that extends along a second cavity
axis D3-D3. The second conical tuft 150, and specifically the second continuous bristle wall 555
thereof, extends in a 3600 manner about the second cavity axis D3-D3. The second cavity 552 of
the second conical tuft 150 has an open top end and is bounded by the inner surface 551 of the
second continuous bristle wall 555 and by the front surface 511 of the head 510. The second conical
tuft 150 in the exemplified embodiment is formed by a plurality of bristles. Specifically, the
plurality of bristles are clumped together and positioned collectively into a single tuft hole so that
the plurality of bristles collectively form the second conical tuft 150 having no gaps in the second
continuous bristle wall 555 for its entire 3600 extension about the second cavity axis D3-D3. Thus,
the second conical tuft 150 extends from a single tuft hole. The term continuous bristle wall is
intended to mean that the second conical tuft 150 is a single tuft of bristles that are clumped
together into a single tuft hole in a non-spaced apart manner. Of course, in other embodiments the
second bristle wall 555 may not be continuous as it may have gaps or the like formed therein.
                                                   62
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0246] Thus, the second conical tuft 150 is a single tuft formed from a plurality of individual
bristles that are positioned together within a single tuft hole. As a result, in the exemplified
embodiment the second conical tuft 150 has the second continuous bristle wall 555 that extends
without discontinuity about the second cavity axis D3-D3. Thus, in the exemplified embodiment
there are no gaps formed into the outer surface 556 of the second conical tuft 150. Of course, in
other embodiments the second conical tuft 150 may have small gaps therein as desired while still
being a single tuft positioned within a single tuft hole. Such gaps in the bristle wall may prevent
dentifrice from being trapped within the second cavity 552 of the second conical tuft 150 by
providing means of egress from the second cavity 552. In one embodiment, the second conical tuft
150 is secured to the head 510 by anchor free tufting or AMR.
[0247] Due to the conical shape of the second conical tuft 150, and more specifically, the inverted
conical shape of the second conical tuft 150, the second cavity 552 of the second conical tuft 150
has a second transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from the front surface 511
of the head 510. Specifically, the second transverse cross-sectional area of the second cavity 552
of the second conical tuft 150 only increases and never decreases with distance from the front
surface 511 of the head 510. Thus, the greater the distance between a particular axial location
within the second cavity 552 of the second conical tuft 150 and the front surface 511 of the head
510, the greater the transverse cross-sectional area of the second cavity 552 at that particular axial
location. Stated another way, the diameter of the second cavity 552 increases with distance from
the front surface 511 of the head 510 so that the diameter of the second cavity 552 is greater at the
terminal ends of the bristles of the second conical tuft 150 than at the front surface 511 of the head
510.
[0248] The second continuous bristle wall 555 of the second conical tuft 150 terminates in a
second annular top surface 553. In the exemplified embodiment, the second annular top surface
553 is inclined relative to the front surface 511 of the head 510 such that the height of the second
conical tuft 150 increases with distance from the peripheral edge of the head 510 towards the center
of the head 510. Thus, the second annular top surface 553 has a second low point 554 and a second
high point 557. The second annular top surface 553 is inclined relative to the front surface 511 of
the head 510 from the second low point 554 to the second high point 557. Specifically, the second
annular top surface 553 may be inclined at approximately between 100 and 20' relative to the front
surface 511 of the head 510, and more specifically between 10' and 15 relative to the front surface
                                                  63
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

511 of the head 510. In other embodiments the angle may be greater than 200, such as between 20'
and 30' or the like.
[0249] The first and second conical tufts 530, 150 are positioned on the head 510 in an adjacent
manner. More specifically, the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 are positioned adjacent to
one another on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis B3-B3 of the head 510. Furthermore, in the
exemplified embodiment each of the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 is positioned on a
transverse axis Z3-Z3 (see FIG. 21) that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis B3-B3 of the head
510 and that is centrally located on the head 510 so as to divide the head 510 into two halves of
substantially equal length. Moreover, the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 are positioned
such that a transverse reference plane that is substantially perpendicular to the longitudinal axis
B3-B3 of the head 510 and perpendicular to the front surface 511 of the head 510 intersects the
first and second high points 537, 557 and the first and second low points 534, 554 (the transverse
reference plane would be a plane that includes the transverse axis Z3-Z3 and extends perpendicular
to the front surface 511 of the head 510). Of course, the invention is not to be so limited and the
transverse axis Z3-Z3 need not be located centrally on the head 510 in all embodiments, but rather
the transverse axis Z3-Z3 can be any axis that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis B3-B3 of
the head 510 and that extends along the width of the head 510.
[0250] Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the first low point 534 of the first conical tuft
530 is positioned adjacent to a first lateral edge 103 of the head 510 and the first high point 537 of
the first conical tuft 530 is positioned in a central region of the head 510. The second low point
554 of the second conical tuft 150 is positioned adjacent to a second lateral edge 104 of the head
510 and the second high point 557 of the second conical tuft 150 is positioned in a central region
of the head 510. Thus, the first high point 537 of the first conical tuft 530 is positioned adjacent to
the first high point 557 of the second conical tuft 150. As used in regard to the locations of the first
and second high points 537, 557 of the first and second conical tufts 530, 150, the term adjacent
means that there are no intervening tufts between the first high point 537 of the first conical tuft
530 and the second high point 557 of the second conical tuft 150. Thus, although the first and
second conical tufts 530, 150 are spaced apart from one another, the first high point 537 of the first
conical tuft 530 is immediately adjacent to the second high point 557 of the second conical tuft
150 with no tufts or other cleaning elements positioned between the first high point 537 of the first
                                                   64
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

conical tuft 530 and the second high point 557 of the second conical tuft 150 in a direction of the
transverse axis Z3-Z3.
[0251] Furthermore, due to the conical shape of the first and second conical tufts 530, 150, the
distance between the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 decreases with increasing distance
from the front surface 511 of the head 510. Thus, the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 are
spaced apart by a first distance D3.1 at the front surface 511 of the head 510. The first and second
conical tufts 530, 150 are spaced apart by a second distance D3.2 at the first and second high points
537, 557 of the first and second conical tufts 530, 150. The first distance D3.1 is greater than the
second distance D3.2.
[0252] The first annular top surface 533 of the first conical tuft 530 slopes downwardly with
distance from the longitudinal axis B3-B3 towards the first lateral edge 103 of the head 510. The
second annular top surface 553 of the second conical tuft 150 slopes downwardly with distance
from the longitudinal axis B3-B3 towards the second lateral edge 104 of the head 510. Thus, each
of the first and second annular top surfaces 533, 553 of the first and second conical tufts 530, 150
slopes downwardly with increasing distance from a longitudinal reference plane that is parallel to
(or includes) the longitudinal axis B3-B3 and is perpendicular to the front surface 511 of the head
510.
[0253] As can be seen from FIG. 25, in the exemplified embodiment each of the first and second
annular top surfaces 533, 553 of the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 has a linear side profile
when viewed from the transverse reference plane noted above. Of course, the invention is not to
be so limited in all embodiments and in certain other embodiments one or both of the first and
second annular top surfaces 533, 553 of the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 may have a
concave or convex side profile when viewed from the transverse reference plane.
[0254] In the exemplified embodiment, the outer surface 536 of the first conical tuft 530 forms a
first angle 03.1 with the front surface 511 of the head 510. Furthermore, the outer surface 556 of
the second conical tuft 150 forms a second angle 03.2 with the front surface 511 of the head 510.
In certain embodiments, the first and second angles 03.1, 03.2 may be the same, although in other
embodiments the first and second angles 03.1, 03.2 may be different. In certain embodiments,
each of the first and second acute angles 03.1, 03.2 are between 800 and 89', more specifically
between 83.5' and 87.5'. In certain embodiments, one or both of the first and second acute angles
03.1, 03.2 is between 82' and 85', and in other embodiments one or both of the first and second
                                                  65
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

acute angles 03.1, 03.2 is between 860 and 890. Furthermore, one of the first and second acute
angles 03.1, 03.2 may be between 820 and 850 while the other one of the first and second acute
angles 03.1, 03.2 is between 860 and 890.
[0255] Still referring to FIGS. 20A, 21, and 25 concurrently, in the exemplified embodiment a
first central cleaning element 538 is located within the first central cavity 532 of the first conical
tuft 530. In some embodiments, the first central cleaning element 538 and the first conical tuft 530
may be positioned within a single tuft hole. However, the invention is not to be so limited in all
embodiments and in certain other embodiments the first central cleaning element 538 may be
positioned in a tuft hole that is spaced apart from and surrounded by the tuft hole within which the
first conical tuft 530 is positioned. The first central cleaning element 538 (and any other central
cleaning element discussed herein below) may be a tapered bristle tuft, a bristle tuft that comprises
tapered bristles, a non-tapered bristle tuft, a rounded bristle tuft, bristle tuft that comprises spiral
bristle, combinations thereof, or the like.
[0256] In the exemplified embodiment, the first central cleaning element 538 extends
perpendicularly from the front surface 511 of the head 510. In the exemplified embodiment, an
annular gap 539 is present between an outer surface of the first central cleaning element 538 and
the inner surface 531 of the first conical tuft 530. In the exemplified embodiment, the annular gap
539 extends to below the front surface 511 of the head 510. Furthermore, in the exemplified
embodiment the first central cleaning element 539 converges with the first conical tuft 530 at the
melt matte 106. Due to the conical shape of the first conical tuft 530 and the perpendicular
extension of the first central cleaning element 538 relative to the front surface 511 of the head 510,
the distance between the outer surface of the first central cleaning element 538 and the inner
surface 531 of the first conical tuft 530 increases with distance from the front surface 511 of the
head 510.
[0257] The first central cleaning element 538 terminates in a free end 543. In the embodiment
exemplified in FIGS. 20A, 21, and 25, the free end 543 of the first central cleaning element 538
extends to a height that is above the first low point 534 of the first conical tuft 530 and above the
first high point 537 of the first conical tuft 530. However, referring briefly to FIG. 27, in another
embodiment the free end 543 of the first central cleaning element 538 may extend to a height that
is above the first low point 534 of the first conical tuft 530 and below the first high point 537 of
the first conical tuft 530. Furthermore, in still other embodiments the free end 543 of the first
                                                   66
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

central cleaning element 538 may extend to a height that is below the first low point 534 of the
first conical tuft 530.
[0258] Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment a second central cleaning element 558 is
located within the second central cavity 552 of the second conical tuft 150. The second central
cleaning element 558 may share a single tuft hole with the second conical tuft 150 or each may
have its own separate tuft hole as discussed above with regard to the first central cleaning element
538. In the exemplified embodiment, the second central cleaning element 558 extends
perpendicularly from the front surface 511 of the head 510. In the exemplified embodiment, an
annular gap 559 is present between an outer surface of the second central cleaning element 558
and the inner surface 551 of the second conical tuft 150. In the exemplified embodiment, the
annular gap 559 extends to below the front surface 511 of the head 510. Furthermore, in the
exemplified embodiment the second central cleaning element 558 converges with the second
conical tuft 150 at the melt matte 106. Due to the conical shape of the second conical tuft 150 and
the perpendicular extension of the second central cleaning element 558 relative to the front surface
511 of the head 510, the distance between the outer surface of the second central cleaning element
558 and the inner surface 541 of the second conical tuft 535 increases with distance from the front
surface 511 of the head 510.
[0259] The second central cleaning element 558 terminates in a free end 544. In the embodiment
exemplified in FIGS. 20A, 21, and 25, the free end 544 of the second central cleaning element 558
extends to a height that is above the second low point 554 of the second conical tuft 150 and above
the second high point 557 of the second conical tuft 150. However, referring briefly to FIG. 27, in
another embodiment the free end 544 of the second central cleaning element 558 may extend to a
height that is above the second low point 554 of the second conical tuft 150 and below the second
high point 557 of the second conical tuft 150. Furthermore, in still other embodiments the free end
544 of the second central cleaning element 558 may extend to a height that is below the second
low point 554 of the second conical tuft 150.
[0260] The plurality of tooth cleaning elements 515 also include a first arcuate tooth cleaning
element 580 having a first convex side surface 581 and a first concave side surface 582 and a
second arcuate tooth cleaning element 590 having a second convex side surface 591 and a second
concave side surface 592. In the exemplified embodiment, each of the first and second arcuate
tooth cleaning elements 580, 590 are formed of an elastomeric material (i.e., elastomer,
                                                 67
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

thermoplastic elastomer, etc.). However, the invention is not to be so limited in all embodiments
and in certain other embodiments the first and second arcuate tooth cleaning elements 580, 590
may be formed as tufts of bristles.
[0261] The first and second arcuate tooth cleaning elements 580, 590 are positioned on the head
so that the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 are in between the first and second arcuate tooth
cleaning elements 580, 590. Furthermore, the first and second arcuate tooth cleaning elements 580,
590 are oriented so that the convex side surfaces 581, 591 of the first and second arcuate tooth
cleaning elements 580, 590 are facing the first and second conical tufts 530, 150. More specifically,
the convex side surface 581 of the first arcuate tooth cleaning element 580 faces the first and
second conical tufts 530, 150 and the concave side surface 582 of the first arcuate tooth cleaning
element 580 faces the distal end 519 of the head 510. The convex side surface 591 of the second
arcuate tooth cleaning element 590 faces the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 and the concave
side surface 592 of the second arcuate tooth cleaning element 590 faces the proximal end 518 of
the head 510. Thus, the first and second arcuate tooth cleaning elements 580, 590 are located on
opposite sides of the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 and on opposite sides of the transverse
axis Z3-Z3. Furthermore, the first and second arcuate tooth cleaning elements 580, 590 are located
on the longitudinal axis B3-B3 of the head 510.
[0262] The plurality of tooth cleaning elements 515 also includes a first peripheral tooth cleaning
element 601 and a second peripheral tooth cleaning element 602 located along the first lateral edge
103 of the head 510. Furthermore, the plurality of tooth cleaning elements 515 includes a third
peripheral cleaning element 603 and a fourth peripheral cleaning element 604 located along the
second lateral edge 104 of the head 510. In the exemplified embodiment, each of the first, second,
third, and fourth peripheral tooth cleaning elements 601, 602, 603, 604 are tufts of bristles,
although they could be formed of elastomer in other embodiments. Furthermore, in the exemplified
embodiment the first conical tuft 530 is located between the first and second peripheral tooth
cleaning elements 601, 602 and the second conical tuft 150 is located between the third and fourth
peripheral tooth cleaning elements 603, 604. In the exemplified embodiment, each of the first,
second, third, and fourth peripheral tooth cleaning elements 601, 602, 603, 604 has a triangular
shaped cross-section. However, the invention is not to be so limited in all embodiments and other
cross-sectional shapes can be used for the first, second, third, and fourth peripheral tooth cleaning
elements 601, 602, 603, 604.
                                                  68
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0263] In the exemplified embodiment, each of the first, second, third, and fourth peripheral tooth
cleaning elements 601, 602, 603, 604 has three edges and three corners. One of the edges of the
first peripheral tooth cleaning element 601 faces the first conical tuft 530, one of the edges of the
first peripheral tuft 601 faces the third conical tuft 560, and one of the edges of the first peripheral
tuft 601 faces the first lateral side edge 103 of the head 510. One of the edges of the second
peripheral tooth cleaning element 602 faces the first conical tuft 530, one of the edges of the second
peripheral tooth cleaning element 602 faces the fourth conical tuft 570, and one of the edges of the
second peripheral tooth cleaning element 602 faces the first lateral side edge 103 of the head 510.
One of the edges of the third peripheral tooth cleaning element 603 faces the second conical tuft
540, one of the edges of the third peripheral tooth cleaning element 603 faces the third conical tuft
560, and one of the edges of the third peripheral tooth cleaning element 603 faces the second lateral
side edge 104 of the head 510. Finally, one of the edges of the fourth peripheral tooth cleaning
element 604 faces the second conical tuft 150, one of the edges of the fourth peripheral tooth
cleaning element 604 faces the fourth conical tuft 570, and one of the edges of the fourth peripheral
tooth cleaning element 604 faces the second lateral side edge 104 of the head 510.
[0264] Referring to FIGS. 20A, 21, 23 and 24 concurrently, the third conical tuft 560 will be
further described. The third conical tuft 560 comprises a third continuous bristle wall 565 having
an inner surface 561 and an outer surface 566. The inner surface 561 of the third continuous bristle
wall 565 of the third conical tuft 560 defines a third cavity 562 that extends along a third cavity
axis E3-E3. In the exemplified embodiment, the third conical tuft 560, and specifically the third
continuous bristle wall 565 thereof, extends in a 3600 manner about the third cavity axis E3-E3.
Of course, the invention is not to be so limited in all embodiments and the third bristle wall 565
may not be continuous in other embodiments. The third cavity 562 of the third conical tuft 560 has
an open top end and is bounded by the inner surface 561 of the third continuous bristle wall 565
and by the front surface 511 of the head 510. As noted above, the third conical tuft 560 in the
exemplified embodiment is formed by a plurality of bristles. Specifically, the plurality of bristles
are clumped together and positioned collectively into a single tuft hole so that the plurality of
bristles collectively form the third conical tuft 560 having no gaps in the third continuous bristle
wall 565 for its entire 360' extension about the third cavity axis E3-E3. Thus, the third conical tuft
560 extends from a single tuft hole. The term continuous bristle wall is intended to mean that the
                                                   69
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

third conical tuft 560 is a single tuft of bristles that are clumped together into a single tuft hole in
a non-spaced apart manner.
[0265] Thus, the third conical tuft 560 is a single tuft formed from a plurality of individual bristles
that are positioned together within a single tuft hole. As a result, the third conical tuft 560 has the
third continuous bristle wall 565 that extends without discontinuity about the third cavity axis E3
E3. Thus, in the exemplified embodiment there are no gaps formed into the outer surface 566 of
the third conical tuft 560. Of course, in other embodiments the third conical tuft 560 may have
small gaps therein as desired while still being a single tuft positioned within a single tuft hole.
Such gaps in the bristle wall may prevent dentifrice from being trapped within the third cavity 562
of the third conical tuft 560 by providing means of egress from the third cavity 562. Thus, in certain
embodiments the third bristle wall 565 may not be continuous. In one embodiment, the third
conical tuft 560 is secured to the head 510 by anchor free tufting or AMR.
[0266] Due to the conical shape of the third conical tuft 560, and more specifically, the inverted
conical shape of the third conical tuft 560, the third cavity 562 of the third conical tuft 560 has a
third transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from the front surface 511 of the
head 510. Specifically, the third transverse cross-sectional area of the third cavity 562 of the third
conical tuft 560 only increases and never decreases with distance from the front surface 511 of the
head 510. Thus, the greater the distance between a particular axial location within the third cavity
562 of the third conical tuft 560 and the front surface 511 of the head 510, the greater the transverse
cross-sectional area of the third cavity 562 at that particular axial location. Stated another way, the
diameter of the third cavity 562 increases with distance from the front surface 511 of the head 510
so that the diameter of the third cavity 562 is greater at the terminal ends of the bristles of the third
conical tuft 560 than at the front surface 511 of the head 510.
[0267] The third continuous bristle wall 565 of the third conical tuft 560 terminates in a third
annular top surface 553. In the exemplified embodiment, the third annular top surface 563 is flat
and parallel to the front surface 511 of the head 510. Thus, in the exemplified embodiment the
third conical tuft 560 has a constant height. However, in other embodiments the third annular top
surface 563 may be inclined relative to the front surface 511 of the head 510 in the same manner
as discussed above with regard to the first and second conical tufts 530, 150. Furthermore, in the
exemplified embodiment the outer surface 566 of the third conical tuft 560 is oriented at an angle
03.3 relative to the front surface 511 of the head 510. The angle 03.3 can be any of the angles
                                                    70
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

described above with regard to the first and second angles 03.1, 03.2. All other description above
with regard to the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 that is not contradictory to the description
above regarding the third conical tuft 560 may be applicable to the third conical tuft 560 in some
embodiments.
[0268] In the exemplified embodiment, a third central cleaning element 568 is located within the
third central cavity 562 of the third conical tuft 560. In the exemplified embodiment, the third
central cleaning element 568 extends perpendicularly from the front surface 511 of the head 510.
In the exemplified embodiment, an annular gap 569 is present between an outer surface of the third
central cleaning element 568 and the inner surface 561 of the third conical tuft 560. In the
exemplified embodiment, the annular gap 569 extends to below the front surface 511 of the head
510. Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the third central cleaning element 568 converges
with the third conical tuft 560 at the melt matte 106. Due to the conical shape of the third conical
tuft 560, the distance between the outer surface of the third central cleaning element 568 and the
inner surface 561 of the third conical tuft 560 increases with distance from the front surface 511
of the head 510. The third central cleaning element 568 terminates in a free end 545. In the
exemplified embodiment, the free end 545 of the third central cleaning element 568 extends to a
height that is above the third annular top surface 563 of the third conical tuft 560. However, the
invention is not to be so limited in all embodiments and in some embodiments the free end 545 of
the third central cleaning element 568 may extend to a height that is below the third annular top
surface 563 of the third conical tuft 560.
[0269] Referring to FIGS. 20A, 21, 23 and 26 concurrently, the fourth conical tuft 570 will be
further described. The fourth conical tuft 570 comprises a fourth continuous bristle wall 575 having
an inner surface 571 and an outer surface 576. The inner surface 571 of the fourth continuous
bristle wall 575 of the fourth conical tuft 570 defines a fourth cavity 572 that extends along a fourth
cavity axis F3-F3. In the exemplified embodiment, the fourth conical tuft 570, and specifically the
fourth continuous bristle wall 575 thereof, extends in a 3600 manner about the fourth cavity axis
F3-F3. The fourth cavity 572 of the fourth conical tuft 570 has an open top end and is bounded by
the inner surface 571 of the fourth continuous bristle wall 575 and by the front surface 511 of the
head 510. As noted above, the fourth conical tuft 570 in the exemplified embodiment is formed by
a plurality of bristles. Specifically, the plurality of bristles are clumped together and positioned
collectively into a single tuft hole so that the plurality of bristles collectively form the third conical
                                                    71
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

tuft 570 having no gaps in the third continuous bristle wall 575 for its entire 3600 extension about
the fourth cavity axis F3-F3. Thus, the fourth conical tuft 570 extends from a single tuft hole. The
term continuous bristle wall is intended to mean that the fourth conical tuft 570 is a single tuft of
bristles that are clumped together into a single tuft hole in a non-spaced apart manner.
[0270] Thus, the fourth conical tuft 570 is a single tuft formed from a plurality of individual
bristles that are positioned together within a single tuft hole. As a result, the fourth conical tuft 570
has the fourth continuous bristle wall 575 that extends without discontinuity about the fourth cavity
axis F3-F3. Thus, in the exemplified embodiment there are no gaps formed into the outer surface
576 of the fourth conical tuft 570. Of course, in other embodiments the fourth conical tuft 570 may
have small gaps therein as desired while still being a single tuft positioned within a single tuft hole.
In such embodiments, the fourth bristle wall 575 may not be continuous. Such gaps in the bristle
wall may prevent dentifrice from being trapped within the fourth cavity 572 of the fourth conical
tuft 570 by providing means of egress from the fourth cavity 572. In one embodiment, the fourth
conical tuft 570 is secured to the head 510 by anchor free tufting or AMR.
[0271] Due to the conical shape of the fourth conical tuft 570, and more specifically, the inverted
conical shape of the fourth conical tuft 570, the fourth cavity 572 of the fourth conical tuft 570 has
a fourth transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from the front surface 511 of
the head 510. Specifically, the fourth transverse cross-sectional area of the fourth cavity 572 of the
fourth conical tuft 570 only increases and never decreases with distance from the front surface 511
of the head 510. Thus, the greater the distance between a particular axial location within the fourth
cavity 572 of the fourth conical tuft 570 and the front surface 511 of the head 510, the greater the
transverse cross-sectional area of the fourth cavity 572 at that particular axial location. Stated
another way, the diameter of the fourth cavity 572 increases with distance from the front surface
511 of the head 510 so that the diameter of the fourth cavity 572 is greater at the terminal ends of
the bristles of the fourth conical tuft 570 than at the front surface 511 of the head 510.
[0272] The fourth continuous bristle wall 575 of the fourth conical tuft 570 terminates in a fourth
annular top surface 573. In the exemplified embodiment, the fourth annular top surface 573 is flat
and parallel to the front surface 511 of the head 510. Thus, in the exemplified embodiment the
fourth conical tuft 570 has a constant height. However, in other embodiments the fourth annular
top surface 573 may be inclined relative to the front surface 511 of the head 510 in the same
manner as discussed above with regard to the first and second conical tufts 530, 150. Furthermore,
                                                   72
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

the outer surface 576 of the fourth conical tuft 570 is oriented at an angle 03.4 relative to the front
surface 511 of the head 510. The angle 03.4 can be any of the angles described above with regard
to the first and second angles 03.1, 03.2. All other description above with regard to the first and
second conical tufts 530, 150 that is not contradictory to the description above regarding the fourth
conical tuft 570 may be applicable to the fourth conical tuft 570 in some embodiments.
[0273] In the exemplified embodiment, a fourth central cleaning element 578 is located within the
fourth central cavity 572 of the fourth conical tuft 570. In the exemplified embodiment, the fourth
central cleaning element 578 extends perpendicularly from the front surface 511 of the head 510.
In the exemplified embodiment, an annular gap 579 is present between an outer surface of the
fourth central cleaning element 578 and the inner surface 571 of the fourth conical tuft 570. In the
exemplified embodiment, the annular gap 579 extends to below the front surface 511 of the head
510. Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the fourth central cleaning element 579
converges with the fourth conical tuft 570 at the melt matte 106. Due to the conical shape of the
fourth conical tuft 570, the distance between the outer surface of the fourth central cleaning
element 578 and the inner surface 571 of the fourth conical tuft 570 increases with distance from
the front surface 511 of the head 510. The fourth central cleaning element 578 terminates in a free
end 546. In the exemplified embodiment, the free end 546 of the fourth central cleaning element
578 extends to a height that is above the fourth annular top surface 573 of the fourth conical tuft
570. However, the invention is not to be so limited in all embodiments and in some embodiments
the free end 546 of the fourth central cleaning element 578 may extend to a height that is below
the fourth annular top surface 573 of the fourth conical tuft 570.
[0274] In the exemplified embodiment, each of the third and fourth conical tufts 560, 570 is
located on the longitudinal axis B3-B3 of the head 510. More specifically, the third and fourth
conical tufts 560, 570 are transversely aligned on the longitudinal axis B3-B3 of the head 510.
Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the third conical tuft 560 is located between the first
and second conical tufts 530, 150 and the distal end 519 of the head and the fourth conical tuft 570
is located between the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 and the proximal end 518 of the head
510. Furthermore, the first arcuate tooth cleaning element 580 is positioned between the first and
second conical tufts 530, 150 and the third conical tuft 560 such that the concave side surface 582
of the first arcuate tooth cleaning element 580 faces the third conical tuft 560 and the convex side
surface 581 of the first arcuate tooth cleaning element 580 faces the first and second conical tufts
                                                  73
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

530, 150. Similarly, the second arcuate tooth cleaning element 590 is positioned between the first
and second conical tufts 530, 150 and the fourth conical tuft 570 such that the concave side surface
592 of the second arcuate tooth cleaning element 590 faces the fourth conical tuft 570 and the
convex side surface 591 of the second arcuate tooth cleaning element 590 faces the first and second
conical tufts 530, 150. Furthermore, the first and second conical tufts 530, 150 are located between
the third and fourth conical tufts 560, 570 such that the conical tufts 530, 150, 560, 570 collectively
form a cruciform arrangement (if a line was drawn to connect the first and second conical tufts
530, 150 and a separate line was drawn to connect the third and fourth conical tufts 560, 570, the
result would be a cruciform shape).
[0275] In one embodiment, the first bristle wall 535 has a first thickness measured from the inner
surface 531 of the first conical tuft 530 to the outer surface 536 of the first conical tuft 530. The
second bristle wall 545 has a second thickness measured from the inner surface 541 of the second
conical tuft 540 to the outer surface 546 of the second conical tuft 540. The third bristle wall 555
has a third thickness measured from the inner surface 551 of the third conical tuft 150 to the outer
surface 556 of the third conical tuft 150. The fourth bristle wall 565 has a fourth thickness
measured from the inner surface 561 of the fourth conical tuft 560 to the outer surface 566 of the
fourth conical tuft 560. In one embodiment, the first and second thickness are substantially the
same and the third and fourth thicknesses are substantially the same. Furthermore, in some
embodiments the first and second thicknesses are greater than the third and fourth thicknesses,
which renders the first and second conical tufts 530, 540 more rigid than the third and fourth
conical tufts 150, 560. Furthermore, in some embodiments the first and second conical tufts 530,
540 may have an outer diameter that is substantially the same and the third and fourth conical tufts
150, 560 may have an outer diameter that is substantially the same, the outer diameter of the first
and second conical tufts 530, 540 being greater than the outer diameter of the third and fourth
conical tufts 150, 560.
[0276] In addition to the above, the plurality of tooth cleaning elements 515 also include a first set
of distal tooth cleaning elements 620 arranged about a first loop 621 that surrounds the third conical
tuft 560. The first set of distal tooth cleaning elements 620 comprises a grouping of tooth cleaning
elements of various shapes and/or sizes that surround the third conical tuft 560. Specifically, the
first set of distal tooth cleaning elements 620 comprises two arcuate tufts 622a, 622b at the distal
most portion of the head 510 that form the distal-most tooth cleaning elements on the head 510
                                                    74
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

and five rectangular (or otherwise four-sided) shaped tufts arranged in the loop 621 and extending
from one of the two arcuate tufts 622a, 622b to the other of the two arcuate tufts 622a, 622b. In
the exemplified embodiment, there are two arcuate tufts 622a, 622b that are spaced apart by a gap
that is located on the longitudinal axis B3-B3, and thus the two arcuate tufts 622a, 622b are located
on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis B3-B3. In other embodiments, the two arcuate tufts 622a,
622b can be combined into a single arcuate tuft at the distal end 519 of the head 510 that traverses
over the longitudinal axis B3-B3.
[0277] The arcuate tufts 622a, 622b at the distal-most portion of the head 510 have larger cross
sectional areas than any of the other tufts in the loop 621. More specifically, the arcuate tufts 622a,
622b at the distal-most portion of the head 510 have the largest cross-sectional area of the tufts in
the loop 621, the two tufts 623a, 623b that are immediately adjacent to each of the arcuate tufts
622a, 622b at the distal-most portion of the head 510 have the second largest cross-sectional area
of the tufts in the loop 621, and the three tufts 624a, 624b, 624c positioned adjacent to the first
arcuate tooth cleaning element 580 have the smallest cross-sectional area.
[0278] Thus, the two arcuate tufts 622a, 622b located between the third conical tuft 560 and the
distal end 519 of the head 510 have a first transverse cross-sectional area, the two tufts 623a, 623b
located between the third conical tuft 560 and the first and second lateral side edges 103, 104 of
the head 510 have a second transverse cross-sectional area, and the three tufts 624a, 624b, 624c
located between the third conical tuft 560 and the first arcuate tooth cleaning element 580 have a
third transverse cross-sectional area. Furthermore, the first transverse cross-sectional area is
greater than the second transverse cross-sectional area and the second transverse cross-sectional
area is greater than the third transverse cross-sectional area.
[0279] Each of the tufts in the loop 621 is a separate and distinct tuft that is positioned within a
separate tuft hole in the head 510. Thus, the tufts are spaced apart along the loop 621. Although
the first set of distal tooth cleaning elements 620 are described as forming a loop that surrounds
the third conical tuft 560, it should be appreciated that the loop has gaps therein in between each
adjacent tuft of the first set of distal tooth cleaning elements 620.
[0280] The plurality of tooth cleaning elements 515 also include a second set of proximal tooth
cleaning elements 630 arranged about a second loop 631 that surrounds the fourth conical tuft 570.
The second set of proximal tooth cleaning elements 630 comprises a grouping of tooth cleaning
elements of various shapes and/or sizes that surround the fourth conical tuft 570. Specifically, the
                                                     75
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

second set of proximal tooth cleaning elements 630 comprises two arcuate tufts 632a, 632b at the
proximal-most portion of the head 510 that form the proximal-most tooth cleaning elements on the
head 510 and five rectangular (or otherwise four-sided) shaped tufts arranged in the loop 631 and
extending from one of the two arcuate tufts 632a, 632b to the other of the two arcuate tufts 632a,
632b. In the exemplified embodiment, there are two arcuate tufts 2.2a, 632b that are spaced apart
by a gap that is located on the longitudinal axis B3-B3, and thus the two arcuate tufts 632a, 632b
are located on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis B3-B3. In other embodiments, the two arcuate
tufts 632a, 632b can be combined into a single arcuate tuft at the distal end 519 of the head 510
that traverses over the longitudinal axis B3-B3.
[0281] The arcuate tufts 632a, 632b at the proximal-most portion of the head 510 have larger
cross-sectional areas than any of the other tufts in the loop 631. More specifically, the arcuate tufts
632a, 632b at the proximal-most portion of the head 510 have the largest cross-sectional area of
the tufts in the loop 631, the two tufts 633a, 633b that are immediately adjacent to each of the
arcuate tufts 632a, 632b at the proximal-most portion of the head 510 have the second largest
cross-sectional area of the tufts in the loop 631, and the three tufts 634a, 634b, 634c positioned
adjacent to the second arcuate tooth cleaning element 590 have the smallest cross-sectional area.
[0282] Thus, the two arcuate tufts 632a, 632b located between the fourth conical tuft 570 and the
proximal end 518 of the head 510 have a first transverse cross-sectional area, the two tufts 633a,
633b located between the fourth conical tuft 570 and the first and second lateral side edges 103,
104 of the head 510 have a second transverse cross-sectional area, and the three tufts 634a, 634b,
634c located between the fourth conical tuft 570 and the second arcuate tooth cleaning element
590 have a third transverse cross-sectional area. Furthermore, the first transverse cross-sectional
area is greater than the second transverse cross-sectional area and the second transverse cross
sectional area is greater than the third transverse cross-sectional area.
[0283] Each of the tufts in the loop 631 is a separate and distinct tuft that is positioned within a
separate tuft hole in the head 510. Thus, the tufts are spaced apart along the loop 631. Although
the second set of proximal tooth cleaning elements 630 are described as forming a loop that
surrounds the fourth conical tuft 570, it should be appreciated that the loop has gaps therein in
between each adjacent tuft of the second set of proximal tooth cleaning elements 630.
                                                   76
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

                                                 SECTION IV
[0284] Referring to FIG. 28, an oral care implement 700 is illustrated according to one
embodiment of the present invention. The oral care implement 700 generally comprises a handle
710 and a head 720. The handle 710 provides the user with a mechanism by which he/she can
readily grip and manipulate the oral care implement 700. The handle 710 is generically illustrated
and may be formed of many different shapes, sizes, materials and by a variety of manufacturing
methods that are known to those skilled in the art. For example, the handle 710 can be constructed
of elastomers, polypropylene, SAN, ABS, or even paper products such as a typical lollipop stick.
If desired, the handle 710 may include a suitable textured grip (not shown) made of a thermoplastic
elastomer or can be a multi-part construction. The details of the handle 710 are not limiting of the
present invention and, thus, require no further discussion for purposes of the present invention.
[0285] The oral care implement 700 extends from a proximal end 712 to a distal end 713. The
head 720 is operably connected to a distal end of the handle 710. Generally, the head 710 and the
handle 720 of the toothbrush are preferably formed as a single unitary structure using a molding,
milling, machining or other suitable process. However, in other embodiments, the handle 710 and
head 720 may be formed as separate components which are operably connected at a later stage of
the manufacturing process by any suitable technique known in the art, including without limitation
thermal welding, a tight-fit assembly, a coupling sleeve, adhesion, or fasteners. Whether the head
720 and handle 710 are of a unitary or multi-piece construction (including connection techniques)
is not limiting of the present invention unless specifically stated in the claims.
[0286] It should be noted at this time that relative terms such as distal, middle, proximal, upper,
lower, top, bottom, left, right etc. are merely used to delineate relative positions of the components
of the oral care implement 700 with respect to one another and are not intended to be in any further
way limiting of the present invention
[0287] Referring to FIGS. 29 and 30, the head 720 extends along a longitudinal axis A4-A4 from
a proximal end 731 of the head 720 to a distal end 732 of the head 720. The head 720 generally
comprises a front surface 721, a rear surface 722 that is opposite the front surface 721 (as shown
in FIG. 31) and a peripheral surface 723. The peripheral surface 723 extends between the front
surface 721 and the rear surface 722, connecting the front and rear surfaces 721, 722 and defining
a perimeter edge 724 of the front surface 721. The front surface 721, the rear surface 722, and the
peripheral surface 723 of the head 720 can take on a wide variety of shapes and contours, none of
                                                   77
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

which are limiting of the present invention. For example, the surfaces can be planar, contoured or
combinations thereof. Furthermore, while the head 720 is normally widened relative to the neck
711 of the handle 710, it could in some constructions simply be a continuous extension or
narrowing of the handle 710.
[0288] Referring to FIGS. 30-33 concurrently, the head 720 further comprises an elastomeric
component 750, which may include a bumper portion 751 that forms a distal-most section 730 of
the peripheral surface 723 and a wall portion 752 located along a distal-most section of the
perimeter edge 724. The wall portion 752 protrudes above the front surface 721. The wall portion
752 extends along the perimeter edge 724 in a continuous manner from a first point 701 of the
perimeter edge 724 to a second point 702 of the perimeter edge 724. The first and second points
701, 702 are located on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis A4-A4. The wall portion 752 may
comprise a first ramped portion 753, a second ramped portion 754, and an apex portion 755 (best
visible in FIG. 34). The apex portion 755 is disposed between the first ramped position 753 and
the second ramped position 754.
[0289] In one embodiment, the first ramped portion 753 may extend from the first point 701 to a
fourth point 704 of the perimeter edge 724. The fourth point 704 is located between the first and
third points 701, 703. The height of the first ramped portion 753 of the wall portion 752 increases
from the first point 701 to the fourth point 704. The second ramped portion 754 may extend from
the second point 702 to a fifth point 705 of the perimeter edge 724. The fifth point 705 is located
between the second and third points 702, 703. The height of the second ramped portion 754 of the
wall portion 752 increases from the second point 702 to the fourth point 705. The apex portion 755
may extend from the fourth point 704 to the fifth point 705. The apex portion 755, in the
exemplified embodiment, has a substantially constant height from the fourth point 704 to the fifth
point 705.
[0290] The wall portion 752 has a maximum height H4.MAX at the third point 703 of the
perimeter edge 724, which is located between the first and second points 701, 702. The third point
703 is located on the longitudinal axis A4-A4 and on the apex portion 755. The wall portion 752
has a substantially zero height at the first and second points 701, 702.
[0291] In another embodiment, the first ramped portion 753 may extend from the first point 701
to the third point 703, wherein the height of the first ramped portion 753 of the wall portion 752
may increase from the first point 701 to the third point 703. The second ramped portion 754 may
                                                   78
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

extend from the second point 702 to the third point 703, wherein the height of the second ramped
portion 754 of the wall portion 752 may increase from the second point 702 to the third point 703.
In such an embodiment, the apex portion 755 may take the form of a single point, rather than a
section.
[0292] The first and second ramped portions 753, 754 may comprise an upper edge 756, 757 that
appear as a linear slope when the head is viewed in side profile (see FIGS. 32 and 33). The first
upper edge 756 of the first ramped portion 753 may extend upward from the front surface 721 at
an angle of 04.1 and the second upper edge 757 of the second ramped portion 754 may extend
upward from the front surface 721 at an angle of 04.2. The 04.land 04.2may be the same or
different and each 04.land 04.2may be selected from an angle ranging from about 100 to about
60'; preferably from about 15' to about 450; and more preferably about 250 to about 35'.
[0293] The wall portion 752 and a transverse line B4-B4 extending between the first and second
points 701, 702 of the perimeter edge 724 collectively define a distal-most area 730 of the front
surface 721 of the head 720. A remaining portion of the perimeter edge 725 may be free of the
wall portion 752. The remaining portion of the perimeter edge 725 may extend from the first point
701 to a sixth point 706 alone the perimeter edge 725. The remaining portion of the perimeter edge
725 may also extend from the second point 702 to a seventh point 707 along the perimeter edge
725. In some embodiments, the wall portion 752 is arcuate and comprises a convex inner surface
and a concave outer surface. The wall portion 752 may be free of through-holes.
[0294] Referring to FIGS. 32 and 33, the elastomeric component 750 may further comprise a
plurality of spaced-apart ridges 758 protruding from an outer surface of the bumper portion 751
and an outer surface of the wall portion 752. The elastomeric component 750 may also comprise
a plurality of spaced-apart ridges 758 protruding from an outer surface along at least a portion of
the peripheral surface 723. The elastomeric component 750 may further comprise a soft tissue
cleanser 780 on the rear surface 722 of the head 720, the soft tissue cleanser 780 comprising a
plurality of protuberances 781. In some embodiments, the elastomeric component 750 may be an
integrally formed component and include the bumper portion 751, the wall portion 752, the
plurality of spaced-apart ridges 758, and the soft tissue cleanser 780.
[0295] The soft tissue cleanser 780 is preferably constructed of a biocompatible resilient material
suitable for uses in an oral hygiene apparatus, such as a thermoplastic elastomer. As an example,
one preferred elastomeric material is styrene-ethylene/butylene-styrene block copolymer (SEBS)
                                                 79
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

manufactured by GLS Corporation. Nevertheless, SEBS material from other manufacturers or
other materials. The soft tissue cleanser 780 can be constructed of different types of resilient
materials or the same resilient material with one or more different characteristics, such as color,
hardness, density, flavor, and/or sensate.
[0296] As shown in FIG. 31, the head 720 comprises a base portion 726 formed of a rigid plastic,
such as polypropylene. The elastomeric component 750 may be injection molded to the base
portion 726. The base portion 726 comprises a peripheral wall 727 that forms a basin 728, the head
720 further comprises a head plate 760 disposed within the basin 728 and coupled to the base
portion 726.
[0297] The head plate 760 comprises a plurality of through holes 761. A plurality of cleaning
elements 740 are provided that extend through the through holes 761 of the head plate. The
plurality of cleaning elements 740 extend from the front surface 721 of the head 720.
[0298] Each of the plurality of cleaning elements 740 comprise a cleaning portion 741 extending
from an upper surface 762 of the head plate 760 for cleaning contact with an oral surface. Each of
the plurality of cleaning elements 740 also includes a melt portion 742 located between a lower
surface of the head plate 763 and a floor of the basin 729. The melt portions 742 anchor the
cleaning elements 740 to the head. While the plurality of cleaning elements 740 are particularly
suited for brushing teeth, the plurality of cleaning elements 740 can also be used to clean oral soft
tissue, such as a tongue, gums, or cheeks instead of or in addition to teeth.
[0299] As used herein, the term "cleaning element" is used in a generic sense to refer to any
structure that can be used to clean or massage an oral surface through relative surface contact.
Common examples of "cleaning elements" include, without limitation, filament bristles, fiber
bristles, nylon bristles, spiral bristles, rubber bristles, elastomeric protrusions, flexible polymer
protrusions, combinations thereof and/or structures containing such materials or combinations.
[0300] Referring to FIGS. 31-34, the plurality of cleaning elements 740 comprises a plurality of
distal cleaning elements 743 extending from the distal-most area 730 of the front surface 721. The
maximum height H4.MAX of the wall portion 752 is less than or equal to one half of a height
H4.CE of a shortest one of the plurality of distal tooth cleaning elements 743. In one embodiment,
the maximum height H4.MAX of the wall portion 752 is less than or equal to one third of the
height H4.CE of a shortest one of the plurality of distal tooth cleaning elements 743. In another
embodiment, the maximum height H4.MAX of the wall portion 752 is less than or equal to one
                                                   80
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

quarter of the height               HCE of a shortest one of the plurality of distal tooth cleaning elements 743.
The plurality of distal tooth cleaning elements 743 may comprise tapered bristles.
[0301] In some embodiments the peripheral surface 723 may comprise the elastomeric component
750 and the rigid plastic used to form the base portion 726 of the head 720. In another embodiment,
the peripheral surface 723 may be entirely formed by the elastomeric component 750.
[0302] With reference to FIGS. 32-36, the details of the elastomeric component 750 includes the
soft tissue cleanser 780, which will now be discussed. The soft tissue cleanser 780 is on the rear
surface 722 of the head 720 and comprises a pad 788 that forms at least a portion of the rear surface
722 of the head 720 of the oral care implement 700. The pad 788 is preferably injection molded
directly to the head 720 but can be molded separately and later fixed to the head 720 if desired, for
example by an adhesive or sonic welding. The pad 788 extends from a distal end 732 of the head
720 to a proximal end 731 of the head 720 and may cover substantially the entire width of the head
720, extending from a first lateral edge 733 of the head 720 towards a second lateral edge 734 of
the head 720.
[0303] The elastomeric component 750 may have one or more exposed underlying head portions
789 extending therethrough exposing the base portion 726. The exposed underlying head portions
789 may be a variety of geometric shapes - such as circular or crescent shapes. In one embodiment,
the exposed underlying head portions 789 define a boundary for which a plurality of protuberances
781 are positioned on the rear surface 722 of the head 720. In one embodiment, crescent shaped
exposed underlying head portions 789 define an annular shaped layout of the plurality of
protuberances 781 when looking at the rear surface 722 of the head 720.
[0304] The pad 788 includes an exposed top surface 790 on the rear surface 722 of the head. The
plurality of protuberances 781 protrude from the rear surface 722 of the head 720 from the top
surface 790 of the pad 788. The plurality of protuberances 781 may include a first plurality of
protuberances 782 arranged in a first annular zone 770 on the rear surface 722. The first annular
zone 770 is the area defined between a first dotted line 773 and a second dotted line 774. Each of
the first plurality of protuberances 782 may have a height between a first predetermined height
H4.1 and a second predetermined height H4.2, the second predetermined height H4.2 being greater
than the first predetermined height H4. 1.
[0305] The plurality of protuberances 781 may further include a plurality of second protuberances
783 protruding from the rear surface 722 of the head 720 and arranged in a second annular zone
                                                               81
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

771 on the rear surface 722. The first annular zone 770 surrounds the second annular zone 771.
The second annular zone 771 is the area defined between the second dotted line 774 and a third
dotted line 775. Each of the second plurality of protuberances 783 may have a height between the
second predetermined height H4.2 and a third predetermined height H4.3, the third predetermined
height H4.3 being greater than the second predetermined height H4.2.
[0306] The plurality of protuberances 781 may further include a plurality of third protuberances
784 protruding from the rear surface 722 of the head 720 and arranged in a third zone 772 on the
rear surface 722. The second annular zone 771 surrounds the third annular zone 773. The third
zone 772 may be annular zone or it may be a central zone. The third annular zone 772 is the area
defined within the third dotted line 775. Each of the third plurality of protuberances 784 have a
height between the third predetermined height H4.3 and a fourth predetermined height H4.4, the
fourth predetermined height H4.4 being greater than the third predetermined height H4.3.
[0307] In some embodiments, the plurality of first protuberances 782 may comprise protuberances
having a plurality of different heights between the first and second predetermined heights H4. 1,
H4.2. The plurality of second protuberances 783 may comprise protuberances having a plurality
of different heights between the second and third predetermined heights H4.2, H4.3. The plurality
of third protuberances 784 may comprises protuberances having a plurality of different heights
between the third and fourth predetermined heights H4.3, H4.4.
[0308] In certain embodiments, the plurality of first protuberances 782 consist only of
protuberances having a height between the first and second predetermined heights H4. 1, H4.2. The
plurality of second protuberances 783 consist only of protuberances having a height between the
second and third predetermined heights H4.2, H4.3. The plurality of third protuberances 784
consist only of protuberances having a height between the third and fourth predetermined heights
H4.3, H4.4.
[0309] The first predetermined height H4.1 may be in a range of 0.5 mm to 1.5 mm, the second
predetermined height H4.2 may be in a range of 1.5 mm to 2.5 mm, the third predetermined height
H4.3 may be in a range of 2.5 mm to 3.5 mm, and the fourth predetermined height H4.4 may be in
a range of 3.5 mm to 6. 0 mm.
[0310] In some embodiments, free ends of the first, second and third protuberances 782, 783, 784
collectively form a convex side profile (see FIGS. 32 and 33). In some embodiments, the free ends
                                                 82
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

of the first, second and third protuberances 782, 783, 784 may also collectively form a convex top
profile (see FIG. 34).
[0311] The plurality of first protuberances 782 comprises first conical nubs, the plurality of second
protuberances 783 comprises second conical nubs, and the plurality of third protuberances 784
comprises third conical nubs. In one embodiment, the plurality of first protuberances 782 consists
only of the first conical nubs, the plurality of second protuberances 783 consists only of second
conical nubs, and the plurality of third protuberances 784 consists only of the third conical nubs.
The plurality of conical nubs extends from the pad portion 788.
[0312] As used herein a "nub" is generally meant to include a column-like protrusion (without
limitation to the cross-sectional shape of the protrusion) which is upstanding from a base surface.
In a general sense, the nub, in the preferred construction, has a height that is greater than the width
at the base of the nub (as measured in the longest direction). Nevertheless, nubs could include
projections wherein the widths and heights are roughly the same or wherein the heights are
somewhat smaller than the base widths. Moreover, in some circumstances (e.g., where the nub
tapers to a tip or includes a base portion that narrows to a smaller projection), the base width can
be substantially larger than the height.
[0313] The first, second, and third plurality of nubs 782-784 are designed to engage the oral soft
tissue to significantly reduce a major source of bad breath in people and improve hygiene. The
first, second, and third plurality of nubs 782-784 enable removal of microflora and other debris
from the tongue and other soft tissue surfaces within the mouth. The tongue, in particular, is prone
to develop bacterial coatings that are known to harbor organisms and debris that can contribute to
bad breath. This microflora can be found in the recesses between the papillae on most of the
tongue's upper surface as well as along other soft tissue surfaces in the mouth. When engaged or
otherwise pulled against a tongue surface, for example, the first, second, and third nubs provide
for gentle engagement with the soft tissue while reaching downward into the recesses of adjacent
papillae of the tongue. The elastomeric construction of the soft tissue cleanser 780 also enables a
top surface 790 of the pad 788 to follow the natural contours of the oral tissue surfaces, such as
the tongue, cheeks, lips, and gums of a user. Moreover, the first, second, and third nubs are able to
flex as needed to traverse and clean the soft tissue surfaces in the mouth along which it is moved.
[0314] In the illustrated embodiment, the first, second, and third nubs are preferably conically
shaped. As used herein, "conically shaped" or "conical" is meant to include true cones, frusto
                                                  83
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

conically shaped elements, and other shapes that taper to a narrow end and thereby resemble a
cone irrespective of whether they are uniform, continuous in their taper, or have rounded cross
sections. The base portion of each the conically shaped first, second, and third nubs 782-784 is
larger than the corresponding tip portion.
[0315] Furthermore, the resilient material of the first, second, and/or third annular zones 770, 771,
772 may also be imbued with a sensory material, which can be any suitable biocompatible
medication or chemical for oral use. The sensory material is released inside the mouth, lips, or
cheeks by way of several methods, including but not limited to abrasion, a temperature change, a
change in pH or dissolution. In one embodiment, the sensory material is a sensate that provides a
biochemical sensory response to the inside tissue and surfaces of the mouth. Such a sensory
response is understood to result from stimulation of the trigeminal nerve of a human. A sensate
generally produces a physiological effect without a taste, with such effect usually represented by
the terms cooling, tingle, and hot (or heat). Sensates are usually derived from single compounds
that are not volatile and that do not have a smell or taste per se. As one example, a chemical known
as capsaicin, found naturally in chili peppers, can be used to provide a tingle, a hot or warm
massage, or a heating or warm, soothing sensation to a user. Capsaicin is also known to provide
pain relief and numbing sensations when topically applied. Some examples of sensates that
produce cooling sensations include (-)-menthol and camphor. Most of the polyols, including
maltitol syrup, sorbitol, mannitol, erythritol, isomalt and xylitol, also provide a cooling sensation.
The coolest of the polyols, erythritol, provides a distinct cooling sensation. Both erythritol and
xylitol cool the mouth and fight the sensation of dry mouth commonly associated with prescription
drugs and dental hygiene products. Erythritol is a naturally occurring four-carbon structure. Xylitol
is a five-carbon sugar found in fruits and vegetables and made in small amounts by the human
system as a metabolic intermediate.
[0316] In another embodiment, the sensory material is provided as flavoring agent for causing an
olfactory sensory response in a human. A flavor agent is commonly understood to include a
mixture of compounds that are volatile and produce an aromatic effect and that stimulate the
olfactory bulb. Flavors are generally transmitted through the nasal passages, and are often selected
and used for their unique association with certain consumer benefits, such as lavender for stress
relief or relaxation. Another flavor example is chamomile, which has a strong, aromatic smell and
is often used medicinally against sore stomach and as a relaxant to help you fall asleep. Chamomile
                                                   84
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

is also used as a mouthwash against oral mucositis (the swelling, irritation, and ulceration of the
mucosal cells that line the digestive tract).
[0317] In one embodiment, the first, second, and/or third annular zone 770, 771, 772 can be
imbued with both a sensate component and a flavor component. The soft tissue cleanser 780 may
be an integrally formed singular component.
[03181 Referring now to FIGS. 33-35 concurrently, one preferred embodiment of manufacturing
the head 720 via an injection molding process will be described. First, the head 720 is formed by
injecting a liquefied hard plastic, such as PP or SAN, into a mold having the appropriately shaped
fill cavity. Once the head 720 is sufficiently cooled (the structure of which is described above), an
outer mold is placed about the head 720 for forming the elastomeric component 750. The
elastomeric component 750 is formed by an overmolding process which involves injecting a single
shot of a first type of liquefied thermoplastic elastomer about the head 722 via a first port having
a first size. The first type of liquefied thermoplastic elastomer surrounds the head 720 and fills
available gaps/grooves on the head 720. As a result, the elastomeric component 750 is formed as
illustrated. The elastomeric component 750 may also be made using separate shots, each using
different types of thermoplastic elastomer, to form different components of the elastomeric
component 750 - for example one shot for the pad 788 and another shot for the plurality of
protuberances 781. This allows the pad 788 and the plurality of protuberances 781 to be formed of
different types of elastomers, which may be useful for elastomeric components 750 having
differing colors, flavors, sensates or material properties, such as hardness or density.
[0319] Another embodiment of manufacturing the head 720 includes the head plate 760 which
clusters of the plurality of cleaning elements 740 are inserted through the through holes 761. The
rear ends of the plurality of cleaning elements 740 are melted thereby affixing the plurality of
cleaning elements 740 to the head plate 760. The melted portions form the melt portion 742 that
adheres to the head plate 760 and bonds the plurality of cleaning elements 740 to each other.
                                                SECTION V
[0320] Referring to FIGS. 37 and 38 concurrently, an oral care implement 800 is illustrated in
accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. In the exemplified embodiment, the
oral care implement 800 is in the form of a manual toothbrush. However, in certain other
embodiments the oral care implement 800 can take on other forms such as being a powered
toothbrush, a tongue scraper, a gum and soft tissue cleanser, a water pick, an interdental device, a
                                                  85
10459759_1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

tooth polisher, a specially designed ansate implement having tooth engaging elements, or any other
type of implement that is commonly used for oral care. Thus, it is to be understood that the
inventive concepts discussed herein can be applied to any type of oral care implement unless a
specific type of oral care implement is specified in the claims.
[0321] The oral care implement 800, which generally comprises a head 810 and a handle 820,
extends from a proximal end 801 to a distal end 802 along a longitudinal axis A5-A5. The head
810 extends from a proximal end 818 to a distal end 819 along a longitudinal axis that is
coextensive with the longitudinal axis A5-A5 of the oral care implement 800. Furthermore, in the
exemplified embodiment the distal end 802 of the oral care implement 800 is the same as the distal
end 819 of the head 810.
[0322] The handle 820 is an elongated structure that provides the mechanism by which the user
can hold and manipulate the oral care implement 800 during use. In the exemplified embodiment,
the handle 820 is generically depicted having various contours for user comfort. Of course, the
invention is not to be limited by the specific shape illustrated for the handle 820 in all embodiments
and in certain other embodiments the handle 820 can take on a wide variety of shapes, contours,
and configurations, none of which are limiting of the present invention unless so specified in the
claims.
[0323] In the exemplified embodiment, the handle 820 is formed of a hard or rigid plastic material,
such as for example without limitation polymers and copolymers of ethylene, propylene,
butadiene, vinyl compounds, and polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate. The handle 820
also includes a grip 821 that is formed of a resilient/elastomeric material. In the exemplified
embodiment the grip 821 is molded over a portion of the handle 820 that is typically gripped by a
user's thumb and forefinger during use. Furthermore, it should be appreciated that additional
regions of the handle 820 can be overmolded with the resilient/elastomeric material to enhance the
gripability of the handle 820 during use. For example, portions of the handle 820 that are typically
gripped by a user's palm during use may be overmolded with a thermoplastic elastomer or other
resilient material to further increase comfort to a user. Furthermore, materials other than those
noted above can be used to form the handle 820, including metal, wood, or any other desired
material that has sufficient structural rigidity to permit a user to grip the handle 820 and manipulate
the oral care implement 800 during toothbrushing.
                                                     86
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0324] The head 810 of the oral care implement 800 is coupled to the handle 820 and comprises a
front surface 811 and an opposing rear surface 812. Furthermore, the head 810 comprises a
peripheral surface 813 extending between the rear surface 812 and the front surface 811. In the
exemplified embodiment, the head 810 is formed integrally with the handle 820 as a single unitary
structure using a molding, milling, machining, or other suitable process. However, in other
embodiments the handle 820 and the head 810 may be formed as separate components which are
operably connected at a later stage of the manufacturing process by any suitable technique known
in the art, including without limitation thermal or ultrasonic welding, a tight-fit assembly, a
coupling sleeve, threaded engagement, adhesion, or fasteners. Thus, the head 810 may, in certain
embodiments, be formed of any of the rigid plastic materials described above as being used for
forming the handle 820, although the invention is not to be so limited in all embodiments and other
materials that are commonly used during toothbrush head manufacture may also be used.
[0325] The oral care implement 800 also comprises a plurality of tooth cleaning elements 815
extending from the front surface 811 of the head 810. The invention is not to be limited by the
structure, pattern, orientation, and material of the tooth cleaning elements 815 in all embodiments.
Furthermore, where it does not conflict with the other disclosure provided herein or the claims, it
should be appreciated that the term "tooth cleaning elements" may be used in a generic sense to
refer to any structure that can be used to clean, polish, or wipe the teeth and/or soft oral tissue (e.g.
tongue, cheek, gums, etc.) through relative surface contact. Common examples of "tooth cleaning
elements" include, without limitation, bristle tufts, filament bristles, fiber bristles, nylon bristles,
polybutylene terephthalate (PBT) bristles, spiral bristles, rubber bristles, elastomeric protrusions,
flexible polymer protrusions, combinations thereof, and/or structures containing such materials or
combinations. Thus, any combination of these tooth cleaning elements may be used within the
tooth cleaning elements 815 in some embodiments. Furthermore, where bristles are used for one
or more of the tooth cleaning elements 815, such bristles can be tapered, end-rounded, spiral, or
the like.
[0326] In embodiments that use elastomeric materials to form one or more of the tooth cleaning
elements 815, suitable elastomeric materials may include any biocompatible resilient material
suitable for uses in an oral hygiene apparatus. To provide optimum comfort as well as cleaning
benefits, the elastomeric material of any such tooth cleaning element may have a hardness property
in the range of A 10 to A70 Shore hardness in one embodiment, or A8 to A25 Shore hardness in
                                                   87
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

another embodiment. One suitable elastomeric material is styrene-ethylene/butylene-styrene block
copolymer (SEBS) manufactured by GLS Corporation. Nevertheless, SEBS material from other
manufacturers or other materials within and outside the noted hardness range could be used.
[0327] The tooth cleaning elements 815 may be coupled to the head 810 in any manner known in
the art, including staples, in-mold tufting (IMT), anchor-free tufting (AFT), or a modified AFT
known as AMR. Referring briefly to FIGS. 40, 43, and 44, one manner in which the tooth cleaning
elements 815 are secured to the head 810 via AFT will be described. Specifically, in the
embodiment exemplified the tooth cleaning elements 815 are formed as a cleaning element
assembly on a head plate 830 such that one or more of the tooth cleaning elements 815 are mounted
onto the head plate 830 and then the head plate 830 is coupled to the head 810. In such an
embodiment, the head plate 830 is a separate and distinct component from the head 810 of the oral
care implement 800. However, the head plate 830 is connected to the head 810 at a later stage of
the manufacturing process by any suitable technique known in the art, including without limitation
thermal or ultrasonic welding, any fusion techniques such as thermal fusion, melting, a tight-fit
assembly, a coupling sleeve, threaded engagement, adhesion, or fasteners. Thus, the head plate
830 and the head 810 are separately formed components that are secured together during
manufacture of the oral care implement 800.
[0328] In certain embodiments, the head plate 830 may comprise an upper surface 833 and a lower
surface 832. The upper surface 833 of the head plate 830 forms a portion of the front surface 811
of the head 810 when the head plate 830 is coupled to the head 810 as discussed herein. The head
plate 830 comprises a plurality of holes 831 formed therethrough from the upper surface 833 to
the lower surface 832, and the tooth cleaning elements 815 may be mounted to the head plate 830
within the holes 831. Specifically, in AFT a plate or membrane (i.e., the head plate 830) is created
separately from the head 810. The tooth cleaning elements 815 (such as bristles, elastomeric
elements, and combinations thereof) are positioned into the head plate 830 so as to extend through
the holes 831 of the head plate 830. The free ends 817 of the tooth cleaning elements 815 on one
side of the head plate 830 perform the cleaning function. The anchor portions 816 of the tooth
cleaning elements 815 on the other side of the head plate 830 are melted together by heat to be
anchored in place. As the tooth cleaning elements 815 are melted together, a melt matte 806 is
formed. The melt matte 806 is a thin layer of plastic that is formed by melting the anchor portions
816 of the bristles so that the anchor portions 816 of the bristles transition into a liquid, at which
                                                 88
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

point the liquid of the anchor portions 816 of the bristles combine together into a single layer of
liquid plastic that at least partially covers the lower surface 832 of the head plate 830. After the
heat is no longer applied, the melted anchor portions 816 of the bristles solidify/harden to form the
melt matte 806 or thin layer of plastic.
[0329] After the tooth cleaning elements 815 are secured to the head plate 830, the head plate 830
is secured to the head 810 such as by ultrasonic welding or mechanical techniques (i.e., snap-fit,
interference fit, slot-and-tab, or the like) so that the upper surface 833 of the head plate 830 forms
at least a portion of the front surface 811 of the head 810. When the head plate 830 is coupled to
the head 810, the melt matte 806 is located between the lower surface 832 of the head plate 830
and a floor 807 of a basin 808 of the head 810 in which the head plate 830 is disposed. The melt
matte 806, which is coupled directly to and in fact forms a part of the tooth cleaning elements 815,
prevents the tooth cleaning elements 815 from being pulled through the holes 831 in the head plate
830 to ensure that the tooth cleaning elements 815 remain attached to the head plate 830 during
use of the oral care implement 800.
[0330] As noted above, in another embodiment the tooth cleaning elements may be connected to
the head 810 using a technique known in the art as AMR. In this technique, the handle is formed
integrally with the head plate as a one-piece structure. After the handle and the head plate are
formed, the bristles are inserted into holes in the head plate so that the free/cleaning ends of the
bristles extend from the front surface of the head plate and the bottom ends of the bristles are
adjacent to the rear surface of the head plate. After the bristles are inserted into the holes in the
head plate, the bottom ends of the bristles are melted together by applying heat thereto, thereby
forming a melt matte at the rear surface of the head plate. The melt matte is a thin layer of plastic
that is formed by melting the bottom ends of the bristles so that the bottom ends of the bristles
transition into a liquid, at which point the liquid of the bottom ends of the bristles combine together
into a single layer of liquid plastic that at least partially covers the rear surface of the head plate.
After the heat is no longer applied, the melted bottom ends of the bristles solidify/harden to form
the melt matte/thin layer of plastic. In some embodiments, after formation of the melt matte, a
tissue cleanser is injection molded onto the rear surface of the head plate, thereby trapping the melt
matte between the tissue cleanser and the rear surface of the head plate. In other embodiments,
other structures may be coupled to the rear surface of the head plate to trap the melt matte between
the rear surface of the head plate and such structure without the structure necessarily being a tissue
                                                     89
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

cleanser (the structure can just be a plastic material that is used to form a smooth rear surface of
the head, or the like).
[0331] Of course, techniques other than AFT and AMR can be used for mounting the tooth
cleaning elements 815 to the head 810, such as known and used stapling techniques or the like. In
such embodiments the head plate 830 may be omitted and the tooth cleaning elements 815 may be
coupled directly to the head 810. Furthermore, in a further modified version of the AFT and AMR
processes discussed above, the head plate 830 may be formed by positioning the tooth cleaning
elements 815 within a mold, and then molding the head plate 830 around the tooth cleaning
elements 815 via an injection molding process.
[0332] Referring again to FIGS. 37 and 38, in the exemplified embodiment the plurality of tooth
cleaning elements 815 includes a plurality of separate tufts of bristles 814 and a plurality of
elastomeric tooth cleaning elements 803. Although illustrated herein as having a specific
arrangement and shape, the arrangement of the tufts of bristles 814 and elastomeric tooth cleaning
elements 803 as well as the shapes thereof can be modified from that which is depicted in the
figures. Thus, the collective tooth cleaning elements 815 can be any pattern or arrangement and
each one of the tooth cleaning elements 815 can have any desired shape.
[0333] Referring to FIGS. 39-44 concurrently, the head 810 of the oral care implement 800 will
be described in more detail. As noted above, the head 810 comprises the front surface 811, the rear
surface 812 opposite the front surface 811, and the peripheral surface 813 extending between the
front and rear surfaces 811, 812. The peripheral surface 813 forms a periphery of the head 810 and
defines the outermost boundary of the head 810. The peripheral surface 813 of the head 810
includes a first lateral side portion 840, a second lateral side portion 841 opposite the first lateral
side portion 840, and a distal portion 842 extending between the first and second lateral side
portions 840, 841. The distal portion 842 of the peripheral surface 813 includes the distal end 819
of the head 810.
[0334] The head 810 of the oral care implement 800 comprises a base 844 that is formed of a hard
plastic material, such as any of the materials noted above for forming the handle 820 (including
polypropylene and the like). Furthermore, the head 810 comprises a first elastomeric soft tissue
cleanser 850 and a second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880 that are coupled to the base 844.
Each of the first and second elastomeric soft tissue cleansers 850, 880 are formed of a resilient and
flexible elastomeric material, such as a thermoplastic elastomer. The first and second elastomeric
                                                  90
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

soft tissue cleansers 850, 880 serve to clean the user's tongue and soft tissue surfaces and to protect
the user's gums. Specifically, the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 is positioned on the
peripheral surface 813 of the head 810 and thus reduces the impact of the hard plastic of the base
844 against the user's gums during use of the toothbrush. The first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser
850 also includes raised features that protrude beyond the rear surface 812 of the head 810 and can
also be used for cleaning/scraping a user's tongue. The second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880
is positioned on the rear surface 812 of the head 810 and can be used to clean and scrub a user's
tongue and other soft tissue surfaces. The combination of the first and second elastomeric soft
tissue cleansers 850, 880 also results in a highly desirable aesthetic appearance for the oral care
implement 800.
[0335] As noted above, the second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880 is coupled to the base 844
of the head 810 on the rear surface 812 of the head 810. The second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser
880 comprises a pad 881 and a plurality of protuberances 882 that extend from the pad 881. In the
exemplified embodiment, each of the plurality of protuberances 882 is in the form of a nub. As
used herein a "nub" generally refers to a column-like protrusion (without limitation to the cross
sectional shape of the protrusion) which is upstanding from a base surface. In a general sense, the
protuberances 882 in the preferred construction have a height that is greater than the width at the
base of the protuberance 882 (as measured in the longest direction). Nevertheless, protuberances
or nubs could include projections wherein the widths and heights are roughly the same or wherein
the heights are somewhat smaller than the base widths. Moreover, in some circumstances (e.g.,
where the protuberances taper to a tip or include a base portion that narrows to a smaller
projection), the base width can be substantially larger than the height. Furthermore, in the
exemplified embodiment the plurality of protuberances 882 have varying heights such that some
of the protuberances 882 are taller than other of the protuberances 882 (as best seen in FIGS. 39,
43, and 44).
[0336] The base 844 of the head 810 comprises a basin 890 formed therein. The basin 890 is
defined by a floor 891 that is recessed relative to the rear surface 812 of the head 810 and a sidewall
892 that extends from the floor 891 to the rear surface 812 of the head 810. The second elastomeric
soft tissue cleanser 880 is positioned within the basin 890. More specifically, the pad 881 of the
second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880 is disposed within the basin 890 so that an exposed
surface 883 of the pad 881 is flush or substantially flush with the portion of the rear surface 812
                                                   91
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

of the head 810 that is formed by the base 844 (substantially flush can be the exposed surface 883
of the pad 881 either extending beyond or being recessed relative to the rear surface 812 of the
base 844 of the head 810 by between approximately 0.1 mm and 8.0 mm). The exposed surface
883 of the pad 881 thus forms a part of the rear surface 812 of the head 810. Furthermore, the
plurality of protuberances 892 extend from the rear surface 812 of the head 810 for contact with a
user's soft tissue surfaces. The second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880 may be coupled to the
head via an injection molding process (i.e., by injection molding an elastomeric material directly
into the basin 890 while the head 810 is positioned within a mold). In certain embodiments the
head 810 may include one or more peg members 893 that extend upwardly from the floor 891 of
the basin 890 to assist in retaining the second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880 within the basin
890.
[0337] The first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 is a completely separate and distinct
component relative to the second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880. Thus, in the exemplified
embodiment the first and second elastomeric soft tissue cleansers 850, 880 are completely isolated
from one another and do not overlap or contact one another at any location. Rather, the first and
second elastomeric soft tissue cleansers 850, 880 are isolated from one another by an exposed
portion 846 of the base 844 of the head 810. Thus, the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850
may be injection molded to the head 810 in a separate process than the injection molding of the
second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880. The first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 is also
formed of a soft, resilient, and flexible material, such as a thermoplastic elastomer. In certain
embodiments the first and second elastomeric soft tissue cleansers 850, 880 may have the same
Shore durometer/hardness. In other embodiments the first and second elastomeric soft tissue
cleansers 850, 880 may have different Shore durometer/hardnesses (with either of the first and
second elastomeric soft tissue cleansers 850, 880 being harder than the other to achieve a desired
cleaning effect).
[0338] As noted above, the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 is coupled to the head 810
along the peripheral surface 813 of the head 810. More specifically, the first elastomeric soft tissue
cleanser 850 comprises a bumper portion 851 that extends along the peripheral surface 813 of the
head 810 and a connecting portion 852 that is located on one or both of the rear surface 812 of the
head 810 and a neck portion 822 of the handle 820. The bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric
soft tissue cleanser 850 extends in a continuous manner along each of the first lateral side portion
                                                  92
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

840 of the peripheral surface 813 of the head 810, the distal portion 842 of the peripheral surface
813 of the head 810, and the second lateral side portion 841 of the peripheral surface 813 of the
head 810. Due to the connecting portion 852 of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850
extending along the rear surface 812 of the head 810 or the neck portion of the handle 820, the
bumper portion 851 and the connecting portion 852 of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850
collectively form an annular structure that surrounds the rear surface 812 of the head 810.
[0339] In the exemplified embodiment the connecting portion 852 of the first elastomeric soft
tissue cleanser 850 comprises a first section 853 that extends along the proximal portion of the rear
surface 812 of the head 810. Thus, the first section 853 of the connecting portion 852 of the first
elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 extends between the first and second lateral side portions 840,
841 of the peripheral surface 813 of the head 810 and connects the portion of the bumper portion
851 that is positioned on the first lateral side portion 840 to the portion of the bumper portion 851
that is positioned on the second lateral side portion 841. The connecting portion 852 of the first
elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 also comprises a second section 854 that extends longitudinally
along the rear surface of the neck 822 of the handle 820 (see FIG. 38).
[0340] As best seen in FIGS. 40, 43, and 44, the base 844 of the head 810 comprises a channel
845 that extends along the first and second lateral side portions 840, 841 and the distal portion 842
of the peripheral surface 813. The channel 845 is a continuous, indented surface feature formed
into the base 844 of the head 810 that extends along each of the portions of the peripheral surface
813 of the head 810. The channel 845 has a wave-like, undulating, or sinusoidal shape as it extends
along the first and second lateral side portions 840, 841 and the distal portion 842 of the peripheral
surface 813. The channel 845 forms a closed-loop because in addition to extending along the first
and second lateral side portions 840, 841 and the distal portion 842 of the peripheral surface 813,
it also extends along the rear surface of the proximal end of the head 810 or along the neck 822.
The first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 is at least partially disposed within the channel 845.
Stated another way and as will be better understood from the description below, a first portion of
the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 is disposed in the channel 845 and a second portion
of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 protrudes from the channel 845.
[0341] Still referring to FIGS. 39-44 concurrently, in between the first and second elastomeric soft
tissue cleansers 850, 880 the base 844 of the head 810 comprises an exposed annular surface 846.
The exposed annular surface 846 of the base 844 forms a portion of the rear surface 812 of the
                                                   93
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

head 810 and it maintains the first and second elastomeric soft tissue cleansers 850, 880 completely
separate from one another. In the exemplified embodiment, the exposed annular surface 846 of the
base 844 and the exposed surface 883 of the pad 881 of the second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser
880 collectively form the entire rear surface 812 of the head 810.
[0342] The exposed annular surface 846 of the base 844 is located adjacent to the peripheral
surface 813 of the head 810 and circumscribes the second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880.
Thus, the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 circumscribes the exposed annular surface 846
of the base 844 and the exposed annular surface 846 of the base 844 circumscribes the second
elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880. Because the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 is a
continuous structure, the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 substantially surrounds the
exposed annular surface 846 of the base 844. Similarly, because the exposed annular surface 846
of the base 844 is a continuous surface, the exposed annular surface 846 of the base 844
substantially surrounds the second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880. As can be seen in the
figures, in the exemplified embodiment no portion of the first or second elastomeric soft tissue
cleansers 850, 880 traverses or otherwise passes over or along the exposed annular surface 846 of
the base 844. Thus, the exposed annular surface 846 of the base 844 is an annular region of the
base 844 that is completely devoid of an elastomeric material being coupled or adhered thereto.
[0343] As noted above, the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850
extends continuously along the first and second lateral portions 840, 841 and the distal portion 842
of the peripheral surface 813 of the head 810. The peripheral surface 813 of the head 810 and the
rear surface 812 of the head 810 intersect to form a perimeter 804 of the rear surface 812 of the
head 810. The bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 comprises a
plurality of raised portions 860 located along the perimeter 804 that protrude above (or protrude
beyond) the rear surface 812 of the head 810 and a plurality of lower portions 864 that are located
on the peripheral surface 813. Thus, the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue
cleanser 850 extends continuously along the peripheral surface 813 of the head 810 without gaps
or breaks and includes the raised portions 860 that protrude beyond the rear surface 812 of the
head 810 at the perimeter 804 where the peripheral surface 813 meets/intersects the rear surface
812 and the lower portions 864 that are located on the peripheral surface 813 and do not protrude
beyond the rear surface 812 of the head 810.
                                                  94
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0344] The bumper portion 851 alternates between the raised portions 860 and the lower portions
864 as it extends along the periphery 813 of the head 810. Thus, the raised portions 860 are spaced
apart along the perimeter 803 of the head 810 and the lower portions 864 are spaced apart along
the peripheral surface 813 of the head 810. A portion of the exposed annular surface 846 of the
base 844 of the head 810 is located between each pair of adjacent raised portions 860. Thus, the
perimeter 804 alternates between the raised portions 860 and the exposed annular surface 846
along the entirety of the perimeter 804 of the head 810. An exposed side surface portion 862 of
the base 844 is located between adjacent ones of the lower portions 864 of the bumper portion 851
of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850. Thus, the peripheral surface 813 alternates between
the lower portions 864 and the exposed side surface portion 862 of the base 844 along the entirety
of the peripheral surface 813 of the head 810.
[0345] The plurality of raised portions 860 protrude beyond the rear surface 812 of the head 810
such that a reference plane that is coextensive with or includes the rear surface 812 of the head 810
will intersect the raised portions 860 of the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue
cleanser 850. The plurality of raised portions 860 are arranged in a spaced-apart manner about the
perimeter 804 of the head 810 so as to at least partially circumscribe the rear surface 812 of the
head 810.
[0346] The bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 comprises the
raised portions 860 on each of the first lateral side portion 840, the second lateral side portion 841,
and the distal portion 842. Furthermore, each of the raised portions 860 on the first lateral side
portion 840 are transversely aligned with one of the raised portions 860 on the second lateral side
portion 841 so that an axis that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis A5-A5 that intersects one
of the raised portion 860 on the first lateral side portion 840 will also intersect one of the raised
portions 860 on the second lateral side portion 841. Similarly, each of the lower portions 864 on
the first lateral side portion 840 are transversely aligned with one of the lower portions 864 on the
second lateral side portion 841. Stated another way, the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric
soft tissue cleanser 850 is substantially symmetric about the longitudinal axis A5-A5.
[0347] In the exemplified embodiment, the plurality of raised portions 860 of the bumper portion
851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 are ridges having a length L5 measured along
the perimeter 804 and a width W5 measured orthogonal to the length L5. The length L5 of each of
the plurality of raised portions 860 is greater than its width W5. Furthermore, each of the plurality
                                                   95
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

of raised portions 860 protrudes only slightly beyond the rear surface 812 of the head 810, such as
between approximately 0.5 mm and 2.0 mm, and more specifically between approximately 0.8
mm and 8.5 mm (indicated in FIG. 44 as protruding distance D5). The length L5 of each of the
plurality of raised portions 860 is greater than its protruding distance D5. Due to a combination of
the length L5, width W5, and protruding distance D5, the raised portions 860 of the bumper portion
851 are somewhat rigid while also being flexible due to being formed of an elastomeric material,
which enables the raised portions 860 to gently scrape debris from a user's tongue and other soft
tissue surfaces during use.
[0348] The protruding distance D5 of the raised portions 860 of the bumper portion 851 of the
first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 is less than the height of at least some (and potentially all)
of the protuberances 882 of the second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880 (measured from the
rear surface 812 of the head 810 to the terminal/distal ends of the protuberances 882). Thus, while
the protuberances 882 of the second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880 may readily flex and bend
when contacted against a user's tongue and other soft tissue surfaces, the raised portions 860 of
the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 will bend to a lesser degree due to the length L5 and
protruding distance D5, which enables the raised portions 860 to be used for scraping and
penetrating rather than just one or the other.
[0349] Of course, the invention is not limited to the raised portions 860 being ridges in all
embodiments. In certain other embodiments, the raised portions 860 may be nubs having a
protruding distance that is greater than the length and width of the raised portion 860. In such an
embodiment the raised portions 860 will be more flexible because a taller, thinner elastomeric
structure will have more flexibility than a shorter, thicker elastomeric structure. In certain
embodiments it is desirable to have the protruding distance D5 be less than the length L5 to
minimize the flexibility of the raised portions 860 to increase their ability to scrape a user's tongue
and other soft tissue surfaces. Thus, in certain embodiments it is preferred that L > D and L > W.
[0350] The raised portions 860 of the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue
cleanser 850 comprise an inner surface 865 facing the second elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 880
and an opposite outer surface 866. In the exemplified embodiment the inner surface 865 is an
arcuate surface that extends from a terminal end of the raised portions 860 to the rear surface 812
of the head 810 (and more specifically to the exposed annular surface 846 of the base 844). More
specifically, the inner surface 865 is arcuate and convex. The outer surface 866 of the raised
                                                    96
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

portions 860 is also an arcuate and convex surface. More specifically, the outer surface 866 is a
continually convex surface from the peripheral surface 813 to the terminal end of the raised
portions 860 and the inner surface 865 is a continually convex surface from the rear surface 812
to the terminal end of the raised portions 860. Thus, the inner and outer surfaces 865, 866 of the
raised portions 860 are both convex surfaces so that the raised portions 860 have a generally egg
shaped cross-sectional profile (see FIG. 44).
[0351] The bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 comprises an
undulating upper edge 855 and an undulating lower edge 858. Each of the undulating upper and
lower edges 855, 858 takes on a sinusoidal shape when viewed in side profile. Due to the
undulating upper and lower edges 855, 858, the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft
tissue cleanser 850 is also wavy and undulating and has a sinusoidal shape when viewed in side
profile.
[0352] The undulating upper edge 855 of the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue
cleanser 850 includes a plurality of high points 856 that protrude above the rear surface 812 of the
head 810 and a plurality of low points 857 that are located at or below the rear surface 812 of the
head 810. The protruding appearance of the plurality of high points 856 is best seen in FIGS. 42
and 44. In the exemplified embodiment the plurality of low points 857 of the undulating upper
edge 855 are located on the peripheral surface 813 of the head 810 and spaced a distance below
the rear surface 813 of the head 810. However, the invention is not to be so limited in all
embodiments and the low points 857 of the undulating upper edge 855 may protrude beyond the
rear surface 813 in some embodiments, or it may be located right at the perimeter 804 in other
embodiments.
[0353] The raised portions 860 of the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue
cleanser 850 comprise the high points 856 of the undulating upper edge 855. In the exemplified
embodiment the plurality of low points 857 appear to be located below the rear surface 812 of the
head 810 and entirely positioned on the peripheral surface 813 of the head 810, but the invention
is not to be so limited in all embodiments and the plurality of low points 857 may be located at the
rear surface 812 of the head 810 (or directly at the perimeter 804 formed by the intersection of the
peripheral surface 813 and the rear surface 812) in other embodiments. The undulating upper edge
855 of the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 alternates
                                                  97
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

repetitively between the high points 856 and the low points 857 along the peripheral surface 813
of the head 810.
[0354] The undulating lower edge 858 comprises a plurality of high points 859 located on the
peripheral surface 813 and a plurality of low points 861 that are also located on the peripheral
surface 813. Furthermore, as noted above the base 844 comprises the plurality of exposed side
surface portions 862 on the peripheral surface 813. The exposed side surface portions 862 of the
base 844 and the lower portions 864 of the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue
cleanser 850 collectively form the peripheral surface 813 of the head 810. Specifically, the
undulating lower edge 858 of the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser
850 comprises a plurality of valleys 863 that include the low points 861 of the undulating lower
edge 858. The exposed side surface portions 862 of the base 844 are located between adjacent ones
of the valleys 863 of the undulating lower edge 858.
[0355] The high points 856 of the undulating upper edge 855 are aligned with the high points 859
of the undulating lower edge 858. The low points 857 of the undulating upper edge 855 are aligned
with the low points 861 of the undulating lower edge 858. In this sense, aligned means that a
reference plane that is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis A5-A5 and that extends through the
front and rear surfaces 811, 812 of the head 810 will intersect one of the high points 856 of the
undulating upper edge 855 and one of the high points 859 of the undulating lower edge 858 or one
of the low points 857 of the undulating upper edge 855 and one of the low points 861 of the
undulating lower edge 858.
[0356] Furthermore, the raised portions 860 of the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft
tissue cleanser 850 are located between the high points 856 of the undulating upper edge 855 and
the correspondingly aligned high points 859 of the undulating lower edge 858. The lower portions
864 of the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 are positioned on
the peripheral surface 813 and in the exemplified embodiment do not protrude beyond the rear
surface 812 of the head 810 (although they could in alternative embodiments). The lower portions
864 of the bumper portion 851 of the first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 850 are located between
the low points 857 of the undulating upper edge 855 and the correspondingly aligned low points
861 of the undulating lower edge 858.
                                                 98
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

                                                 SECTION VI
[0357] Referring to FIGS. 45 and 46 concurrently, an oral care implement 900 is illustrated in
accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. In the exemplified embodiment, the
oral care implement 900 is in the form of a manual toothbrush. However, in certain other
embodiments the oral care implement 900 can take on other forms such as being a powered
toothbrush, a tongue scraper, a gum and soft tissue cleanser, a water pick, an interdental device, a
tooth polisher, a specially designed ansate implement having tooth engaging elements, or any other
type of implement that is commonly used for oral care. Thus, it is to be understood that the
inventive concepts discussed herein can be applied to any type of oral care implement unless a
specific type of oral care implement is specified in the claims.
[0358] The oral care implement 900, which generally comprises a head 910 and a handle 920,
extends from a proximal end 901 to a distal end 902 along a longitudinal axis A6-A6. The head
910 extends from a proximal end 918 to a distal end 919 along a longitudinal axis that is
coextensive with the longitudinal axis A6-A6 of the oral care implement 900. Furthermore, in the
exemplified embodiment the distal end 902 of the oral care implement 900 is the same as the distal
end 919 of the head 910.
[0359] The handle 920 is an elongated structure that provides the mechanism by which the user
can hold and manipulate the oral care implement 900 during use. In the exemplified embodiment,
the handle 920 is generically depicted having various contours for user comfort. Of course, the
invention is not to be limited by the specific shape illustrated for the handle 920 in all embodiments
and in certain other embodiments the handle 920 can take on a wide variety of shapes, contours,
and configurations, none of which are limiting of the present invention unless so specified in the
claims.
[0360] In the exemplified embodiment, the handle 920 is formed of a hard or rigid plastic material,
such as for example without limitation polymers and copolymers of ethylene, propylene,
butadiene, vinyl compounds, and polyesters such as polyethylene terephthalate. The handle 920
also includes a grip 921 that is formed of a resilient/elastomeric material. In the exemplified
embodiment the grip 921 is molded over a portion of the handle 920 that is typically gripped by a
user's thumb and forefinger during use. Furthermore, it should be appreciated that additional
regions of the handle 920 can be overmolded with the resilient/elastomeric material to enhance the
gripability of the handle 920 during use. For example, portions of the handle 920 that are typically
                                                   99
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

gripped by a user's palm during use may be overmolded with a thermoplastic elastomer or other
resilient material to further increase comfort to a user. Furthermore, materials other than those
noted above can be used to form the handle 920, including metal, wood, or any other desired
material that has sufficient structural rigidity to permit a user to grip the handle 920 and manipulate
the oral care implement 900 during toothbrushing.
[0361] The head 910 of the oral care implement 900 is coupled to the handle 920 and comprises a
front surface 911 and an opposing rear surface 912. In the exemplified embodiment the front
surface 911 is a continuous and planar surface of the head 910. Furthermore, the head 910
comprises a peripheral surface 913 extending between the rear surface 912 and the front surface
911. The peripheral surface 913 of the head 910 includes a first lateral side 904 and a second lateral
side 905. In the exemplified embodiment, the head 910 is formed integrally with the handle 920
as a single unitary structure using a molding, milling, machining, or other suitable process.
However, in other embodiments the handle 920 and the head 910 may be formed as separate
components which are operably connected at a later stage of the manufacturing process by any
suitable technique known in the art, including without limitation thermal or ultrasonic welding, a
tight-fit assembly, a coupling sleeve, threaded engagement, adhesion, or fasteners. Thus, the head
910 may, in certain embodiments, be formed of any of the rigid plastic materials described above
as being used for forming the handle 920, although the invention is not to be so limited in all
embodiments and other materials that are commonly used during toothbrush head manufacture
may also be used.
[0362] The oral care implement 900 also comprises a plurality of tooth cleaning elements 915
extending from the front surface 911 of the head 910. The invention is not to be limited by the
structure, pattern, orientation, and material of the tooth cleaning elements 915 in all embodiments.
Furthermore, where it does not conflict with the other disclosure provided herein or the claims, it
should be appreciated that the term "tooth cleaning elements" may be used in a generic sense to
refer to any structure that can be used to clean, polish, or wipe the teeth and/or soft oral tissue (e.g.
tongue, cheek, gums, etc.) through relative surface contact. Common examples of "tooth cleaning
elements" include, without limitation, bristle tufts, filament bristles, fiber bristles, nylon bristles,
polybutylene terephthalate (PBT) bristles, spiral bristles, rubber bristles, elastomeric protrusions,
flexible polymer protrusions, combinations thereof, and/or structures containing such materials or
combinations. Thus, any combination of these tooth cleaning elements may be used within the
                                                    100
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

tooth cleaning element field in some embodiments. Furthermore, where bristles are used for one
or more of the tooth cleaning elements 915, such bristles can be tapered, end-rounded, spiral, or
the like.
[0363] In embodiments that use elastomeric materials to form one or more of the tooth cleaning
elements 915, suitable elastomeric materials may include any biocompatible resilient material
suitable for uses in an oral hygiene apparatus. To provide optimum comfort as well as cleaning
benefits, the elastomeric material of any such tooth cleaning element may have a hardness property
in the range of A 10 to A70 Shore hardness in one embodiment, or A8 to A25 Shore hardness in
another embodiment. One suitable elastomeric material is styrene-ethylene/butylene-styrene block
copolymer (SEBS) manufactured by GLS Corporation. Nevertheless, SEBS material from other
manufacturers or other materials within and outside the noted hardness range could be used.
[0364] The tooth cleaning elements 915 may be coupled to the head 910 in any manner known in
the art, including staples, in-mold tufting (IMT), anchor-free tufting (AFT), or a modified AFT
known as AMR. Referring briefly to FIGS. 50 and 51, one manner in which the tooth cleaning
elements 915 are secured to the head 910 via AFT will be described. Specifically, in the
exemplified embodiment the tooth cleaning elements 915 are formed as a cleaning element
assembly on a head plate 930 such that one or more of the tooth cleaning elements 915 are mounted
onto the head plate 930 and then the head plate 930 is coupled to the head 910. In such an
embodiment, the head plate 930 is a separate and distinct component from the head 910 of the oral
care implement 900. However, the head plate 930 is connected to the head 910 at a later stage of
the manufacturing process by any suitable technique known in the art, including without limitation
thermal or ultrasonic welding, any fusion techniques such as thermal fusion, melting, a tight-fit
assembly, a coupling sleeve, threaded engagement, adhesion, or fasteners. Thus, the head plate
930 and the head 910 are separately formed components that are secured together during
manufacture of the oral care implement 900.
[0365] In certain embodiments, the head plate 930 may comprise an upper surface 933 and a lower
surface 932. The upper surface 933 of the head plate 930 forms a portion of the front surface 911
of the head 910 when the head plate 930 is coupled to the head 910 as discussed herein. The head
plate 930 comprises a plurality of holes 931 formed therethrough from the upper surface 933 to
the lower surface 932, and the tooth cleaning elements 915 may be mounted to the head plate 930
within the holes 931. Specifically, in AFT a plate or membrane (i.e., the head plate 930) is created
                                                 101
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

separately from the head 910. The tooth cleaning elements 915 (such as bristles, elastomeric
elements, and combinations thereof) are positioned into the head plate 930 so as to extend through
the holes 931 of the head plate 930. Free ends 917 of the tooth cleaning elements 915 on one side
of the head plate 930 perform the cleaning function. Anchor portions 916 of the tooth cleaning
elements 915 on the other side of the head plate 930 are melted together by heat to be anchored in
place. As the tooth cleaning elements 915 are melted together, a melt matte 906 is formed. The
melt matte 906 is a thin layer of plastic that is formed by melting the anchor portions 916 of the
tooth cleaning elements 915 so that the anchor portions 916 of the tooth cleaning elements
transition into a liquid, at which point the liquid of the anchor portions 916 of the tooth cleaning
elements combine together into a single layer of liquid plastic that at least partially covers the
lower surface 932 of the head plate 930. After the heat is no longer applied, the melted anchor
portions 916 of the bristles solidify/harden to form the melt matte 906 or thin layer of plastic.
[0366] After the tooth cleaning elements 915 are secured to the head plate 930, the head plate 930
is secured to the head 910 such as by ultrasonic welding or mechanical techniques (i.e., snap-fit,
interference fit, slot-and-tab, or the like) so that the upper surface 933 of the head plate 930 forms
at least a portion of the front surface 911 of the head 910. When the head plate 930 is coupled to
the head 910, the melt matte 906 is located between the lower surface 932 of the head plate 930
and a floor 907 of a basin 908 of the head 910 in which the head plate 930 is disposed. The melt
matte 906, which is coupled directly to and in fact forms a part of the tooth cleaning elements 915,
prevents the tooth cleaning elements 915 from being pulled through the holes 931 in the head plate
930 to ensure that the tooth cleaning elements 915 remain attached to the head plate 930 during
use of the oral care implement 900.
[0367] As noted above, in another embodiment the tooth cleaning elements may be connected to
the head 910 using a technique known in the art as AMR. In this technique, the handle is formed
integrally with the head plate as a one-piece structure. After the handle and the head plate are
formed, the bristles are inserted into holes in the head plate so that the free/cleaning ends of the
bristles extend from the front surface of the head plate and the bottom ends of the bristles are
adjacent to the rear surface of the head plate. After the bristles are inserted into the holes in the
head plate, the bottom ends of the bristles are melted together by applying heat thereto, thereby
forming a melt matte at the rear surface of the head plate. The melt matte is a thin layer of plastic
that is formed by melting the bottom ends of the bristles so that the bottom ends of the bristles
                                                    102
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

transition into a liquid, at which point the liquid of the bottom ends of the bristles combine together
into a single layer of liquid plastic that at least partially covers the rear surface of the head plate.
After the heat is no longer applied, the melted bottom ends of the bristles solidify/harden to form
the melt matte/thin layer of plastic. In some embodiments, after formation of the melt matte, a
tissue cleanser is injection molded onto the rear surface of the head plate, thereby trapping the melt
matte between the tissue cleanser and the rear surface of the head plate. In other embodiments,
other structures may be coupled to the rear surface of the head plate to trap the melt matte between
the rear surface of the head plate and such structure without the structure necessarily being a tissue
cleanser (the structure can just be a plastic material that is used to form a smooth rear surface of
the head, or the like).
[0368] Of course, techniques other than AFT and AMR can be used for mounting the tooth
cleaning elements 915 to the head 910, such as known and used stapling techniques or the like. In
such embodiments the head plate 930 may be omitted and the tooth cleaning elements 915 may be
coupled directly to the head 910. Furthermore, in a further modified version of the AFT and AMR
processes discussed above, the head plate 930 may be formed by positioning the tooth cleaning
elements 915 within a mold, and then molding the head plate 930 around the tooth cleaning
elements 915 via an injection molding process.
[0369] Referring now to FIGS. 45-49 concurrently, in the exemplified embodiment the plurality
of tooth cleaning elements 915 includes a plurality of separate tufts of bristles 914 and a plurality
of elastomeric tooth cleaning elements 903. Although illustrated herein as having a specific
arrangement and shape, in certain embodiments the arrangement of the tufts of bristles 914 and
elastomeric tooth cleaning elements 903 as well as the shapes thereof can be modified from that
which is depicted in the figures within the bounds of the disclosure set forth herein. Specifically,
the pattern, orientation, and positioning of the tufts of bristles 914 and the elastomeric tooth
cleaning elements 903 may be modified from that which is depicted in the figures so long as the
various concave and convex profiles formed by the tooth cleaning elements as described herein
below remain.
[0370] The head 910 of the oral care implement 900 comprises a base 944 that is formed of a hard
plastic material, such as any of the materials noted above for forming the handle 920 (including
polypropylene and the like). Furthermore, the head 910 comprises an elastomeric soft tissue
cleanser 950 and a bumper 980 that are coupled to the base 944. Each of the elastomeric soft tissue
                                                   103
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

cleanser 950 and the bumper 980 are formed of a resilient and flexible elastomeric material, such
as a thermoplastic elastomer. The elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 950 and the bumper 980 serve
to clean the user's tongue and soft tissue surfaces and to protect the user's gums during
toothbrushing. Specifically, the bumper 980 is positioned on the peripheral surface 913 of the head
910 and thus reduces the impact of the hard plastic of the base 944 against the user's gums during
use of the toothbrush. The bumper 980 also includes raised features 981 that protrude beyond the
rear surface 912 of the head 910 and can also be used for cleaning/scraping a user's tongue. The
elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 950 is positioned on the rear surface 912 (and in fact forms a part
of the rear surface) of the head 910 and can be used to clean and scrub a user's tongue and other
soft tissue surfaces. The combination of the bumper and the elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 950,
980 also results in a highly desirable aesthetic appearance for the oral care implement 900.
[0371] Referring briefly to FIGS. 48-51, the elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 950 generally
comprises a pad 951 and a plurality of protuberances 952 that extend from the pad 951. In the
exemplified embodiment, each of the plurality of protuberances 952 is in the form of a nub. As
used herein a "nub" generally refers to a column-like protrusion (without limitation to the cross
sectional shape of the protrusion) which is upstanding from a base surface. In the exemplified
embodiment, the protuberances 952 are nubs comprising a cylindrical body portion and a tapered
tip portion. In a general sense, the protuberances 952 in the preferred construction have a height
that is greater than the width at the base of the protuberance 952 (as measured in the longest
direction). Nevertheless, protuberances or nubs could include projections wherein the widths and
heights are roughly the same or wherein the heights are somewhat smaller than the base widths.
Moreover, in some circumstances (e.g., where the protuberances taper to a tip or include a base
portion that narrows to a smaller projection), the base width can be substantially larger than the
height. Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the plurality of protuberances 952 have
varying heights such that some of the protuberances 952 are taller than other of the protuberances
952. The varying heights of the protuberances 952 results in the protuberances 952 forming convex
profiles depending on the viewing angle as described in more detail below.
[0372] The base 944 of the head 910 comprises a basin 990 formed therein. The basin 990 is
defined by a floor 991 that is recessed relative to the rear surface 912 of the head 910 and a sidewall
992 that extends from the floor 991 to the rear surface 912 of the head 910. The elastomeric soft
tissue cleanser 950 is positioned within the basin 990. More specifically, the pad 951 of the
                                                   104
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 950 is disposed within the basin 990 so that an exposed surface
953 of the pad 951 is flush or substantially flush with the portion of the rear surface 912 of the
head 910 that is formed by the base 944 (substantially flush can be the exposed surface 953 of the
pad 951 either extending beyond or being recessed relative to the rear surface 912 of the base 944
of the head 910 by between approximately 0.1 mm and 9.0 mm). The exposed surface 953 of the
pad 951 thus forms a part of the rear surface 912 of the head 910. Furthermore, the plurality of
protuberances 952 extend from the rear surface 912 of the head 910 for contact with a user's soft
tissue surfaces. The elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 950 may be coupled to the head via an injection
molding process (i.e., by injection molding an elastomeric material directly into the basin 990
while the head 910 is positioned within a mold). In certain embodiments the head 910 may include
one or more peg members 993 that extend upwardly from the floor 991 of the basin 990 to assist
in retaining the elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 950 within the basin 990.
[0373] Referring briefly to FIG. 52, in the exemplified embodiment the protuberances 952 of the
elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 950 are arranged in a particular pattern on the rear surface 912 of
the head 910. Specifically, the protuberances 952 are arranged to form a first set of concentric
rings 999 and a second set of concentric rings 998. The first set of concentric rings 999 are
positioned on the upper half of the rear surface 912 of the head 910 and the second set of concentric
rings 998 are positioned on the lower half of the rear surface 912 of the head 910. The upper and
lower halves of the rear surface 912 of the head 910 (and the first and second sets of concentric
rings 999, 998) are separated by a single transverse row 997 of the protuberances 952 (although
more than one transverse row may be included in alternative embodiments). The first set of
concentric rings 999 comprises a first ring 996a that surrounds one of the peg members 993, a
second ring 996b that surrounds the first ring 996a, and a third ring 996c that surrounds the second
ring 996b. The second set of concentric rings 998 comprises a first ring 993a that surrounds one
of the peg members 993, a second ring 993b that surrounds the first ring 993a, and a third ring
993c that surrounds the second ring 993b.
[0374] Furthermore, the protuberances 954 form three arcuate rows 995a-c positioned between
the first set of concentric rings 999 and the transverse row 997. Each of three arcuate rows 995a-c
has a concave surface facing the first set of concentric rings 999 and a convex surface facing the
transverse row 997. The protuberances 954 also form three arcuate rows 994a-c positioned
between the transverse row 997 and the second set of concentric rings 999. Each of the three
                                                  105
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

arcuate rows 994a-c has a concave surface facing the second set of concentric rings 998 and a
convex surface facing the transverse row 997. Finally, the protuberances 954 form a fourth arcuate
row 992 adjacent to the third ring 993c and three substantially transverse rows 99 1a-c between the
fourth arcuate row 992 and the proximal end 918 of the head 910. Each of the various rings, arcuate
rows, and transverse rows described above are formed by a plurality of the protuberances 952 that
are arranged in a spaced-apart manner. Each of the various rings, arcuate rows, and transverse rows
is delineated with a dotted line for ease of understanding of the description herein above.
[0375] The elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 950 is symmetric about a plane that intersects and
extends along the transverse row 997 from the third ring 996c of the first set of concentric rings
999 to the third ring 993c of the second set of concentric rings 998. The elastomeric soft tissue
cleanser 950 in its entirety is asymmetric about the plane that intersects and extends along the
transverse row 997 due to the additional rows 992, 99la-c located between the third ring 993c of
the second set of concentric rings 998 and the proximal end 918 of the head 910.
[0376] Referring now to FIGS. 49-5 1, the oral care implement 900 will be further described. As
noted above, the elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 950 comprises the plurality of protuberances 952
that extend from the rear surface 912 of the head 910. Each of the protuberances 952 of the
elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 950 terminates in a free end 954. The free ends 954 of the
protuberances 952 collectively define a convex longitudinal side profile 955. Thus, when viewed
from the side of the head 910 as depicted in FIG. 49, the convex longitudinal side profile 955 is
formed by the free ends 954 of the protuberances 952. The convex longitudinal side profile 955 is
delineated with a dashed line for ease of understanding.
[0377] The convex longitudinal side profile 955 defined by the free ends 954 of the protuberances
952 is achieved due to a variation in the heights of the protuberances 952 as measured from the
rear surface 912 of the head 910 to the free ends 954 of the protuberances 952. More specifically,
each of the protuberances 952 has a height measured from the rear surface 912 of the head 910 to
its free end 954. The relative heights of the protuberances 952 increases in a direction of the
longitudinal axis A6-A6 from a proximal-most one 956 of the protuberances 952 to a tallest one
958 of the protuberances 952 and then decreases in the direction of the longitudinal axis A6-A6
from the tallest one 958 of the protuberances 952 to a distal-most one 957 of the protuberances
952. The protuberances 952 can be broken down into longitudinal columns (each column being
formed by substantially aligned protuberances that extend from the proximal end 918 of the head
                                                 106
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

910 to the distal end 919 of the head 910 along the longitudinal axis A6-A6 or along an axis that
is parallel to the longitudinal axis A6-A6). The protuberances 952 in each longitudinal column
increase in height from the protuberance within that column that is located nearest to the proximal
end 918 of the head 910 to a central transverse plane B6-B6 (or some other transverse plane located
at the peak height of the protuberances 952). The protuberances 952 in each longitudinal column
also increase in height from the protuberance within that column that is located nearest to the distal
end 919 of the head 910 to the central transverse plane B6-B6 (or some other transverse plane
located at the peak height of the protuberances 952).
[0378] In the exemplified embodiment, the head 910 comprises the central transverse plane B6
B6, which is a plane that extends orthogonally to and intersects the longitudinal axis A6-A6 and
which is located approximately centrally on the head 910 between the proximal and distal ends
918, 919 of the head 910. In certain embodiments, the tallest one (or ones) 958 of the protuberances
954 is positioned so as to be intersected by the central transverse plane B6-B6. In such
embodiments the heights of the protuberances 952 decrease with longitudinal distance from the
central transverse plane B6-B6 towards the proximal and distal ends 918, 919 of the head 910. The
decrease in height may be gradual and continuous in some embodiments, or stepped in other
embodiments.
[0379] In addition to the convex longitudinal side profile 955, the free ends 954 of the
protuberances 952 also comprise at least one convex transverse top profile 959. Thus, when viewed
along at least one transverse plane that intersects and is substantially orthogonal to the longitudinal
axis A6-A6 (such as the view provided in FIG. 50, for example), the free ends 954 of the
protuberances 952 form a convex profile. The convex transverse top profile 959 is delineated in
dotted lines in FIGS. 48 and 50 for ease of understanding. The term top profile is intended to mean
the profile that is seen by a viewer who is viewing the toothbrush from the distal end 919 of the
head 910 or from a transverse plane that is substantially orthogonal to and intersects the
longitudinal axis A6-A6 and that is taken through the head 910 from the first lateral side 904 to
the second lateral side 905.
[0380] FIG. 50 illustrates a cross-sectional view of the head taken along one such transverse plane.
As can be seen, the convex transverse top profile 959 of the free ends 954 of the protuberances
952 is formed along the transverse plane due to a variation in the heights of the protuberances 952
along the transverse plane. Thus, in the exemplified embodiment the heights of the protuberances
                                                  107
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

954 decrease along the transverse plane with distance from the longitudinal axis A6-A6 towards
the first and second lateral sides 904, 905 of the head 910. Stated another way, along the transverse
plane the protuberances 952 nearest to the first and second lateral sides 904, 905 of the head 910
are shortest, and the heights of the protuberances 954 gradually increase from the protuberances
952 nearest to the first and second lateral sides 904, 905 of the head 910 to the protuberance 952
that is aligned with the longitudinal axis A6-A6.
[0381] Thus, the free ends 954 of the protuberances 952 collectively define the convex
longitudinal side profile 955 (see FIG. 49) and the free ends 954 of the protuberances 952 comprise
at least one convex top profile 959 (see FIG. 50). Although the convex top profile 959 is only
depicted along one transverse plane that intersects and is substantially orthogonal to the
longitudinal axis A6-A6, the free ends 954 of the protuberances 952 may comprise multiple convex
top profiles taken at multiple different transverse planes that intersect and are substantially
orthogonal to the longitudinal axis A6-A6.
[0382] Still referring to FIGS. 49-51, in addition to the free ends 954 of the protuberances 952
forming the convex longitudinal side profile 955 and comprising the at least one convex transverse
top profile 959, the tooth cleaning elements 915 form concave profiles. More specifically, the
plurality of tooth cleaning elements 915 terminate in free ends 960. The free ends 960 of the tooth
cleaning elements 915 collectively define a concave longitudinal side profile 961 (delineated in
dashed lines). In the exemplified embodiment, the concave longitudinal side profile 961 is formed
due to a variation in height of the tooth cleaning elements 915 as measured from the front surface
911 of the head 910 to the free ends 960 of the tooth cleaning elements 915. The height of the tooth
cleaning elements 915 (and also of the concave longitudinal side profile 961) gradually and
continuously increases from the central transverse plane B6-B6 to proximal-most 963 and distal
most 964 ones of the tooth cleaning elements 915 (i.e., towards the proximal and distal ends 918,
919 of the head 910). Although described herein as forming a convex longitudinal side profile, it
should be understood that in certain embodiments although the terminal ends 960 of the tooth
cleaning elements 915 generally form a concave shape, there may be some tooth cleaning elements
that extend beyond or above the general concave shaped-profile. Thus, every single tooth cleaning
element 915 need not follow the contours of the concave profile. Rather, some of the tooth cleaning
elements 915 may extend beyond the concave profile while the terminal ends 960 of the tooth
cleaning elements 915 still form a readily visible concave longitudinal side profile 961.
                                                   108
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0383] In addition, the free ends 960 of the tooth cleaning elements 915 comprise at least one
concave transverse top profile 962 (delineated in dashed lines for reference). Thus, when viewed
along at least one transverse plane that intersects and is substantially orthogonal to the longitudinal
axis A6-A6 (such as the view provided in FIG. 50, for example), the free ends 960 of the tooth
cleaning elements 915 form a concave profile. In the exemplified embodiment the at least one
transverse plane is the central transverse plane B6-B6. However, there may be other transverse
planes at which the free ends 960 of the tooth cleaning elements 915 form a concave transverse
top profile. As can be seen in FIG. 50, the concave transverse top profile 962 is formed due to the
heights of the tooth cleaning elements 915 increasing with distance from the longitudinal axis A6
A6 towards the lateral sides 904, 905 of the head 910 along the transverse plane. Although
described herein as forming the concave transverse top profile 962, it should be understood that in
certain embodiments although the terminal ends 960 of the tooth cleaning elements 915 generally
form the concave shape of the concave transverse top profile 962, there may be some tooth
cleaning elements that extend beyond or above the general concave shaped profile. Thus, every
single tooth cleaning element 915 need not follow the contours of the concave transverse top
profile 962. Rather, some of the tooth cleaning elements 915 may extend beyond the concave
transverse top profile 962 while the terminal ends 960 of the tooth cleaning elements 915 still form
a readily visible concave transverse top profile 961.
[0384] As seen in FIG. 50, in the exemplified embodiment the free ends 960 of the tooth cleaning
elements 915 comprise the concave transverse top profile 961 and the free ends 954 of the
protuberances 952 comprise the convex transverse top profile 959 along the same transverse plane
(i.e., the central transverse plane B6-B6). Thus, in the exemplified embodiment when the
toothbrush is viewed at the location of the central transverse plane B6-B6, the free ends 960 of the
tooth cleaning elements 915 form the concave transverse top profile 961 and the free ends 954 of
the protuberances 952 form the convex transverse top profile 959.
[0385] However, in certain embodiments the convex transverse top profile 959 of the
protuberances 952 may be formed along a first transverse plane that intersects and is substantially
orthogonal to the longitudinal axis A6-A6 and the concave transverse top profile 962 of the tooth
cleaning elements 915 may be formed along a second transverse plane that intersects and is
substantially orthogonal to the longitudinal axis A6-A6. In some embodiments the first and second
transverse planes may be the same as noted herein above (i.e., the central transverse plane B6-B6).
                                                  109
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

In other embodiments the first and second transverse planes may be different. In one particular
embodiment, the first transverse plane may be positioned closer to the distal end 919 of the head
910 than the second transverse plane 918. In another particular embodiment the first transverse
plane may be positioned closer to the proximal end 918 of the head 910 than the second transverse
plane 918. In still other embodiments convex transverse top profiles may be formed by the
protuberances 952 along transverse planes located on opposite sides of the transverse plane along
which the concave transverse top profile is formed by the tooth cleaning elements 915.
[0386] Furthermore, in some embodiments the convex longitudinal side profile 955 formed by the
free ends 954 of the protuberances 952 has a maximum height at the central transverse plane B6
B6 and the concave longitudinal side profile 961 formed by the free ends 960 of the tooth cleaning
elements 915 has a minimum height at the central transverse plane B6-B6. However, in the
exemplified embodiment, the convex longitudinal side profile 955 formed by the free ends 954 of
the protuberances 952 has a maximum height that is offset from a minimum height of the concave
longitudinal side profile 961 formed by the free ends 960 of the tooth cleaning elements 915. More
specifically, the maximum height of the convex longitudinal side profile 955 (formed by the tallest
protuberance 958) is located closer to the distal end 919 of the head 910 than the minimum height
of the concave longitudinal side profile 961 (see FIG. 49).
[0387] Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the longitudinal side profile 955 formed by
the free ends 954 of the protuberances 952 has a longitudinal center point CP1 that is longitudinally
offset (i.e., spaced apart in the longitudinal direction) from the central transverse plane B6-B6.
More specifically, the longitudinal center point CP1 of the convex longitudinal side profile 955 is
located between the central transverse plane B6-B6 and the proximal end 918 of the head 910.
Thus, the convex longitudinal side profile 955 formed by the free ends 954 of the protuberances
952 is asymmetric about the central transverse plane B6-B6. The concave longitudinal side profile
961 formed by the free ends 960 of the tooth cleaning elements 915 has a longitudinal center point
CP2 that is located on the central transverse plane B6-B6. Thus, the concave longitudinal side
profile 961 formed by the free ends 960 of the tooth cleaning elements 915 is symmetric about the
central transverse plane B6-B6.
[0388] Thus, the tooth cleaning elements 915 collectively form the concave longitudinal side
profile 961 and comprise the at least one concave transverse top profile 962 and the protuberances
952 collectively form the convex longitudinal side profile 955 and comprise the at least one convex
                                                 110
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

transverse top profile 959. In certain embodiments, the radius of curvature of the concave
longitudinal side profile 961 and the convex longitudinal side profile 955 may be the same to
enhance the aesthetic, although this is not required in all embodiments. Furthermore, in certain
embodiments the radius of curvature of the at least one concave transverse top profile 962 and the
at least one convex transverse top profile 959 may be the same, although this is not required in all
embodiments.
[0389] In the exemplified embodiment, the elastomeric soft tissue cleanser 950 has a first length
L6.1 measured from the free end 954 of the distal-most one 957 of the protuberances 952 to the
free end 954 of the proximal-most one 958 of the protuberances 952. Furthermore, the tooth
cleaning elements 915 form a tooth cleaning element field having a second length L6.2 measured
from a distal-most portion 967 of the distal-most one 964 of the tooth cleaning elements 915 to a
proximal-most portion 966 of the proximal-most one 963 of the tooth cleaning elements 915. In
the exemplified embodiment, the first length L6.1 is greater than the second length L6.2. However,
the invention is not to be so limited in all embodiments and in certain other embodiments the first
and second lengths L6. 1, L6.2 may be equal, and in still other embodiments the second length L6.2
may be greater than the first length L6. 1.
[0390] Furthermore, in the exemplified embodiment the free end 954 of the distal-most one 957
of the protuberances 952 is longitudinally offset from the distal-most portion 967 of the distal
most one 964 of the tooth cleaning elements 915. More specifically, the distal-most portion 967 of
the distal-most one 964 of the tooth cleaning elements 915 is positioned closer to the distal end
919 of the head 910 than the distal-most one 957 of the protuberances 952. Additionally, the
proximal-most portion 966 of the free end 960 of the proximal-most one 963 of the tooth cleaning
elements 915 is longitudinally offset from the free end 954 of the proximal-most one 956 of the
protuberances 952. Most specifically, the free end 954 of the proximal-most one 956 of the
protuberances 952 is positioned closer to the proximal end 918 of the head 910 than the proximal
most portion 966 of the proximal-most one 963 of the tooth cleaning elements 915.
                                               SECTION VII
[0391] Referring to FIGS. 53-55 concurrently, a toothbrush 1000 is illustrated according to one
embodiment of the present invention. The toothbrush 1000 generally comprises a handle 110 and
a head 1020. The handle 1010 provides the user with a mechanism by which he/she can readily
grip and manipulate the toothbrush 1000. The handle 1010 includes ergonomic features which
                                                 111
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

provide a high degree of control for the user while maintaining comfort. The head 1020 is
connected to a distal end 1002 of the handle 1010 and includes a set of teeth cleaning elements
1030, which are generically illustrated.
[0392] Generally, the toothbrush 1000 extends from a proximal end 1001 (which is also the
proximal end of the handle 1010) to a distal end 1003 along a longitudinal axis A7-A7 (illustrated
in FIG. 55). Conceptually, the longitudinal axis A7-A7 is a reference line that is generally
coextensive with the three-dimensional center line of the handle 1010 (and the body of the head
1020). Because the handle 1010 is a non-linear structure (as can be seen in FIGS. 53 and 54) in
the illustrated embodiment, the longitudinal axis A7-A7 for the handle 1010 (and the toothbrush
1000) is also non-linear in the illustrated embodiment. However, the invention is not so limited,
and in certain embodiments, the toothbrush may have a simple linear arrangement and thus a
substantially linear longitudinal axis A7-A7. As best visible in FIGS. 64-67, the handle 1010 has
a generally elliptical transverse cross-sectional shape along its longitudinal length. Other
transverse cross-sectional shapes can be used in other embodiments.
[0393] The head 1020 is connected to the distal end 1002 of the handle 1010. As discussed in
greater detail below, the head 1020 and at least a portion of the handle 1010 of the toothbrush 1000
are preferably formed as a single-component integral structure using an injection molding process,
which in the exemplified embodiment is the second component 1200. More specifically, in the
exemplified embodiment, the head 1020 is integrally formed as part of the second component 1200
of the handle 1010. The second component 1200 also comprises the neck 1004 of the toothbrush
1000. As exemplified, the neck is a portion of the handle 1010 of the toothbrush 1000 that is
narrowed relative to the head 1020 and the gripping portion of the handle 1010.
[0394] In other embodiments, the handle 1010 and the head 1020 may be formed as separate
components which are operably connected at a later stage of the manufacturing process by any
suitable technique known in the art, including without limitation thermal welding, sonic welding,
a tight-fit assembly, a coupling sleeve, adhesion, or fasteners. Whether the head 1020 is integrally
formed as part of the second component 1200 of the handle 1010 or is a multi-piece assembly
(including connection techniques) is not limiting of the present invention in all embodiments.
Furthermore, in other embodiments, other manufacturing techniques may be used in place of
and/or in addition to injection molding to create the handle 1010 and/or the head 1020 (or
components thereof), such as milling and/or machining.
                                                 112
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0395] The head 1020 generally comprises a front surface 1021 and a rear surface 1022. The front
surface 1021 and the rear surface 1022 of the head 1020 can take on a wide variety of shapes and
contours, none of which are limiting of the present invention unless specifically recited in the
claims. For example, the front and rear surfaces 1021, 1022 can be planar, contoured or
combinations thereof. The front surface 1021 and rear surface 1022 are bound by a peripheral
surface 1023.
[0396] The set of tooth cleaning elements 1030, which are generically illustrated as a block, are
provided on and extend outward from the front surface 1021 of the head 1020 for cleaning contact
with an oral surface, preferably teeth. While the set of tooth cleaning elements 1030 is particularly
suited for brushing teeth, the set of tooth cleaning elements 1030 can also be used to clean oral
soft tissue, such as a tongue, gums, or cheeks instead of or in addition to teeth. Common examples
of "tooth cleaning elements" include, without limitation, filament bristles, fiber bristles, nylon
bristles, spiral bristles, core-sheath bristles, rubber bristles, elastomeric protrusions, flexible
polymer protrusions, co-extruded filaments, flag bristles, crimped bristles, anti-bacterial bristles
and combinations thereof and/or structures containing such materials or combinations.
[0397] The set of tooth cleaning elements 1030 can be connected to the head 1020 in any manner
known in the art. In the exemplified embodiment (see FIGS. 61-63), anchor free tufting (AFT) is
used to mount the cleaning elements. In this embodiment, the body of the head 1020 comprises a
depression (or basin) 1025 for receiving a cleaning element assembly that comprises a carrier plate
to which the tooth cleaning elements 1030 are connected prior to being coupled to the body of the
head 1020. The carrier plate is then positioned within the depression 1025 and secured to the body
of the head 1020, such as by ultrasonic welding, thermal fusion, mechanical fit or adhesion. The
bristles (or other elastomeric elements) of the set of tooth cleaning elements 1030 extend through
the carrier. The free ends of the set of tooth cleaning elements 1030 on one side of the carrier plate
perform the cleaning function. The ends of the set of tooth cleaning elements 1030 on the other
side of the carrier plate are melted together by heat, thereby retaining the set of tooth cleaning
elements 1030 in place.
[0398] In other embodiments, the set of tooth cleaning elements 1030 can be mounted to tuft
blocks or sections by extending through suitable openings in the tuft blocks so that the base of the
bristles is mounted within or below the tuft block. In still another embodiment, tuft holes may be
                                                   113
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

formed in the body of the head and staples, or other anchors, can be sued to secure the bristles tufts
therein.
[0399] While not in the exemplified embodiment, the rear surface 1022 of the head 1020 may also
comprise additional structures for oral cleaning, such as a soft tissue cleanser, in other
embodiments. Such soft tissue cleansers are typically constructed of a TPE and include one or
more projections, such as nubs and/or ridges, for engaging and massaging soft oral tissue, such as
the tongue.
[0400] As shown in FIG. 55, the handle 1010 can be conceptually delineated in longitudinal
sections comprising a proximal section 1015, a middle section 1016 and a neck section 1017. The
proximal section 1015 is the portion or segment of the handle 1010 that generally fits comfortably
within the palm of the user. The middle section 1016 forms the portion or segment of the handle
1010 that generally fits comfortably between the user's thumb and index finger. The neck portion
1017 forms the portion or segment of the handle 1010 that connects to the head 1020.
[0401] The proximal section 1015 longitudinally extends from the proximal end 1001 of the
toothbrush 1000 to the middle section 1016. The middle section 1016 longitudinally extends from
the proximal section 1015 to the neck section 1017. The neck section 1017 extends from the middle
section 1016 to the head 1020. While the head 1020 is illustrated as being widened relative to the
neck section 1017 of the handle 1010, the head 1020 could in some constructions simply be a
continuous extension or narrowing of the neck section 1017 of the handle 1010.
[0402] As discussed in greater detail below, the first component 1100 is located within (and forms
a part of) both the proximal section 1015 and the middle section 1016. The second component
1200 is located within (and forms part of) each of the proximal section 1015, the middle section
1016 and the neck section 1017. Moreover, in the exemplified embodiment, the first and third
components 1100, 1300 are not located within the neck section 1017. The third component 1300
is located (and forms part of) the middle section 1016. As exemplified, the third component is only
located (and forms part of) in the middle section 1016.
[0403] Referring now to FIGS. 59-60 concurrently, the handle 1010 is illustrated in an exploded
state so that its three components are visible. The three components of the handle 1010 include a
first component 1100, a second component 1200 and a third component 1300. In certain
embodiments, the first component 1100 can be considered a core structure, the second component
can be considered an elongated handle body, and the third component can be considered a grip
                                                 114
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

body. While three components 1100, 1200, 1300 are exemplified as forming the multi-component
handle 1010 of the toothbrush 1000 in the illustrated embodiment, in other embodiments of the
multi-component handle 1010 of the toothbrush 1000, the third component 1300 may be omitted
if desired. In one such embodiment, the second component 1200 can be modified to assume the
volume of the omitted third component 1300. In still another such embodiment, the first
component 1100 can be modified to assume the volume of the omitted third component 1300. In
still other embodiments, the multi-component handle 1010 of the toothbrush 1000 may further
comprise an additional component (in addition to the first, second and third components 1100,
1200, 1300), such as a thermoplastic elastomer overlay, which is commonly referred to in the art
as a grip cover.
[0404] In one embodiment, each of the first, second and third components 1100, 1200, 1300 is an
integrally formed single-component structure. One suitable forming method for forming the first,
second and third components 1100, 1200, 1300 is injection molding. Of course, in certain other
embodiments, other forming techniques may be utilized, such as machining and/or milling. In one
embodiment, the first component 1200 is formed of a first hard plastic, the second component
1300 is formed of a second hard plastic, and the third component 1300 is formed of an elastomeric
material.
[0405] Suitable first hard plastics for formation of the first component 1100 include polyethylene,
polyethylene terephthalate, polypropylene (PP), polyamide, polyester, cellulosics, SAN, acrylic,
ABS, BR or any other of the hard plastics used in toothbrush manufacture. Suitable second hard
plastics include polyethylene, polypropylene (PP), polyamide, polyester, cellulosics, SAN, acrylic,
ABS, BR or any other of the hard plastics used in toothbrush manufacture. As used herein, the
term "plastic" may include a blend of different plastics or a copolymer. The third component 1300
is constructed of a first elastomeric material, such as a thermoplastic elastomer (TPE). In certain
embodiments, the first elastomeric material of the third component may have a hardness durometer
in a range of Al l to A15 Shore hardness. Of course, materials outside this hardness range could
be used. As an example, one potential first elastomeric material for the third component 1300 can
be styrene-ethylene/butylene-styrene (SEBS) manufactured by GLS Corporation. Nevertheless,
other manufacturers can supply the SEBS material and other materials could be used.
[0406] In one embodiment, the first hard plastic is different than the second hard plastic. In an
even more specific embodiment, the first hard plastic and the second hard plastic are different hard
                                                 115
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

plastics that are chemically incompatible with one another such that they do not form a chemical
bond with each other during an injection molding process.
[0407] In certain embodiments, the hard plastic that forms one of the first and second components
is an opaque hard plastic while the hard plastic that forms the other one of the first and second
components is a transparent (or light transmissive) hard plastic. As used herein, the term
"transparent hard plastic" includes hard plastics that are color tinted but still allow light to transmit
therethrough. Suitable transparent hard plastics include without limitation clarified PP and clear
polyesters, such as polyethylene terephthalate or a copolyester, such as poly-cyclohexylene
dimethylene terephthalate, acid modified, polyester (PCTA) or styrene acrylonitrile (SAN),
acrylonitrile butadiene styrene (ABS), polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) or a cellulosic plastic,
such as cellulose acetate propionate (CAP). One suitable opaque hard plastic is opaque PP.
However, opaque versions of the hard plastics listed above for the first and second hard plastics
may also be used.
[0408] In one specific embodiment, the first hard plastic of the first component 1100 is a
transparent hard plastic while the second hard plastic of the second component 1200 is an opaque
hard plastic. In one such embodiment, the first hard plastic of the first component 1100 can be a
transparent BR while the second hard plastic of the second component 1200 can be an opaque PP.
[0409] In one embodiment, the first elastomeric material of the third component 1300 and the
second hard plastic of the second component 1200 are selected so as to be chemically compatible
with one another such that so that a chemical bond is formed between the first elastomeric material
and the second hard plastic during an injection molding process. In one such specific embodiment,
the first elastomeric material can be a TPE while the second hard plastic can be PP.
[0410] Referring now to FIGS. 56-60 concurrently, the first component 1100 and its structural
cooperation with the second and third components 1200, 1300 will be described in greater detail.
The first component 1100 is an elongated structure that, when assembled within the handle 1010
of the toothbrush, extends along the longitudinal axis A7-A7 (see FIG. 55). The first component
1100 extends longitudinally from a proximal end 1101 to a distal end 1102. The first component
1100 comprises a front outer surface 1103, a rear outer surface 1104, a left-side outer surface 1105,
and a right-side outer surface 1106. As will be discussed in greater detail below, when the handle
1010 of the toothbrush 1000 is fully assembled (as shown in FIGS. 53-55) portions of each of the
front outer surface 1103, the rear outer surface 1104, the left-side outer surface 1105, and the right
                                                  116
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

side outer surface 1106 remain exposed. Moreover, in certain embodiments where the first hard
plastic is a transparent hard plastic, a first window 1150 may be formed through the handle 1010
via exposed portions 1107, 1108 of the first component 1100 from the first and second opposing
outer surfaces 1011, 1012 of the handle 1010 (which are the lateral surfaces) (see FIG. 65).
Additionally, a second window 1160 may be formed through the handle 1010 via exposed portions
1109, 1110 of the first component 1100 from the third and fourth opposing outer surfaces 1013,
1014 of the handle 1010 (which are the front and rear surfaces) (see FIG. 65).
[0411] The first component 1100 comprises a first component aperture 1111. As discussed in
greater detail below, the first component aperture 1111 is provided to receive an anchor 1203 of
the second component 1200 when the handle 1010 is assembled. As will become apparent from
the below discussion, the mechanical cooperation between the anchor 1203 of the second
component 1200 and a sidewall 1112 that defines the first component aperture 1111 assists in
ensuring a secure coupling between the first and second components 1100, 1200, especially when
the first and second components 1100, 1200 are formed of chemically incompatible hard plastics
as described above.
[0412] In the exemplified embodiment, the first component aperture 1111 is a through-hole that
extends between the front outer surface 1103 and the rear outer surface 1104 of the first component
1100. In other embodiments, the first component aperture 1111 may be a blind hole extending into
the front outer surface 1103 of the first component 1100 or a blind hole extending into the rear
outer surface 1104 of the first component 1100.
[0413] The first component aperture 1111 extends along a first axis B7-B7. When the handle 1010
is assembled, the first axis B7-B7 is transverse to the longitudinal axis A7-A7. In one specific
embodiment, the first axis B7-B7 may be substantially orthogonal to the longitudinal axis A7-A7.
In the exemplified embodiment, the sidewall 1112 comprises an annular structure that
circumferentially surrounds the first component aperture 1111 about the first axis B7-B7. This
annular structure terminates in an upper annular surface 1116 that remains exposed when the
handle 1010 is assembled.
[0414] The sidewall 1112 of the first component 1100 comprises a first transverse protuberance
1113 and a second transverse protuberance 1114 located adjacent the first component aperture
1111 and extending from the rear outer surface 1104 of the first component 1100. The first and
second transverse protuberances 1113, 1114 are circumferentially spaced apart from one another
                                                   117
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

about the first axis B7-B7. In the exemplified embodiment, the first and second transverse
protuberances 1113, 1114 are located on opposite sides of the first component aperture 1111 but
may be at other locations in other embodiments. When the handle 1010 is assembled, the first and
second transverse protuberances 1113, 1114 respectively extend into first and second transverse
openings 1213, 1214 of the anchor 1203 (shown in FIG. 63). Moreover, when the handle 1010 the
first and second transverse protuberances 1113, 1114 are located on opposite sides of the second
component aperture 1204 of the second component 1200. As seen in FIG. 63, the first and second
transverse protuberances 1113, 1114 extend through the first and second transverse openings 1213,
1214 to form portions of an inner surface that defines the second component aperture 1204
(discussed in greater detail below). As a result of the above mechanical cooperation, the first and
second transverse protuberances 1113, 1114 further assist in ensuring a secure coupling between
the first and second components 1100, 1200. While in the exemplified embodiment, two transverse
protuberances 1113, 1114 are exemplified, in other embodiments more or less than two transverse
protuberances may be used. In still other embodiments, the transverse protuberances may be
omitted all together.
[0415] As can also be seen in FIGS. 63 and 64, the sidewall 1112 of the first component nests
within a groove 1210 formed in an outer surface 1209 of the anchor 1203 of the second component
1200, thereby further assisting in ensuring a secure coupling between the first and second
components 1100, 1200.
[0416] The first component 1100 further comprises a longitudinal protuberance 1115 extending
from the distal end 1102 of the first component 1100. When the handle 1010 is assembled, the
longitudinal protuberance 1115 extends into a longitudinal recess 1216 formed in a transverse wall
1215 of the second component 1200 (see FIG. 63). When the handle 1010 is assembled, the
longitudinal protuberance 1115 is embedded within the second component 1200.
[0417] Referring now to FIGS. 56-57 and 61-64, certain structural details of the second component
1200 will be described, along with its structural cooperation with the first and third components
1100, 1300. The second component 1200 is an elongated handle structure that generally comprises
a body portion 1201 and a strap network 1202 extending longitudinally from the body portion
1201. The body portion 1201 further comprises an anchor 1203 which, as discussed above, extends
into the first component opening 1111 when the handle 1010 is assembled.
                                                 118
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0418] The body portion 1201 is located within (and forms part of) the middle section 1016 and
neck section 1017 of the handle 1010 while the strap network 1202 is located within (and forms
part of) the proximal middle section 1015 of the handle 1010 (see FIG. 55). The body portion 1201
also comprises the head 1020 of the toothbrush 1010 in the exemplified embodiment as discussed
above.
[0419] The anchor of the second component 1200 comprises a second component aperture 1204.
In the exemplified embodiment, the second component aperture 1204 is a through-hole that
extends between a front outer surface 1205 and a rear outer surface 1206 of the second component
1200. In other embodiments, the second component aperture 1204 may be a blind hole extending
into the front outer surface 1205 of the second component 1200 or a blind hole extending into the
rear outer surface 1206 of the second component 1200.
[0420] The second component aperture 1204 extends along a second axis C7-C7. When the handle
1010 is assembled, the second axis C7-C7 is transverse to the longitudinal axis A7-A7. In one
specific embodiment, the second axis C7-C7 may be substantially orthogonal to the longitudinal
axis A7-A7. In certain embodiments, when the handle 1000 is assembled, the first and second axes
B7-B7, C7-C7 may be substantially parallel to one another and/or substantially coextensive.
[0421] In the exemplified embodiment, the second component aperture 1204 has a cross-sectional
area (measured transverse to the second axis B7-B7) that tapers with increasing depth from the
opposing front and rear outer surfaces 1205, 1206 of the second component 1200. As a result an
apex edge 1211 is formed that is embedded by the third component 1300 within the handle 1000.
This structure assists with retaining the third component 1300 within the second component
aperture 1204. In other embodiments, however, the cross-sectional area of the second component
aperture 1204 (measured transverse to the second axis B7-B7) may be substantially constant, may
be stepped, or may increase and decrease in a repetitive manner.
[0422] In the exemplified embodiment, the anchor 1204 comprises a sidewall 1207 that defines
an annular structure that circumferentially surrounds the second component aperture 1204 about
the second axis C7-C7. The sidewall 1207 comprises an inner surface 1208 that defines the second
component aperture 1204 and an outer surface 1209. A groove 1210 (or channel) is formed into
the outer surface 1209 of the anchor 1204. As discussed above, the sidewall 1112 of the first
component 1100 nests within the groove 1210 when the handle 1010 is assembled.
                                                119
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0423] The sidewall 1207 (which defines an annular structure in the exemplified embodiment)
comprises an upper surface 1212 that remains exposed on the front outer surface 1004 of the handle
1010. Additionally, when the handle 1010 is assembled, the sidewall 1207 of the anchor 1203
isolates the third component 1300 from the first component 1100 (best shown in FIG. 63-64), with
the exception of the terminal surfaces of the transverse protuberances 1113, 1114 of the first
component 1100.
[0424] As mentioned above, the sidewall 1207 of the anchor 1203 comprises first and second
transverse openings 1213, 1214 that extend from the inner surface 1208 to the outer surface 1209.
These first and second transverse openings 1213, 1214 are provided to receive the first and second
transverse protuberances 1113, 1114 of the first component 1100 when the handle 1010 is
assembled (see FIG. 63). As can be seen, in this embodiment, the terminal surface of the first and
second transverse protuberances 1113, 1114 form portions of the inner surface that defines the
second component aperture 1204 of the anchor 1203. While in the exemplified embodiment, two
transverse openings 1213, 1214 are exemplified, in other embodiments more or less than two
transverse openings may be used. In still other embodiments, the transverse openings may be
omitted all together.
[0425] As shown in FIG. 63, the second component 1200 further comprises an internal transverse
wall 1215. A longitudinal recess 1216 is formed into the transverse wall 1215 of the second
component 1200. When the handle 1010 is assembled, the longitudinal protuberance 1115 of the
first component 1100 extends into and is located within the longitudinal recess 1216, thereby
assisting in ensuring a secure coupling between the first and second components 1100, 1200. In
the exemplified embodiment, the longitudinal protuberance 1115 is embedded within the handle
1010.
[0426] Referring now to FIGS. 56-57 and 61-67, the second component 1200 further comprises
the strap network 1202. The strap network 1202 is formed by a plurality of strips that, when the
handle is assembled, wraps around the first component 1100 to assist with ensuring that first and
second components 1100, 1200 are securely coupled together.
[0427] In the exemplified embodiment of the strap network 1202, the strap network 1202
comprises a first longitudinal strip 1221, a second longitudinal strip 1222 and a third longitudinal
strip 1223. As can best be seen in FIGS. 65-66, when the handle 1010 is assembled the first, second
and third longitudinal strips 1221, 1222, 1233 are arranged about the first component 1100 in a
                                                 120
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

circumferentially spaced-apart manner about the longitudinal axis A7-A7. In one embodiment, the
first, second and third strips 1221, 1222, 1223 may be substantially equi-spaced from one another.
In another embodiment, the spacing between first, second and third strips 1221, 1222, 1223 may
not be substantially equal.
[0428] The first strip 1221 extends longitudinally from the body portion 1201 of the second
component 1200 toward the proximal end 1001 of the handle 1010 until it joins with the second
strip 1222 at the proximal end 1001. Similarly, the second strip 1222 extends longitudinally from
the body portion 1201 of the second component 1200 toward the proximal end 1001 of the handle
1010 until it joins with the first strip 1221 at the proximal end 1001. As a result, the first and
second strips 1221, 1222 collectively form a first strap 1224 that wraps around the proximal end
1101 of the first component 1100, and also forms a portion of the proximal end 1001 of the handle
1010.
[0429] The third strip 1223 also extends longitudinally from the body portion 1201 of the second
component 1200 toward the proximal end 1001 of the handle 1010. However, as a distance from
the proximal end 1001 of the handle, the third strip divides/branches into a first branch 1225 and
a second branch 1226. The first branch 1225 of the third strip 1223 converges with the first strip
1221 at a first strap node 1227. As a result, the third strip 1223 and the first strip 1221 collectively
form a second strap 1228 that forms a loop (in conjunction with the body portion 1201) on a first
lateral surface 1011 of the handle 1010. Similarly, the second branch 1226 of the third strip 1223
converges with the second strip 1222 at a second strap node 1229. As a result, the third strip 1223
and the first strip 1221 collectively form a third strap 1230 that forms a loop (in conjunction with
the body portion 1201) on a second lateral surface 1012 of the handle 1010. Additionally, as can
be seen, the first, second and third straps 1221, 1222, 1223 also collectively form a loop 1231 on
the rear outer surface 1014 of the handle 1010. It is to be noted that while one embodiment of a
strap network 1202 is exemplified, the strap network 1202 can take on a wide range of potential
structural manifestations.
[0430] Referring now to FIGS. 65 and 67 concurrently, when the first component 1100 is
constructed of a first hard plastic that is substantially transparent and the second component 1200
is constructed of a second hard plastic that is substantially opaque, the plurality of strips 1221,
1222, 1223 define a first window 1150 through the first component 1100 from first and second
                                                   121
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

lateral surfaces 1011, 1012 of the handle 1010 and a second window 1160 through the front and
rear surfaces 1013, 1014 of the handle 1010.
[0431] Referring now to FIGS. 65 and 66 concurrently, the first component 1100 is provided with
a plurality of grooves 1150 that are formed into the outer surface of the first component 1100.
These grooves 1150 are provided so that when the handle 1010 is assembled, the plurality of strips
1221, 1222, 1223 are located therein, thereby further assisting with ensuring that secure coupling
is achieved between the first and second components 1100, 1200, even when chemically
incompatible materials are used.
[0432] While the exemplified embodiment of the toothbrush 1000 has a second component 1200
that comprises both the anchor 1203 and the strap network 1202, in certain embodiments the strap
network 1202 may be omitted. In still other embodiments, the anchor 1203 may be omitted. In
such embodiments, corresponding modifications can be made to the first component 1100 to
compensate for said omissions. For example, if the anchor 1203 is omitted, the third component
1300 may be located directly in the first component aperture 1111.
[0433] Turning now to FIGS. 53-54, 57 and 63-64 concurrently, the third component 1300 will be
described in greater detail. The third component 1300 is a generally bulbous shaped body that
bulges out of the apertures 1111, 1204 of the first and second components 1100, 1200. The third
component 1300 fills the second component aperture 1204 of the second component 1200 and,
thus, takes on the shape of the second component aperture 1204. The third component 1300 has a
convex front surface 1371 and a convex rear surface 1372, which resemble an oval or elliptical
shape. The bulbous shape of the third component 1300 enables the user to reliably roll and control
the handle 1010 between the thumb and index fingers during use. The third component 1300 may
also be non-bulging or have any number of shapes, such as circular, a true oval shape and the like.
[0434] In one preferred construction, the third component 1300 has a multiplicity of finger grip
protrusions 1373 projecting from the front and rear surfaces 1371, 1372. The finger grip
protrusions 1373 provide a tactile feature to increase the friction on the user's finger surfaces and
thus enhance the user's ability to grip the handle 1010, particularly under wet conditions. The finger
grip protrusions 1373 are preferably provided in a desired conical or frusto-conical shape for
improved grip performance. In other embodiments, other roughened surfaces and geometries could
be used.
                                                   122
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0435] A method of manufacturing the toothbrush 1000 according to one embodiment of the
present invention will be described. The first component created in manufacturing the toothbrush
1000 is the first component 1100. To create the first component 1100, a first mold is provided
having a first mold cavity and at least one port/nozzle for injecting the first hard plastic in a
liquefied state into the first mold cavity. In one embodiment, a single port is used to inject the
liquefied first hard plastic, which may be BR. The first mold cavity has a volume that is sized and
shaped to correspond to the first component 1100 as described above and illustrated herein. The
first mold may be two-part mold, as is known in the art. Once the first mold cavity is
created/provided, liquefied first hard plastic is injected into the first mold so as to fill the first mold
cavity. The liquefied first hard plastic is allowed to cool to an appropriate temperature so as to
form the first component 1100, as described above and illustrated herein, for further handling.
[0436] Once the first component 1100 is created (and allowed to adequately cool for further
handling), the first component 1100 is supported by one or more clamping members that engage
one or more points of contact on first component 1100 with at least one set of arms.
[0437] Once the clamping member is properly supporting the first component 1100, the first
component 1100 is positioned within a second mold cavity of a second mold. This positioning can
be effectuated by either moving the first component 1100 into the second mold cavity or by
creating the second mold cavity about the first component 1100 while supporting the first
component 1100 in a stationary manner, which can be accomplished by translating and mating
multiple pieces of the second mold into position so that the second mold cavity is formed about
the first component 1100. The second mold cavity has a volume that is sized and shaped to
correspond to the second component 1200. One or more ports are present in the second mold for
injecting the second hard plastic in a liquefied state into the second mold cavity. In one
embodiment, a single port is used to inject the liquefied PP.
[0438] Once the first component 1100 is in proper position within the second mold cavity (and the
second mold cavity is adequately sealed), the liquefied second hard plastic (which may be PP) is
injected into the second mold cavity so as to fill the remaining volume of the second mold cavity
that is not occupied by the first component 1100. The liquefied second hard plastic forms the strap
network 1202 about the first component 1100 and the anchor 1203 within the first component
aperture 1111 (as described above).
                                                   123
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0439] The liquefied second hard plastic is then allowed to cool to an appropriate temperature,
thereby forming the second component 1200 about the first component 1100, as described above.
The first component 1100 and second component 1200 collectively form a handle assembly. If the
first and second plastics are selected so as to be chemically incompatible with one another, the
second hard plastic of second component 1200 does not chemically bond with the first hard plastic
of the first component 1300 during the injection molding process.
[0440] Once the handle assembly is sufficiently cool for further handling, at least the middle
section 1016 is positioned within a third mold cavity of a third mold. When in the third mold
cavity, the first elastomeric material in a liquefied state is injected therein to fill the second
component aperture 1204, which is enclosed by an appropriate mold, via a port. The first
elastomeric material, in one embodiment, chemically bonds with the second hard plastic of the
second component 1200 during this injection molding process.
[0441] The inventive aspects discussed above for FIGS. 55-67 may be practiced for a manual
toothbrush or a powered toothbrush. In operation, the previously described features, individually
and/or in any combination, may improve the control, grip performance, aesthetics and cost point
of oral implements. Other constructions of toothbrush are possible. For example, the head 1020
may be replaceable or interchangeable on the handle 1010. The head 1020 may include various
oral surface engaging elements, such as inter-proximal picks, brushes, flossing element, plaque
scrapper, tongue cleansers and soft tissue massages. While the various features of the toothbrush
1000 work together to achieve the advantages previously described, it is recognized that individual
features and sub-combinations of these features can be used to obtain some of the aforementioned
advantages without the necessity to adopt all of these features in an oral care implement.
[0442] While the invention has been described with respect to specific examples including
presently preferred modes of carrying out the invention, those skilled in the art will appreciate that
there are numerous variations and permutations of the above described systems and techniques. It
is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional
modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention. Thus, the
spirit and scope of the invention should be construed broadly as set forth in the appended claims.
[0443] It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such reference
does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common general
knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
                                                 124
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

[0444] In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except where
the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to
specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further
features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                125
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

                                                          CLAIMS
1.           An oral care implement comprising:
                           a handle;
                           a head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface and a longitudinal
             axis extending from a proximal end of the head to a distal end of the head;
                           a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface of the head;
                           the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising a first conical tuft comprising a
             first bristle wall having an inner surface defining a first cavity along a first cavity axis, the
             first cavity having a first transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from
             the front surface of the head, the first bristle wall having an outer surface that forms a first
             acute angle with the front surface;
                           the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising a second conical tuft comprising
             a second bristle wall having an inner surface defining a second cavity along a second cavity
             axis, the second cavity having a second transverse cross-sectional area that increases with
             distance from the front surface of the head, the second bristle wall having an outer surface
             that forms a second acute angle with the front surface; and
                           wherein the first and second acute angles are different from one another.
2.           The oral care implement according to claim 1 wherein the plurality of tooth cleaning
             elements further comprise a first arcuate cleaning element at least partially surrounding the
             first conical tuft and a second arcuate cleaning element at least partially surrounding the
             second conical tuft.
3.           The oral care implement according to claim 2 wherein the first arcuate cleaning element is
             a distal-most tooth cleaning element on the head and the second arcuate cleaning element
             is a proximal-most tooth cleaning element on the head.
4.           The oral care implement according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the plurality of tooth
             cleaning elements further comprise a first arcuate elastomeric wall positioned adjacent the
             first conical tuft such that the first arcuate cleaning element and the first arcuate elastomeric
             wall collectively completely surround the first conical tuft; and wherein the plurality of
                                                              126
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

             tooth cleaning elements further comprise a second arcuate elastomeric wall positioned
             adjacent the second conical tuft such that the second arcuate cleaning element and the
             second arcuate elastomeric wall collectively completely surround the second conical tuft.
5.           The oral care implement according to any one of claims I to 4 wherein each of the first and
             second conical tufts extend from a single tuft hole.
6.           The oral care implement according to any one of claims I to 5 wherein the first conical tuft
             terminates in a first annular top surface and wherein the second conical tuft terminates in a
             second annular top surface, the first annular top surface being a first height from the front
             surface of the head and the second annular top surface being a sixth height from the front
             surface of the head, the first and sixth heights being different.
7.           An oral care implement comprising:
                           a handle;
                           a head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface;
                           a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface of the head;
                           the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising a multi-height bristle tuft
             extending from a single tuft hole along a tuft axis, the multi-height bristle tuft comprising
             a first bristle tuft section formed by taller bristles and a second bristle tuft section formed
             by shorter bristles, the second bristle tuft section having a U-shaped transverse cross
             section that partially surrounds a transverse cross-section of the first bristle tuft section,
             and the first bristle tuft section axially protrudes from an upper surface of the second bristle
             tuft section.
8.           The oral care implement according to claim 7 wherein the transverse cross-section of the
             first bristle tuft section comprises: a first portion nested within the U-shaped transverse
             cross-section of the second bristle tuft section; and a second portion transversely protruding
             from the U-shaped transverse cross-section of the second bristle tuft section.
9.           The oral care implement according to claim 7 or claim 8 wherein the plurality of tooth
             cleaning element comprises a first set of the multi-height bristle tufts and a second set of
             the multi-height bristle tufts; wherein the head comprises a longitudinal axis extending
             from a proximal end of the head to a distal end of the head; and wherein the first set of the
                                                             127
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

             multi-height bristle tufts are arranged along a first lateral edge of the head and the second
             set of the multi-height bristle tufts are arranged along a second lateral edge of the head.
10.          The oral care implement according to claim 9 wherein for each of the multi-height bristle
             tufts of the first and second sets, the second bristle tuft section is closer to the longitudinal
             axis of the head than the first bristle tuft section.
11.          An oral care implement comprising:
                           a handle;
                           a head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface and a longitudinal
             axis extending from a proximal end of the head to a distal end of the head;
                           a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface of the head;
                           the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising a first conical tuft comprising a
             first bristle wall having an inner surface defining a first cavity along a first cavity axis, the
             first cavity having a first transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from
             the front surface of the head, the first conical tuft terminating in a first annular top surface;
                           the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising a second conical tuft comprising
             a second bristle wall having an inner surface defining a second cavity along a second cavity
             axis, the second cavity having a second transverse cross-sectional area that increases with
             distance from the front surface of the head, the second conical tuft terminating in a second
             annular top surface; and
                           the first annular top surface having a first diameter and the second annular top
             surface having a second diameter, the first and second diameters being different.
12.          The oral care implement according to claim 11 wherein the first annular top surface is a
             first height above the front surface of the head and the second annular top surface is a sixth
             height above the front surface of the head, the first height being greater than the sixth
             height.
13.          The oral care implement according to claim 11 wherein the first annular top surface is a
             first height above the front surface of the head and the second annular top surface is a sixth
                                                              128
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

             height above the front surface of the head, the first and sixth heights being substantially the
             same.
14.          The oral care implement according to claim 11 or claim 12 wherein the first bristle wall
             has an outer surface that forms a first acute angle with the front surface of the head and the
             second bristle wall has an outer surface that forms a second acute angle with the front
             surface of the head, the first and second acute angles being different.
15.          The oral care implement according to claim 14 wherein the second acute angle is a larger
             angle than the first acute angle.
16.          An oral care implement comprising:
                           a handle;
                           a head coupled to the handle, the head comprising a front surface and a longitudinal
             axis extending from a proximal end of the head to a distal end of the head;
                           a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface of the head;
                           the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising a first conical tuft comprising a
             first bristle wall having an inner surface defining a first cavity along a first cavity axis, the
             first cavity having a first transverse cross-sectional area that increases with distance from
             the front surface of the head, the first conical tuft terminating in a first annular top surface;
                           the plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprising a second conical tuft comprising
             a second bristle wall having an inner surface defining a second cavity along a second cavity
             axis, the second cavity having a second transverse cross-sectional area that increases with
             distance from the front surface of the head, the second conical tuft terminating in a second
             annular top surface; and
                           the first annular top surface being a first height from the front surface of the head
             and the second annular top surface being a sixth height from the front surface of the head,
             the first and sixth heights being different.
17.          An oral care implement comprising:
                             a handle; and
                                                              129
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

                           a head extending along a longitudinal axis from a proximal end to a distal end, the
             head comprising:
                                    a front surface;
                                    a rear surface opposite the front surface;
                                    a peripheral surface extending between the front and rear surfaces and
                           defining a perimeter edge of the front surface;
                                    a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface;
                                    an elastomeric component including a bumper portion that forms a distal
                           most section of the peripheral surface and a wall portion located along a distal-most
                           section of the perimeter edge and protruding above the front surface;
                                    the wall portion extending along the perimeter edge in a continuous manner
                           from a first point of the perimeter edge to a second point of the perimeter edge, the
                           first and second points located on opposite sides of the longitudinal axis; and
                                    the wall portion comprises a first ramped portion, an apex portion, and a
                           second ramped portion, the apex portion disposed between the first and second
                           ramped portions.
18.          The oral care implement according to claim 17 wherein the wall portion has a maximum
             height at a third point of the perimeter edge located between the first and second points,
             the third point located on the longitudinal axis and on the apex portion.
19.          The oral care implement according to claim 18 further comprising:
                           the first ramped portion extending from the first point to a fourth point of the
             perimeter edge, the fourth point located between the first and third points, the height of the
             first ramped portion of the wall portion increasing from the first point to the fourth point;
             and
                           the second ramped portion extending from the second point to a fifth point of the
             perimeter edge, the fifth point located between the second and third points, the height of
             the second ramped portion of the wall portion increasing from the second point to the fifth
             point.
20.          The oral care implement according to claim 19 further comprising:
                                                              130
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

                           the apex portion extending from the fourth point to the fifth point, the apex portion
             having a substantially constant height from the fourth point to the fifth point.
21.          The oral care implement according to claim 18 further comprising:
                           the first ramped portion extending from the first point to the third point, the height
             of the first ramped portion of the wall portion increasing from the first point to the third
             point; and
                           the second ramped portion extending from the second point to the third point, the
             height of the second ramped portion of the wall portion increasing from the second point
             to the third point.
22.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 17 to 21 wherein each of the first
             and second ramped portions comprise an upper edge that appear as a linear slope when the
             head is viewed in side profile.
23.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 17 to 20 wherein a remaining
             portion of the perimeter edge is free of the wall portion.
24.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 17 to 21 wherein the wall portion
             is arcuate and comprises a convex inner surface and a concave outer surface.
25.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 17 to 22 wherein the wall portion
             is free of through-holes.
26.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 17 to 23 wherein elastomeric
             component further comprises a plurality of spaced-apart ridges protruding from an outer
             surface of the bumper portion and an outer surface of the wall portion.
27.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 17 to 24 wherein the elastomeric
             component further comprises a soft tissue cleanser on the rear surface of the head, the soft
             tissue cleanser comprising a plurality of protuberances.
28.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 17 to 25 wherein the head
             comprises a base portion formed of a rigid plastic, the elastomeric component injection
             molded to the base portion.
                                                           131
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

29.          The oral care implement according to claim 28 wherein the base portion comprises a
             peripheral wall that forms a basin, the head further comprising a head plate disposed within
             the basin and coupled to the base portion, the head plate comprising a plurality of through
             holes, the plurality of cleaning elements extending through the through holes, each of the
             plurality of cleaning elements comprising a cleaning portion extending from an upper
             surface of the head plate and a melt portion located between a lower surface of the head
             plate and a floor of the basin.
30.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 17 to 29 wherein the wall portion
             and a transverse line drawn between the first and second points of the perimeter edge
             collectively define a distal-most area of the front surface of the head; and wherein the
             plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprises a plurality of distal tooth cleaning elements
             extending from the distal-most area of the front surface.
31.          The oral care implement according to claim 30 wherein the wall portion has a maximum
             height that is less than or equal to one half of a height of a shortest one of the plurality of
             distal tooth cleaning elements.
32.          The oral care implement according to claim 30 or claim 31 wherein the plurality of distal
             tooth cleaning elements comprises tapered bristles.
33.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 17 to 32 wherein the wall portion
             has a substantially zero height at the first and second points.
34.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 17 to 33 wherein the elastomeric
             component is an integrally formed single component.
35.          An oral care implement comprising:
                             a handle; and
                           a head extending along a longitudinal axis from a proximal end to a distal end, the
             head comprising:
                                    a front surface;
                                    a rear surface opposite the front surface;
                                    a peripheral surface extending between the front and rear surfaces and
                           defining a perimeter edge of the front face;
                                                              132
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

                                    a plurality of tooth cleaning elements extending from the front surface;
                                    an integrally formed elastomeric component including:
                                                     a bumper portion that forms a distal-most section of the
                                            peripheral surface;
                                                     a wall portion located along a distal-most section of the
                                            perimeter edge and protruding above the front surface;
                                                     a plurality of spaced-apart ridges protruding from an outer
                                            surface of the bumper portion and an outer surface of the wall
                                            portion; and
                                                     a soft tissue cleanser on the rear surface of the head, the soft
                                            tissue cleanser comprising a plurality of protuberances.
36.          The oral care implement according to claim 35 wherein the wall portion extends along the
             perimeter edge in a continuous manner from a first point of the perimeter edge to a second
             point of the perimeter edge, the first and second points located on opposite sides of the
             longitudinal axis; and wherein the wall portion has a maximum height at a third point of
             the perimeter edge located between the first and second points, the third point located on
             the longitudinal axis and on the apex portion.
37.          The oral care implement according to claim 35 or claim 36 wherein the wall portion is free
             of through-holes.
38.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 35 to 37 wherein the head
             comprises a base portion formed of a rigid plastic, the elastomeric component injection
             molded to the base portion.
39.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 35 to 38 wherein the wall portion
             and a transverse line drawn between the first and second points of the perimeter edge
             collectively define a distal-most area of the front surface of the head; and wherein the
             plurality of tooth cleaning elements comprises a plurality of distal tooth cleaning elements
             extending from the distal-most area of the front surface; and wherein the wall portion has
             a maximum height that is less than or equal to one half of a height of a shortest one of the
             plurality of distal tooth cleaning elements.
                                                                133
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

40.          The oral care implement according to any one of claims 35 to 39 wherein the wall portion
             has a substantially zero height at the first and second points.
41.          An oral care implement comprising:
                           a handle; and
                           a head coupled to the handle, the head comprising:
                                            a front surface;
                                            a rear surface opposite the front surface;
                                            a peripheral surface extending between the rear surface and the front
                                    surface; and
                                            a first elastomeric soft tissue cleanser comprising a bumper portion
                                    that extends along the peripheral surface, the bumper portion comprising an
                                    undulating upper edge that includes a plurality of high points protruding
                                    above the rear surface and a plurality of low points located at or below the
                                    rear surface.
                                                               134
10459759 1 (GHMatters) P105924.AU.1

                                            1/63
<removed-date>
                        102,119              220
                                       A1          115
              100     116
                    111                                  130
                     112
                    113                                        150
<removed-apn>
                    110
                                                                II
                           140                         210
                                 118                121
                                                         120
                                                          101
                                 FIG. 1            A1

                                                   2/63
<removed-date>
                                                             115
                                                  116              195
                            102, 119         B1                          220
                                                                                159
<removed-apn>
                                                                                  132
                      149
                143                                                                     130
                                                                                         135
              148
                                                                                              131
                                                                                              136
              133
                                                                                              155
              113
              188                                                                             190
              145                                                                             157
              141
                144
                188                                                                      150
                    147
                                                                                  210
                      142
                        112                                                     121
                          146                                             111
                                110
                                       140                         118
                                                        B1
                                                  FIG. 2

                                                           3/63
<removed-date>
                                                            B2
                                         220                  102, 119
                                                   VIII             116 196
                                        195
                                        140
                                                                           197
                                      143                                   150
                                      148                                    153
                                      149                                     158
<removed-apn>
              L1.3                                                             159
                                  188                                            189
                                            IX                             IX    151
                                  131                                        130
                            136
                                                                              135
              L1.1 D1.1           133                                            132
                                                                               192
                              141             X                            X    154
                                                                                  155
                          144                                                     189
                          145
              L1.2             188
                                     113                                       114
                                            XI                           XI 157
                            142                                            156
                             146
                                147                                       152
                                                                         190
                                        111                             191
                                         110
                                                   VIII                210
                                                  115                121
                                                            B2     118
                                                                      120
                                                          FIG. 3

                                         4/63
<removed-date>
                                                              129         121
<removed-apn>
                                                       125
                                         170                                    124
                                                  178                       122
                                     148
                              196                                            123
                                                        158                  129
                             195                                             122
                      220     197
                                                                                 125
                               144                                              129
                149
                                   146
               145
                                                                            122
               130                                                  154
                                     159                      156
              147                          191
                                     155         190
                                                       192
                                     157
                             210
                                     FIG. 4
                       115

                                    5/63
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              122                                        121
                       E1   121                     E1         122
               124                 122     126              129
                                                                  123
                                  129
                                   122
                                            129                 122
              125                   125
              129
                                                                 126
                       E1                           E1
                                  122                          122
                     FIG. 5A                      FIG. 5B

                                         6/63
<removed-date>
               170
                                                                      170
                      195
<removed-apn>
                            178                              190
                                  158             171
                                            146
                                                        D1          173
              148                                                         156
                                           172
                                   189
              188
                                           188                        189
                                          144                             177
                                  154
              144                          178                            154
                                   189
              188                          188                            189
                                    177    175                        176
              146
                                  156       148                      158
                            171                         D1
                     190                                      174
                                                  195
                     FIG. 6A                      FIG. 6B

                                           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
 100
115
140
                                                                      7/63
116
 110                     144   146   147
             149   148
                143   145   141   142
       113
                             FIG.7

                                                                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 132
                           131          133
                     130           C1         136
 220           195                                  190
                                                          210
       115
H1.1
       108                                                111,124                              8/63
  110
                                                    123   121
    106
             122                C1 135 112
                   107    179 174        126
                      126            171
                                          FIG.8

                                       <removed-apn>      <removed-date>
                     195
                x1              u1
        115
                                      159
 149
                                            166
       124
       163                                  158
                                             153
143
148                                          111
                                                                     9/63
121                                          W1.3
108
106                                              110
       107                                 112
                x1              u1
                     123     122
              175 174    179     126 176
                     FIG. 9

                                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
             136 133     132 135
                131  130
            Z1                 W1
      115           D1.1          155
                                       178
      145
      124
      161
                                       164
  141
                                         151
 144
                                         154
121                                                                10/63
                                         111
108
                                               W1
106
                                             110
                                         179
            Z1         123         W1 112
                 107         122
                   FIG. 10

                                            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                Y1                   V1
                  124   210
        147
                                          157
      172
        162
                                            165
      142                                     152
 146                                          156
 121                                         111                       11/63
                                                W1.2
108
  106                                           110
                              179            112
  910                 123                  173
                Y1                    V1
              107                   122 126
                  171
                   FIG. 11

                                 12/63
                                    302, 319
<removed-date>
              300           A2
                                            315
                      311
                    312
                    310
<removed-apn>
                                             321
                                           XIII
                     318
                                               320
                          FIG. 12     A2
                                                     301

                                              13/63
<removed-date>
              310
                                                            315    356b 358b
                                                      355      356a   353
                                       358a     352                        332
                                                                             330
                                     351      350
                                                                             331
                                       B2                                   337
                             319
<removed-apn>
                      357a                                                  336
                                                                                 372
                                                                                    354
                     335                                                        374
                                                                                  357b
                      375                                                       371
                     376                                                          370
                    412                                                         373
                     390                                                           392
                                                                                 390
                     380                                                            391
                                                                                 411
                                                                                  384
                     367a                                                             347
                       361                                                         340
                                                                                    367b
                     345
                                                                                   341
                       346                                                           368b
                                                                                  364
                     312
                                                                                    342
                                                                                 360
                                                                              363
                             368a                                            366b
                                                                      362    366a
                               311                              321
                                                                318
                                                       B2
                                              FIG. 13

                                                   14/63
                                                         356a
<removed-date>
              310                            319
                                           355      B2          356b
                                        352                     XVI         353
                                     C1-C1                                    335
                                    332                                         330
                              372
                                                                         D2.1
                            XVII                                             XVII
                                                                                     331
<removed-apn>
                       351                                                              337
                    357a                                                               336
                       374                                                            354
                    373                                                                   371
                                                                                        357b
                       376                                                             370
                    390                                                                  375
                      410
                          XVIII                                              XVIII
                                                                                        411
                    392                                                                  390
                      390                                                              394
                    391                                                                  393
                      389                                                             390
                    390                                                                  412
                      386                                                             385
                    367a                                                                383
                            XIX                                              XIX      381
                                                                                        367b
                                                                                      384
                      380                                                               347
                       382                                                           346
                      361                                                             345
                        342        D2.2                                             364
                            365                                         341         340
                             362                                        D2-D2
                               315                                           363
                                 366a                                      311
                                                                         321
                                                                      366b
                                           318                  XVI
                                                    B2
                                                 FIG. 14

                                                                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       337 357a 391 340
                   358a 330 392 367a 347
                 359
              355                       369
            356a                          368a
          350                               365
        352                                   366a
                                                 360
H2.2 H                                                               H2.4                   15/63
      2.1 H2.3
                                                           H2.5 H2.6
        311
        310
                 312
                             390     390       361
                       351         390 390           362
                                             FIG. 15

                                                       <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
           332 335 375          346   341
        337 330 371         380    347 342                      320
                                             340
  331              C2             D2           345
336                                              315
                                               381
 H2.1
        H2.6                                 311                                    16/63
308
   310         <U+03B8>2.3 C2        <U+03B8>2.4 D2
                                          312 321
                  370 322 385 322
                     410 412 307        323  306
                                FIG. 16

                                         17/63
                                         331 332
<removed-date>
                                   337      C2      335
                      336                       330
                                                              351
               354
                                                             370
                                                                321
<removed-apn>
                                                                   311
                                                                      308
                                                                      310
                                                          306
                       322                 C2 307
                                                    323
                                                            312
                                         FIG. 17
                               363        340 362     390
                     390                                    391
                                                              394
              392
                                                                392
                                                             411
                391
                                                              412
              410                                            311
                                                                321
                380
                                                                      308
                                                                         310
                                                                   306
                                                 307
                             322                                312
                                                    323
                                         FIG. 18

                                  18/63
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                 341        342
                           347
                                                  340
                                       D2
                       363                            345
                                                            362
               346                                          361
              364
                                                            311
                                                             321
                                                                  308
                                                                  310
                                                          306
                     322               D2 323
                                                307    312
                                 FIG. 19

                           19/63
<removed-date>
                               502     A3
              500                              510
                                                     511
<removed-apn>
                                                    512
                    515
                                                   540
                                            XX A
                                     520
                                501
                          A3
                               FIG. 20

                                             20/63
<removed-date>
                                                   B3   502, 519
                                                                510
                                    622b                           512
                             515
                                  622a                              511
                           568
                         563                                    566
                       562                                              623b
                                                                  540
<removed-apn>
                     560
                  623a                                                  624c
                    561                                                   580
                565
                    624a                                                 603
                       601
              624b
                536                                                       556
                 531
               530                                                 551
                  535                                                       550
                538                                                   555
                      532
                    533                                           558
              552                                                      604
                      602                                             634c
                   590                                              633b
                 634a
                   633a                                           634b
                    570                                              518
                  576
                     573
                       632a
                                       578
                           575                B3
                               572 571
                                 632b
                                             FIG. 20A

                                        21/63
<removed-date>
                                       519        622b     621
                                   622a    B3
                                       568              XXIII       620
                                  563
                            561                     624b 510
                          560                                             511
                           562                           623b
                                                                            540
                    XXIV 565                                     XXIV
<removed-apn>
                                                                     566
              623a
                 582                                                    624c
              624a                                                  580
                 601                                          603
               532                                          581               553
                 531                                                       552
               538   XXV                                         XXV
                                                                             558
                                                                            555
               533                                                           550
                 530                                                       551
               535
                 536                                                        556
                503                                                       504
                 591 XXVI                                        XXVI       590
                                                                          604
                                                                           592
                      602                                        634c
                                                                   633b
                  634a                                        570
                     633a                                      575
                   571                                       576
                     572                                      632b
                    630
                      573                                    518
                        631                              XXIII
                          632a
                            578
                              634b
                                             B3
                                       FIG. 21

                                                                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               568         630             570          578
        560          601                         633a
                                 638
622a
                                                                                                 22/63
       510    511      623a          580          602          632a
                512           624a         590          634a
                                                 FIG. 22

                                                                   <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                  563      568                 634b   578
       622a                    624b
                        562            530        573       632a
                                   580     590          572
515                                538
                                                               570
 560                                                            575
561                                                           571
                                                                576
  566
565                                                          511                              23/63
508
510
                                                                         540
                                                                   507
      506          541               604                    512
            542              603           541
                                             FIG. 23

                                     24/63
                                   545 632a 563
<removed-date>
                            632b      E3 562    538
                    515   558                                565
                  603                                         560
                                                                 601
                550                                            561
                                                                   530
               623b
                                                                 566
<removed-apn>
                                                               568
               624c
                                                                 623A
                                                               511
                508
                                                                540
                                                                 510
              506
                                      E3                       624A
                    542   <U+03B8>3.3 569               512
                                           541         507
                                   FIG. 24
                       543 632b       D3.6 590 632a
                     532         537        557
                              C3                D3 544
                   515                                 552
                    533                                  553
                                                           554
                 534
                   536                                   550
                530                                         555
                  535                                     556
               531                                           551
                 538
                                                            548
              591                                             559
                541                                          511
              508
                                                               540
                                                            510
                     506 539              <U+03B8>
                                    D3.5 3.6
                              C3 <U+03B8> 542 541 D3 512 507
                                  3.5
                                   FIG. 25

                                              25/63
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                        546     3F
                                                     572 632A
                          632b                              573
                515                                               570
                                                                         575
                633b                                              576
                                                                         571
                                                                   578
                                                                         633A
                      541                                         511
                                                                     540
              508
                                                                         510
                                                                          507
                                                                   541
                    506          <U+03B8>3.4           3F 579 542512
                                          FIG. 26

                       26/63
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>           537   557
                                 544
               543
                                         554
              534
                                       558
               538
                                  550
              530
                      FIG. 27

                                   27/63
<removed-date>
                             713
                                              720
<removed-apn>            711
              700
                710
                            712
                                    FIG. 28

                                       28/63
<removed-date>                           751
                                            713, 732
              720               752
                                                       758
<removed-apn>
                                                         750
                    740                                      723
                                                       721
                          731
                                                       711
                                      FIG. 29

                                        29/63
<removed-date>
                                             A4
                   720                 732
                                                  713
                                XXXI                    703
                                704                           705
<removed-apn>
                         743
                               707                               740       730
                                                                702
              B4                                                           B4
                                                               740
                   723
                                                                 723
                          724                                  724
                     721
                          725                                        750
                                                              740
                               706                             725
                           731                            707
                                                          711
                                XXXI
                                             A4
                                       FIG. 30

                                      30/63
<removed-date>
                                         H4.CE
                                H4.MAX
                                                 752
                                                  751
              720
<removed-apn>
                                                        727
                                                               722
                     762
                                                              726
                                                                763
                    761
                                                              729
                                                                781
                    760
                                                         750
                                                              728
                     741
                                                   742
                          740
                                721                    727
                                                       711
                                      FIG. 31

                                                      31/63
<removed-date>
                                                                   H4.CE
                                                752
                                      758                 H4.MAX
                                      751                 703 T
                                                                4.7
                                750                                   704
<removed-apn>
              720                                                       753
                                         H4.7
                                                                           756      743   730
                          770
                    782           H4.2                                      707
                          771
                    783           H4.3
                          772     H4.4
                    784           H4.3
                          771
                    783          H4.2
                          770
                                                                              740
                                      H4.7
                                                               721
                    782
                                 722                     723
                                                           725
                                                  FIG. 32

                                                  32/63
<removed-date>
                                   H4.CE
                      T4.2                 H4.MAX
                                                            751
                             754            703       752
<removed-apn>
                                                              788
              730            705
                     757                                                   780
                                                                                 720
                    702
                                                                     781
                                                                    750
                                                                  722
                                   721         723
                                         725
                                                              711
                                               FIG. 33

                                                     33/63
<removed-date>                                770 771 772 771 770
                                   784                             H4.4
                                H4.3                                      H4.3
<removed-apn>
                          783
                           H4.2                                              783
                     782                                                    H4.2
              780
                       H4.7                                                   782
                                                                                 H4.7
                     781                                                          790
                          722                                                    751
               750
                                                                                   724
                    707
                           753
                                                                                 H4.MAX
                                                                          702
                            756                                                           H4.CE
                                                                           754
                                                                           752
                     740                                              757
                                                     703     705
                                         704
                                               755
                                                     FIG. 34

                                                34/63
<removed-date>
                                               713
                                                         780
              720                        732
                                                               758
                                 789
<removed-apn>
                             784                               788
                      783
                           782
                                                                790
                     772
               775
                     771
               774                                             734
                      733
                           770
                      773                                        750
                                 789
                                  731
                                       711
                                               FIG. 35

                                  35/63
<removed-date>                     758
                                          789
              780         722
                                                  750
<removed-apn>
                                                      788
               770
                771
                                                      790
                     772
                                                      723
                    782                               724
                783
                                                789
                      784
                                FIG. 36

                                      36/63
                       802,819 A5           810                  810
<removed-date>
                                                          812
                                             811                        813
                     803
              800
                                                                              811
                                              814                                850
               815
                                                                              851
                                            813
<removed-apn>
                                        818         853                       XXXIX
                                            822       852              815
                                                    854                 822
                821
                                                                             821
                                      820                                          820
                                801
                           A5
                           FIG. 37                              FIG. 38

                                      37/63
<removed-date>
                                                        819   812
                                                                          860
                                            893   842               804
                                      880                                   810
                                851
                                                                                  815
                          841
                                                                                      859
<removed-apn>
                                                                                      840
                                                                                        863
                                                                                861
                                                                                  813
                                                                                    862
                                                                                      864
                                                                                    850
                                                                                       855
                                                                                        858
                                                                                      811
                                                                                       857
                                                                                       856
              883
                                                                                             844
                                                                                        860
                    893
                                                                                846
                                                                      882
                           881
                                                              852
                                             FIG. 39

                                              38/63
<removed-date>          880
                                       850
               882               851                      893
                                                                          891
                                                                892
                                                   860
<removed-apn>
                           860                                     842        810
                                                    841
                                                                        813
                                                                              845                       815
                                                                                862       831
                                                                                                830
                                                                                                      803
                                                                                            832             814
              882
                       855
              881                            858
                           853
                           852                                    840
                                         893
                                                                     831
                           854                 844                                  833
                                                                              831
                                                                    890                     816
                                                                                                            817
                                                    FIG. 40

                             39/63
<removed-date>
                                             842
                                  819
                            851
                                                   844
                      812
                                                         804
                     893
                                                    810
               880
<removed-apn>
              862                                        846
               857                                         855
              841                                         813
                                                          860
               860
                                                           840
              858
                                                         859
                                                        850
                893                                   856
                                                        857
                                                     883
                                                   881
                                              882
                     853
                                            852
                    822                     854
                                  FIG. 41

                                                40/63
                                                810
<removed-date>
                              844         842           811
                        804                                    815       859
                  851
                                                                               861
                   860
                  812
                                                                                        858
              855                                                                    862
<removed-apn>
                856               XLIII                              XLIII
                          XLIV                                               XLIV
                 L5
                                                                                      864
                          846                                                        863
                       860
                         840
                      857
                        880
                      882
                        850
                          881
                                                              853
                                 813
                                852
                                  854
                                                        822
                                                 FIG. 42

                                                   41/63
<removed-date>                                                814
                                                                 817
                                            817
                                                                       803
<removed-apn>
                                                                             815
                          807
                                                                             831
                           833
                      830
                                                                                     808
                                                                       832
                                                                                           806
                      811
                                                                                      844
                    810                                                              850
              816                                                                    851
                      813
              845                                                                   890
                                                                                     860
               864                                                                 812
                                                                                   883
               804
                  860                                                          880
                                846                                      891
                                      881
                                         892
                                             882   FIG. 43

                                                 42/63
<removed-date>                                       803
                                                         814
                                           817
                                                               817
<removed-apn>
                                                                      815
                               807
                         833                                                831
                     830                                             832
                                                                              808
                   811
                                                                                  806
                810                                                                  844
              813                                                                 890
                816                                                                 850
                  845                                                             851
               866                                                                   866
                                                                                   860
                    D5                                                             865
               860                                                                 804
                 865
                                W5   881                              812
                   846
                                 883                                        891
                                     892         FIG. 44             880
                                           882

                                     43/63
<removed-date>
                                915      A6     902,919
                                                    920
              900                                     911
                                                        944
                               903                   913
                          914                           905
<removed-apn>
                                                      980
                                                        918
                    921
                                               910
                                              901
                          A6
                                 FIG. 45

                               44/63
<removed-date>
                     902,919           915
               910                                 900
              950                                    904
                                               980
              912                                    981
<removed-apn>
                                             913
                                       944
                                                   920
               921
                                             901
                          FIG. 46

                                45/63
<removed-date>          914            LI
                                          944
                                            910
                                               930
                                                      911
<removed-apn>
                   903
                          L                 L
              B6                                      B6
                                                       905
                    904
                                                      903
                                                914
                          915
                                    LI
                                FIG. 47

                          46/63
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                                      915
                    911
                                                       930
                905
                                                            910
               919                                    944
                                                            904
              981                                     980
              950
                                                       981
                    952
                                                  959
                                    952
                                          912
                          FIG. 48

                                                    47/63
                                            980               915 964       967
<removed-date>
                                      981         919
                         912                            910                       961
                       957
                                                                             960
                            952
                      904                                                     960
                            954
                      958
<removed-apn>
                                                                                   L6.2
                                 B6                                    B6
              L6.1                                                          CP2
                           CP1
                                                                             960
                     954
                       952
                     912
                       954                                                  966
                                                                     963
                                                                 911
                     955                                       918
                                  956
                            950
                                                   FIG. 49

                                               48/63
<removed-date>
                             960                       917
                                                               960
                     915                                                   962
<removed-apn>
                                                                     A6-A6
                                                                        931
                                                                           933
                                                                         930
                                                                            916
               911                                                            910
                                                                             905
                                                                           906
              908
                907
              904                                                            990
                 980                                                             912
                       981                                                 932
                             950                                           954
                               951                             952
                                                                     959
                                   954         991           954
                                         992           953
                                          FIG. 50

                                            49/63
                                 915         930         910         980
<removed-date>
                                       933         919         932
                                                                           981
                     917                                                          906
                                                                                  912
                                                                                            957
                    960                                                                    955
                                                                                      991
                                                                                        916
                960                                                                   993
<removed-apn>
                                                                                          907
                           B6                                                          954
                                                                     B6                   958
                                                                                       991
                                                                                         954
                                                                                      952
              960                                                                         993
                                                                                        910
                    961                                                              953
                                                                                        951
                                                                                           990
                                931                                               954
                                      911                                            950
                                                                                 956
                                                                           908
                                                                     918
                                        FIG. 51

                                      50/63
<removed-date>
                                     993
                                           919
                          996b
                                                 912
                               952
                                                       910
                         996a
                      996c                                   952
                  950
<removed-apn>
               995a                                            999
                                                              980
                995b
               995c                                                997
              951
                          B6                             B6
                                                               994a
                    952
                                                                     994b
              993c                                             981
                    993b                                             994c
                      993a
                                                                   952
                    992
                                                               998
                      991a
                                                                993
                          991c
                                                              991b
                           918
                                     FIG. 52

                             51/63
<removed-date>
                                        1003
                 1030                                 1000
                                               1022
<removed-apn>
                 1023
                                               1020
                      1004
                                             1002
                                            1200
                                        1372
               1010                     1300
               1106                   1223
               1100                   1014
              1012
                                     1104
                                     1110
                                1001
                        FIG. 53

                               52/63
<removed-date>
                             1030          1003
                                                  1023    1000
                                                   1020
<removed-apn>
                                                  1021
                       1004                   1002
                        1116
                                              1212
                     1371
                      1300
                                           1010
                      1013             1012
                                       1106
               1100
                                       1200
               1109
                1103
              1224                  1001
                               FIG. 54

                                   53/63
<removed-date>
                                       A7
                               LXIII         1003                    1000
                                              1030
                        1023                   1020
<removed-apn>
                        1021                1002
                         1004               1200              1017
                                                    1300
                        LXIV                 LXIV
                                                              1016
              1107      LXV                   LXV
                                                       1106
              1105                                    1108
                        LXVI                  LXVI
               1011                                  1012
               1010                                           1015
                                                    1224
                       LXVII                   LXVII
                     1013                    1109
                      1100
                               LXIII
                                             1001
                                       A7
                                FIG. 55

                               54/63
<removed-date>
                                 1030
                                                 1020
                                                               1000
<removed-apn>
                                     1205      1200
                                                       1208
                                1115
                              1102
                       1116                            1201
                     1111
                                                      1204
              1300                                            1211
                                                       1203
                                                       1212
                                                         1010
                                                      1222
               1112                               1108
                                                       1230
                                                   1223
                 1221
                                                      1106
                                                   1226
                     1103
                                                         1202
              1228
                  1225                                 1224
                 1227
                 1109
                                                 1231
                 1100                   1101
                              FIG. 56

                                         55/63
<removed-date>                                    1030
                                                                           1000
<removed-apn>
                        1020
                          1200                   1115
                                          1102
                        1213                          1100
                                                             1113
                          1203
                                                       1111
                     1208
                        1204                                  1112
              1211
                       1214
                         1206                                       1372
                1010
                                                            1300
                               1223                     1114
                                                          1107
                        1222
                                                         1105
                        1202
                               1226                           1221
                              1229                            1104
                                1224
                                 1231
                                        1110                 1101
                                        FIG. 57

                              56/63
<removed-date>
                                         1115
                       1116                  1102
                                                    1100
<removed-apn>
                     1112               B7
              1111
                 B7
                                       1108
                                      1106
                 1103
                1109
                     1101
                            FIG. 58

                             57/63
<removed-date>
                                1115
                                     1102
                                                    1100
                                            1112
<removed-apn>
              1113
               1111
               1114
                                             1105
                                             1107
                     1104
                      1101
                            FIG. 59

                                   58/63
<removed-date>
                                      1115
                                           1102
              1113                                             1100
<removed-apn>
                                                  B7
                     1112
                B7
                                                       1103
                 1114
                      1104
                      1107
                            1105
                                                         1109
                             1110
                                                        1101
                               FIG. 60

                               59/63
<removed-date>
                                         1020
                                                       1200
<removed-apn>
                            1205
                     1211
                                             1201
                        C7                      1212
                      1204                   1203
              1208
                                        C7
                1221
                                        1223
                1202
                                         1222
                                           1230
              1228
                                        1229
                 1225
                      1227
                                         1224
                       1231
                              FIG. 61

                               60/63
<removed-date>
                                                       1200
<removed-apn>
              1020
                                   1213
                                       1208
                                              1201
                      1206
                 1203
                     1204                 1211
                     1214                       1228
                      1223
                                                 1221
                                               1222
                     1202
                                                1225
                                                1227
                       1229
                                              1224
                              FIG. 62

                                         61/63
<removed-date>
                                         1003
                                                                  1000
                                                   1025
                           1020
<removed-apn>
                        1022                     1021
                                                1002
                           1216
                                                         1201
                    1200                               1205
                                                            1115
                  1210                                          1215
                                                  1116
                               1213                      1212
                 1113
                 1372                                      1112
                                                                1203, 1207
                     1208                                1371
              1211                                          1300
                 1211
                     1114                                    1208
                       1214                            1212     1203
                          1206                           1209
                           1210
                               1202                         1100
                                  1223
                                                            1221, 1222, 1224
                                                          1001
                                      FIG. 63

                                              62/63
                                                         1207                         1010
<removed-date>
                                             1371 1208
                                 1373                        1210
                                                                         1212
                    1207       1211
                                                                       1100
              1205,1212
                1100                                                      1209
<removed-apn>
                                                                         1112
                 1209
                  1112
                   1210
                        1200                                           1200
                                                                1206
                                1203                  1203
                                         1300
                                                   1211
                                      1208 1372
                                               1373
                                             FIG. 64                           1010
                               1200                        1200
                        1221                                    1222
                         1150                                    1150
                                                                        1012
                        1011                   1150
                        1107                                      1107
                               1100
                                                      1150
                                      1223
                                              1200
                                             FIG. 65

                                             63/63
<removed-date>
                                                            1200
                           1200
                                                                1222 1010
<removed-apn>
                           1221                                1150
                       1150
                            1100                      1150
                                   1223
                                                     1200
                                          FIG. 66
                                                                            1010
                                                      1013
                              1109
                                                                     1222, 1226
                     1227
                                             1160                  1200
                    1200
              1221, 1225                                           1229
                                   1100
                                                     1110
                                          1014
                                          FIG. 67

