                                        ABSTRACT
    A method is provided in a gaming system comprising a licensing server and a
    plurality of linked gaming machines including a first gaming machine arranged
  5 to play a first game in which symbols are selected and presented on a game
    display. The method comprises initiating a first gaming session on the first
    gaming machine for play by a player, and presenting information relating to a
    second game on a secondary display associated with the first gaming machine,
    wherein the second game is recommended from amongst a plurality of
10  available games based on at least one predefined criterion, receiving
    notification of selection of the second game at the licensing server, determining
    at the licensing server whether there are there are sufficient licenses available
    to allow play of the second game on the first gaming machine, and
    in response to sufficient licenses being available, enabling delivery of the
is  selected second game to the gaming machine for play by the player.
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                              -1
                  Gaming apparatus and method involving secondary display
    Related Applications
  5 This application is a divisional application of Australian application no.
    <removed-apn>, which in turn is a divisional application of Australian application
    no. 2015204295, which in turn is a divisional application of Australian
    application no. 2013211551, which in turn is a divisional of Australian
    application no. 2010203055, which in turn is a divisional application of
io  Australian application no. 2007234537. The disclosures of each of these
    applications are incorporated herein by reference.
    Field of the Invention
    The present invention generally relates to gaming machines and methods of
is  gaming. A particular embodiment of the present invention relates to gaming
    systems where a plurality of different games are playable and the player has a
    choice as to which game or games to play.
    Background of the Invention
20  With the increase of gambling at gaming venues has come increased
    competition between gaming venues to obtain a larger share of the total
    gambling spend. Gaming venue operators have therefore continuously looked
    for new variations and types of games in order to attract both new and return
    customers to their venues.
25
    In response to this need, suppliers of gaming devices and systems have
    attempted to provide the sought after variety, while still developing games that
    comply with the relevant regulations in the jurisdiction of the gaming venue
    operator. Suppliers of gaming devices therefore are faced with restrictions on
30  the types of games and gaming machines that are allowable, both in terms of
    the prevailing regulations and in terms of providing a return on investment to
    the gaming venue operators.
    In addition, it is important that a player be able to understand the operation of a
35  game quickly so that the player can start to quickly play the game and therefore
    extract maximum entertainment from the game. Gaming venue operators may
    directly benefit by providing games to players that entertain the players and
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                                  -2
    therefore there is a need for providing games that entertain the largest number
    of players.
    One method of providing new gaming systems is to link a number of gaming
  5 machines. Gaming machines have been linked, for example, to a jackpot
    controller that operates a progressive jackpot. In addition, it is possible to link
    processing systems implementing game play, accounting and/or management
    functions to gaming machines, to allow gaming, accounting and management
    functions to be performed. There remains a need to find new ways to utilise
io  linked gaming systems.
    Any reference in this specification to the prior art does not constitute an
    admission that such prior art was well known or forms part of the common
    general knowledge in any jurisdiction.
15
    Summary of the Invention
    According to one aspect, the invention broadly resides in a gaming system
    comprising a licensing server and a plurality of linked gaming machines
    including a first gaming machine arranged to play a first game in which symbols
20  are selected and presented on a game display, the method comprising:
                initiating a first gaming session on the first gaming machine for play by a
    player, and presenting information relating to a second game on a secondary
    display associated with the first gaming machine, wherein the second game is
    recommended from amongst a plurality of available games based on at least
25  one predefined criterion;
                receiving notification of selection of the second game at the licensing
    server;
                determining at the licensing server whether there are there are sufficient
    licenses available to allow play of the second game on the first gaming
30  machine; and
                in response to a sufficient licenses being available, enabling delivery of
    the selected second game to the gaming machine for play by the player.
    According to another aspect, the invention broadly resides in a gaming system
35  comprising a licensing server and a plurality of linked gaming machines
    including a first gaming machine arranged to play a first game in which symbols
    are selected and presented on a game display, the gaming machine operating
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                                  -3
    to initiate a first gaming session for play by a player, and present information
    relating to a second game on a secondary display associated with the first
    gaming machine, wherein the second game is recommended from amongst a
    plurality of available games based on at least one predefined criterion, the
  5 licensing server operating to:
                receive notification of selection of the second game at the first gaming
    machine;
                determine whether there are there are sufficient licenses available to
    allow play of the second game on the first gaming machine; and
10              in response to sufficient licenses being available, enabling delivery of the
    selected second game to the gaming machine for play by the player.
    The gaming machine may include a player tracking module and the presented
    information may be a game playable on the gaming machine.
15
    In an embodiment, in response to a valid license not being determined, a third
    game is recommended as an alternative, the third game being the closest
    matching game to the recommended second game.
20  Also described is a method for use with a gaming machine arranged to provide
    play of a game in which one or more symbols are selected and presented on a
    game display, the gaming machine including a player tracking module and a
    player tracking module display separate from the game display, wherein the
    method comprises: presenting information relating to at least one other game
25  on the player tracking module display; receiving a predefined input at a player
    interface; and in response to receipt of said input, providing the at least one
    other game on the gaming machine.
    The method may further comprise selecting the information relating to at least
30  one other game dependent on a player identifier read by the player tracking
    module. The process of selecting may involve receiving a player history of the
    player and presenting information relating to games that share one or more
    common or like characteristics to games that the player has previously played.
35  Also described is a method for use with a gaming machine arranged to play at
    least one game in which symbols are selected and presented on a game
    display, the method comprising: initiating a first gaming session on the gaming
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                              -4
    machine in which a first game is played; presenting information relating to at
    least one other game on a secondary display; receiving at a player interface a
    predefined input; and in response to receipt of said input, providing the at least
    one other game on the gaming machine.
  5
    The gaming machine may be arranged to play at least two games and the
    process of presenting on the secondary display information identifying at least
    one other game comprises displaying information identifying at least one game
    that is playable on the gaming machine. The method may comprise only
10  presenting on the secondary display information relating to one or more games
    that can be played on the gaming machine. Alternatively, the method may
    comprise presenting on the secondary display information relating to one or
    more games that can be played on different gaming machines at the gaming
    venue where the gaming machine is located.
15
    The method may comprise selecting a set of games for display on the
    secondary display, the set of games having members representing a subset of
    all games for which information may be displayed on the secondary display, the
    selection of the set of games dependent on at least one of a current and past
20  selection of one or more games to play by the player.
    The method may further comprise presenting on the secondary display
    information regarding at least one event at a gaming venue where the gaming
    machine is located.
25
    The process of presenting on the secondary display information relating to at
    least one other game may comprise communicating data defining said
    information from a source remote from the gaming machine to a controller of
    the secondary display. The process of communicating data from the data
30  source to the controller of the secondary display may comprise communicating
    the data over a communication path that does not involve a controller of the
    gaming machine that controls play of the first game.
    The method may further comprise, at least during the time that the information
35  relating to at least one other game is presented on the secondary display,
    monitoring for a predefined player input at a player interface and in response to
    the detection of the player input initiating a process that causes the gaming
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                            -5
    machine to provide the game that relates to the information presented on the
    secondary display when the predefined player input was detected.
    Also described is a method for use with a plurality of linked gaming machines
  5 wherein each said gaming machine includes a player tracking module and a
    player tracking module display separate from a main game display which is
    arranged to display play of a game, the method being initiated during a gaming
    session on each of said plurality of linked gaming machines and comprising:
    presenting information relating to at least one other game on said player
io  tracking module display; detecting a certain player input at the gaming machine;
    and in response to the detected player input, providing a game
    relating to the presented information.
    The method may further comprise monitoring the provision of games by the
is  linked gaming machines.
    The monitoring of the provision of games by the linked gaming machines may
    be performed in a licensing server for the linked gaming machines, the licensing
    server maintaining in electronic storage licence records identifying the number
20  of licenses available for each game and regulating provision of the games
    dependent on the licenses available.
    If no licenses are available for a game, the method may involve not displaying
    information relating to that game on the secondary display.
25
    The method may further comprise independently controlling the secondary
    displays to display information relating to different games. The method may
    further comprise controlling the secondary displays to temporarily
    simultaneously display the same information and then return to displaying said
30  information relating to at least one other game.
    The method may further comprise determining the information to display on the
    secondary display dependent on at least one of the parameters selected from
    the group comprising: the game currently being played at the gaming machine,
35  a recorded history of game selections by a player currently identified at that
    gaming machine, recorded characteristics of games available to be played, and
    recorded categorisations of games available to be played.
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                            -6
    The method may comprise communicating information for display on the
    secondary display from a central electronic processing system to a controller of
    the secondary display.
  5
    Also described is instructions stored in a storage medium readable by a game
    controller and executable to implement a method for use with a gaming
    machine arranged to play at least one game in which symbols are selected and
    presented on a game display, wherein an electronic secondary display is
10  associated with said gaming machine, the method caused to be implemented
    comprising: initiating a first gaming session on the gaming machine in which a
    first game is played; presenting information relating to at least one other game
    on said secondary display; receiving at a player interface a predefined input;
    and in response to receipt of said input, providing the at least one other game
is  on the gaming machine.
    Also described is a gaming machine implementing a game wherein one or more
    symbols are selected and presented on a display, the gaming machine
    comprising a user interface and a primary display in communication with a
20  game controller that controls the presentation of images on the primary display
    at least partly in response to a user operation of said user interface, the gaming
    machine further comprising a player tracking module and player tracking
    module display separate from the primary display, the player tracking module
    display arranged to present information relating to at least one other game
25  during a gaming session, wherein the gaming machine is arranged to detect a
    predefined player input and in response to the detection of said input initiate a
    process that causes the gaming machine to provide the at least one other game
    relating to the information presented on the player tracking module display
    when said input was detected.
30
    The gaming machine may comprise a communication interface for
    communicating with a remote display controller and the gaming machine may
    be arranged so that the secondary display presents information in response to
    control signals received at the communication interface. The gaming may be
35  arranged so that control signals received at the communication interface are
    communicated to the secondary display through a communication path that
    does not include the game controller.
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                            -7
    The secondary display may alternatively display information dependent on
    control signals from a display controller local to the gaming machine. The
    display controller local to the gaming machine may also operate as the game
  5 controller.
    The gaming machine may play at least two games and the secondary display
    may present information identifying at least one game that is playable on the
    gaming machine. The secondary display may only present information relating
10  to one or more games that can be played on the gaming machine.
    The gaming machine may be arranged to detect a predefined player input and
    in response to the detection of the predefined player input initiate a process that
    causes the gaming machine to provide the game that relates to the information
is  presented on the secondary display when the predefined player input was
    detected. The predefined player input may be a player input provided on a part
    of the user interface associated with the secondary display. The secondary
    display may be provided in a housing distinct from a housing of the primary
    display and the user interface used to provide the predefined player input may
20  be in the same housing as the secondary display.
    The gaming machine includes a top box comprising a further electronic display.
    Also described is a gaming system comprising a plurality of gaming machines,
25  each gaming machine providing a game in which one or more symbols are
    selected and presented on a primary display, wherein said plurality of gaming
    machines are each associated with a player tracking module display, a plurality
    of the player tracking module displays being controlled to present information
    relating to at least one game other than a game currently being played on the
30  associated gaming machine, wherein the said gaming machines are further
    configured to detect a predefined player input and initiate a process to provide a
    game relating to the information presented on the associated player tracking
    module display when the predefined player input was detected.
35  The information displayed by the secondary displays may be determined by an
    electronic processing system remote from the gaming machine.
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                                    -8
    The secondary displays may be independently controllable.
    The gaming system may record in electronic storage information identifying the
    provision of games by the gaming machines. The recorded information may be
  5 used for regulating provision of games to the gaming machines.
    Also described is a gaming machine arranged to play at least one game in
    which symbols are selected, presented on a game display, and evaluated for a
    winning outcome, the gaming machine including a player tracking module
io  having a controller and a player tracking module display separate from the
    game display, wherein the controller controls the player tracking module display
    to present information relating to at least one other game wherein the
    information relating to the at least one other game is selected dependent on a
    player identifier read by the player tracking module, wherein the gaming
is  machine is configured to detect a predefined player input and initiate a process
    to provide a game relating to the information presented on the secondary
    display when the predefined player input was detected.
    The information relating to at least one other game may be selected dependent
20  on a player identifier read from a player tracking card inserted into the player
    tracking module. The process of selecting may involve comparing a player
    history of the player and presenting information relating to games that share
    one or more common or like characteristics to games that the player has
    previously played. The process of selecting may be performed by the controller
25  of the player tracking module, a controller of the gaming machine, or a remote
    controller in data communication with the player tracking module, optionally via
    the gaming machine.
    Further aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the
30  following description, given by way of example and with reference to the
    accompanying drawings.
    Brief Description of the Drawings
    Figure 1:                shows diagrammatically, a view of a gaming console suitable for
35  implementing the present invention.
    Figure 2:                shows a block diagram of gaming machine suitable for
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                                    -9
    implementing the present invention.
    Figure 3:                shows a block diagram of components of the memory of the
    gaming machine represented in Figure 2.
  5
    Figure 4:                shows diagrammatically, a network gaming system suitable for
    implementing the present invention.
    Figure 5:                shows a flow diagram of a process performed in accordance with
10  an embodiment of the present invention.
    Detailed Description
    In Figure 1 of the accompanying drawings, one example of a gaming console
is  that is suitable to implement the present invention is generally referenced by
    arrow 114.
    The gaming console 114 includes two displays 106A, 106B on one or both of
    which is displayed representations of a game that can be played by a player
20  and bank of buttons 107A and/or a touch screen 107B to enable a player to
    play the game. The displays 106 may be video display units, such as a cathode
    ray tube screen device, a liquid crystal display, plasma screen, any other
    suitable video display unit, or the visible portion of an electromechanical device.
    The display 106B may display artwork, including for example, pay tables and
25  details of bonus awards and other information or images relating to the game.
    In alternative gaming consoles the display 106B may be omitted, optionally
    replaced by a static display.
    A credit input including a coin input 11 0A and/or bill collector 11 OB allows a
30  player to provide credit for wagering and a coin output 111 is provided for cash
    payouts from the gaming console 114. A card and/or ticket reader 108 and a
    printer 109 may be provided to provide cashless game play or other gaming
    and non-gaming related functions.
35  A player tracking module (PTM) 119 is attached to a side of the console 114.
    The PTM 119 includes an electronic display 116 and may also include a keypad
    117 and a card reader 118, which may also be a ticket reader or may be solely
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                            -10
    a ticket reader. The display 116 may, for example, be a LCD display or other
    video display or may be a LED display. As explained in more detail herein
    below, the card reader 118 may allow player identification through the insertion
    of a player card 120 including a machine readable player identifier. Typically
  5 only one of the readers 108, 118 are provided on a single gaming console to
    perform all card and ticket reading functions.
    Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a gaming machine, generally referenced by
    arrow 100, suitable for implementing the present invention. The gaming
10  machine 100 may include the gaming console 114 shown in Figure 1 and
    accordingly like reference numerals have been used to describe like
    components in Figures 1 and 2.
    The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101, which in the
is  illustrated example includes a computational device 102, which may be a
    microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device or other suitable
    device. Instructions and data to control operation of the computational device
    102 are stored in a memory 103, which is in data communication and/or forms
    part of the computational device 102. Typically, the gaming machine 100 will
20  include both volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each type
    of memory, with such memories being collectively represented by the memory
    103. The instructions to cause the game controller 101 to implement the
    present invention will be stored in the memory 103.
25  The game controller 101 may include hardware meters 104 for the purposes of
    regulatory compliance and also include an input/output (1/O) interface 105 for
    communicating with the peripheral devices of the gaming machine 100. The
    input/output interface 105 and/or the peripheral devices may be intelligent
    devices with their own memory for instructions and data.
30
    In the example shown in Figure 2, the peripheral devices that communicate with
    the controller are the various components forming a user interface 115, the
    printer 109, the bill acceptor and/or coin input 110 and the coin output 111.
    Additional devices may be included as part of the gaming machine 100, or
35  devices omitted as required for the specific implementation.
    The user interface includes the displays 106, bank of buttons/touch screen 107
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                             - 11
    and the card and/or ticket reader 108 if provided. In addition, the user interface
    includes components of the PTM 119, including the display 116, bank of
    buttons/touch screen 117 and the card and/or ticket reader 118.
  5 In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a communications interface,
    for example a network card 112. The network card 112, may for example, send
    status information, accounting information or other information to a central
    controller, server or database and receive data or commands from the central
    controller, server or database. The network card 112 may also enable
io  communication with a central player account, allowing cashless gaming. One or
    more of the peripheral devices, for example the card/ticket reader 108 may be
    able to communicate directly with the network card 112. The PTM 119 has a
    PTM controller 121 that may have a direct communication line with the network
    card 112 and may also communicate with the game controller 101 through the
is  1/O interface 105. The network card 112 and the 1/O interface 105 may be
    suitably implemented as a single device in the form of a machine
    communications interface.
    The game controller 101 may also include a random number generator 113,
20  which generates a series of random numbers that determine the outcome of a
    series of random game events played as part of a game on the gaming
    machine 100.
    The game controller 101 may have distributed hardware and software
25  components that communicate with each other directly or through a network or
    other communication channel. In particular, the game controller 101 may be
    located in part or in its entirety remote from the user interface 115. Also, the
    game controller 102 may comprise a plurality of devices, which may be local or
    remote from each other.
30
    Figure 3 shows an exemplary block diagram of the main components of the
    memory 103. The RAM 103A typically temporarily holds instructions and data
    related to the execution of game programs and communication functions
    performed by the computational controller 102. The EPROM 103B may be a
35  boot ROM device and/or may contain system and game related code. The
    mass storage device 103C may be used to store game programs, the integrity
    of which may be verified and/or authenticated by the computational controller
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                          - 12
    102 using protected code from the EPROM 103B or elsewhere.
    In one embodiment, the gaming machine 100 may be a multi-game gaming
    machine able to execute a plurality of games, with the instructions and data
  5 relating to each game stored in the EPROM 103B. The player may then operate
    the user interface 115, for example the touch screen 107B which overlays icons
    presented on the display 106A representing each game to select which game to
    play. Alternatively, the player may use the keypad 117 or a touch screen
    provided over the display 116 of the PTM 119 to select which game to play.
10
    Figure 4 shows a gaming system 200 in the form of a network of devices. The
    gaming system 200 includes a network infrastructure 201, which for example
    may be an Ethernet network. Alternatively, a wireless network and/or direct
    communication channels, or a different type of network may be used to link the
is  gaming machines to a server, each other and/or other devices. Gaming
    consoles 114, shown arranged in three banks 203 of two gaming consoles 114
    in Figure 4, are connected to the network infrastructure 201. The gaming
    consoles 114 may form part or all of a gaming machine 100. Single gaming
    consoles 114 and banks 203 containing three or more gaming devices 202 may
20  also be connected to the network infrastructure 201, which may also include
    hubs, routers, bridges to other networks and other devices (not shown).
    One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the network 201. The
    displays 204 may, for example, be associated with a bank 203 of gaming
25  consoles 114. The displays 204 may be used to display representations
    associated with game play on the gaming devices 202, and/or used to display
    other representations, for example promotional or informational material.
    Servers may also be connected to the network 201. For example, a game
30  server 205 may generate game outcomes for games played on one or more of
    the gaming consoles 114, a database management server 206 may manage
    the storage of game programs and associated data in a database 206A so that
    they are available for downloading to, or access by, game controllers 101, and
    a jackpot server 207 may control one or more jackpots for the gaming system
35  200.
    Further servers may be provided to assist in the administration of the gaming
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                           -13
    system 200, including for example a floor management server 208, and a
    licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses to particular games. An
    administrator terminal 210 is provided to allow an administrator to manage the
    network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
  5
    The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming systems, other
    local networks, for example a corporate network and/or a wide area network
    such as the Internet through a firewall 211.
io  Figure 5 shows a process flow diagram of a process performed in accordance
    with an embodiment of the present invention. The process may be performed
    by the gaming system 200, in which the gaming consoles 114 each include
    game controllers 101 to form gaming machines 100 and the following
    description assumes this implementation. However, those skilled in the relevant
is  arts will appreciate that the process will also be able to be implemented by
    other gaming systems.
    In step 1, the PTM controller 121 monitors the card reader 118 for the insertion
    of a player tracking card 120. When a player tracking card 120 is inserted, the
20  card reader 118 reads a player identifier and the PTM controller 121
    communicates this to the network card 112 for communication to the floor
    management server 208 together with information to identify the PTM 119
    and/or console 114 at which the player inserted their player tracking card 120.
    As explained in more detail later herein, the floor management server 208
25  stores in a database historical records of players.
    In response to receipt of the player identifier, the floor management server 208
    retrieves the historical records associated with that player identifier (step 2) and
    then generates game information for display by the display 116 (step 3).
30
    In one embodiment, the game information includes suggestions of games for
    the player to play. This embodiment may be particularly suited to an
    implementation of the gaming system 200 where games are centrally stored
    and downloaded to the gaming machines 100 from the database management
35  server 206, or executed centrally. In this implementation there may be many
    games that the player can select to play, in which case the PTM 119 may
    display names of games that can be played and cycle through a list of those
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                             - 14
    games. In another embodiment, if the gaming machine 100 is a multi-game
    machine, the recommendations may be for games stored in the EPROM 103B
    that can be executed by the gaming machine 100 that the player is currently
    playing.
  5
    However, it may be advantageous to tailor what information is displayed on the
    display 116 to a particular player. For example, if a gaming system 200 is
    operable to play hundreds or thousands of games, simply cycling through the
    list of available games may result in it being unlikely that the player will see a
10  game that appeals to them. A recommendation engine may be implemented in
    the gaming system 200, suitably by the floor management server 208 to select
    games that the player may be more interested in. The recommendation engine
    may use historical game activity previously recorded and associated with the
    player identifier to identify types of games that the player has demonstrated a
is  preference for. For example, the player may predominantly play games of a
    certain denomination, play more spinning reel games than poker-style games
    and/or tend to play games linked to a progressive jackpot. Alternatively, the
    recommendation engine may use only the game currently being played on the
    gaming machine 100 to select what information to display on the display 116.
20
    The recommendation engine may use a number of methods for establishing a
    selection of games for presentation on the display 116. Methods for selecting
    games for presentation are described in international patent publication number
    WO 2005/028056 Al, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
25
    Once the game information has been generated, this is communicated by the
    recommendation engine (which may be implemented by the floor management
    server 208) to the PTM 119 (step 4). The PTM 119 may have its own network
    address for this purpose, or the PTM 119 may also use an identifier of the
30  gaming console 114 to allow communications to be addressed to the PTM 119.
    The PTM controller 121 receives the game information from the network card
    112 and controls the display 116 to display the information (step 5). As the
    display 116 is separate from the displays 106 that are used to display
    representations of the game that the player is currently playing, the game
35  information can be presented during a gaming session of the player without
    interfering with the representations of the game. The presentation of the game
    information is therefore largely unobtrusive to the player, yet is still readily
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                            -15
    visible by the player.
    As the player plays a game on the gaming machine 100, the game activity may
    be monitored (step 6) and communicated to the floor management server 208
  5 so that the historical records for the player can be updated. The information
    relating to game activity communicated to the floor management may include
    the game that is played, the duration of play, total amount wagered in the
    gaming session, and/or rate of play of the game. This information may be used
    by the recommendation engine to identify preferences of the player, and may
10  also be used for other purposes, for example in loyalty promotions and/or to
    maintain accounting records for the gaming venue.
    While the game information is presented on the display 116, the user interface
    115 is monitored for a predetermined action that indicates that a player may
is  want to play a game related to the game information currently being displayed
    (step 7). Where the PTM 119 has controls, for example the bank of
    buttons/touch screen 117 that the player can manipulate separately from the
    controls of the main gaming console, then step 7 may be performed by the PTM
    controller 121. In decision step 8, if no new game has been selected, the
20  process proceeds to step 6. If a new game is selected, then the PTM controller
    121 communicates this information onto the network 201 to be received by the
    licensing server 209. If no information relating to a game is presented on the
    secondary display when the predefined player input was detected, then the
    game required may be identified as the game relating to the information that
25  was last presented on the secondary display.
    The recommendation engine may alternatively be distributed in a gaming
    system. For example, each PTM 119 may have an internal recommendation
    engine and may receive player tracking information from a central location
30  and/or from the gaming machine that it is connected to. Alternatively, the
    gaming machine controller may include a recommendation engine. However, in
    a network gaming system that includes a plurality of gaming machines, a
    central recommendation engine may provide optimal operation in many
    circumstances.
35
    The licensing server 209 maintains a record of the licenses to games available
    in the gaming system 200 and the number of each game that is currently being
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                              -16
    played. On receiving notification of selection of a game from the PTM controller
    121, the licensing server 209 checks whether there are sufficient licenses
    available (step 9) to allow play of the game (assuming that there is a restriction
    on the number of licences available). If there is not, the licensing server 209
  5 responds to the PTM controller 121, which displays an appropriate message. In
    addition, the PTM controller 121 may request from the recommendation engine
    the closest matching game to the selected game and suggest this game as an
    alternative.
10  In one embodiment, if there are no licenses available for a particular game,
    then the licensing server 209 communicates this to the floor management
    server 208. In response, the floor management server 208 removes this game
    from the list of suggested games for display by the PTM 119. In this way player
    dissatisfaction resulting from selecting a game displayed by the PTM 119 that is
is  not currently available may be minimised.
    If there are sufficient licenses, the licensing server 209 updates its license
    records to indicate the playing of the new game (step 10) and confirms that
    there is a licence available to the PTM controller 121, which then requests the
20  game from the database management server 206. Alternatively, the licensing
    server 209 may report directly to the database management server 206. The
    selected game is then downloaded to the gaming machine 100 associated with
    the PTM 119 or loaded into a centralised game controller 101 and the new
    game is provided to the player using the gaming console 114 that they are
25  currently located at (step 11).
    The process involves monitoring for an event that indicates the end of the
    gaming session, which is suitably the removal of the player tracking card 20
    from the gaming console 114 (step 12). If the gaming session has not ended,
30  then the process returns to step 6, in which game activity is monitored and
    recorded. This includes recording the selection of the new game and may also
    be a trigger for communicating information relating to the previous game, such
    as total time spent playing, total amount wagered, total wins, total losses and/or
    rate of play. If the gaming session has ended, the PTM 119 may display on the
35  display 116 an attract sequence, which may include names of popular games or
    information associated with games. A new player could use the PTM 119 to
    select a currently displayed game to play. The display 116 may be used in
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                            -17
    conjunction with attract sequences displayed on the display 106B and/or 106A.
     For example, images related to a game may be displayed on display 106B and
    a message may be displayed on the PTM 119 giving instructions how to play
    the game currently displayed on the display 106B. The PTM 119 may
  5 alternatively display games similar to the game currently displayed on the
    display 106B and allow the player to select the displayed game for play.
    Messages other than recommendations of other games may also be generated
    for display on the display 116 (step 14). These messages may include gaming
io  venue messages, for example indicating special bonus periods, special events,
    or other information such as the opening and closing times of an on-site
    restaurant. In addition, messages may be generated relating to game play of
    the game currently being played on the gaming machine 100. For example, the
    information used to track the play of a player may be used to trigger the
is  presentation of messages on the display 116. A large win may result in a
    congratulatory message being displayed, or instructions on how to receive the
    win may be displayed. The display may also display the total amount wagered
    and the total amount won in the current gaming session. In addition, the PTM
     119 may display the current amount of a progressive jackpot maintained by the
20  jackpot server 207 that the player is eligible to win by playing the current game.
    The PTM 119 may monitor communications from the game controller 101 for
    events that trigger a game related message, or alternatively this monitoring may
    be performed elsewhere in the gaming system 200, for example by the floor
    management server 208, which then controls the PTM 119 to display the
25  messages.
     In the embodiment where one or more progressive jackpots are maintained by
    a jackpot server 207, information communicated by the game controller 101
    onto the network 201 may indicate the game currently being played so that the
30  appropriate jackpot is incremented due to game play. An identifier of the
    console 114 that the player is playing the game at is also communicated with
    the information, to enable identification of the winning console when the jackpot
    is to be awarded.
35  While the foregoing description has focussed on an embodiment where the
    player has been identified, the PTM 119 may still operate to suggest games to
    an unidentified player. The selection of games for display may be random, cycle
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                            -18
    through a predefined list, or be dependent on the historical information of a
    collection of players, for example all players at the gaming venue over the past
    day, week, month or other period. In addition, where the gaming machine 100 is
    a multi-game machine, the PTM 119 may operate without any network
  5 connection, recommending games playable by the gaming machine. The game
    controller 101 could then directly control the display 116.
    In addition, as well as recommending games that can be played at the current
    gaming console 114, the PTM could recommend games that are playable at
io  other gaming consoles 114 in the gaming system 200. This embodiment may
    be suited to gaming systems where each gaming machine 100 and associated
    console 114 can only play a restricted number of games, for example one. The
    PTM 119 could recommend games playable only at gaming machines that are
    currently unoccupied by players, receiving this information from the floor
is  management server 208 and could indicate where the gaming machine that can
    play the suggested game is located if the player operates the user interface 115
    to indicate that they are interested in playing that game. The player may further
    be able to reserve a gaming machine using the PTM 119, for example reserve
    a gaming machine that can play a game that has been presented on the display
20  116. In this embodiment, the reservation request may be communicated from
    the PTM 119 together with information identifying the game that the player has
    identified to the floor management server 208, which may then send a
    command over the network 200 to the appropriate gaming machine 100 to
    reserve it. Methods for reserving gaming machines are described in
25  international patent publication number WO 2002/111954, which is hereby
    incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
    The exemplary process described in relation to Figure 5 may be varied in a
    number of ways. The order of the steps performed in the process may be
30  changed, steps omitted or substituted, or new steps added as required for a
    particular implementation.
    Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to integers having
    known equivalents, then those equivalents are hereby incorporated herein as if
35  individually set forth.
    Those skilled in the relevant arts will appreciate that modifications and additions
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                           -19
   to the embodiments of the present invention may be made without departing
   from the scope of the present invention.
   It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this
 5 specification extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the
   individual features mentioned or evident from the text or drawings. All of these
   different combinations constitute various alternative aspects of the invention.
   It will also be understood that the term "comprises" (or its grammatical variants)
10 as used in this specification is equivalent to the term "includes" and should not
   be taken as excluding the presence of other elements or features.
   10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                                  - 20
    The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1.          A method in a gaming system comprising a licensing server and a
    plurality of linked gaming machines including a first gaming machine arranged
  5 to play a first game in which symbols are selected and presented on a game
    display, the method comprising:
                initiating a first gaming session on the first gaming machine for play by a
    player, and presenting information relating to a second game on a secondary
    display associated with the first gaming machine, wherein the second game is
10  recommended from amongst a plurality of available games based on at least
    one predefined criterion;
                receiving notification of selection of the second game at the licensing
    server;
                determining at the licensing server whether there are there are sufficient
is  licenses available to allow play of the second game on the first gaming
    machine; and
                in response to sufficient licenses being available, enabling delivery of the
    selected second game to the gaming machine for play by the player.
20  2.          A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said first gaming machine
    includes a player tracking module comprising the secondary display.
    3.          A method as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the licensing server
    maintains a record of the licenses to games available in the gaming system and
25  the number of each game that is currently being played.
    4.          A method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the license server enables
    delivery of the selected second game by confirming availability of the second
    game to the player tracking module.
30
    5.          A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the licensing server enables
    delivery of the selected second game by communicating with a database
    management server that stores the second game.
35  6.          A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one criterion
    comprises one or more of: historical game activity associated with the player,
    games linked to a progressive jackpot and current gaming activity generated
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

                                                 - 21
    through play of the first game.
    7.          A gaming system comprising a licensing server and a plurality of linked
    gaming machines including a first gaming machine arranged to play a first
  5 game in which symbols are selected and presented on a game display, the
    gaming machine operating to initiate a first gaming session for play by a player,
    and present information relating to a second game on a secondary display
    associated with the first gaming machine, wherein the second game is
    recommended from amongst a plurality of available games based on at least
10  one predefined criterion, the licensing server operating to:
                receive notification of selection of the second game at the first gaming
    machine;
                determine whether there are there are sufficient licenses available to
    allow play of the second game on the first gaming machine; and
is              in response to sufficient licenses being available, enabling delivery of the
    selected second game to the gaming machine for play by the player.
    8.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the first gaming
    machine includes a player tracking module comprising the secondary display.
20
    9.          A gaming system as claimed in claim 7 or claim 8 wherein the plurality of
    games are games playable on the gaming machine.
    10.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the licensing server
25  maintains a record of the licenses to games available in the gaming system and
    the number of each game that is currently being played.
    11.         A gaming system as claimed in claim in claim 7, wherein the licensing
    server enables delivery of the selected second game by communicating with a
30  database management server that stores the second game.
    12.         A gaming system as claimed in claim 7, wherein the at least one criterion
    comprises one or more of: historical game activity associated with the player,
    games linked to a progressive jackpot and current gaming activity generated
35  through play of the first game.
    10206821_1(GHMaters) P88270.AU.5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
