                           ELECTRONIC VAPOUR PROVISION SYSTEM
   Abstract
 5
           An electronic vapour provision system is provided including: a pressure drop or air
   flow sensor for monitoring inhalation by a user through the electronic vapour provision
   system; and a control unit for detecting the start and end of inhalation based on readings
   from the sensor. The control unit is configured to: monitor the cumulative period of
.0 inhalation (Ti) over a predetermined window (Tw); and transfer the electronic vapour
   provision system to a sleep mode if the cumulative period (Ti) exceeds a predetermined
   threshold (Th).
                                                  24

                             ELECTRONIC VAPOUR PROVISION SYSTEM
    Field
  5         The present disclosure relates to electronic vapour provision systems such as
    electronic nicotine delivery systems (e.g. e-cigarettes).
    Background
            Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
 .0 considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
    general knowledge in the field.
             Electronic vapour provision systems such as e-cigarettes generally contain a
    reservoir of liquid which is to be vaporised, typically nicotine. When a user inhales on the
    device, a heater is activated to vaporise a small amount of liquid, which is therefore inhaled
 .5 by the user.
            The use of e-cigarettes in the UK has grown rapidly, and it has been estimated that
    there are now over a million people using them in the UK.
    Summary
 '0         The disclosure is defined in the appended claims.
             Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
    claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
    sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
    "including, but not limited to".
25
             In one aspect, there is provided an electronic vapour provision system including:
            a pressure drop or air flow sensor for monitoring inhalation by a user through the
    electronic vapour provision system; and
            a control unit for detecting the start and end of inhalation based on readings from the
30  sensor;
            wherein the control unit is configured to:
            monitor the cumulative period of inhalation over a predetermined window; and
            transfer the electronic vapour provision system to a sleep mode if the cumulative
    period exceeds a predetermined threshold.
                                                      1

             In one embodiment, the predetermined window represents a rolling window. In other
    words, the predetermined window represents the last 20, 25, 30, 45 seconds etc. depending
    on the period of the window.
  5
             In one embodiment, upon entering sleep mode, one or more components of the
    system must be disengaged and re-engaged to transfer the system from the sleep mode to a
    user mode (in which vapour can be inhaled). In one embodiment, the electronic vapour
    provision system comprises a vaporiser and a power supply whereby the vaporiser must be
 .0 disengaged and re-engaged with the power supply in order to re-enter user mode. This
    disengaging and re-engaging can be considered as a form of resetting the device.
             In a further aspect, there is provided an electronic vapour provision system including:
            a pressure drop or air flow sensor for monitoring inhalation by a user through the
 .5 electronic vapour provision system; and
            a control unit for detecting the start and end of inhalation based on readings from the
    sensor, wherein the control unit is configured to:
             monitor the period of inhalation;
             if the period of inhalation exceeds a first threshold:
  0                   render the electronic vapour provision system inactive for a predetermined
                      period;
                      render the electronic vapour provision system active after the predetermined
                      period has expired;
             monitor the period of the next inhalation; and
25           if the period of the next inhalation exceeds a second threshold, transfer the electronic
    vapour provision system to a sleep mode.
             In one embodiment, the system comprises a vaporiser for vaporising liquid for
    inhalation by a user of the electronic vapour provision system and a power supply
30  comprising a cell or battery for supplying power to the vaporiser. After a transfer to sleep
    mode, the system may be transferred back to a user mode (in which vapour can be inhaled),
    such that power is available to the vaporiser, by disengaging and re-engaging the vaporiser
    from the power supply. This disengaging and re-engaging can be considered as a form of
    resetting the device.
                                                      2

             The first threshold may be substantially the same period as the second threshold.
    Alternatively, the first threshold may be greater than the second threshold. Alternatively, the
    first threshold may be less than the second threshold.
             The period of the first and/or the second threshold may be 3, 3.5, 4, 4.5 or 5
  5 seconds. The period of the first and/or the second threshold may be from about 3 to 5
    seconds, 3.5 to 5 seconds or 4 to 5 seconds. The period of the first and/or the second
    threshold may be greater than 3 seconds. Other embodiments may use different values for
    the first and/or second thresholds (which may be the same, or may differ from one another).
              In one embodiment, the period of inactivity may be from 3 to 5 seconds. Other
 .0 embodiments may use different values for the period of inactivity, for example, depending on
    the desired configuration of the system.
              In a further aspect, there is provided an electronic vapour provision system including:
             a vaporiser for vaporising liquid for inhalation by a user of the electronic vapour
 .5 provision system;
             a power supply comprising a cell or battery for supplying power to the vaporiser;
             a power regulation system for compensating for variation in the voltage level of the
    power supplied to the vaporiser by the power supply using pulse-width modulation, thereby
    providing a more consistent output level of vaporised liquid for inhalation by the user.
 -O
              In one embodiment, the power regulation system comprises a voltage reference
    generator, and the voltage level of the power supplied to the vaporiser is determined based
    on a comparison with the voltage from the voltage reference generator.
              In one embodiment, the power regulation system comprises a voltage divider for
25  dividing the voltage from the power supply prior to the comparison with the voltage from the
    voltage reference generator. The voltage divider may comprise a pair of resistors in series.
              In one embodiment, the power regulation system is able to provide an approximately
    constant power level to the vaporiser.
30            In a further aspect, there is provided an electronic vapour provision system including:
             a pressure drop or air flow sensor for monitoring inhalation by a user through the
    electronic vapour provision system; and
             a control unit for detecting the start and end of inhalation based on readings from the
    sensor;
35           wherein the control unit is configured to:
             detect the start of inhalation when the sensor reading departs by more than a first
    threshold from a previous reading; and
                                                      3

             detect the end of inhalation when the sensor reading departs by less than a second
    threshold from the previous reading;
             wherein the first threshold is greater than the second threshold.
  5          In one embodiment, the previous reading comprises an ambient value which is
    updated on a periodic basis. In one embodiment, upon detection of the start of inhalation,
    the control unit increases the rate at which a sensor reading is obtained. In one
    embodiment, upon detection of the start of inhalation, the control unit sets one or more
    timers to track the duration of this particular inhalation.
 .0          In one embodiment, the first threshold may be an absolute or relative difference with
    respect to the previous reading. For example, where the first threshold is an absolute
    difference with respect to the previous reading, the difference may be greater than 150, 200,
    250, 300, 350, 400 or 450 Pascals. Alternatively, the difference may be in a range of from
    150 to 450, 200 to 400, 250 to 350 or 300 to 350 Pascals. Where the first threshold is a
 .5 percentage difference with respect to the previous reading, the percentage drop may be
    0.2%, 0.3% or 0.4% compared with the previous reading. Other embodiments may use
    different values for the absolute and/or relative difference, or may adopt a different strategy
    for setting the first threshold.
             In one embodiment, the second threshold may be an absolute or relative difference
  0 with respect to the previous reading. For example, where the second threshold is an
    absolute difference with respect to the previous reading, the difference may be greater than
    80, 100 or 120 Pascals. Alternatively, the difference may be in a range of from 20 to 250, 50
    to 200, or 75 to 150 Pascals. Where the second threshold is a percentage difference with
    respect to the previous reading, the percentage drop may be 0.08%, 0.1% or 0.12%
25  compared with the previous reading. Other embodiments may use different values for the
    absolute and/or relative difference, or may adopt a different strategy for setting the second
    threshold.
             In a further aspect, there is provided an electronic vapour provision system including:
30           a vaporiser for vaporising liquid for inhalation by a user of the electronic vapour
    provision system;
             a power supply comprising a cell or battery for supplying power to the vaporiser; and
             a control unit for controlling the supply of power from the power supply to the
    vaporiser, the control unit having a sleep mode where no power is supplied to the vaporiser
35  and a user mode where power is available for supply to the vaporiser, whereby the control
    unit reverts from user mode to sleep mode after a predetermined amount of time of inactivity
    in user mode and/or after the vaporiser has been disengaged from the power supply.
                                                       4

             The period of inactivity may be varied depending on the desired configuration of the
     system. For example, the period of inactivity may be greater than 4, 5, or 6 minutes. Other
     embodiments may use different values for the period of inactivity, for example, depending on
  5  the desired configuration of the system.
             Where the system is transferred to sleep mode, it may be transferred back to user
     mode either by disengaging and re-engaging the vaporiser with the power supply, or by re
     engaging the vaporiser with the power supply (if previously disengaged).
             These and other aspects are apparent from the present disclosure as read as a
 .0  whole. Therefore, the disclosure is not to be restricted to specific paragraphs, but extends to
     combinations of the disclosures presented in the whole document. For example, an
     electronic vapour provision system may be provided in accordance with the present
     disclosure which includes any one or more of the various aspects described above (or
     features therefrom).
 .5
     Brief Description of the Drawings
             Figure 1 is a schematic (exploded) diagram of an e-cigarette in accordance with
     some embodiments of the disclosure.
  O0         Figure 2 is a schematic diagram of the main functional components of the body of the
     e-cigarette of Figure 1 in accordance with some embodiments of the disclosure.
             Figure 3 is a schematic diagram showing various modes or states of the e-cigarette
     of Figures 1 and 2 in accordance with some embodiments of the disclosure.
             Figure 4 is a flowchart illustrating a method for helping to protect against potential
25   abuse of the device of Figures 1 and 2 in accordance with some embodiments of the
     disclosure.
             Figure 5 is a flowchart illustrating a method detecting the start and end of inhalation
     in the device of Figure 1 and 2 in accordance with some embodiments of the disclosure.
             Figure 6 is a schematic diagram of the power regulation system within the e-cigarette
30   of Figures 1 and 2 in accordance with some embodiments of the disclosure.
              Figure 7A illustrates how the power regulation system of Figure 6 changes the duty
     cycle to maintain a constant average power level in accordance with some embodiments of
     the disclosure.
             Figure 7B is a schematic graph showing the variation of of duty cycle in relation to
35   the measured or tracked voltage of the cell in accordance with some embodiments of the
     disclosure.
                                                      5

    Detailed Description
             As described above, the present disclosure relates to an electronic vapour provision
    system, such as an e-cigarette. Throughout the following description the term "e-cigarette"
  5 is used; however, this term may be used interchangeably with electronic vapour provision
    system.
             Figure 1 is a schematic (exploded) diagram of an e-cigarette 10 in accordance with
    some embodiments of the disclosure (not to scale). The e-cigarette comprises a body 20, a
    cartridge 30 and a vaporiser 40. The cartridge includes an internal chamber containing a
 .0 reservoir of nicotine and a mouthpiece 35. The cartridge reservoir may be a foam matrix or
    any other structure for retaining the nicotine until such time that it is required to be delivered
    to the vaporiser. The body 20 includes a re-chargeable cell or battery to provide power to
    the e-cigarette 10 and a circuit board for generally controlling the e-cigarette. The vaporiser
    40 includes a heater for vaporising the nicotine and further includes a wick or similar device
 .5 which transports a small amount of nicotine from the reservoir in the cartridge to a heating
    location on or adjacent the heater. When the heater receives power from the battery, as
    controlled by the circuit board, the heater vaporises the nicotine from the wick and this
    vapour is then inhaled by a user through the mouthpiece.
             The body 20 and the vaporiser 40 are detachable from one another, but are joined
 '0 together when the device 10 is in use, for example, by a screw or bayonet fitting (indicated
    schematically in Figure 1 as 41A and 21A). The connection between the body and vaporiser
    provides for mechanical and electrical connectivity between the two. When the body is
    detached from the vaporiser, the electrical connection 21A on the body that is used to
    connect to the vaporiser also serves as a socket for connecting a charging device (not
25  shown). The other end of the charging device can be plugged into a USB socket to re
    charge the cell in the body of the e-cigarette. In other implementations, the e-cigarettte may
    be provided with a cable for direction connection between the electrical connection 21A and
    a USB socket.
             The body is provided with one or more holes (not shown in Figure 1) for air inlet.
30  These holes connect to an air passage through the body to an air outlet provided as part of
    connector 21A. This then links to an air path through the vaporiser 40 and the cartridge 30
    to the mouthpiece 35. The cartridge 30 and the vaporiser 40 are attached in use by
    connectors 41B and 31B (again shown schematically in Figure 1). As explained above, the
    cartridge includes a chamber containing a reservoir of nicotine, and a mouthpiece. When a
35  user inhales through the mouthpiece 35, air is drawn into the body 20 through one or more
    air inlet holes. This airflow (or the resulting change in pressure) is detected by a pressure
    sensor, which in turn activates the heater to vaporise the nicotine from the cartridge. The
                                                      6

    airflow passes from the body, through the vaporiser, where it combines with the nicotine
    vapour, and this combination of airflow and nicotine vapour then passes through the
    cartridge and out of the mouthpiece 35 to be inhaled by a user. The cartridge 30 may be
    detached from the vaporiser 40 and disposed of when the supply of nicotine is exhausted
  5 (and then replaced with another cartridge).
            It will be appreciated that the e-cigarette 10 shown in Figure 1 is presented by way of
    example, and various other implementations can be adopted. For example, in some
    embodiments, the cartridge 30 and the vaporiser 40 may be provided as a single unit
    (generally referred to as a cartomiser), and the charging facility may connect to an additional
 .0 or alternative power source, such as a car cigarette lighter.
            Figure 2 is a schematic diagram of the main functional components of the body 20 of
    the e-cigarette 10 of Figure 1 in accordance with some embodiments of the disclosure.
    These components may be mounted on the circuit board provided within the body 20,
    although depending on the particular configuration, in some embodiments, one or more of
 .5 the components may instead be accommodated in the body to operate in conjunction with
    the circuit board, but is/are not physically mounted on the circuit board itself.
            The body 20 includes a sensor unit 60 located in or adjacent to the air path through
    the body 20 from the air inlet to the air outlet (to the vaporiser). The sensor unit includes a
    pressure sensor 62 and temperature sensor 63 (also in or adjacent to this air path). The
  0 body further includes a Hall effect sensor 52, a voltage reference generator 56, a small
    speaker 58, and an electrical socket or connector 21A for connecting to the vaporiser 40 or
    to a USB charging device.
            The microcontroller 55 includes a CPU 50. The operations of the CPU 50 and other
    electronic components, such as the pressure sensor 62, are generally controlled at least in
25  part by software programs running on the CPU (or other component). Such software
    programs may be stored in non-volatile memory, such as ROM, which can be integrated into
    the microcontroller 55 itself, or provided as a separate component. The CPU may access
    the ROM to load and execute individual software programs as and when required. The
    microcontroller 55 also contains appropriate communications interfaces (and control
30  software) for communicating as appropriate with other devices in the body 10, such as the
    pressure sensor 62.
            The CPU controls the speaker 58 to produce audio output to reflect conditions or
    states within the e-cigarette, such as a low battery warning. Different signals for signalling
    different states or conditions may be provided by utilising tones or beeps of different pitch
35  and/or duration, and/or by providing multiple such beeps or tones.
            As noted above, the e-cigarette 10 provides an air path from the air inlet through the
    e-cigarette, past the pressure sensor 62 and the heater (in the vaporiser), to the mouthpiece
                                                      7

     35. Thus when a user inhales on the mouthpiece of the e-cigarette, the CPU 50 detects
     such inhalation based on information from the pressure sensor. In response to such a
     detection, the CPU supplies power from the battery or cell 54 to the heater, which thereby
     heats and vaporises the nicotine from the wick for inhalation by the user.
  5          Figure 3 is a schematic diagram showing various modes or states of the e-cigarette
     10 of Figures 1 and 2 in accordance with some embodiments of the disclosure. The device
     has three modes, namely shelf mode 301, sleep mode 302, and user mode 303. One
     motivation for the different modes is to help extend cell lifetime - thus shelf mode uses less
     power from the battery than sleep mode, which in turn uses less power from the cell than
 .0  user mode. The Hall sensor 52 is responsible for switching from shelf mode to sleep mode,
     while the CPU 50 is generally responsible for switching the device between sleep mode and
     user mode (and vice versa) according to predefined triggers. These changes in state may
     be confirmed by appropriate beeps or tones from the speaker 58.
             The device is in shelf mode when in its original packaging (not shown) - hence it
 .5  remains in shelf mode prior to purchase by a consumer (end user). In shelf mode, the
     device is largely inactive apart from the Hall effect sensor 52, which draws a very small
     current (approximately 3pAmp in some implementations). Since the cell 54 generally has a
     capacity of over 100 mAmp hours, the device can remain powered in shelf mode for up to
     four years or more.
  O0         The packaging is arranged to have a magnet located close to the Hall sensor. When
     the device is removed from the packaging, the Hall sensor detects the change (reduction) in
     magnetic field arising as the device is distanced from the magnet. In one embodiment, the
     Hall sensor 52 responds to this change by providing power to the microcontroller 55, which
     then becomes operational. This has the effect of switching the device from shelf mode 301
25   into sleep mode 302. Note that once the device has switched out of shelf mode, it may be
     possible for the device to be returned to shelf mode if it is placed back in the packaging
     containing the magnet, depending upon the particular implementation.
             The body further includes a capacitor (not shown in Figure 2) which is electrically
     connected to the electrical socket or connector 21A. In the original packaging, the vaporiser
30   40 is detached from the body 20. In this configuration, with the body 20 not attached to the
     vaporiser (or the USB charging device), the electrical socket 21A presents an open circuit to
     the capacitor, which therefore maintains its charge for a relatively substantial period of time.
     However, if the vaporiser 40 is connected to the electrical socket 21A, this presents a
     conductive path through which the capacitor is able to discharge very quickly.
35           When a user wishes to operate the device, the vaporiser is joined to the body. Every
     two seconds in sleep mode the CPU arranges for the capacitor to be charged up. If the
     capacitor discharges rapidly (in just a small fraction of a second), the CPU determines that
                                                      8

    the body is now connected to the vaporiser. This triggers the CPU to switch the device from
    sleep mode 302 to user mode 303. Alternatively, if the capacitor does not discharge within a
    predetermined time (much less than two seconds), this indicates that the body is still
    separated from the vaporiser, and hence the user is not able to operate the device.
  5 Accordingly, in this latter case, the CPU maintains the device in sleep mode, and waits for
    another two second interval before charging up the capacitor again to test for any new
    connectivity to the vaporiser.
             It will be appreciated that the two second interval is a balance between (i) not
    charging the capacitor too frequently, which would reduce battery lifetime, and (ii) ensuring
 .0 that if a user does prepare the device for use (by connecting the vaporiser to the body), then
    the device is active by the time the user inhales to provide the vaporised nicotine. In other
    implementations, a different interval may be adopted, depending upon the properties and
    intended usage pattern of the device in question.
             There are various routes or triggers for the CPU 50 to switch the device back from
 .5 user mode 303 to sleep mode 302. One trigger is if the user disengages the vaporiser 40
    from the body 20 - this would typically indicate that the user has finished using the e
    cigarette 10 for the time being. Another trigger is if the user has not inhaled for a
    predetermined time, such as five minutes (see below for a description of how such inhalation
    is detected). This helps to ensure that the device is not left in an active state for too long, for
  0 example, in a situation in which a user becomes distracted while using the device, and
    moves away to do something else without separating the body from the vaporiser. If the
    CPU does transition the device to sleep mode 302 while the vaporiser is still connected to
    the body, then in order to return to user mode 303, a user must first disengage the vaporiser
    from the body and then re-engage the vaporiser with the body. (This can be regarded as a
25  form of resetting the device). Placing the device in sleep mode if it has been inactive for this
    predetermined period of time also helps to reduce power consumption, as well as to restrict
    usage of the device by unintended parties.
             Further triggers for switching from user mode 303 to sleep mode 302 are provided to
    help prevent potential abuse of the device. One such trigger monitors the total period of
30  inhalation (say Ti) within a given window (of duration say Tw). If the value of Ti is seen to be
    unusually large, then the CPU transitions the device to sleep mode. In some
    implementations, Tw is fixed, for example at 30 second, 40 or 50 seconds. If the total
    cumulative period of inhalation (Ti) then exceeds a given threshold (Th) (say 10 or 20
    seconds) during this window, the sleep mode is triggered. For example, the device might
35  transition to sleep mode if the period of inhalation (Ti) within the last 40 seconds
    (representing the window, Tw) exceeds the threshold (Th) of 15 seconds.
                                                     9

             One way of viewing this trigger is that it monitors an average level of usage (Ti/Tw)
    by assessing cumulative usage over a period corresponding to multiple inhalations (puffs) of
    the device, and signals a potential abuse if this average exceeds a given threshold (Th/Tw).
    It will be appreciated that other implementations may adopt different approaches for
  5 determining whether the average or cumulative level of usage represents a potential abuse,
    and for triggering accordingly.
             Another trigger for helping to protect against potential abuse of the device in some
    embodiments is illustrated by the flowchart of Figure 4. The processing, which is generally
    managed by the CPU 50, commences with detection of the start of inhalation (405), which
 .0 starts a timer running from zero (410). The CPU now waits for one of two potential inputs:
    (a) detecting the end of inhalation (420); or (b) the timer reaching a first predefined threshold
    (41 0)(say 3, 3.5 or 4 seconds). If the end of the inhalation occurs before the timer reaches
    the threshold, then processing terminates with no further action (439), apart from updating
    the cumulative usage information (430). In this case, the processing for the next inhalation
 .5 will commence again at the start (401) of the flowchart of Figure 4.
              However, if the timer reaches the first predefined threshold before detecting the end
    of the inhalation, then the CPU automatically shuts off the supply of nicotine vapour by
    cutting power to the heater. This prevents the user from inhaling further nicotine vapour
    from the device. The CPU also restarts the timer to wait for a second predefined interval or
 '0 delay (which may be the same as the first predefined threshold), say 3, 3.5 or 4 seconds.
    During this time, the CPU maintains the device effectively in an inactive state (450), in that
    even if the user inhales, this does not trigger the production of nicotine vapour (unlike normal
    operation of the device). After the time period corresponding to the predefined interval has
    passed, the CPU in effect re-activates the device (455), so that now normal operation is
25  resumed, in that if the user inhales, this does trigger the CPU to switch on the heater to
    produce nicotine vapour. However, in response to detecting such a further inhalation (460),
    the CPU starts the timer again (465), and determines (470) whether the duration of this
    further inhalation exceeds a second predefined threshold (which may the same as the first
    predefined threshold), say 3, 3.5 or 4 seconds. This determination is analogous to the
30  situation with the first inhalation, in that the CPU is waiting to see which occurs first - the end
    of the inhalation (480) or the timer reaching the second predefined threshold (470). If the
    former occurs first, the duration of the further inhalation is within the second predefined
    threshold. In this case, processing terminates with no further action, apart from updating the
    cumulative usage (430), and the processing for the next inhalation will commence again at
35  the start of the flowchart of Figure 4.
              However, if the timer reaches the second predefined threshold prior to the end of the
    inhalation, then this is regarded as a further indication of abuse, since there have now been
                                                      10

    two successive inhalations which exceed their respective thresholds. In this situation, the
    CPU returns the device to sleep mode (475). It will be appreciated that in this situation,
    further operation of the device is prevented until the device has been returned to user mode
    by disengaging the vaporiser 40 from the body 20 and then re-engaging the vaporiser with
  5 the body.
            The processing of Figure 4 helps to protect against potential abuse of the device in
    accordance with a two-tier approach, in that there is one sanction against an excessive
    duration for a single inhalation (an enforced period of inactivity corresponding to the second,
    predefined interval before the device can be used again), and a further sanction if the first
 .0 inhalation of excessive duration is then followed directly by a second inhalation of excessive
    duration (namely, an enforced requirement to separate and re-join the vaporiser and the
    body before the device can be used again).
             In some embodiments, the operations of Figure 4 not only may help to prevent
    potential abuse of the device, but they also may help to protect against over-heating by
 .5 generally limiting the period for which the CPU 50 provides continuous power to the heater
    to no more than the first predefined threshold. Such over-heating might otherwise potentially
    occur, for example, if the device failed to detect the end of an inhalation by a user, or if the
    device was placed in an environment that somehow simulated a prolonged inhalation.
             Figure 5 is a flowchart illustrating a method for the device of Figures 1 and 2 to detect
  0 the start and end of an inhalation in accordance with some embodiments of the disclosure.
    This method is initiated (501) when the device enters into user mode. The CPU obtains a
    pressure reading (510) from the pressure sensor multiple (e.g. 5, 8, 9, 10 or 12) times per
    second. In some implementations, the pressure sensor and the temperature sensor are
    provided in a single combined unit (integrated circuit device) - this allows the pressure
25  sensor to adjust the pressure reading to a constant temperature value, thereby removing (at
    least reducing) pressure variations caused by fluctuations in temperature in the pressure
    readings supplied to the CPU. In other implementations, the pressure and temperature
    readings may be provided separately to the CPU, which performs its own adjustment or
    correction of the pressure readings to accommodate any changes in temperature. Other
30  implementations might not have a temperature sensor, in which case the pressure readings
    would be used directly, without compensation for any variation in temperature.
            After the first pressure reading has been acquired, this is saved as an ambient
    pressure value (515). The CPU also starts a timer T1 (520) which expires after a
    predetermined time period, say 2, 3 or 4 seconds. The CPU now waits for one of two
35  events. The first event is expiry of the timer (535). In this case, the CPU updates the
    ambient pressure value (530) to match the most recent pressure reading, resets the timer
    (520), and repeats the process. Accordingly, absent any other activity, the CPU updates the
                                                      11

    ambient pressure on a regular basis corresponding to said predetermined time period of the
    timer T1. In addition, the CPU also compares each newly detected pressure reading (which
    continue to be obtained (540)) with the current value stored for the ambient pressure (545).
    If the new pressure reading is below the stored value for the ambient pressure by more than
  5 a first predefined amount (threshold THi1), this triggers the second event, namely detection
    of the start of inhalation (550). Note that the first predefined amount (threshold THi1) may be
    specified as an absolute or relative difference with respect to the ambient pressure. For
    example, depending on the particular device, the first predefined amount might be a drop in
    pressure of (one of) 200, 300 of 400 Pascals, or a percentage drop of 0.2%, 0.3% or 0.4%
 .0 compared with the (stored) ambient value.
             In one implementation, whenever the ambient pressure value is updated at operation
    530, the system determines a first trigger pressure value based on the ambient pressure
    value minus the first predefined amount (threshold THi1). The test at operation 545 to detect
    the start of inhalation can then check whether the pressure detected at operation 540 is
 .5 below this first trigger pressure value. If so, the detected pressure represents a drop in
    pressure greater than the threshold TH1, thereby leading to a positive outcome from
    operation 545, corresponding to the start of inhalation. One advantage of this approach is
    that a direct comparison between the detected pressure and the first trigger pressure can be
    performed quickly and easily to detect the start of inhalation. Other implementations may
 '0 adopt a different approach to perform this detection, although the end result is the same.
    For example, each detected pressure might first be subtracted from the current ambient
    pressure, and the onset of inhalation would then be detected if the result of this subtraction
    is greater than the threshold T1.
             Assuming that the drop in pressure from the current ambient value exceeds the first
25  predefined amount (TH1) at operation 545, the CPU determines that inhalation has
    commenced. The CPU then supplies power to the vaporiser to vaporise nicotine from the
    wick into the airflow caused by the inhalation. In addition, the CPU increases the rate at
    which a pressure sensor reading is obtained (575), say to 20-30 times per second, and sets
    one or more timers to perform the monitoring described above (see Figure 4) to track both
30  the duration of this particular inhalation, and also to update the cumulate level of usage over
    the specified window (Tw). The CPU also continues to update the ambient pressure value
    565 whenever the timer T1 expires, and to reset this timer as appropriate (570).
             The CPU determines that inhalation has terminated (580) when the pressure sensor
    reading returns to within a second predefined amount (threshold TH2) from the currently
35  stored ambient pressure value. Similar to the first predefined amount (TH 1), the second
    predefined amount (TH2) may be specified as an absolute or relative difference with respect
    to the ambient pressure. For example, depending on the particular device, the second
                                                      12

    predefined amount might be a drop in pressure of (one of) 80, 100 or 120 Pascals, or a
    percentage drop of 0.08%, 0.1% or 0.12%. Similar to the first predefined amount (TH 1), in
    some implementations, whenever the ambient pressure value is updated at operation 530,
    the system may determine a second trigger pressure value based on the ambient pressure
  5 value minus the second predefined amount (threshold TH2). The test at operation 580 to
    detect the start of inhalation can then check whether the pressure detected at operation 575
    has now risen to be greater than this second trigger pressure value. If so, the detected
    pressure represents a drop in pressure which is now less than the threshold TH2, thereby
    leading to a positive outcome from operation 580, representing the end of inhalation. Once
 .0 the termination of inhalation has been determined (585), the CPU can switch off power to the
    heater, and reset any timers used in the monitoring processes described above.
             Having two separate thresholds (TH1, TH2) for determining (i) the start of inhalation,
    and (ii) the end of inhalation provides greater flexibility and reliability than just having a single
    threshold for determining whether or not inhalation is currently in progress. In particular, the
 .5 threshold for detecting the start of inhalation can be raised somewhat (corresponding to a
    greater pressure drop from ambient). This helps to provide improved robustness in the
    detection of inhalation (as opposed, for example, to undesired triggering with respect to
    changes in environmental conditions, which would then lead to unnecessary heating, and
    hence consumption of power from the cell and nicotine from the reservoir). Similarly, having
  0 a lower threshold for detecting the end of inhalation (a smaller pressure drop from ambient)
    helps to provide a better measurement of the actual length of inhalation, which is useful for
    monitoring against potential abuse of the device as described above. For example, it has
    been found that the latter part of a draw (inhalation) tends to produce a lower pressure drop
    from ambient, hence if the second threshold (TH2) were not reduced compared with the first
25  threshold (TH1) (corresponding to a lesser pressure drop from ambient), the device would
    tend to determine that inhalation had terminated while the user was, in fact, still drawing on
    the device, albeit at a lower level to create a smaller pressure drop.
             As illustrated in Figure 2, the e-cigarette 10 of Figures 1 and 2 is powered by a re
    chargeable cell 54. In practice, the voltage output of such cells tends to decline as they
30  discharge, for example, from about 4.2V when fully charged, down to about 3.6V just before
    being fully discharged. Since the power output across a given heating resistor R goes with
    V2 /R, this implies that there would generally be a corresponding drop in power output such
    that the final operational power output (at a voltage of 3.6V) is only 73% of the initial power
    output (at a voltage of 4.2V). This change in power supplied by the cell 54 to the heater in
35  the vaporiser 40 may impact the amount of nicotine vaporised (and hence inhaled by a
    user).
                                                      13

             Figure 6 is a schematic depiction of a part of the power regulation system for the e
    cigarette of Figures 1 and 2 in accordance with some embodiments of the disclosure. The
    power regulation system includes a voltage reference device 56, which provides a consistent
    (known) output voltage level (Vr), irrespective of variations in the output voltage (Vc) of the
  5 re-chargeable cell 54. The power regulation system further comprises a voltage divider
    comprising two resistors, R1, R2, which receives and divides the output voltage (Vc) in
    known fashion in accordance with the relative size (resistance) of resistors R1 and R2. The
    midpoint of the voltage divider 610 is used to take an output voltage (Vdiv).
             The CPU 50 receives the voltage Vdiv from the voltage divider and the reference
 .0 voltage (Vr) from the voltage reference device 56. The CPU compares these two voltages
    and based on Vr is able to determine Vdiv. Furthermore, assuming that the (relative)
    resistances of R1 and R2 are known, the CPU is further able to determine the cell output
    voltage (Vc) from Vdiv. This therefore allows the CPU to measure (track) the variation in
    voltage output (Vc) from the cell 54 as the cell discharges.
 .5          Figure 7 illustrates how in some embodiments of the disclosure, the power regulation
    system of the e-cigarette 10 uses a form of pulse-width modulation to compensate for the
    variation in voltage. Thus rather than the CPU 50 providing continuous electrical power to
    the heater in the vaporiser 40, the electrical power is supplied instead as a series of pulses
    at regular intervals, in effect, as a rectangular or square wave. Assuming that each pulse
  0 has an "on" duration of Dp, and a pulse is supplied every period of Di (referred to as the
    pulse interval or interval duration), then the ratio of the pulse duration to the interval duration,
    Dp/Di, is known as the duty cycle. If Dp=Di then the duty cycle is one (or 100%), and the
    CPU in effect provides a continuous voltage. However, if the duty cycle is less than 1, the
    CPU alternates periods of providing electrical power with periods of not providing electrical
25  power. For example, if the duty cycle is 65%, then each voltage pulse has a duration
    representing 65% of the interval duration, and no voltage (or power) is supplied for the
    remaining 35% of the interval.
             If we consider a signal level which provides power P for a duty cycle of 1 (i.e.
    continuous supply), then the average amount of power provided when the duty cycle is
30  reduced below 1 is given by P multiplied by the duty cycle. Accordingly, if the duty cycle is
    65% (for example), then the effective power rate becomes 65% of P.
             Figure 7A illustrates two different rectangular waves, one shown in solid line, the
    other shown in dashed line. The pulse interval or period (Di) is the same for both waves.
    The output shown in solid line has a pulse duration (width) of T1 and a power output when
35  on, i.e. an instantaneous power level, of P1. The duty cycle of this solid line output is T1/Di,
    to give an average power output of P1xT1/Di. Likewise, the output shown in dashed line has
                                                     14

    a pulse duration (width) of T2 and an instantaneous power output when on of P2. The duty
    cycle of this solid line output is T2/Di, to give an average power output of P2xT1/Di.
             Figure 7A also indicates in dotted line the average power output (P(ave)), which is
    the same for both outputs (solid and dashed line). This implies that (P1xT1/Di)=(P2xT1/Di).
  5 In other words, assuming that the pulse interval (Di) is maintained constant, then the
    average power output is constant provided that the pulse duration (T) varies inversely with
    the (instantaneous) power output (P), so that PxT is also a constant.
             In accordance with some embodiments of the disclosure, the power regulation
    system of the e-cigarette 10 implements a pulse-width modulation scheme such as shown in
 .0 Figure 7A to provide the vaporiser heater with an approximately constant power level. Thus
    the power regulation system of Figure 6 allows the CPU 50 to track the current voltage
    output level from the cell 54. Based on this measured voltage output level, the CPU then
    sets an appropriate duty cycle for controlling power to the vaporiser heater to compensate
    for variations in the voltage output level from the cell 54, thereby providing the vaporiser
 .5 heater with an approximately constant (average) power level. Note that the pulse intervalis
    chosen to be sufficiently short (typically <<1 second) such that it is much smaller than the
    thermal response time of the heater. In other words, the "off' portions of each pulse are
    short enough that the heater does not cool significantly during this period. Therefore, the
    heater provides in effect a constant heat source for vaporising the nicotine, based on the
  0 average received power level, with no significant modulation in heat output at the timescale
    of individual pulse intervals.
             Figure 7B illustrates in schematic form the mapping from the (measured) voltage
    output level to duty cycle. When the cell 54 provides its lowest output voltage (3.6V), the
    duty cycle is set to 1 (the maximum possible value). When the cell 54 provides its highest
25  output voltage (4.2V), the duty cycle is set to -0.73.    Figure 7B also illustrates schematically
    the duty cycle for intervening voltages, such that the duty cycle (equivalent to pulse duration
    for a fixed pulse interval) varies inversely with power output (which is proportional to V 2for a
    fixed heater resistance). It will be appreciated that the precise variation of duty cycle with
    voltage shown in Figure 7B is by way of example only, and may vary according to the details
30  of any given implementation.
             As a consequence of the pulse-width modulation scheme described above, the CPU
    50 is able to maintain the average power output supplied from cell 54 to the vaporiser heater
    at an approximately constant level, despite variations in the output voltage level from cell 54.
    This helps to provide a more consistent heating effect, and hence a more consistent level of
35  nicotine vaporisation and therefore inhalation for a user.
             Although the e-cigarette described herein comprises three detachable sections,
    namely the body, cartridge and vaporiser, it will be appreciated that other e-cigarettes may
                                                      15

    comprise a different number of sections. For example, some e-cigarettes are supplied as a
    single (unitary) complete device, and cannot be separated at all into different sections, while
    other e-cigarettes may comprise two sections, in effect, combining the vaporiser described
    herein with a liquid reservoir, forming a cartomiser. In addition, the e-cigarette described
  5 herein comprises multiple features, such as pulse-width modulation for providing a more
    consistent power level, threshold setting for reliable monitoring of inhalation duration,
    monitoring cumulative inhalation and/or checking against successive inhalations of
    excessive length to help protect against abuse, and reverting to sleep mode after a period of
    inactivity to help protect the device. However, it will be appreciated that some electronic
 .0 vapour provision system may only have some (or one) of these features, which may be
    provided in any combination as desired.
              In order to address various issues and advance the art, this disclosure shows by way
    of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed invention(s) may be practiced. The
    advantages and features of the disclosure are of a representative sample of embodiments
 .5 only, and are not exhaustive and/or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in
    understanding and to teach the claimed invention(s).It is to be understood that advantages,
    embodiments, examples, functions, features, structures, and/or other aspects of the
    disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or
    limitations on equivalents to the claims, and that other embodiments may be utilised and
  0 modifications may be made without departing from the scope of the claims. Various
    embodiments may suitably comprise, consist of, or consist essentially of, various
    combinations of the disclosed elements, components, features, parts, steps, means, etc
    other than those specifically described herein. The disclosure may include other inventions
    not presently claimed, but which may be claimed in future.
25
                                                    16

    CLAIMS
    1.       An electronic vapour provision system including:
             a pressure drop or air flow sensor for monitoring inhalation by a user through the
  5 electronic vapour provision system; and
             a control unit for detecting the start and end of inhalation based on readings from the
    sensor;
             wherein the control unit is configured to:
             detect the start of inhalation when the sensor reading departs by more than a first
 .0 threshold from a previous reading; and
             detect the end of inhalation when the sensor reading departs by less than a second
    threshold from the previous reading;
             wherein the first threshold is greater than the second threshold.
 .5 2.       The electronic vapour provision system of claim 1, wherein the previous reading
    comprises an ambient value which is updated on a periodic basis.
    3.       The electronic vapour provision system of claim 1 or 2, wherein upon detection of the
    start of inhalation the control unit increases the rate at which a sensor reading is obtained.
 -O
    4.       The electronic vapour provision system of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein upon
    detection of the start of inhalation the control unit sets one or more timers to track the
    duration of this particular inhalation.
25  5.       The electronic vapour provision system of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the first
    threshold may be an absolute or relative difference with respect to the previous reading.
    6.       The electronic vapour provision system of claim 5, wherein the first threshold is an
    absolute difference with respect to the previous reading, for example a drop in pressure of
30  (one of) 200, 300 or 400 Pascals.
    7.       The electronic vapour provision system of claim 5, wherein the first threshold is a
    percentage difference with respect to the previous reading, for example a percentage drop of
    0.2%, 0.3% or 0.4% compared with the previous reading.
35
                                                      17

    8.      The electronic vapour provision system of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the
    second threshold may be an absolute or relative difference with respect to the previous
    reading.
  5 9.      The electronic vapour provision system of claim 8, wherein the second threshold is
    an absolute difference with respect to the previous reading, for example a drop in pressure
    of (one of) 80, 100 or 120 Pascals.
    10.     The electronic vapour provision system of claim 8, wherein the second threshold is a
 .0 percentage difference with respect to the previous reading, for example a percentage drop of
    0.08%, 0.1% or 0.12% compared with the previous reading.
    11.     The electronic vapour provision system of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the
    control unit is further configured to:
 .5         monitor the period of inhalation;
            if the period of inhalation exceeds a first threshold:
                     render the electronic vapour provision system inactive for a predetermined
                     period;
                     render the electronic vapour provision system active after the predetermined
  0                  period has expired;
            monitor the period of the next inhalation such that if the period of the next inhalation
    exceeds a second threshold:
                     transfer the electronic vapour provision system to a sleep mode.
25  12.     An electronic vapour provision system including:
            a pressure drop or air flow sensor for monitoring inhalation by a user through the
    electronic vapour provision system; and
            a control unit for detecting the start and end of inhalation based on readings from the
    sensor, wherein the control unit is configured to:
30          monitor the period of inhalation;
            if the period of inhalation exceeds a first threshold:
                     render the electronic vapour provision system inactive for a predetermined
                     period;
                     render the electronic vapour provision system active after the predetermined
35                   period has expired;
            monitor the period of the next inhalation such that if the period of the next inhalation
    exceeds a second threshold:
                                                     18

                     transfer the electronic vapour provision system to a sleep mode.
    13.     An electronic vapour provision system according to claim 11 or 12, wherein the first
    threshold is substantially the same in period as the second threshold.
  5
    14.     An electronic vapour provision system according to any one of claims 11 to 13,
    wherein the first threshold is from 3 to 5 seconds.
    15.     An electronic vapour provision system according to any one of claims 11 to 14,
 .0 wherein the second threshold is from 3 to 5 seconds.
    16.     An electronic vapour provision system according to any one of claims 11 to 15,
    wherein the period of inactivity is from 3 to 5 seconds.
 .5 17.     The electronic vapour provision system of any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the
    control unit is further configured to:
            monitor the cumulative period of inhalation (Ti) over a predetermined window (Tw);
    and
            transfer the electronic vapour provision system to a sleep mode if the cumulative
 '0 period (Ti) exceeds a predetermined threshold (Th).
    18.     An electronic vapour provision system including:
            a pressure drop or air flow sensor for monitoring inhalation by a user through the
    electronic vapour provision system; and
25          a control unit for detecting the start and end of inhalation based on readings from the
    sensor;
            wherein the control unit is configured to:
            monitor the cumulative period of inhalation (Ti) over a predetermined window (Tw);
    and
30          transfer the electronic vapour provision system to a sleep mode if the cumulative
    period (Ti) exceeds a predetermined threshold (Th).
    19.     An electronic vapour provision system according to claim 18, wherein the
    predetermined window (Tw) is fixed in period.
35
    20.     An electronic vapour provision system according to claim 18, wherein the
    predetermined window (Tw) represents a rolling window.
                                                     19

    21.     An electronic vapour provision system according to any preceding claim, wherein
    upon entering sleep mode, one or more components of the system must be disengaged and
    re-engaged to transfer the system from the sleep mode to a user mode.
  5 22.     An electronic vapour provision system according to claim 21, the system comprising
    a vaporiser for vaporising liquid for inhalation by a user of the electronic vapour provision
    system and a power supply comprising a cell or battery for supplying power to the vaporiser,
    wherein following being transferred to sleep mode the system is transferred back to a user
    mode whereby power is available to the vaporiser said transfer occurring by disengaging
 .0 and re-engaging the vaporiser from the power supply.
    23.     A method of operating an electronic vapour provision system comprising a control
    unit and a pressure drop or airflow sensor, the method comprising:
            monitoring inhalation by a user through the electronic vapour provision system using
 .5 the pressure drop or air flow sensor; and
            detecting by the control unit the start of inhalation when the sensor reading departs
    by more than a first threshold from a previous reading; and
            detecting by the control unit the end of inhalation when the sensor reading departs by
    less than a second threshold from the previous reading, wherein the first threshold is greater
 '0 than the second threshold.
    24.     A method of operating an electronic vapour provision system comprising a control
    unit and a pressure drop or airflow sensor, the method comprising:
            monitoring inhalation by a user through the electronic vapour provision system using
25  the pressure drop or air flow sensor;
            monitoring the period of inhalation by the control unit, and if the period of inhalation
    exceeds a first threshold, the control unit (i) rendering the electronic vapour provision system
    inactive for a predetermined period, and (ii) rendering the electronic vapour provision system
    active after the predetermined period has expired;
30          monitoring the period of the next inhalation by the control unit, and if the period of the
    next inhalation exceeds a second threshold, the control unit transferring the electronic
    vapour provision system to a sleep mode.
    25.     A method of operating an electronic vapour provision system comprising a control
35  unit and a pressure drop or airflow sensor, the method comprising:
            monitoring inhalation by a user through the electronic vapour provision system using
    the pressure drop or air flow sensor;
                                                      20

             monitoring, by the control unit, the cumulative period of inhalation (Ti) over a
    predetermined window (Tw); and
             transferring, by the control unit, the electronic vapour provision system to a sleep
    mode if the cumulative period (Ti) exceeds a predetermined threshold (Th).
  5
    26.      An electronic vapour provision system including:
             a vaporiser for vaporising liquid for inhalation by a user of the electronic vapour
    provision system;
             a power supply comprising a cell or battery for supplying power to the vaporiser; and
 .0          a power regulation system for compensating for variation in the voltage level of the
    power supplied to the vaporiser by the power supply using pulse-width modulation, thereby
    providing a more consistent output level of vaporised liquid for inhalation by the user.
    27.      The electronic vapour provision system of claim 26, wherein the power regulation
 .5 system comprises a voltage reference generator, and the voltage level of the power supplied
    to the vaporiser is determined based on a comparison with the voltage from the voltage
    reference generator.
    28.      The electronic vapour provision system of claim 26 or 27, wherein the power
 '0 regulation system comprises a voltage divider for dividing the voltage from the power supply
    prior to the comparison with the voltage from the voltage reference generator.
    29.      The electronic vapour provision system of claim 28, wherein voltage divider
    comprises a pair of resistors in series.
25
    30.      The electronic vapour provision system of claim 29, wherein the resistors are
    matched so that the ratio of the resistance of the two resistors is relatively stable with
    temperature.
30  31.      The electronic vapour provision system of any one of claims 26 to 30, wherein the
    pulse-width modulation has a duty cycle of one when the cell or battery has its lowest
    operational output voltage level.
    32.      The electronic vapour provision system of any one of claims 26 to 31, wherein the
35  power regulation system is able to provide an approximately constant power level to the
    vaporiser.
                                                      21

    33.     The electronic vapour provision system of any one of claims 1 to 22, further including
    the features of the electronic vapour provision system of any one of claims 26 to 29.
    34.     An electronic vapour provision system including:
  5         a vaporiser for vaporising liquid for inhalation by a user of the electronic vapour
    provision system;
            a power supply comprising a cell or battery for supplying power to the vaporiser; and
            a control unit for controlling the supply of power from the power supply to the
    vaporiser, the control unit having a sleep mode where no power is supplied to the vaporiser
 .0 and a user mode where power is available for supply to the vaporiser, whereby the control
    unit reverts from user mode to sleep mode after a predetermined amount of time of inactivity
    in user mode and/or after the vaporiser has been disengaged from the power supply.
    35.     An electronic vapour provision system according to claim 34, wherein the control unit
 .5 reverts from user mode to sleep mode after a predetermined amount of time of inactivity in
    user mode, for example for greater than 4 minutes.
    36.     An electronic vapour provision system according to claim 34 or 35, wherein the
    control unit is transferred back to user mode by disengaging and re-engaging the vaporiser
 '0 with the power supply.
    37.     An electronic vapour provision system according to any of claims 34 to 36, wherein
    the control unit reverts from user mode to sleep mode after the vaporiser has been
    disengaged from the power supply.
25
    38.     An electronic vapour provision system according to claim 37, wherein the control unit
    is transferred back to user mode by re-engaging the vaporiser with the power supply.
    39.     The electronic vapour provision system of any one of claims 1 to 22 or 26 to 33,
30  further including the features of the electronic vapour provision system of any one of claims
    34 to 38.
    40.     A method of operating an electronic vapour provision system comprising a control
    unit and a pressure sensor, the method comprising the control unit:
35          obtaining pressure readings from the pressure sensor multiple times per second;
            saving a first pressure reading as an ambient pressure value;
            updating the ambient pressure value on a regular basis; and
                                                     22

         detecting the start of inhalation if a pressure reading differs from the ambient
  pressure value by more than a threshold amount.
  41.    An electronic vapour provision system as substantially defined herein.
5
                                                   23

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
