           ABSTRACT
   A method for reporting      channel   state information      (CSI)   by  a user
   equipment (UE) comprises receiving configuration information from a
 5 base station (BS), the configuration information configuring a first CSI
   subframe   set and   a  second   CSI   subframe     set,   identifying   a  first
   interference measurement resource within the first CSI subframe set and
   a second interference    measurement     resource    within the    second    CSI
   subframe set in response to receiving the configuration information,
10 obtaining CSI associated with one of the first CSI subframe set and the
   second CSI subframe set based on one of the identified first interference
   measurement     resource    and   the     identified     second    interference
   measurement resource, and reporting the obtained CSI to the BS.

   WO 2014/112832                                         PCT/T(R2014/000526
                                                       13
[Fig. 1]
                                 /uJ
                               I cn
                             I      uj
                               /    'U)
                             I      N
                            /        UJ
                                                 0n
                                                 DD
                                        -of
                                     U3
                                    co
           CD'
           u-
                                            =  C-4
        2u               I                     CD
                                            =)    Hn
   O  E REEIE      COFIUATO                  O   aNOMTO
    US DEET       DONLN           NOMTO              aOTO
    o EOT HAQ-C FOFH        ONIKDT
               AND2CS OTEBS TTO

            METHOD        AND       APPARATUS       FOR    PERFORMING
   UPLINK/DOWNLINK               TRANSMISSION        IN    A    FLEXIBLE
   SUBFRAME
            Related Application
 5          This application is a divisional application of Australian
   Patent Application number 2014208002, the disclosure of which
   is incorporated herein by reference.
            Field
            The   present    invention   relates   generally   to  wireless
10 communication systems, and more particularly, to a method and
   apparatus      for     performing      UpLink/DownLink         (UL/DL)
   transmission in a flexible subframe.
            Background
            A Long Term Evolution         (LTE)   communication     system
15 supports a Time Division Duplexing (TDD) working mode. FIG.
    1 is a schematic diagram illustrating a frame structure of a TDD
   system. Each radio frame has a length of lOms and is equally
   divided into two half frames each having a length of 5ms. Each
   half frame includes eight time slots that each have a length of
20 0.5ms. Each half frame further includes three special fields (i.e.,
   Downlink Pilot Time Slot (DwPTS), Guarding Period (GP), and
   Uplink Pilot Time Slot (UpPTS)). The combined length of the
   three   special    fields   is   Ims. Each    subframe    includes   two
   consecutive time slots (e.g., the k'th subframe includes time slot
25 2k and time slot 2k+1). A TDD system supports seven types of
   UL/DL configurations,         as shown in Table 1 representing LTE
   TDD UL/DL configuration. In Table 1, D represents a downlink
   subframe, U represents an uplink subframe, and S represents a
   special subframe including the 3 special fields.
30
            Table 1

            Configuration Switch-point        Sub-frame ID
             serial number periodicity 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
                    0         5ms      D S U U U DS U U U
                    1         5ms      DSUUDDSUU             D
                    2         5ms      DSUDDD SU D D
                    3         lOms     D S U U U D D D D D
                    4         10ims     DSTUU D D D D D D
                    5         lOms      D SIU D D'D D D D D
                    6         10ms      D S U U UD S U U D
           According to LTE TDD specifications, subframe 0, subframe 5,
   DwPTS in subframe 1, and DwPTS in subframe 6 are always used for
   downlink transmission, while subframe 2, subframe 1, and UpPTS in
 5 subframe 6 are always used for uplink transmission.                      The other  5
   subframes (i.e., subframes 3, 4, 7,                   8 and 9) are used as downlink
   subframes       in  some UL/DL            configurations     and are  used as uplink
   subframes in other UL/DL configurations.
           In conventional LTE TDD standards, the UL/DL configuration
10 adopted by a cell is configured via broadcast signaling (i.e., the UL/DL
   configuration is included in system information block 1 (SIBI)). As
   such, the LTE system supports at least 640ms between changes of
   UL/DL     configurations           and    a maximum        of 32  changes  of system
   information every 3 hours, according to conventional standards.                    In
15 order to be better adapted to fast changes in service characteristics, the
   3rd Generation Partnership               Project (3GPP)      is currently working on
   schemes enabling faster changes in distribution of UL/DL subframes in
   the system. For example, the 3GPP may change UL/DL configuration
   more frequently, such as one UL/DL configuration change every 200ms
20 in a semi-static changing scheme; or changing UL/DL configuration
   every lOms, which is the length of a radio frame. In practice, a base
   station scheduler may change the distribution of UL/DL subframes
   according to service demands, and keep the system running properly by
   adopting a certain           scheduling       limiting scheme.    A UE does is not
25 required to know which of the seven UL/DL configurations the UE is
   running under. Further, the distribution of working UL/DL subframes is
   not necessarily limited to the seven UL/DL configurations as shown in
                                                      2

   Table   1 (i.e.,   the distribution   of UL/DL subframes actually
   adopted by the system may be transparent to UEs).
           In a system supporting flexible changes in distribution of
   UL/DL subframes adopted by a cell, a base station may adjust
 5 the   distribution    of  UL/DL      subframes  based   on   current
   distribution of UL/DL traffic to optimize system performances.
   However, problems exist in such a system. More specifically,
   some cells may use a subframe whose duplexing direction is
   flexible    (referred  to   as  a   flexible subframe)   for  uplink
10 transmission, and other cells may use the flexible subframe for
   downlink transmission, which brings changes in interference. In
   a cell using the subframe for uplink transmission, an uplink
   signal of a UE may suffer interference caused by a downlink
   signal from an adjacent base station. In a cell using the subframe
15 for downlink transmission, a downlink signal transmitted to a UE
   in the cell may suffer interference caused by an uplink signal
   from a UE in an adjacent cell. In conventional LTE TDD systems,
   there is no such base station-to-base station interference and UE
   to-UE interference     caused by subframes on the same timing
20 position. Such changes in interference may affect transmission
   of downlink control signaling and downlink data in the flexible
   subframes.
           Summary of the Invention
            According to an aspect of the present invention, there is
25 provided a method for reporting channel state information (CSI) by a
   user equipment (UE), the method comprising:
            receiving configuration information from a base station (BS),
   the configuration information configuring a first CSI subframe set and a
   second CSI subframe set;
30           identifying a first interference measurement resource within the
   first CSI subframe set and a second interference measurement resource
   within the second CSI subframe set in response to receiving the
   configuration information;
             obtaining CSI associated with one of the first CSI subframe set
35 and the second CSI subframe set based on one of the identified first
                                            3

   interference    measurement     resource  and   the  identified   second
   interference measurement resource; and
            reporting the obtained CSI to the BS.
            According to another aspect of the present invention, there is
 5 provided a user equipment (UE) for reporting channel state information
   (CSI), the UE comprising:
            a transceiver; and
            a controller configured to:
            receive configuration information from a base station (BS), the
10 configuration information configuring a first CSI subframe set and a
   second CSI subframe set;
            identify a first interference measurement resource within the
   first CSI subframe set and a second interference measurement resource
   within the second CSI subframe set in response to receiving the
15 configuration information;
            obtain CSI associated with one of the first CSI subframe set
   and the second CSI subframe set based on one of the identified first
   interference    measurement     resource  and   the  identified   second
   interference measurement resource; and
20          report the obtained CSI to the BS.
            According to another aspect of the present invention, there is
   provided a method for receiving, by a base station (BS), channel state
   information (CSI), the method comprising:
            configuring, for a user equipment (UE), a first CSI subframe
25 set including a first interference measurement resource and a second
   CSI subframe set including a second interference measurement resource;
   and
            receiving, from the UE, CSI associated with one of the first CSI
   subframe set and the second CSI subframe set, wherein the CSI is
30 obtained by the UE based on one of the first interference measurement
   resource and the second interference measurement resource.
            According to another aspect of the present invention, there is
   provided a base station (BS) for receiving a report of channel state
   information (CSI), the BS comprising:
35          a transceiver; and
            a controller configured to:
            configure, for a user equipment (UE), a first CSI subframe set
   including a first interference measurement resource and a second CSI
   subframe set including a second interference measurement resource; and
                                         4

             receive, from the UE, CSI associated with one of the first CSI
   subframe set and the second CSI subframe set, wherein the CSI is
   obtained by the UE based on one of the first interference measurement
   resource and the second interference measurement resource.
 5          Brief Description of the Drawings
            The above and other aspects, features, and advantages of
   certain embodiments of the present disclosure will be more
   apparent     from   the    following  detailed   description    taken    in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
10          FIG.   1 is    a schematic    diagram    illustrating   a   frame
   structure in a TDD system,
            FIG. 2 is a flowchart illustrating a method for performing
   UL/DL transmission in a flexible           subframe according to an
   embodiment of the present invention,
15          FIG. 3 is a schematic diagram illustrating an interference
   measuring signal according to an embodiment of the present
   invention,
            FIG. 4 is a schematic diagram illustrating a structure
   according to an embodiment of the present invention,
20          FIG. 5 to      FIG.    8 are flowcharts    illustrating various
   examples of a step 201 in FIG.2 according to an embodiment of
   the present invention,
            FIG. 9 is a schematic diagram illustrating a structure of a
   UE according to an embodiment of the present invention.
25          Detailed Description
            Hereinafter,      various   embodiments       of   the    present
   invention are described with reference to the accompanying
   drawings. In the following description of the present, a detailed
   description of known functions and configurations incorporated
30 herein may be omitted when such a description may obscure the
   subject matter of the present invention.
            In a TDD system that supports a flexible configuration of
   the    distribution     of   UL/DL    subframes      according     to   an
   embodiment of the present invention, a UL/DL configuration is
35 still sent in broadcast channel SIBI in order to provide backward
                                            5

   compatibility, and all UEs in a cell can receive the UL/DL configuration,
   which is referred to herein as "SIBI backward UL/DL configuration".
   UEs may be classified into two categories based on whether the UEs
   supports flexible configuration of distribution of UL/DL subframes. One
 5 of the    two   categories   includes    UEs   that do not support       flexible
   configuration of distribution of UL/DL subframes. UEs of category one
   may only work according to SIBI backward UL/DL configuration. When
   a base station changes the transmission directions of certain subframes,
   a base station scheduler performs certain actions to avoid scheduling
10 UL/DL transmission of UEs of category one in those subframes whose
   duplexing directions are changed so as to guarantee normal UL/DL data
   transmission    of the   UEs     of category     one.   The   other of the   two
   categories    includes   UEs      that   support   flexible    configuration   of
   distribution of UL/DL subframes.
15         A method according an embodiment of the present invention is
   applied to this category of UEs that support flexible configuration of
   distribution    of  UL/DL      subframes.     System     performances    can   be
   optimized by defining actions of UEs of category two. According to a
   method for determining a flexible subframe according to an embodiment
20 of the present invention,        if a UE transmits       PDSCH based on DL
   reference UL/DL configurations, a subframe that is an uplink subframe
   in SIBI UL/DL configuration and is a downlink subframe in the DL
   reference UL/DL configuration is determined to be a flexible subframe.
           In a flexible subframe, some cells perform uplink transmission
25 while   other cells perform        downlink transmission,      which results    in
   mutual interference between uplink and downlink transmissions. In a
   cell performing uplink transmission in the subframe, an uplink signal of
   a UE in the cell may suffer interference caused by a downlink signal
   from   an   adjacent    base    station.   In  a   cell   performing    downlink
30 transmission in the subframe, a downlink signal transmitted to a UE in
   the cell may also suffer interference caused by an uplink signal from a
   UE in an adjacent cell. However, in conventional LTE TDD systems,
   there is no such interference between base stations and between UEs,
   since all base stations in conventional LTE TDD systems have the same
                                             6

   duplexing direction in a timing position of a subframe. The
   changes in the distribution of interference may affect UL/DL
   data transmission in a flexible subframe (e.g., transmission of
   Enhanced     Physical     Downlink        Control    channel   (EPDCCH),
 5 transmission of physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH), and
   transmission of physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH)).
           FIG. 2 is a flowchart illustrating a method for UL/DL
   transmission in a flexible subframe according to an embodiment
   of the present invention.
10         Referring     to  FIG.   2,    in block     201,  a UE     receives
   configuration information of downlink transmission in a flexible
   subframe.    The     configuration      information    is  different   from
   configuration information of subframes with fixed duplexing
   directions.
15         A    first     method     for      performing     uplink/downlink
   transmission in a flexible subframe according to an embodiment
   of the present invention includes adopting, when the flexible
   subframe is used for downlink transmission, a subframe structure
   of a Multicast Broadcast Single Frequency Network (MBSFN), a
20 Cell-Specific    Reference     Signal     (CRS)    and downlink      control
   information    are transmitted       in the     forepart  of the    flexible
   subframe,   and transmitting a PDSCH in a data field of the
   flexible subframe.
           The    first     method     for    performing     uplink/downlink
25 transmission in a flexible subframe further includes adopting,
   when the flexible subframe is used for uplink transmission, the
   subframe    structure     of the     MBSFN,       transmitting   CRS     and
   downlink control information           in the forepart of the flexible
   subframe, and transmitting a PUSCH in the data field of the
30 flexible subframe.
           When N is the total number of OFDM symbols and the
   subframe structure of the MBSFN is adopted and a number "m"
   of OFDM symbols is used for downlink transmission which are
   located at the forepart of the subframe, the number of uplink
                                               7

   single carrier frequency division multiple address (SCFDMA)        symbols
   that can be used as bearer is less than N-m, because both a UE and a
   base station need time for performing UL/DL switching.
           Five examples, according to the above-described method, of a
 5 method for determining resources available for uplink transmission in a
   flexible subframe according to an embodiment of the present invention
   are described as follows.
           Herein, a subframe adopting a subframe the MBSFN structure is
   referred to as an "MBSFN subframe", and a subframe that does not
10 adopt the subframe the MBSFN         structure is referred to as a "non
   MBSFN subframe".
           A first example of the first method for determining resources for
   uplink transmission based on MBSFN according to an embodiment of
   the present invention includes determining that the number of OFDM
15 symbols available for downlink transmission, which is represented by
   "n", by using a Physical Control Format Indicator CHannel (PCFICH) of
   a MBSFN subframe. The first n OFDM symbols in the subframe are
   regarded as dedicated for downlink transmission, and remaining time of
   the subframe may be used for uplink transmission.
20         A second example of the first method for determining resources
   for uplink transmission based on MBSFN according to an embodiment
   of the present invention    includes generating    OFDM symbols      at the
   forepart   of the  MBSFN     subframe    including  a  CRS   dedicated  for
   downlink transmission,    and making remaining       part of the subframe
25 available for uplink transmission. When there are one or two CRS ports,
   only the first OFDM symbol of the subframe is dedicated for downlink
   transmission. Alternatively, when there are four CRS ports, the first two
   OFDM symbols are dedicated for downlink transmission.
           A third example of the first method for determining resources
30 for uplink transmission based on MBSFN according to an embodiment
   of the present invention includes generating OFDM symbols located at
   the forepart of the MBSFN subframe         including a CRS dedicated for
   downlink transmission, generating OFDM symbols that may be occupied
   by Physical HARQ Indicator Channel (PHICH) transmission dedicated
                                          8

   for downlink transmission (i.e., the number of symbols dedicated
   for downlink transmission is max(NCRS,NPHICH)), and making
   the    remaining     time     of the    subframe       available     for uplink
   transmission.     NCRS denotes         the number of OFDM symbols
 5 located at the forepart of a MBSFN subframe including CRS, and
   NPHICH denotes the time length of PHICH configured in P-BCH
   (i.e.,   the   number     of   OFDM      symbols       occupied      by   PHICH
   transmission).
             The fourth example of the first method for determining
10 resources for uplink transmission based on MBSFN according to
   an embodiment of the present invention includes for a flexible
   MBSFN        subframe      in   which     PHICH        may    be    transmitted,
   determining      the   number      of   OFDM         symbols     dedicated    for
   downlink transmission according to the third example described
15 above, and determining that a remaining time of the subframe is
   available for uplink transmission;              determining,     for a flexible
   MBSFN subframe which does not transmit PHICH, the number of
   OFDM symbols dedicated for downlink transmission according
   to the second example described above, and determining that a
20 remaining      time    of    the   subframe       is   available     for  uplink
   transmission, since fewer than all subframes are able to transmit
   uplink     scheduling information        (i.e.,   a UL grant) and PHICH
   according to a timing scheme             of HARQ for PUSCH in LTE
   systems.
25           The fifth example of the first method for determining
   resources for uplink transmission based on MBSFN according to
   an embodiment of the present invention includes configuring the
   number of OFDM symbols dedicated for downlink transmission
   in a flexible MBSFN           subframe via higher layer signaling, or
30 configuring the index of an OFDM symbol which is the start
   position of symbols for uplink transmission via higher layer
   signaling.     Further,   the    higher   layer     may   configure      multiple
   different      types     of      PUSCH        transmission        configuration
   information      for   flexible    subframes.        Each   type     of  PUSCH
                                                 9

   transmission     configuration   indicates   a different     number of OFDM
   symbols dedicated for downlink transmission, and the remaining time of
   the subframe may be used for uplink transmission.
           The last four examples (i.e., the second through fifth examples)
 5 of the first method for performing UL/DL transmission in a flexible
   subframe may be implemented in a base station by setting a value of
   PCFICH of an MBSFN to be the number of OFDM symbols actually
   used for downlink transmission.
           The     above-described    first    method   for    performing      UL/DL
10 transmission     in a flexible subframe      adopts a subframe        structure   of
   MBSFN,     which guarantees CRS transmission free from influence                  of
   changes in duplexing direction of the subframe. Therefore, when such
   flexible subframes     are used for uplink transmission,         Radio Resource
   Management (RRM) measurements of lower version UEs which do not
15 support flexible subframes will not be influenced.
           A    second   method    for performing     UL/DL     transmission     in   a
   flexible subframe according to an embodiment of the present invention
   includes when a flexible subframe is used for downlink transmission,
   transmitting no CRSs within the flexible subframe, determining that all
20 OFDM symbols in the subframe are available for downlink transmission,
   and transmitting     downlink control signaling       only through frequency
   division multiplexing with PDSCH (e.g., using EPDCCH defined in LTE
   Release    11),    when   transmitting     downlink    control    signaling;    and
   determining, when the flexible subframe is used for uplink transmission,
25 that all of the OFDM symbols are available for uplink transmission.
           In the above-described first and second methods for performing
   UL/DL transmission in a flexible subframe, when a flexible subframe is
   used   for   downlink    transmission,     methods   based    on    DeModulation
   Reference Signal (DMRS) de-multiplexing may be adopted for PDSCH,
30 because    a   CRS   exists   only  in   the  forepart   of   the   subframe,     or
   alternatively, there is no CRS in the subframe.
           A third method for performing UL/DL transmission in a flexible
   subframe     according   to  an  embodiment      of the   present    invention    is
   described as follows. When a flexible subframe is used for downlink
                                             10

   transmission,   a CRS      having     a regular     CRS     structure    of a
   subframe is transmitted throughout the whole subframe, and
   Resource Elements (REs) other than the CRS are available for
   downlink transmission. By using this structure,                all downlink
 5 transmission modes that are defined in LTE systems and that
   need CRS transmission are available to be applied to the flexible
   subframe.    When     a   flexible    subframe      is   used    for   uplink
   transmission, all OFDM symbols are available to be used for
   uplink transmission.
10         According     to    LTE     Release     11     specifications,     for
   Transmission Mode (TM) 10, the system is able to configure four
   different types of configuration information for RE mapping and
   Quasi Co-Location (QCL) of PDSCH and indicates the type of
   RE    mapping    and     QCL      adopted    by    the    current     PDSCH
15 transmission via two bits in a Downlink Control Indication
   (DCI) format. Parameters involved in the process may include
   the number of CRS ports, the index of OFDM symbol which is
   the start position of symbols used for PDSCH mapping, MBSFN
   subframe    configuration,    configuration      a of Non-Zero         Power
20 Channel State Indication Reference Signal (NZP CSI-RS) and
   configuration    of   a   Zero     Power    Channel       State   Indication
   Reference Signal (ZP CSI-RS), and so on.
           The CRS structure adopted by a flexible subframe may be
   configured    by    using     a    dedicated     signaling       mechanism.
25 Alternatively, when a UE is configured with any of TM1 through
   TM9, the UE may determine a CRS is included in a flexible
   subframe.    When    a UE      is   configured     with    TM1O,     the   UE
   determines whether a flexible subframe includes a CRS and the
   structure of the subframe having a CRS based on PDSCH RE
30 mapping and QCL configuration.
           When a UE is configured with any of TM1 through TM9,
   a conventional MBSFN configuration may be used for specifying
   whether   a flexible subframe used for downlink transmission
   adopts a structure      of a regular subframe           having CRS       or a
                                             11

   structure of an MBSFN subframe having CRS. For example, if uplink
   subframes in SIB1 UL/DL configuration are flexible subframes, when a
   bit corresponding to the uplink subframe is set in MBSFN configuration,
   the  flexible   subframe   adopts the     structure   of an   MBSFN     subframe
 5 having     CRS   when    the  flexible     subframe    is   used  for   downlink
   transmission.    Meanwhile,   when the bit corresponding          to the uplink
   subframe is cleared in the MBSFN configuration, the flexible subframe
   adopts the structure of a regular subframe having CRS when the flexible
   subframe is used for downlink transmission.
10          With respect to TM1O,       when a flexible       subframe   is used to
   transmit a PDSCH, RE mapping and QCL configuration may be different
   from    the   configuration   of   a    subframe     dedicated    for   downlink
   transmission. Taking RE mapping as an example, the CRS structure in
   the flexible subframe may be different from the CRS structure in the
15 subframe dedicated for downlink transmission, and correspondingly, the
   RE mapping method for PDSCH may also be different. For example, all
   REs in a flexible subframe may be available for PDSCH transmission
   when    there   is  no  CRS    within     the   subframe.    In  addition,   QCL
   configuration of a flexible subframe may also be different from that of a
20 subframe dedicated for downlink transmission.
            In LTE Release 11, when RE mapping and QCL configuration of
   a PDSCH      is configured,   a configuration      for a ZP CSI-RS       may be
   configured. A UE may disregard REs occupied by ZP CSI-RS during
   rate matching, and skip the REs configured to be occupied by ZP CSI
25 RS   during RE mapping. The        ZP CSI-RS may be used for improve
   measurement accuracy of CSI-RS of other cells, and may also include
   Interference Measurement Resources (IMR). The ZP CSI-RS can include
   one ore multiple IMR resources which is subjected to eNB configuration.
   In LTE Release 11, when the ZP CSI-RS includes IMR, the inclusion of
30 IMR indicates that the influence of IMR has been counteracted during
   rate matching and RE mapping. When the ZP CSI-RS does not include
   IMR,    no   particular  processing    is    performed    on   IMR   during   rate
   matching and RE mapping i.e., rate matching is performed assuming
   that IMR may transmit PDSCH, but PDSCH may not be transmitted in
                                             12

   IMR during RE mapping, which leads to deterioration of PDSCH
   link performances. In LTE Release 11, configuration of ZP CSI
   RS is implemented through configuration of a cyclic period "T"
   and a subframe offset "k", i.e., ZP CSI-RS is configured once for
 5 every T subframes and occupies the k'th subframe in each cyclic
   period. The cyclic period T of ZP CSI-RS is an integral multiple
   of 5ms.
           As shown in FIG. 5, a step 201A could be used to
   exemplify step 201 in FIG. 2. Referring to FIG. 5, at step 201A,
10 a UE receives the configuration information on IMR, wherein the
   configuration    information      for  a   flexible   subframe    can    be
   different from configuration information for a fixed subframe.
   Since the distribution of interferences in a flexible subframe is
   different from the distribution         in a subframe      dedicated    for
15 downlink transmission, interference measurement signals may be
   configured respectively in the subframe dedicated for downlink
   transmission     and     in  the    flexible    subframe     to  measure
   interferences     in    the   subframe      dedicated     for   downlink
   transmission    and in the      flexible subframe      respectively.   For
20 example, the IMR structure defined in LTE Release 11 may be
   used. According to an embodiment of the present invention, two
   IMR    may   be    configured     for two     different   subframe sets,
   respectively. For a ZP CSI-RS that serves as the i'th IMR, where
   i=0, 1, a cyclic period Ti, a subframe offset ki, and RE resources
25 of CSI-RS occupied by the IMR in a subframe may be configured.
           One of the two IMR may have some or all of the above
   parameters, i.e., the cyclic period Ti, the subframe offset ki, and
   the RE resources of CSI-RS occupied by the IMR in a subframe,
   different from corresponding parameters of the other one of the
30 two IMR. For example, the two IMR may have the same cyclic
   period   and occupy the       same RE resources         of CSI-RS     in a
   subframe,    but     have   different    subframe     offsets.  Different
   subframe offsets guarantee that the two IMR are located in two
   different subframe sets, so that interferences in the two subframe
                                             13

   sets may be measured respectively.
            One subframe set may include all the subframes dedicated for
   downlink transmission, and the other subframe set may include all the
   flexible subframes. Alternatively, the subframe sets may be classified
 5 based on interference levels instead of based on flexible subframes and
   subframes      dedicated    for downlink transmission.       For   example,   one
   subframe      set  may    include   all  subframes    dedicated    for  downlink
   transmission and flexible subframes whose interferences are mainly
   caused by downlink transmission in other cells, and the other subframe
10 set may include the other flexible subframes by excluding the flexible
   subframes in the first subframe set.
            Furthermore,     different flexible    subframes may generally have
   different distributions of interferences. For example, if subframes 3, 4,
   8  and    9   are  flexible   subframes,   subframes    3  and   8  have   higher
15 probabilities of being used for uplink transmission than subframes 4 and
   9, therefore the interference distribution may be different. Based on the
   above analysis, subframes may be divided into N (where N is greater
   than 2)     subframe sets to have the flexible subframes          classified into
   multiple subframe sets, where each subframe set only includes flexible
20 subframes having similar interference levels and/or subframes dedicated
   for downlink transmission. In this example, N IMR (where N is greater
   than 2)    may be configured for use by the N different subframe sets
   respectively. This configuration can be regarded as an extension of the
   above-described IMR allocation method.
25          According to the LTE TDD frame structure, subframes 0 and 1 in
   a half frame are generally dedicated for downlink transmission, and
   subframes 3 and 4 in the half frame may be flexible subframes. In order
   to measure interference in a downlink subframe dedicated for downlink
   transmission and in a flexible subframe respectively, the above ZP CSI
30 RS configured based on multiples of 5ms cannot cover all IMR, and
   thus leads to deterioration in link performances of PDSCH transmission.
            As shown in FIG. 6, a step 201B could be used to a step 201 in
   FIG.   2.    Referring   to   FIG.   6, at   step  201A,   a  UE    receives  the
   configuration information on PDSCH RE mapping and QCL, wherein the
                                             14

   configuration   information     for   a  flexible  subframe   can   be
   different from configuration information for a fixed subframe.
   Different   ZP   CSI-RSs    may      be  configured    for  subframes
   dedicated for downlink      transmission     and flexible   subframes
 5 during configuration of RE mapping and QCL of PDSCH. For
   example, subframes dedicated for downlink transmission and
   flexible subframes may have respective cyclic periods of ZP
   CSI-RS and subframe offsets configured individually. The ZP
   CSI-RS configured for flexible subframes may include resources
10 used as IMR to guarantee the link performances             of PDSCH
   transmission.    Alternatively,     the   RE    mapping    and    QCL
   configuration information may also include extra information
   indicating IMR. The extra information could reuse the same
   configuration scheme for IMR as defined in Rel-11              system.
15 Unlike the manner defined in Release 11, the extra information
   indiating IMR may be added into RE mapping and QCL. In this
   case, the extra information will indicate "a UE may delete the
   REs occupied by IMR during rate matching and skip those REs
   occupied by IMR during RE mapping".             The information may
20 indicate the IMR only for flexible subframes, or may indicate
   both the IMR for flexible subframes and the IMR for subframes
   dedicated for downlink transmission.
           Several methods for configuring RE mapping and QCL
   configuration   information    of PDSCH        of flexible  subframes
25 according to embodiments of the present invention are described
   as follows.
           A first method for configuring RE mapping and QCL
   configuration   information    of PDSCH        of flexible  subframes
   according to an embodiment of the present invention includes
30 configuring four types of RE mapping and QCL configuration
   information of a PDSCH, which are applied to all subframes.
   The four types of configuration information may be directly
   applied to subframes dedicated for downlink transmission, and
   may be applied to flexible subframes with respective schemes
                                           15

   for configuring RE mapping and QCL of PDSCH adjusted.
           According to current standards, MBSFN indication information
   is provided during configuration of RE mapping and QCL of PDSCH.
   For a subframe dedicated for downlink transmission, RE mapping of
 5 PDSCH is performed based on a CRS structure of a regular subframe
   when the subframe        is indicated as a non-MBSFN subframe, and is
   performed based on the CRS structure of an MBSFN subframe when the
   subframe is indicated as an MBSFN subframe.
           For a flexible subframe, RE mapping may be performed based on
10 the structure of an MBSFN subframe including a CRS of a subframe
   without a CRS according to higher layer signaling. For example, a new
   information   field may      be   added  into    RE  and QCL     configuration
   information of PDSCH to specify whether the RE mapping is performed
   based on the structure of an MBSFN subframe having a CRS or the
15 structure of a subframe without a CRS; alternatively, conventional
   MBSFN indication information may be adopted to specify whether the
   structure of an MBSFN subframe having a CRS or the structure of a
   subframe without a CRS is to be adopted for RE mapping. Taking the
   MBSFN indication information as an example, RE mapping of a PDSCH
20 is performed for a flexible subframe indicated as an MBSFN subframe
   by using the structure of an MBSFN              subframe having a CRS for
   transmission.   RE    mapping of PDSCH          is performed   for a flexible
   subframe indicated as a non-MBSFN subframe by using a structure of a
   subframe without CRS, i.e., assuming that the whole subframe does not
25 include   CRS    RE,   i.e.,  assuming   the   number of CRS      ports   is  0.
   According to this first method for configuring RE mapping and QCL
   configuration information       of PDSCH      of flexible subframes,    an RE
   mapping scheme may be defined for each of the four types of PDSCH
   RE mapping and QCL configuration information by using the MBSFN
30 indication information. For example, for one type of RE mapping and
   QCL configuration information, the MBSFN indication information may
   specify a subframe adopts the structure of an MBSFN subframe having
   CRS for RE mapping and for another type of RE mapping and QCL
   configuration    information,    the  MBSFN      indication information     may
                                           16

   specify RE mapping of the same subframe            is performed, by
   assuming there is no CRS.
           Supposing a flexible subframe is only allowed to adopt
   the structure of a regular subframe that has a CRS              or the
 5 structure of a subframe without a CRS for downlink transmission,
   the RE mapping and QCL configuration may only have to specify
   which of the two structures is to be adopted. For a flexible
   subframe, RE mapping is performed based on the structure of a
   regular subframe that has a CRS or the structure of a subframe
10 without a CRS,     as indicated    in higher layer signaling.      For
   example, a new information field may be added in PDSCH RE
   and QCL configuration information, in order to specify whether
   the RE mapping is performed based on the structure of a regular
   subframe having CRS or the structure of a subframe without CRS.
15 Alternatively, conventional MBSFN indication information may
   be adopted to specify the structure adopted by RE mapping is of
   a regular subframe or of a subframe without CRS. Taking the
   MBSFN indication information as an example, an RE available
   for PDSCH transmission in a flexible subframe indicated as an
20 MBSFN subframe may be determined by using the structure of a
   subframe without a CRS (i.e., the RE mapping is performed by
   assuming that the whole subframe does not include a CRS RE, by
   assuming the number of CRS ports is 0); RE mapping for PDSCH
   transmission may performed in a flexible subframe indicated as a
25 non-MBSFN subframe according to the structure of a regular
   subframe.   According to this method, the MBSFN             indication
   information may be used for defining the RE mapping scheme
   for each of the four types of RE mapping and QCL configuration
   information    of PDSCH.     For  example,    for one   type   of RE
30 mapping    and   QCL    configuration    information,   the   MBSFN
   indication   information   may   specify   that RE    mapping     of a
   subframe   is performed    by using the structure      of a regular
   subframe having a CRS; and for another type of RE mapping and
   QCL     configuration    information,     the   MBSFN       indication
                                         17

   information may specify that RE mapping of the same subframe is
   performed under the assumption that there is no CRS. In an example,
   the above structure of a subframe without a CRS may be replaced with
   the structure of an MBSFN subframe that has a CRS, and therefore
 5 downlink transmission in a flexible subframe may be configured to
   adopt one of the structure of a regular subframe that has a CRS and the
   structure of an MBSFN structure that has a CRS.
           If it is not possible to include a CRS within a flexible subframe,
   the four types of RE mapping and QCL configuration information of
10 PDSCH all indicate RE mapping is performed under the assumption that
   the entire subframe does not include any CRS REs, and therefore only
   have to indicate other information that may affect RE mapping and QCL
   information.
           Alternatively, the RE mapping scheme may be determined based
15 on the duplexing direction indicated in SIBI for the flexible subframe.
   More specifically, if SIBI indicates the flexible subframe is a downlink
   subframe, RE mapping is performed according to the CRS structure of
   an MBSFN       subframe;   if SIBI  indicates the flexible subframe   is an
   uplink subframe, RE mapping is performed according to a method when
20 there is no CRS.
           Alternatively, MBSFN indication information and the duplexing
   direction indicated in SIBI for a flexible subframe may be used in
   combination for determining       the RE mapping scheme.     For example,
   when SIBI indicates a flexible subframe is a downlink subframe, RE
25 mapping is      carried out based   on the   CRS  structure of an MBSFN
   subframe, if the flexible subframe is an MBSFN subframe. Meanwhile,
   if the flexible subframe      is a non-MBSFN     subframe, RE mapping is
   carried out based on the CRS structure of a regular subframe. When
   SIBI indicates a flexible subframe is uplink, RE mapping is carried out
30 by assuming there is no CRS.
           In order to indicate the IMR in a flexible subframe, a subframe
   dedicated for downlink transmission and a flexible subframe may have
   different ZP CSI-RSs configured in RE mapping and QCL configuration
   of PDSCH. The ZP CSI-RS of a flexible subframe has different cyclic
                                          18

   period and subframe offset from the ZP CSI-RS of a subframe
   dedicated for downlink transmission. Therefore,           influence of
   IMR can be eliminated during rate matching and RE mapping for
   a flexible subframe      so as to improve      link performances of
 5 PDSCH transmission. Alternatively, the RE mapping and QCL
   configuration information may also include extra information
   indicating IMR. The extra information could reuse the same
   configuration scheme for IMR as defined in Rel-11               system.
   Unlike the manner defined in Release 11, the extra information
10 indiating IMR is added into RE mapping and QCL. The extra
   information will indicate "a UE may delete the REs occupied by
   IMR during rate matching and skip those REs occupied by IMR
   during RE mapping". The information may indicate only the IMR
   for flexible subframes, or may indicate the IMR for flexible
15 subframes and the IMR for subframes dedicated for downlink
   transmission respectively.
           A second method for configuring RE mapping and QCL
   configuration    information   of   PDSCH     of  flexible   subframes
   according to an embodiment of the present invention includes
20 higher    layer   signaling  (e.g.,   RRC)    may    be   adopted    for
   configuring    RE mapping     and QCL      configuration   information
   dedicated for a flexible subframe. For example,           RE mapping
   scheme    of PDSCH      may be    optimized   based   on whether     the
   flexible subframe includes CRS, and a more reasonable              QCL
25 information may be configured for the flexible subframe.
           According to LTE RI 1 specifications, RE mapping and
   QCL configuration information of PDSCH includes information
   on the number of CRS (Cell-specific Reference Signal) ports.
   The   the   number    of CRS    ports  corresponding    to   a  flexible
30 subframe in the configuration information may be 0, 1, 2, or 4
   ports, because the flexible subframe may adopt the structure of a
   subframe without CRS. The number of CRS ports is set to be 0
   when no CRSs are to be transmitted in the flexible subframe (i.e.,
   the flexible subframe adopts a subframe structure without CRS).
                                           19

            According to LTE RI 1 specifications, RE mapping and QCL
   configuration information of PDSCH includes information on the index
   of an OFDM symbol at the starting position for PDSCH mapping. A
   flexible subframe may be not allowed to transmit PDCCH because the
 5 flexible subframe may adopt a subframe structure without CRS, and
   therefore,    all OFDM symbols in the subframe may be available for
   PDSCH transmission. Alternatively, when a flexible subframe includes
   a CRS, all of the OFDM symbols may also be available for PDSCH
   transmission. As such, the index of the OFDM symbol at the starting
10 position may be one of 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4. The index of the starting
   OFDM symbol may be set to be 4 only when the system bandwidth is
   smaller than 10 Physical Resource Blocks (PRB).            When a flexible
   subframe includes a CRS, for an RE in which symbols to which PDSCH
   is mapped to are in conflict with a PCFICH or with a PHICH according
15 to the index of the starting OFDM symbol in the configuration, two
   methods may be adopted to solve the conflict. One method generates
   REs other than those occupied by the PCFICH and the PHICH be used
   for PDSCH transmission; the other method receives a PDSCH from all
   OFDM symbols starting from the index of the starting OFDM symbol
20 (i.e.,  the UE assumes the PDSCH         is also transmitted also in REs
   occupied by the PCFICH and the PHICH).
            If the flexible subframe adopts a structure of a regular subframe,
   a structure of an MBSFN subframe having a CRS or a structure of a
   subframe without a CRS for performing downlink transmission, one of
25 the    three    above-described   CRS    structures  is   indicated  during
   configuration of RE mapping and QCL information              for a flexible
   subframe to perform RE mapping.
            If a flexible subframe adopts only the MBSFN structure or the
   structure without a CRS for downlink transmission, the configuration
30 information of RE mapping and QCL only has to identify which of the
   two structures is to be adopted. According to current standards, MBSFN
   indication information is provided during configuration of RE mapping
   and QCL of PDSCH. For a flexible subframe, RE mapping is performed
   based on the CRS structure of an MBSFN subframe or of a regular
                                         20

   subframe according to higher layer signaling. For example, a
   new    information     field   may   be     added    in  RE    and    QCL
   configuration information of PDSCH to specify whether the RE
   mapping is performed based on the CRS structure of an MBSFN
 5 subframe     or   the   structure   of   a    subframe     without    CRS.
   Alternatively, conventional MBSFN indication information may
   be adopted to specify the structure adopted by RE mapping is the
   structure of an MBSFN subframe or the structure of a subframe
   without   CRS.      When   the   MBSFN       indication   information    is
10 adopted, a flexible subframe indicated as an MBSFN subframe
   may adopt the MBSFN structure and identify the RE for PDSCH
   transmission by using the number of CRS ports and frequency
   offset; a flexible subframe indicated as a non-MBSFN subframe
   may perform RE mapping of PDSCH by assuming there is no
15 CRS.    The MBSFN        indication   information      may be    used for
   defining the RE mapping scheme for each of the four types of
   RE mapping and QCL configuration information of PDSCH. For
   example,    one    type of RE     mapping and        QCL configuration
   information     may use the      MBSFN       indication   information   to
20 indicate RE mapping of a subframe is performed based on the
   CRS structure of an MBSFN subframe; and another type of RE
   mapping     and    QCL    configuration    information     may    use  the
   MBSFN indication information to indicate RE mapping of the
   same subframe is performed assuming there is no CRS.
25         If the flexible subframe is only allowed to adopt the
   structure of a regular subframe having a CRS or the structure of
   a subframe without CRS for downlink transmission, the RE
   mapping and QCL configuration information may only have to
   specify which of the above two structures is to be adopted. For a
30 flexible   subframe,    RE mapping       is performed      based   on the
   structure of a regular subframe having CRS or the structure of a
   subframe without CRS as indicated in higher layer signaling. For
   example, a new information field may be added in PDSCH RE
   and QCL configuration information to specify whether the RE
                                            21

   mapping is performed based on the structure of a regular subframe
   having CRS or the structure of a subframe without CRS. Alternatively,
   conventional MBSFN indication information may be adopted to specify
   the structure adopted by RE mapping is of a regular subframe having
 5 CRS or the of a subframe without a CRS. Taking the MBSFN indication
   information as an example, an RE available for PDSCH transmission in
   a  flexible    subframe     indicated    as  an   MBSFN      subframe     may   be
   determined by using the structure of a subframe without a CRS When
   RE mapping is performed under the assumption that the whole subframe
10 does not include a CRS RE, it is assumed that the number of CRS ports
   is 0. RE mapping for PDSCH transmission may performed in a flexible
   subframe    indicated    as   a   non-MBSFN       subframe    according    to  the
   structure of a regular subframe having CRS. According to this method,
   the MBSFN       indication information may be used for defining the RE
15 mapping scheme for each of the four types of RE mapping and QCL
   configuration information of PDSCH. For example, for one type of RE
   mapping and QCL configuration information, the MBSFN                   indication
   information may specify RE mapping of a subframe is performed by
   using the structure of a regular subframe having CRS; and for another
20 type of RE mapping and QCL configuration information, the MBSFN
   indication information may specify RE mapping of the same subframe is
   performed by assuming         there is no CRS.      In an example,     the above
   structure   of a subframe       without   a CRS    may be     replaced with the
   structure of an MBSFN subframe having CRS, and therefore downlink
25 transmission in a flexible subframe may be configured to adopt one of
   the structure of a regular subframe that has a CRS and the structure of
   an MBSFN structure that has a CRS.
           If it is not possible to include a CRS in the flexible subframe,
   the configuration information of RE mapping and QCL only needs to
30 indicate   other information       that may    affect   RE   mapping    and   QCL
   information. Other parameters related with RE mapping and QCL may
   also differ for the two types of subframes (i.e., the flexible subframes
   and   subframes     having     fixed   duplexing    directions).   For   example,
   configuration information of RE mapping and QCL having the same
                                             22

   index may correspond to different NZP CSI-RS resources.
            In order to indicate IMR in a flexible subframe, ZP CSI
   RS configuration dedicated to a flexible subframe may be set in
   the   configuration     information   of RE    mapping    and   QCL of
 5 PDSCH. The ZP CSI-RS of a flexible subframe has a different
   cyclic period and subframe offset than the ZP CSI-RS of a
   subframe      dedicated    for  downlink    transmission.     Therefore,
   influence of IMR can be eliminated during rate matching and RE
   mapping      for   a  flexible  subframe,   so   as  to   improve    link
10 performances      of PDSCH transmission.       Alternatively,    the RE
   mapping and QCL configuration information may also include
   extra information indicating IMR. The extra information could
   reuse the same configuration scheme for IMR as defined in Rel
    11 system. Unlike the manner defined in Release 11, the extra
15 information indicating IMR is added into RE mapping and QCL.
   The extra information will indicate "a UE may delete the REs
   occupied by IMR during rate matching and skip those REs
   occupied by IMR during RE mapping".              The information may
   indicate the IMR only for flexible subframes, or may indicate the
20 IMR for flexible subframes and the IMR for subframes dedicated
   for downlink transmission respectively.
            A third method for configuring RE mapping and QCL
   configuration      information   of PDSCH      of flexible    subframes
   according to an embodiment of the present invention is described
25 as follows. In the third method for configuring RE mapping and
   QCL configuration information of PDSCH of flexible subframes,
   a   flexible   subframe     always   adopts  the   same    configuration
   information      of   RE   mapping    and   QCL.    The    configuration
   information      of RE    mapping    and   QCL    may   be   dedicatedly
30 configured for the flexible subframe via RRC signaling, or may
   be one of the four types of configuration information of RE
   mapping      and     QCL   for  subframes    dedicated   for   downlink
   transmission.
            As shown in FIG. 7, a step 201C could be used to a step
                                            23

   201 in FIG. 2. Referring to FIG. 7,         at step 201A, a UE receives the
   configuration    information    on    PUSCH,      wherein     the   configuration
   information for a flexible subframe can be different from configuration
   information for a fixed subframe.        Similar to the method that defines
 5 four types    of configurations    of RE mapping         and QCL for PDSCH
   transmission    of   a  UE,    multiple     types    of   PUSCH      transmission
   configurations may be configured for PUSCH transmission of a UE, and
   the type of PUSCH transmission configuration to be adopted may be
   dynamically indicated in a DCI format that is for scheduling uplink
10 transmission.
           For   example,   one   possible     variable    parameter    is  the   start
   position of OFDM symbols for PUSCH transmission. Two RE mapping
   schemes of a PUSCH may be defined by using the parameter One of
   these two RE mapping schemes indicates that a time period except the
15 first OFDM symbol may be used for uplink transmission The other of
   two the RE mapping schemes may indicates that all symbols in the
   subframe may be used for uplink transmission.
           Another possible     parameter     indicates whether      a cell-specific
   SRS symbol is configured in the uplink subframe, i.e., whether the last
20 SCFDMA symbol in the subframe is reserved and thus is not available
   for PUSCH transmission.
           Since   PUSCH    transmission     of a UE may         be  received    from
   different Transmission Points (TPs) and the propagation delays from the
   UE to different TPs are generally different, a Time Advance (TA) of
25 PUSCH     transmission   may    also   be    configured.    Downlink     reference
   timing for PUSCH transmission of a UE may also be configured. For
   example, the configuration may indicate which NZP CSI-RS the UE may
   use to measure downlink signals to determine the uplink transmission
   time of the UE. According to the method, the TP from which the UE
30 may    receive    PUSCH     can    be    dynamically       selected,    thus    link
   performances can be optimized.
           Similar to   the PDSCH      processing method,        multiple types       of
   configurations for PUSCH transmission may be configured and applied
   to all subframes. Alternatively, the flexible subframe and the subframe
                                           24

   dedicated     for   uplink     transmission       may      have    respective
   configurations of PUSCH transmission configured via individual
   signaling.
           As shown in FIG. 8, a step 201D could be used to a step
 5 201 in FIG. 2. Referring to FIG. 8, at step 201A, a UE receives
   the   configuration     information       on    EPDCCH,        wherein      the
   configuration     information     for   a    flexible    subframe      can   be
   different from configuration information for a fixed subframe.
   When a flexible subframe is used as a downlink subframe, an
10 EPDCCH      transmitted    in   the  flexible     subframe    may     adopt   a
   configuration method different from configuration methods of
   other subframes dedicated for downlink transmission. According
   to an embodiment of the present invention,                the two types of
   subframes, i.e., the flexible subframes and the subframes having
15 fixed    duplexing      direction,      have       different     interference
   distributions, needs to take influences of uplink transmission of
   other cells into consideration during EPDCCH transmission, and
   therefore,   may    have    different    PRBs      that   are   suitable    for
   respective EPDCCH transmission. Parameters of an EPDCCH set
20 dedicated for EPDCCH transmission in a flexible subframe may
   be configured via RRC signaling. One or more of the following
   parameters of an EPDCCH set may be different from that of a
   subframe dedicated for downlink transmission:
           1. The number of EPDCCH sets for UE blind detection
25 may be configured, i.e., the number of EPDCCH sets detected by
   the  same   UE in the      above two       types    of subframes      may be
   different.
           2. The type of EPDCCH set may be configured, which
   may be a distributed EPDCCH set or a localized EPDCCH set,
30 and the type of EPDCCH sets or the number of each type of
   EPDCCH sets        detected   by a UE in        the above two        types of
   subframes may be different.
           3. The number and the index of PRB pairs occupied by an
   EPDCCH set may be configured. In LTE Release 11, the number
                                              25

   of PRB pairs included in an EPDCCH set may be 2, 4 or 8, and the
   number and the index of PRB pairs detected by a UE in the above two
   types of subframes may be different.
            4. The number of candidate EPDCCH of each converging level in
 5 an EPDCCH set may be configured,             i.e., the number of candidate
   EPDCCH at each converging level of one EPDCCH set corresponding to
   the two types of subframes of the UE may be different. For example, in
   order to improve the reliability of EPDCCH transmission, the smallest
   converging level available for EPDCCH in a flexible subframe may be
10 two Enhanced       Control Channel Elements (ECCEs);          or the smallest
   converging level of EPDCCH may be configured according to the
   interference   level    of the  flexible   subframe.    For  example,    if the
   interference is strong, the smallest converging level may be configured
   as two ECCEs via higher layer signaling.
15          5. The    start position   of the   OFDM symbols        for EPDCCH
   transmission in an EPDCCH set may be configured,                i.e., the start
   position of OFDM symbols for EPDCCH transmission in the above two
   types of subframes of a UE may be different. Different start positions of
   OFDM       symbols   for EPDCCH      transmission    may be    configured   for
20 flexible subframes of MBSFN type and for flexible subframes in which
   CRS has been removed. RE mapping of EPDCCH of a flexible subframe
   in which a CRS has been removed may be performed from the start
   position of OFDM symbols in the subframe.
            6. The RE mapping method for an EPDCCH may be configured,
25 i.e., the method of performing RE mapping for the same EPDCCH in the
   above two types of subframes of a UE may be different. Configurations
   of a ZP CSI-RS that must be considered during RE mapping may also be
   different for the two types of subframes.
            In order to improve anti-interference performances of a flexible
30 subframe, the subframe may be defined such that only a regression
   mode     can be   adopted   for UL/DL      data transmission     in a flexible
   subframe. For example,       a subframe may be defined such that only
   Space-Frequency       Block Coding (SFBC)-based        transmission diversity
   technique can be used for downlink data transmission, so that a UE only
                                           26

   needs to use Detect Control Information format 1A (DCI 1A) in
   a UE-specific searching space of the UE, Alternatively, a UE
   may use only DCI format 0 for scheduling single transmitting
   antenna based uplink data transmission in a flexible subframe.
 5         According to LTE Release 11 standards, in transmission
   mode    10,   configuration      of RE    mapping     and   QCL   for each
   EPDCCH set of a UE             is kept consistent with one        of the  4
   configurations of RE mapping and QCL of PDSCH of the UE.
   Therefore, different EPDCCH sets may be in QCL relation with
10 different NZP        CSI-RS.    There   may    be   different  ZP   CSI-RS
   configurations,      and   the   number    of  CRS     ports  and  MBSFN
   subframe configuration may also be different.
           If the above-described        first method of configuring RE
   mapping and QCL of a PDSCH, i.e., four types of configurations
15 of RE mapping and a QCL are defined and applied to all of
   subframes, each EPDCCH set is kept consistent with one of the
   above    four    types   of   configurations.    If  the   above-described
   second method of configuring RE mapping and QCL of a PDSCH
   is adopted, i.e., dedicated configurations of RE mapping and a
20 QCL    of a    PDSCH       is  defined   for  flexible    subframes,   each
   EPDCCH in a flexible subframe may be consistent with one of
   the dedicated configurations of RE mapping and a QCL of a
   PDSCH.
           A relation that associates the index of an EPDCCH set of
25 a flexible subframe with corresponding index of RE mapping and
   QCL information of a PDSCH may be consistent with that of
   subframes dedicated for downlink transmission. Therefore, no
   extra signaling is needed.         Alternatively,    extra RRC signaling
   may be transmitted to configure the relation that associates an
30 EPDCCH       set   with   RE    mapping    and   QCL     information  of a
   PDSCH for flexible subframes.           EPDCCH sets having the same
   index may have different QCL relations               in the two types of
   subframes,    i.e.,   CSI-RS resources of DMRS that satisfy QCL
   relations   and     correspond    to the   same    EPDCCH      set may   be
                                              27

   different for the two types of subframes of a UE.
           In addition, if a base station does not configure new dedicated
   parameters of an EPDCCH set for a flexible subframe, this absence of a
   new configuration may be interpreted as a default situation, in which
 5 the flexible subframe adopts the same parameters of an EPDCCH set
   with that adopted by a subframe dedicated for downlink transmission.
   Particularly, in transmission mode 10, if new RE mapping and QCL
   relation of an EPDCCH set are not configured for a flexible subframe,
   this absence of a new configuration may be regarded as a default
10 situation, in which the flexible subframe adopts the same RE mapping
   and QCL relation with those adopted by other subframes dedicated for
   downlink transmission.
           Referring back to FIG. 2, in a step 202, a UE detects downlink
   control information transmitted by a base station in a flexible subframe,
15 receives   downlink     data     corresponding       to   the   downlink     control
   information,    and   reports    HARQ-ACK          of   the   downlink    data   and
   downlink channel state indication information (CSI) to the base station.
           Flexible   subframes      and    subframes      dedicated    for   downlink
   transmission    have   different    interference     distributions   and different
20 channel states, therefore interference signals are measured in flexible
   subframes    and   in  subframes       dedicated    for downlink       transmission
   respectively to obtain accurate CSI feedback information. LTE Release
    11  and communications        according     to   earlier versions     of the LTE
   standards already allow feeding back a CSI for different subframe sets.
25 For example, subframes dedicated for downlink transmission may be
   defined as a subframe        set in which interference          is measured,     and
   flexible  subframes     may    be    defined    as   a   subframe   set   in  which
   interference is measured. Because a CRS is generally not transmitted in
   a flexible   subframe     or  in   the   data   field   of  a  flexible   subframe,
30 interference may be measured in specific time-frequency resources.
           In LTE Release 11, IMR for interference measurement, which is
   an RE occupying a CSI-RS with 4 ports is defined. According to LTE
   Release 11, the current cell does not transmit downlink signals on IMR,
   and other cells may transmit a PDSCH on the IMR, therefore signals
                                             28

   received    from these     REs directly reflect the distribution of
   interferences.
            According to an embodiment of the present invention,
   two   IMR     may   be    configured   for  two   different  respective
 5 subframe sets. For ZP CSI-RS, which serves as the i'th IMR,
   where i=O, 1, a cyclic period Ti, a subframe offset ki, and RE
   resources    of CSI-RS port occupied by the ZP CSI-RS in a
   subframe may be configured.
            The two     IMRs may have        some or all of the      above
10 parameters, i.e., the cyclic period Ti, the subframe offset ki, and
   the RE resources of CSI-RS occupied by the IMR in a subframe,
   different from those of each other. For example, the two IMR
   resources may have the same cyclic period and occupy the same
   RE resources      of CSI-RS in a subframe, but have            different
15 subframe offsets. Different subframe offsets guarantee that the
   two IMRs are located in two different subframe sets so that
   interferences    in   the   two  subframe    sets  may    be  measured
   respectively.
            One subframe set may include all the subframes dedicated
20 for downlink transmission,        and the other subframe       set may
   include all the flexible subframes. Alternatively, the subframe
   sets may be classified based on interference levels instead of
   based    on   flexible    subframes   and   subframes    dedicated   for
   downlink transmission.        For example,    one subframe     set may
25 include all subframes dedicated for downlink transmission and
   flexible subframes whose interferences are mainly caused by
   downlink transmission in other cells, and the other subframe set
   may    include the other flexible       subframes by excluding       the
   flexible subframes in the first subframe set.
30          Furthermore, different flexible subframes may generally
   have different distributions of interferences.        For example,     if
   subframes 3, 4, 8 and 9 are flexible subframes, subframes 3 and
   8 have higher probabilities of being used for uplink transmission
   than subframes 4 and 9. Therefore, the interference distribution
                                            29

   may be different. Based on the above analysis,                 subframes may be
   divided into N subframe sets (where N is greater than 2) to have the
   the flexible subframes classified into multiple subframe sets where each
   subframe     set    only    includes    flexible     subframes    having    similar
 5 interference      levels    and/or    subframes       dedicated     for   downlink
   transmission. In this example, N IMRs (where N is greater than 2) may
   be configured for use by the N different subframe sets respectively.
   This   configuration     can be    regarded     as an   extension   of the   above
   described IMR allocation method.
10         A flexible subframe may be used for downlink transmission or
   for uplink transmission. When a flexible subframe is currently used by
   some UEs for uplink transmission, needs of other UEs in the cell for
   downlink interference measurements should also be satisfied. According
   to an embodiment of the present invention, when other UEs in the
15 current cell still need to measure interferences on a flexible subframe
   which at the time is used for uplink transmission in the cell,                 there
   should be a guarantee that uplink signals will not be transmitted in
   time-frequency resources used for downlink interference measurement.
   Other cells may transmit PUSCH or PDSCH in downlink IMR of the
20 current cell irrespective       of whether the       other cells are performing
   uplink transmission or downlink transmission. A UE is able to obtain
   accurate measurements         of interferences     in a flexible subframe       only
   when both of the above two conditions are met.
           To perform downlink interference measurement                of a UE even
25 when a flexible subframe is scheduled for uplink transmission in the
   current cell, timing of uplink transmission and downlink transmission in
   the current cell may be kept synchronized with each other at the level of
   OFDM symbols so that downlink signals will not be transmitted in REs
   used for downlink interference measurement in the current cell. Since
30 UEs and base stations in a cell may have different propagation delays, it
   is impossible to keep uplink/downlink signals accurately synchronized
   at  the  level     of  OFDM      symbol.    But    propagation    delay  plays    an
   unimportant      role   for   a  small    cell,   therefore   relatively   accurate
   measurements       of interferences    can be      obtained,   as  long  as   quasi
                                              30

   synchronization at the level of OFDM symbol can be maintained
   without requiring alignment of subframe boundaries.
           According to LTE standards, uplink signals of a UE
   actually occupy half of a sub carrier, and result in ill-alignment
 5 of uplink/downlink sub carriers when the flexible subframe is
   used for UL/DL transmission, i.e., there is an offset of half a sub
   carrier. UL/DL sub carriers should be aligned to obtain accurate
   interference measurements. A method for performing such an
   alignment according to an embodiment of the present invention
10 may include transmitting uplink signals in a flexible subframe
   according to the classification     of sub carriers and PRBs of
   downlink subframes of LTE, which may not conform to single
   carrier characteristics. Another method may include transmitting
   downlink      signals   in  a  flexible   subframe    according    to
15 classification of sub carriers and PRBs of uplink subframes of
   LTE.
           If it is not necessary for uplink transmission in a flexible
   subframe to keep the single carrier characteristics, the IMR of
   LTE Release 11 may be adopted. Bit drilling may be performed
20 for uplink transmission signals according to the timing offset of
   UL/DL transmission of a flexible subframe,         i.e.,  the timing
   offset of OFDM symbols when the flexible subframe is used for
   UL/DL transmission Therefore, the downlink signal will not be
   transmitted on IMR of the flexible subframe in the current cell.
25         If it is necessary for uplink transmission in a flexible
   subframe to keep the single carrier characteristics, a new time
   frequency structure of IMR is defined. This new structure of
   IMR is referred to as "enhanced IMR (eIMR)"          herein. Current
   IMR occupy       one sub carrier in every six sub carriers     in an
30 OFDM symbol. Transmitting uplink signal by a UE in remaining
   REs will violate the single carrier characteristics. To meet the
   above two requirements for downlink interference measurement,
   a UE may need to transmit no uplink signal on the eIMR, and
   transmit uplink signal on other sub carriers       within the   same
                                          31

   OFDM symbol while keeping the single carrier characteristics of the
   uplink signal. FIG. 3 is a schematic diagram illustrating an eIMR in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The eIMR is
   defined such that it is included in an OFDM symbol by using a method
 5 where a RePetition Factor (RPF) is 2 (i.e., the eIMR occupies one out of
   every two sub carriers). A UE does not use REs occupied by an eIMR
   for uplink transmission, and may transmit uplink data on the other half
   of sub carrier resources not occupied by eIMRs.
           The   UE   may   disregard  the   REs   occupied    by  eIMRs   when
10 performing rate matching and PUSCH RE mapping, i.e., performing rate
   matching   by using    the number    of PUSCH      REs   excluding   the REs
   occupied by eIMR. Alternatively, the UE may adopt a conventional rate
   matching method to remove only the Quadrature Amplitude Modulation
   (QAM) symbols of REs corresponding to eIMRs.
15         NZP CSI-RS are not transmitted in a subframe, or the subframe
   is used for downlink transmission, because the duplexing direction of a
   flexible subframe may change according to eIMR timing. Therefore,
   OFDM symbols occupied by eIMR are not restricted by CSI-RS.               But
   eIMR should avoid OFDM symbols of uplink reference signal, in order
20 to avoid affecting the transmission of uplink reference signals.
           The above two methods       are based    on the   assumption that a
   flexible subframe that is configured to include eIMR may be scheduled
   for uplink transmission, which means a UE that is scheduled to perform
   uplink transmission at the time is not able to measure interferences,
25 which may adversely affect the interference measurement of CSI.
           In view of the     above,  another method      for configuring   IMR
   according    to  an   embodiment    of   the   present   invention   includes
   generating a first flexible subframe of an Evolved Node B (eNB) used
   for  downlink    transmission   on  timing    of  IMR    when    the  IMR   is
30 configured in the first flexible subframe; making a duplexing direction
   of a second flexible subframe having an index of radio frame the same
   with an index of the first flexible       subframe   flexible  if the second
   flexible subframe does not include IMR. According to an embodiment of
   the present invention, an adjacent cell may have an IMR configured in a
                                         32

   subframe different from the subframe having IMR in the current
   cell to make the IMR more accurately reflect interferences. Thus,
   the IMR of a cell is able to reflect actual conditions of
   interferences because the duplexing directions of the resources
 5 occupied by IMR in other cells are all flexible.
           An embodiment of the present invention provides an
   apparatus corresponding      to the above-described     methods.   As
   shown in FIG. 4, the apparatus includes a sending/receiving
   module 410,     a configuring module 420 and a feeding back
10 module 430.
           The   sending/receiving     module    410  is  configured   to
   receive configuration information of downlink transmission in a
   flexible subframe, sending the configuration information to the
   configuring module; detecting downlink control information sent
15 by   a  base  station  in  the  flexible   subframe,   and  receiving
   downlink data corresponding to the downlink control information.
           As shown in FIG. 9, in a UE hardware, the UE comprises
   a processor 910, memory 920 and transceiver (not depicted). The
   processor 910 is to run the function to support module 410, and
20 the memory 920 stores the machine codes of the UE hardware
   implementation and buffer the downlink and uplink control/data
   needs to be received and transmitted.
           The configuring module 420 is configured to performing
   configurations for a flexible subframe that are different from
25 configurations for a subframe whose duplexing direction is fixed.
   With   respect to each    function   at UE,    module 430    performs
   according to step 201A, 201B, 201C, or 201D in FIG. 5, 6, 7, or
   8 respectively.
           The feeding back module        430   is configured to   report
30 HARQ-ACK for the downlink data and CSI to the base station.
   The feeding back module 430 performs according to the step 202
   in FIG. 2.
           The  modules    shown    in  FIG.   4   implement  respective
   functions according to the above-described methods, which will
                                          33

   not be described in further detail herein for clarity and conciseness.
            By adopting a method and apparatus according to embodiments
   of the present invention, when a flexible subframe is used for downlink
   transmission, a UL/DL transmission method different from that of a
 5 subframe dedicated for downlink transmission is configured for the
   flexible    subframe,    thus   reliability   and  flexibility   of   EPDCCH
   transmission in the flexible subframe are improved, and accuracy of CSI
   feedback information for the flexible subframe is also increased.
           While the present invention has been illustrated and described
10 with   reference    to  embodiments      thereof, various    modifications  or
   changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present
   invention. Therefore, the scope of the present invention is not limited to
   the described embodiments, but is defined by the scope of the following
   claims and any equivalents thereof.
15         In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of
   the invention,     except where the context requires otherwise          due to
   express language or necessary implication, the word "comprise"              or
   variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive
   sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to
20 preclude     the presence    or  addition   of further   features   in various
   embodiments of the invention.
           It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred
   to herein, such reference does not constitute an admission that the
   publication forms a part of the common general knowledge in the art, in
25 Australia or any other country.
                                            34

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
             1.     A method for reporting channel state information (CSI) by
   a user equipment (UE), the method comprising:
 5           receiving configuration information from a base station (BS),
   the configuration information configuring a first CSI subframe set and a
   second CSI subframe set;
             identifying a first interference measurement resource within the
   first CSI subframe set and a second interference measurement resource
10 within the second CSI subframe set in response to receiving the
   configuration information;
             obtaining CSI associated with one of the first CSI subframe set
   and the second CSI subframe set based on one of the identified first
   interference      measurement       resource       and    the     identified      second
15 interference measurement resource; and
             reporting the obtained CSI to the BS.
             2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the one of the identified
   first  interference    measurement       resource     and    the   identified     second
20 interference measurement resource comprises a zero-power (ZP)                       CSI
   reference signal (RS).
             3.     The   method    of   claim     1,  wherein     the   identified     first
   interference measurement resource, the identified second interference
25 measurement resource and a CSI-RS are included in a CSI process.
             4.     The method of claim          1, wherein      the first    interference
   measurement        resource   and    the    second      interference     measurement
   resource     are identified,  if the UE is configured with the first                  CSI
30 subframe set and the second CSI subframe set and is in transmission
   mode 10.
             5.     A   user   equipment      (UE)     for   reporting     channel     state
   information (CSI), the UE comprising:
35           a transceiver; and
             a controller configured to:
                     receive   configuration     information      from    a base station
          (BS),    the   configuration    information       configuring      a   first   CSI
          subframe set and a second CSI subframe set;
                                               35

                      identify a first interference measurement resource within
           the first CSI subframe set and a second interference measurement
           resource within the second CSI subframe set in response to
           receiving the configuration information;
  5                   obtain CSI associated with one of the first CSI subframe
           set and the second CSI subframe set based on one of the
           identified first interference measurement resource and the
           identified second interference measurement resource; and
              report the obtained CSI to the BS.
10
              6.     The UE of claim 5, wherein the one of the identified first
    interference      measurement      resource      and    the    identified     second
    interference measurement resource comprises a zero-power (ZP)                   CSI
    reference signal (RS).
15
              7.     The    UE   of   claim   5,     wherein    the     identified   first
    interference measurement resource, the identified second interference
    measurement resource and a CSI-RS are included in a CSI process.
20            8.     The   UE    of  claim   5,    wherein    the    first  interference
    measurement        resource   and   the   second     interference      measurement
    resource     are identified,  if the UE is configured with the first              CSI
    subframe set and the second CSI subframe set and is in transmission
    mode 10.
25
              9.     A method for receiving, by a base station (BS), channel
    state information (CSI), the method comprising:
              configuring, for a user equipment (UE),            a first CSI subframe
    set including a first interference measurement resource and a second
30  CSI subframe set including a second interference measurement resource;
    and
              receiving, from the UE, CSI associated with one of the first CSI
    subframe set and the second CSI subframe                set, wherein the CSI is
    obtained by the UE based on one of the first interference measurement
35  resource and the second interference measurement resource.
              10.    The method     of claim    9,   wherein    the   one of the     first
    interference     measurement      resource      and   the    second     interference
    measurement       resource   comprises    a    zero-power     (ZP)     CSI-reference
40  signal (RS).
                                             36

              11.   The method of claim 9, wherein the first interference
    measurement resource, the second interference measurement resource
    and a CSI-RS are included in a CSI process.
  5
              12. The method of claim 9, wherein the first interference
    measurement resource and the second interference measurement
    resource are identified, if the UE is configured with the first CSI
    subframe set and the second CSI subframe set and is in transmission
10  mode 10.
              13. A base station (BS) for receiving a report of channel state
    information (CSI), the BS comprising:
              a transceiver; and
15            a controller configured to:
                     configure,    for   a   user   equipment     (UE),    a   first CSI
           subframe set including a first interference measurement resource
           and a second CSI subframe set including a second interference
           measurement resource; and
20                   receive, from the UE, CSI associated with one of the first
           CSI subframe set and the second CSI subframe set, wherein the
           CSI is obtained by the UE based on one of the first interference
           measurement resource and the second interference measurement
           resource.
25
              14.   The   BS   of   claim     13,  wherein    the   one    of   the  first
    interference    measurement        resource     and   the   second      interference
    measurement      resource    comprises      a  zero-power     (ZP)    CSI-reference
    signal (RS).
30
              15.   The   BS    of  claim     13,   wherein   the   first   interference
    measurement     resource, the second interference measurement resource
    and a CSI-RS are included in a CSI process.
35            16.   The   BS    of  claim     13,   wherein   the   first   interference
    measurement      resource     and    the    second   interference     measurement
    resource    are identified,   if the UE is configured with the first              CSI
    subframe set and the second CSI subframe set and is in transmission
    mode 10.
                                               37

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
