                                        ABSTRACT
   The present invention relates to nucleic acids encoding flavonoid biosynthetic
   enzymes,    flavonoid-regulating   transcription  factors  and   a flavonoid-specific
   membrane transporter in plants, and the use thereof for the modification of flavonoid
 5 biosynthesis in plants. The present invention also relates to constructs and vectors
   including such nucleic acids, and related polypeptides.
   More particularly, the protein involved in flavonoid biosynthesis is selected from the
   group consisting of: MADS box factor, WRKY box factor, MYC factor, TT1 , HLH
   factor,  MYB factor, FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT, RT,             CYTb5, laccase, and ABC
10 transporter proteins, and functionally active fragments and variants thereof.

                                   AUSTRALIA
                                 Patents Act 1990
             COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                    STANDARD PATENT
Invention title: Plant flavonoid metabolism (3)
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best
method of performing it known to us:

                                              2
                              Plant flavonoid metabolism (3)
   Related Applications
   This application is a divisional of Australian patent application No. 2015201995,
   which in turn is a divisional of Australian patent application No 2008271901, the
 5 entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Field of the invention
   The present invention relates to nucleic acid fragments encoding amino acid
   sequences for flavonoid biosynthetic enzymes in plants, and the use thereof for the
   modification of flavonoid biosynthesis in plants.
10 Background of the invention
   Flavonoids constitute a relatively diverse family of aromatic molecules that are
   derived from phenyalanine and malonyl-coenzyme A (CoA, via the fatty acid
   pathway). These compounds include six major subgroups that are found in most
   higher plants: the chalcones, flavones, flavonols, flavandiols, anthocyanins and
15 condensed tannins (or proanthocyanidins). A seventh group, the aurones, is
   widespread, but not ubiquitous.
   Some plant species also synthesize specialised forms of flavonoids, such as the
   isoflavonoids that are found in legumes and a small number of non-legume plants.
   Similarly, sorghum, maize and gloxinia are among the few species known to
20 synthesize 3-deoxyanthocyanins (or phlobaphenes in the polymerised form). The
   stilbenes, which are closely related to flavonoids, are synthesised by another group
   of unrelated species that includes grape, peanut and pine.
   Besides providing pigmentation to flowers, fruits, seeds, and leaves, flavonoids also
   have key roles in signalling between plants and microbes, in male fertility of some
25 plant species, in defense as antimicrobial agents and feeding deterrants, and in UV
   protection.
   Flavonoids also have significant activities when ingested by animals, and there is
   great interest in their potential health benefits, particularly for compounds such as

                                              3
   isoflavonoids, which have been linked to anticancer benefits, and stilbenes that are
   believed to contribute to reduced heart disease.
   The    major   branch    pathways   of flavonoid   biosynthesis start with   general
   phenylpropanoid metabolism and lead to the nine major subgroups: the colorless
 5 chalcones, aurones, isoflavonoids, flavones, flavonols, flavandiols, anthocyanins,
   condensed tannins, and phlobaphene pigments. The enzyme phenylalanine
   ammonia-lyase (PAL) of the general phenylpropanoid pathway will lead to the
   production of cinnamic acid. Cinnamate-4-hydroxylase (C4H) will produce p
   coumaric acid which will be converted through the action of 4-coumaroyl:CoA-ligase
10 (4CL) to the production of 4-coumaroyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA. Chalcone synthase
   (CHS) uses malonyl CoA and 4-coumaryl CoA as substrates. Chalcone reductase
   (CHR) balances the production of 5-hydroxy- or 5-deoxyflavonoids. The next
   enzyme, chalcone isomerase (CHI) catalyses ring closure to form a flavanone, but
   the reaction can also occur spontaneously. Further enzymes in the pathway are:
15 flavanone 3-hydroxylase (F3H), dihydroflavonol 4-reductase (DFR), flavonoid 3'
   hydroxylase (F3'H) and flavonoid 3', 5' hydroxylase (F3'5'H). A specific cytochrome
   b5 may act as an electron donor for F3'5'H enzymes.
   In the branch of the phenylpropanoid pathway that is specific to condensed tannin
   and anthocyanin production, leucoanthocyanidins can be reduced to catechins by
20 leucoanthocyanidin reductase (LAR) or to anthocyanidins by leucoanthocyanidin
   dioxygenase (LDOX).       Anthocyanidins can be converted to anthocyanins by the
   addition of sugar groups, or to epicatechins by anthocyanidin reductase (ANR),
   encoded by the BANYULS gene. Catechins and epicatechins are the subunits of
   condensed tannins, which in Arabidopsis are thought to be transported into the
25 vacuole by a multidrug secondary transporter-like protein, TRANSPARENT TESTA
   12 (TT1 2), and polymerised by the activity of a laccase.
   Enzymes in the flavonoid pathway have been found to be controlled by a range of
   transcription factors in Arabidopsis, maize and petunia. In Arabidopsis, condensed
   tannin biosynthesis requires the function of TRANSPARENT TESTA 2 (TT2), a
30 R2R3 MYB family factor, TRANSPARENT TESTA 8 (TT8), a MYC/helix-loop-helix

                                                4
   (bHLH) family factor and TRANSPARENT TESTA GLABRA 1 (TTG1), a WD40
   family factor. These three proteins are thought to form a transcription complex that
   coordinately activates multiple flavonoid pathway enzymes in order to promote
   condensed tannin production in Arabidopsis seeds.            Other myc and myb family
 5 transcription factors regulate distinct parts of the flavonoid pathway in maize,
   petunia    and    other  plant  species.       Other   transcription    factors,  including
   TRANSPARENT          TESTA GLABRA 2 (TTG2) a WRKY box family member,
   TRANSPARENT           TESTA    16   (TT16)     a   MADS     box    family    member    and
   TRANSPARENT TESTA 1 (TT1), a WIP family zinc finger factor, control the
10 differentiation of condensed tannin-producing cells in the Arabidopsis seed coat. It
   is interesting that TTG2 also controls the development of trichomes in Arabidopsis
   and that glandular trichomes are the only sites of condensed tannin or monomer
   accumulation in vegetative organs of white clover.
   A number of enzymes are involved in anthocyanin biosynthesis in plants.
15 Anthocyanin      biosynthesis  begins   in   the cytoplasm      with   glycosylation   and
   methylation     of   anthocyanidin   molecules     by   flavonoid    glycosyltransferases,
   rhamnosyltransferases and methyltransferases altering the hydrophilicity of their
   backbone as well as their stability and chemical properties. Addition of functional
   groups to flavonoids can also influence their intracellular transport and bioactivity.
20 Expression of genes encoding glucosyltransferases has been shown to be critical
   for anthocyanin biosynthesis in some pigmented berries and in flower petals of
   some plants. Other sugar metabolism genes, including UDP glucose 4-epimerases,
   may be involved in the catabolism of complex carbohydrates to provide the sugar
   moieties used by glucosyltransferases and rhamnosyltransferases.                 Although
25 anthocyanin biosynthesis occurs in the cytoplasm, anthocyanins accumulate in the
   vacuole of pigmented plant cells and there is evidence that specific glutathione-S
   transferases and ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters of the multi-drug
   resistance-associated protein (MRP) family are involved in this subcellular transport.
   While nucleic acid sequences encoding flavonoid methyltransferase (FMT), UDP
30 glucose-3-epimerase         (UG3E),        glutathione-S-transferase         (GST),      0
   methyltransferase (OMT), rhamnosyltransferase (RT), cytochrome b5 (CYTb5) and

                                                5
   laccase-like enzymes, MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1, HLH and MYB transcription
   factors and ABC transporters, and like polypeptides, have been isolated for certain
   species of plants, there remains a need for materials useful in modifying flavonoid
   biosynthesis and metabolism; in modifying protein binding, metal chelation, anti
 5 oxidation, and UV-light absorption; in modifying plant pigment production; in
   modifying plant defense to biotic stresses such as viruses, microorganisms, insects,
   fungal pathogens; in modifying forage quality, for example by disrupting protein
   foam and conferring protection from rumen pasture bloat, particularly in forage
   legumes, including alfalfa, medics and clovers, and for methods for their use.
10 It is an object of the present invention to overcome, or at least alleviate, one or more
   of the difficulties or deficiencies associated with the prior art.
   In one aspect, the present invention provides a substantially purified or isolated
   nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a polypeptide selected from the
   group consisting of flavonoid biosynthetic enzymes FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT, RT,
15 CYTb5 and laccase, flavonoid biosynthesis-regulating transcription factors MADS
   box, WRKY, MYC, TT1, HLH and MYB, and an ABC transporter, from a clover
   (Trifolium)   or medic      (Medicago) species, complements thereof, sequences
   antisense thereto, and functionally active fragments and variants thereof.
   The present invention also provides substantially purified or isolated nucleic acids or
20 nucleic acid fragments encoding amino acid sequences for a class of proteins which
   are related to FMTs, UG3Es, GSTs, OMTs, RTs, CYTb5s and laccase enzymes,
   MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1, HLH and MYB transcription factors and ABC
   transporters, or functionally active fragments or variants thereof. Such proteins are
   referred to herein as FMT-like, UG3E-like, GST-like, OMT-like, RT-like, CYTb5-like
25 and laccase-like, MADS box-like, WRKY-like, MYC-like, TT1-like, HLH-like and
   MYB-like and ABC transporter-like, respectively.
   By a -like polypeptide is meant that either one of both of the following criteria apply:
   (i) the gene which encodes the -like polypeptide is expressed in a similar manner to
   the polypeptide, and (ii) the -like polypeptide has similar functional activity to the
30 polypeptide. In a preferred embodiment, the -like polypeptide has at least

                                               6
   approximately 70%, preferably at least approximately 80%, more preferably at least
   approximately 90% identity to the polypeptide.
   Also provided are substantially purified or isolated nucleic acids or nucleic acid
   fragments complementary or antisense to nucleic acid fragments encoding -like
 5 polypeptides.
   More particularly, the present invention provides a substantially purified or isolated
   nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a polypeptide selected from the
   group consisting of flavonoid biosynthesis-regulating transcription factors      MADS
   box, MADS box-like, WRKY, WRKY-like, MYC, MYC-like, TT1, TT1-like, HLH, HLH
10 like, MYB,    and MYB -like; flavonoid biosynthetic enzymes FMT, FMT-like UG3E,
   UG3E-like, GST, GST-like, OMT, OMT-like, RT, RT-like, CYTb5, CYTb5-like,
   laccase and laccase-like; and flavonoid-related         ABC transporter and ABC
   transporter-like protein; from a clover (Trifolium) or medic (Medicago) species; or a
   functionally active fragment or variant thereof.
15 The individual or simultaneous enhancement or otherwise manipulation of FMT,
   UG3E, GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, laccase, MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1, HLH, MYB
   and ABC-type transporter or like gene activities in plants may enhance, reduce or
   otherwise alter flavonoid biosynthesis or metabolism; may enhance, reduce or
   otherwise alter the plant capacity for protein binding, metal chelation, anti-oxidation,
20 and UV-light absorption; may enhance, reduce or otherwise alter plant pigment
   production.
   The individual or simultaneous enhancement or otherwise manipulation of FMT,
   UG3E, GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, laccase, MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1, HLH, MYB
   and ABC-type       transporter or like gene activities in plants has significant
25 consequences for a range of applications in, for example, plant production and plant
   protection. For example, it has applications in increasing plant tolerance and plant
   defense to biotic stresses such as viruses, microorganisms, insects and fungal
   pathogens; in improving plant forage quality, for example by disrupting protein foam
   and in conferring protection from rumen pasture bloat; in reducing digestion rates in
30 the rumen and reducing parasitic load; in the production of plant compounds leading

                                                7
   to health benefits, such as isoflavonoids, which have been linked to anticancer
   benefits, and stilbenes that are believed to contribute to reduced heart disease.
   Methods for the manipulation of FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5 and laccase,
   MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1, HLH and MYB and ABC-type transporter or like
 5 gene activities in plants, including legumes such as clovers (Trifolium species),
   lucerne (Medicago sativa) and medics (Medicago species) may facilitate the
   production of, for example, forage legumes and forage grasses and other crops with
   enhanced tolerance to biotic stresses such as viruses, microorganisms, insects and
   fungal pathogens; altered pigmentation in flowers; forage legumes with enhanced
10 herbage quality and bloat-safety; crops with enhanced isoflavonoid content leading
   to health benefits.
   The use of transcription factors to modify multiple product-specific enzymes in the
   flavonoid pathway may be a useful alternative strategy to cloning genes encoding
   many enzymes and modifying their expression in transgenic plants.
15 While Applicant does not wish to be restricted by theory, the down-regulation of
   gene(s)   encoding proteins involved in the addition of functional groups to
   anthocyanins and their transport to the vacuole may block the anthocyanin-specific
   branch of the flavonoid pathway in plants by a negative feedback mechanism. This
   may upregulate the condensed tannin pathway, which significantly overlaps with
20 anthocyanin    biosynthesis until the      biosynthesis of leucoanthocyanidins.     A
   metabolic engineering approach that combines the down-regulation of anthocyanin
   related genes with over-expression of key genes involved in condensed tannin
   biosynthesis, such as BAN and LAR and optionally genes involved in the general
   flavonoid pathway may activate the condensed tannin pathway in anthocyanin
25 producing cells in the foliage of pasture legumes, conferring bloat-safety.
   The clover (Trifolium) or medic (Medicago) species may be of any suitable type,
   including   white   clover   (Trifolium   repens),  red  clover  (Trifolium pratense),
   subterranean    clover (Trifolium     subterraneum) and alfalfa    (Medicago sativa).
   Preferably, the species is white clover (T. repens) or alfalfa (Medicago sativa).

                                               8
   White clover (Trifolium repens L.) and alfalfa (Medicago sativa) are key pasture
   legumes, in temperate climates throughout the world.
   The nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment may be of any suitable type and includes
   DNA (such as cDNA or genomic DNA) and RNA (such as mRNA) that is single- or
 5 double-stranded, optionally containing synthetic, non-natural or altered nucleotide
   bases, and combinations thereof.
   Nucleic acids according to the invention may be full-length genes or part thereof,
   and are also referred to as "nucleic acid fragments" and "nucleotide sequences" in
   this specification.  For convenience, the expression "nucleic acid or nucleic acid
10 fragment" is used to cover all of these.
   By 'substantially purified' is meant that the nucleic acid is free of the genes, which,
   in the naturally-occurring genome of the organism from which the nucleic acid of the
   invention is derived, flank the nucleic acid. The term therefore includes, for
   example, a nucleic acid which is incorporated into a vector; into an autonomously
15 replicating plasmid or virus; or into the genomic DNA of a prokaryote or eukaryote;
   or which exists as a separate molecule (eg. a cDNA or a genomic or cDNA
   fragment produced by PCR or restriction endonuclease digestion) independent of
   other sequences. It also includes a nucleic acid which is part of a hybrid gene
   encoding additional polypeptide sequence. Preferably, the substantially purified
20 nucleic acid is 90%, more preferably 95%, even more preferably 98% pure.
   The term "isolated" means that the material is removed from its original environment
   (eg. the natural environment if it is naturally occurring). For example, a naturally
   occurring nucleic acid present in a living plant is not isolated, but the same nucleic
   acid separated from some or all of the coexisting materials in the natural system, is
25 isolated. Such nucleic acids could be part of a vector and/or such nucleic acids
   could be part of a composition, and still be isolated in that such a vector or
   composition is not part of its natural environment.
   Such nucleic acids or nucleic acid fragments could be assembled to form a
   consensus contig. As used herein, the term "consensus contig" refers to a

                                               9
   nucleotide sequence that is assembled from two or more constituent nucleotide
   sequences that share common or overlapping regions of sequence homology. For
   example, the nucleotide sequence of two or more nucleic acids or nucleic acid
   fragments can be compared and aligned in order to identify common or overlapping
 5 sequences. Where common or overlapping sequences exist between two or more
   nucleic acids or nucleic acid         fragments,   the   sequences (and      thus   their
   corresponding nucleic acids or nucleic acid fragments) can be assembled into a
   single contiguous nucleotide sequence.
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
10 isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a polypeptide selected from
   the group consisting of FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, laccase, MADS box,
   WRKY,      MYC,     TT1,     HLH,  MYB    and   ABC-type     transporter  proteins,   or
   complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding said polypeptide, and
   including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of (a) the
15 sequences shown in Figures 1, 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13, 15, 17, 20, 23, 25, 26, 28,
   30, 32, 35, 37, 38, 40, 41, 43 45 and 48 hereto; (b) the complements of the
   sequences recited in (a); (c) the sequences antisense to the sequences recited in
   (a) and (b); and (d) functionally active fragments and variants of the sequences
   recited in (a), (b) and (c).
20 By "functionally active" in relation to nucleic acids it is meant that the fragment or
   variant (such as an analogue, derivative or mutant) encodes a polypeptide which is
   capable of modifying flavonoid biosynthesis; in a plant. Such variants include
   naturally occurring allelic variants and non-naturally occurring variants. Additions,
   deletions, substitutions and derivatizations of one or more of the nucleotides are
25 contemplated so long as the modifications do not result in loss of functional activity
   of the fragment or variant. Preferably the functionally active fragment or variant has
   at least approximately 80% identity to the relevant part of the nucleotide sequence
   upon which the fragment or variant is based, more preferably at least approximately
   90% identity, even more preferably at least approximately 95% identity, most
30 preferably at least approximately 98% identity. Such functionally active variants and
   fragments include, for example, those having conservative nucleic acid changes. By

                                              10
   'conservative nucleic acid changes' is meant nucleic acid substitutions that result in
   conservation of the same amino acid in the encoded protein, due to the degeneracy
   of the genetic code. Such functionally active variants and fragments also include, for
   example, those having nucleic acid changes which result in conservative amino acid
 5 substitutions of one or more residues in the corresponding amino acid sequence. By
   'conservative amino acid substitutions' is meant the substitution of an amino acid by
   another one of the same class, the classes being as follows:
          Nonpolar: Ala, Val, Leu, lie, Pro, Met Phe, Trp
          Uncharged polar: Gly, Ser, Thr, Cys, Tyr, Asn, Gin
10        Acidic: Asp, Glu
          Basic: Lys, Arg, His
   Other conservative amino acid substitutions may also be made as follows:
          Aromatic: Phe, Tyr, His
          Proton Donor: Asn, Gin, Lys, Arg, His, Trp
15        Proton Acceptor: Glu, Asp, Thr, Ser, Tyr, Asn, Gin
   Preferably the fragment has a size of at least 30 nucleotides, more preferably at
   least 45 nucleotides, more preferably at least 60 nucleotides, more preferably at
   least 100 nucleotides, even more preferably at least 150 nucleotides.
            In a particularly preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a
20 substantially purified or isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a
   MYC protein, or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a MYC
   protein, said nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment including a nucleotide sequence
   selected from the group consisting of
            (a) sequences shown in Sequence ID Nos: 46, 48, 49 and 50;
25          (b) complements of the sequences recited in (a);
            (c) sequences antisense to the sequences recited in (a) and (b);

                                                  11
             (d) functionally active fragments of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c)
   having a size of at least 60 nucleotides; and
            (e) functionally active variants of the sequences recited in (a), (b), (c) and (d),
   said functionally active variants having at least 95% identity to the sequence recited
 5 in (a), (b), (c) or (d).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding an FMT or FMT-like protein,
   or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding an FMT or FMT-like
   protein, and including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of
10 (a) the sequences shown in Figures 1 and 3 hereto (Sequence ID Nos: 1 and 3-10);
   (b) the complements of the sequences recited in (a); (c) sequences antisense to the
   sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d) functionally active fragments and variants
   of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
15 isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a UG3E or UG3E -like
   protein, or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a UG3E or UG3E
   like protein, and including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting
   of (a) the sequences shown in Figure 4 and 6 hereto (Sequence ID Nos: 11, 13 and
   14); (b) the complements of the sequences recited in (a); (c) sequences antisense
20 to the sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d) functionally active fragments and
   variants of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a GST or GST-like protein,
   or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a GST or GST-like protein,
25 and including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of (a) the
   sequences shown in Figures 7 and 9 hereto (Sequence ID Nos: 15, 17 and 18); (b)
   the complements of the sequences recited in (a); (c) sequences antisense to the
   sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d) functionally active fragments and variants
   of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c).

                                              12
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding an OMT or OMT -like
   protein, or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding an OMT or OMT
   like protein, and including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting
 5 of (a) the sequences shown in Figures 10 and 12 hereto (Sequence ID Nos: 19 and
   21-29); (b) the complements of the sequences recited in (a); (c) sequences
   antisense to the sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d) functionally active
   fragments and variants of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
10 isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding an RT or RT-like protein, or
   complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a RT or RT -like protein, and
   including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of (a) the
   sequence shown in Figure 13 hereto (Sequence ID No: 30); (b) the complement of
   the sequence recited in (a); (c) sequences antisense to the sequences recited in (a)
15 and (b); and (d) functionally active fragments and variants of the sequences recited
   in (a), (b) and (c).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a CYTb5 or CYTb5-like
   protein, or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a CYTb5 or
20 CYTb5-like protein, and including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group
   consisting of (a) the sequence shown in Figure 15 hereto (Sequence ID No: 32); (b)
   the complement of the sequence recited in (a); (c) sequences antisense to the
   sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d) functionally active fragments and variants
   of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c).
25 In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a laccase or laccase -like
   protein, or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a laccase or
   laccase -like protein, and including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group
   consisting of (a) sequences shown in Figures 17 and 20 hereto (Sequence ID Nos:
30 34 and 36, respectively); (b) complements of the sequences recited in (a); (c)

                                              13
   sequences antisense to the sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d) functionally
   active fragments and variants of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a MADS box or MADS box
 5 like protein, or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a MADS box or
   MADS box-like protein,      and including a nucleotide sequence selected from the
   group consisting of (a) the sequences shown in Figures 23 and 25 hereto
   (Sequence ID Nos: 38 and 40-43); (b) the complements of the sequences recited in
   (a); (c) sequences antisense to the sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d)
10 functionally active fragments and variants of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and
   (c).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a WRKY or WRKY-like
   protein, or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a WRKY or WRKY
15 like protein,     and including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group
   consisting of (a) the sequence shown in Figure 26 hereto (Sequence ID No: 44); (b)
   the complement of the sequence recited in (a); (c) sequences antisense to the
   sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d) functionally active fragments and variants
   of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c).
20 In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a MYC or MYC-like protein,
   or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a MYC or MYC-like protein,
   and including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of (a)
   sequences shown in Figures 28, 30 and 32 hereto (Sequence ID Nos: 46, 48, 49
25 and 50); (b) complements of the sequences recited in (a); (c) sequences antisense
   to the sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d) functionally active fragments and
   variants of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a TT1 or TT1 -like protein, or
30 complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a TT1          or TT1 -like protein,

                                              14
   and including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of (a) the
   sequences shown in Figures 35 and 37 hereto (Sequence ID Nos: 52, 54 and 55);
   (b) the complements of the sequences recited in (a); (c) sequences antisense to the
   sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d) functionally active fragments and variants
 5 of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding an HLH or HLH-like protein,
   or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding an HLH                or HLH-like
   protein, and including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of
10 (a) the sequences shown in Figures 38 and 40 hereto (Sequence ID Nos: 55, 56, 58
   and 59); (b) the complements of the sequences recited in (a); (c) sequences
   antisense to the sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d) functionally active
   fragments and variants of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
15 isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a MYB or MYB-like protein,
   or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a MYB or MYB-like protein,
   and including a nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of (a)
   sequences shown in Figures 41, 43 and 45 hereto (Sequence ID Nos: 60, 62, 63
   and 64); (b) complements of the sequences recited in (a); (c) sequences antisense
20 to the sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d) functionally active fragments and
   variants of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding an ABC transporter or ABC
   transporter -like protein, or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a
25 ABC transporter or ABC transporter -like protein, and including a nucleotide
   sequence selected from the group consisting of (a) the sequence shown in Figure
   48 hereto (Sequence ID No: 66); (b) the complement of the sequence recited in (a);
   (c) sequences antisense to the sequences recited in (a) and (b); and (d) functionally
   active fragments and variants of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c).

                                                 15
   In a     particularly preferred    embodiment,     the present invention provides        a
   substantially purified or isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment comprising a
   nucleotide sequence selected from the group consisting of the sequences shown in
   Figures 1, 3 4, 6 7, 9 10, 12, 13, 15, 17, 20, 23, 25, 26, 28, 30, 32, 35, 37, 38, 39,
 5 41, 43, 45 and 48 hereto; and the sequences complementary and antisense thereto.
   In another particularly preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a
   substantially purified or isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a
   helix-loop-helix (HLH) polypeptide from a Trifolium or Medicago species.
   In another particularly preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a
10 substantially purified or isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment encoding a
   HLH protein, or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a HLH
   protein, said nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment including a nucleotide sequence
   selected from the group consisting of:
           (a) sequences shown in Sequence ID Nos: 55, 56, 58 and 59;
15         (b) complements of the sequences recited in (a);
           (c) sequences antisense to the sequences recited in (a) and (b);
           (d) functionally active fragments of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c)
   having a size of at least 30 nucleotides; and
           (e) functionally active variants of the sequences recited in (a), (b), (c) and (d),
20 said functionally active variants having at least 80% identity to the sequence recited
   in (a), (b), (c) or (d).
   Nucleic acids or nucleic acid fragments encoding at least a portion of FMT, UG3E,
   GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, laccase, MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1, HLH, MYB and
   ABC-type transporter orthologs have been isolated and identified. The nucleic acids
25 or nucleic acid fragments of the present invention may be used to isolate cDNAs
   and genes encoding homologous proteins from the same or other plant species.
   Isolation of homologous genes using sequence-dependent protocols, such as
   methods of nucleic acid hybridisation, and methods of DNA and RNA amplification
   as exemplified by various uses of nucleic acid amplification technologies (e.g.
30 polymerase chain reaction, ligase chain reaction), is well known in the art.

                                             16
   For example, genes encoding other FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, laccase,
   MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1, HLH, MYB and ABC-type transporter proteins,
   either as cDNAs or genomic DNAs, may be isolated directly by using all or a portion
   of the nucleic acids or nucleic acid fragments of the present invention as
 5 hybridisation probes to screen libraries from the desired plant employing the
   methodology well known to those skilled in the art. Specific oligonucleotide probes
   based upon the nucleic acid sequences of the present invention may be designed
   and synthesized by methods known in the art. Moreover, the entire sequences may
   be used directly to synthesize DNA probes by methods known to the skilled artisan
10 such as random primer DNA labelling, nick translation, or end-labelling techniques,
   or RNA probes using available in vitro transcription systems. In addition, specific
   primers may be designed and used to amplify a part or all of the sequences of the
   present invention. The resulting amplification products may be labelled directly
   during amplification reactions or labelled after amplification reactions, and used as
15 probes to isolate full-length cDNA or genomic fragments under conditions of
   appropriate stringency.
   In addition, short segments of the nucleic acids or nucleic acid fragments of the
   present invention may be used in protocols to amplify longer nucleic acids or nucleic
   acid fragments encoding homologous genes from DNA or RNA. For example,
20 polymerase chain reaction may be performed on a library of cloned nucleic acid
   fragments wherein the sequence of one primer is derived from the nucleic acid
   sequences of the present invention, and the sequence of the other primer takes
   advantage of the presence of the polyadenylic acid tracts to the 3' end of the mRNA
   precursor encoding plant genes. Alternatively, the second primer sequence may be
25 based upon sequences derived from the cloning vector. For example, those skilled
   in the art can follow the RACE protocol (Frohman et al. (1988) Proc. Natl. Acad Sci.
   USA 85:8998, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference) to
   generate cDNAs by using PCR to amplify copies of the region between a single
   point in the transcript and the 3' or 5' end. Using commercially available 3' RACE
30 and 5' RACE systems (BRL), specific 3' or 5' cDNA fragments may be isolated
   (Ohara et al. (1989) Proc. Natl. Acad Sci USA 86:5673; Loh et al. (1989) Science

                                               17
   243:217, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference).
   Products generated by the 3' and 5' RACE procedures may be combined to
   generate full-length cDNAs.
   In a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a substantially purified
 5 or isolated polypeptide from a clover (Trifolium) or medic (Medicago), species,
   selected from the group consisting of FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, laccase,
   MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1, HLH, MYB and ABC transporter and like proteins;
   and functionally active fragments and variants thereof.
   The clover (Trifolium) or medic (Medicago) species may be of any suitable type,
10 including   white   clover  (Trifolium   repens),   red  clover   (Trifolium pratense),
   subterranean    clover (Trifolium subterraneum) and alfalfa (Medicago sativa).
   Preferably, the species is white clover (T. repens) or alfalfa (M. sativa).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated polypeptide selected from the group consisting of FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT,
15 RT, CYTb5, laccase, MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1,                   HLH, MYB and ABC
   transporter polypeptides, said polypeptide including an amino acid sequence
   selected from the group consisting of sequences shown in Figures 2, 5, 8, 11, 14,
   16, 18, 21, 24, 27, 29, 33, 36, 39, 42, 46 and 49 hereto, and functionally active
   fragments and variants thereof.
20 By "functionally active" in relation to polypeptides it is meant that the fragment or
   variant has one or more of the biological properties of the polypeptide upon which
   the   fragment    or variant   is   based.   Additions, deletions, substitutions   and
   derivatizations of one or more of the amino acids are contemplated so long as the
   modifications do not result in loss of functional activity of the fragment or variant.
25 Preferably the functionally active fragment or variant has at least approximately
   80% identity to the relevant part of the amino acid sequence upon which the
   fragment or variant is based, more preferably at least approximately 90% identity,
   even more preferably at least approximately 95% identity, most preferably at least
   approximately 98% identity. Such functionally active variants and fragments include,
30 for example, those having conservative amino acid substitutions of one or more

                                               18
   residues in the corresponding amino acid sequence. By 'conservative amino acid
   substitutions' is meant the substitution of an amino acid by another one of the same
   class, the classes being as follows:
           Nonpolar: Ala, Val, Leu, lie, Pro, Met Phe, Trp
 5         Uncharged polar: Gly, Ser, Thr, Cys, Tyr, Asn, Gin
           Acidic: Asp, Glu
           Basic: Lys, Arg, His
   Other conservative amino acid substitutions may also be made as follows:
           Aromatic: Phe, Tyr, His
10         Proton Donor: Asn, Gin, Lys, Arg, His, Trp
           Proton Acceptor: Glu, Asp, Thr, Ser, Tyr, Asn, Gin
   Preferably the fragment has a size of at least 10 amino acids, more preferably at
   least 15 amino acids, more preferably at least 20 amino acids, more preferably at
   least 50 amino acids.
15           In a particularly preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a
   substantially purified or isolated MYC polypeptide, said polypeptide including an
   amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
             (a) sequences shown in Sequence ID Nos: 47 and 51;
             (b) functionally active fragments of the sequences recited in (a) having a
20 size of at least 50 amino acids; and
           (c) functionally active variants of the sequences recited in (a) and (b), said
   functionally active variants having at least 95% identity to the sequence recited in
   (a) or (b).
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
25 isolated FMT or FMT-like polypeptide including an amino acid sequence shown in

                                            19
   Figure 2 hereto (Sequence ID No: 2); or a functionally active fragment or variant
   thereof.
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated UG3E or UG3E -like polypeptide including an amino acid sequence shown
 5 in Figure 5 hereto (Sequence ID No: 12); or a functionally active fragment or variant
   thereof.
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated GST or GST -like polypeptide including an amino acid sequence shown in
   Figure 8 hereto (Sequence ID No: 16); or a functionally active fragment or variant
10 thereof.
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated OMT or OMT-like polypeptide including an amino acid sequence shown in
   Figure 11 hereto (Sequence ID No: 20); or a functionally active fragment or variant
   thereof.
15 In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated RT or RT-like polypeptide including an amino acid sequence shown in
   Figure 14 hereto (Sequence ID No: 31); or a functionally active fragment or variant
   thereof.
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
20 isolated CYTb5 or CYTb5-like polypeptide       including an amino acid sequence
   shown in Figure 16 hereto (Sequence ID No: 33); or a functionally active fragment
   or variant thereof.
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated laccase or laccase-like polypeptide including an amino acid sequence
25 selected from the group consisting of sequences shown in Figures 18 and 21 hereto
   (Sequence ID Nos: 35 and 37, respectively); and functionally active fragments and
   variants thereof.

                                           20
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated MADS box or MADS box-like polypeptide including an amino acid
   sequence shown in Figure 24 hereto (Sequence ID No: 39); or a functionally active
   fragment or variant thereof.
 5 In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated WRKY or WRKY-like polypeptide including an amino acid sequence shown
   in Figure 27 hereto (Sequence ID No: 45); or a functionally active fragment or
   variant thereof.
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
10 isolated MYC or MYC-like polypeptide including an amino acid sequence selected
   from the group consisting of sequences shown in Figures 29 and 33 hereto
   (Sequence ID Nos: 47 and 51, respectively); and functionally active fragments and
   variants thereof.
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
15 isolated TT1 or TT1-like polypeptide including an amino acid sequence shown in
   Figure 36 hereto (Sequence ID No: 53); or a functionally active fragment or variant
   thereof.
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated HLH or HLH-like polypeptide including an amino acid sequence shown in
20 Figure 39 hereto (Sequence ID No: 57); or a functionally active fragment or variant
   thereof.
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated MYB or MYB-like polypeptide including an amino acid sequence selected
   from the group consisting of sequences shown in Figures 42 and 46 hereto
25 (Sequence ID Nos: 61 and 65, respectively); and functionally active fragments and
   variants thereof.
   In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a substantially purified or
   isolated ABC transporter or ABC transporter-like polypeptide including an amino

                                               21
   acid sequence shown in Figure 49 hereto (Sequence ID No: 67); or a functionally
   active fragment or variant thereof.
   In a     particularly preferred    embodiment,   the present   invention provides    a
   substantially purified or isolated polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence
 5 selected from the group consisting of sequences shown in Figures 2, 5, 8, 11, 14,
   16, 18, 21, 24, 27, 29, 33, 36, 39, 42, 46 and 49 hereto.
   In another particularly preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a
   substantially purified or isolated HLH polypeptide from a Trifolium or Medicago
   species.
10 In another particularly preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a
   substantially purified or isolated HLH polypeptide, said polypeptide including an
   amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of:
           (a) sequence shown in Sequence ID No: 57;
           (b) functionally active fragments of the sequence recited in (a) having a size
15 of at least 20 amino acids; and
           (c) functionally active variants of the sequences recited in (a) and (b), said
   functionally active variants having at least 80% identity to the sequence recited in
   (a) or (b).
20 In a further embodiment of this aspect of the invention, there is provided a
   polypeptide recombinantly produced from a nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment
   according to the present invention. Techniques for recombinantly producing
   polypeptides are known to those skilled in the art.
   Availability of the nucleotide sequences of the present invention and deduced amino
25 acid sequences facilitates immunological screening of cDNA expression libraries.
   Synthetic peptides representing portions of the instant amino acid sequences may
   be synthesized. These peptides may be used to immunise animals to produce
   polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies with specificity for peptides and/or proteins

                                              22
   including the amino acid sequences. These antibodies may be then used to screen
   cDNA expression libraries to isolate full-length cDNA clones of interest.
   In a still further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
   isolating a nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment of the present invention said
 5 method including sequencing nucleic acid fragments from a nucleic acid library.
   The nucleic acid library may be of any suitable type and is preferably a cDNA
   library.
   The nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment may be isolated from a recombinant
   plasmid or may be amplified, for example using polymerase chain reaction.
10 The sequencing may be performed by techniques known to those skilled in the art.
   In a still further aspect of the present invention there is provided use of a nucleic
   acid or nucleic acid fragment of the present invention, and/or nucleotide sequence
   information thereof, as a molecular genetic marker.
   More particularly, nucleic acids or nucleic acid fragments according to the present
15 invention and/or nucleotide sequence information thereof may be used as a
   molecular genetic marker for quantitative trait loci (QTL) tagging, QTL mapping,
   DNA fingerprinting and in marker assisted selection, particularly in clovers, alfalfa
   and medics. Even more particularly, nucleic acids or nucleic acid fragments
   according to the present invention and/or nucleotide sequence information thereof
20 may be used as molecular genetic markers in plant improvement in relation to plant
   tolerance to biotic stresses such as viruses, microorganisms, insects, fungal
   pathogens; in relation to forage quality; in relation to bloat safety; in relation to
   condensed tannin content; in relation to plant pigmentation. Even more particularly,
   sequence information revealing SNPs in allelic variants of the nucleic acids or
25 nucleic acid fragments of the present invention and/or nucleotide sequence
   information thereof may be used as molecular genetic markers for QTL tagging and
   mapping and in marker assisted selection, particularly in clovers, alfalfa and medics.

                                               23
   In a still further aspect of the present invention there is provided a construct
   including a nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to the present invention.
   The term "construct" as used herein refers to an artificially assembled or isolated
   nucleic acid molecule which includes the gene of interest. In general a construct
 5 may include the gene or genes of interest, a marker gene which in some cases can
   also be the gene of interest and appropriate regulatory sequences. It should be
   appreciated that the inclusion of regulatory sequences in a construct is optional, for
   example, such sequences may not be required in situations where the regulatory
   sequences of a host cell are to be used. The term construct includes vectors but
10 should not be seen as being limited thereto.
   In a still further aspect of the present invention there is provided a vector including a
   nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to the present invention.
   The term "vector" as used herein encompasses both cloning and expression
   vectors. Vectors are often recombinant molecules containing nucleic acid molecules
15 from several sources.
   In a preferred embodiment of this aspect of the invention, the vector may include a
   regulatory element such as a promoter, a nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment
   according to the present invention and a terminator; said regulatory element, nucleic
   acid or nucleic acid fragment and terminator being operatively linked.
20 By "operatively linked" is meant that said regulatory element is capable of causing
   expression of said nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment in a plant cell and said
   terminator is capable of terminating expression of said nucleic acid or nucleic acid
   fragment in a plant cell. Preferably, said regulatory element is upstream of said
   nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment and said terminator is downstream of said
25 nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment.
   The vector may be of any suitable type and may be viral or non-viral. The vector
   may    be     an   expression   vector. Such     vectors   include chromosomal,      non
   chromosomal and synthetic nucleic acid sequences, eg. derivatives of plant viruses;
   bacterial plasmids; derivatives of the Ti plasmid from Agrobacterium tumefaciens,

                                             24
   derivatives of the Ri plasmid from Agrobacterium rhizogenes; phage DNA; yeast
   artificial chromosomes; bacterial artificial chromosomes; binary bacterial artificial
   chromosomes; vectors derived from combinations of plasmids and phage DNA.
   However, any other vector may be used as long as it is replicable, integrative or
 5 viable in the plant cell.
   The regulatory element and terminator may be of any suitable type and may be
   endogenous to the target plant cell or may be exogenous, provided that they are
   functional in the target plant cell.
   Preferably the regulatory element is a promoter. A variety of promoters which may
10 be employed in the vectors of the present invention are well known to those skilled
   in the art. Factors influencing the choice of promoter include the desired tissue
   specificity of the vector, and whether constitutive or inducible expression is desired
   and the nature of the plant cell to be transformed (eg. monocotyledon or
   dicotyledon). Particularly suitable constitutive promoters include the Cauliflower
15 Mosaic Virus 35S (CaMV 35S) promoter.
   A variety of terminators which may be employed in the vectors of the present
   invention are also well known to those skilled in the art. The terminator may be
   from the same gene as the promoter sequence or a different gene. Particularly
   suitable terminators are polyadenylation signals, such as the CaMV 35S polyA and
20 other terminators from the nopaline synthase (nos) and the octopine synthase (ocs)
   genes.
   The vector, in addition to the regulatory element, the nucleic acid or nucleic acid
   fragment of the present invention and the terminator, may include further elements
   necessary for expression of the nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment, in different
25 combinations, for example vector backbone, origin of replication (ori), multiple
   cloning sites, spacer sequences, enhancers, introns (such as the maize Ubiquitin
   Ubi intron), antibiotic resistance genes and other selectable marker genes [such as
   the neomycin phosphotransferase (npt2) gene, the hygromycin phosphotransferase
   (hph) gene, the phosphinothricin acetyltransferase (bar or pat) gene], and reporter
30 genes (such as beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene (gusA)]. The vector may also

                                               25
   contain a ribosome binding site for translation initiation. The vector may also include
   appropriate sequences for amplifying expression.
   As an alternative to use of a selectable marker gene to provide a phenotypic trait for
   selection of transformed host cells, the presence of the vector in transformed cells
 5 may be determined by other techniques well known in the art, such as PCR
   (polymerase chain reaction), Southern blot hybridisation analysis, histochemical
   GUS assays, northern and Western blot hybridisation analyses.
   Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various components of the vector are
   operatively linked, so as to result in expression of said nucleic acid or nucleic acid
10 fragment. Techniques for operatively linking the components of the vector of the
   present invention are well known to those skilled in the art. Such techniques include
   the use of linkers, such as synthetic linkers, for example including one or more
   restriction enzyme sites.
   The vectors of the present invention may be incorporated into a variety of plants,
15 including dicotyledons (such as arabidopsis, tobacco, clovers, medics, eucalyptus,
   potato, sugarbeet, canola, soybean, chickpea), monocotyledons (such as grasses
   from the genera Lolium, Festuca, Paspalum, Pennisetum, Panicum and other
   forage and turfgrasses, corn, oat, sugarcane, wheat and barley) and gymnosperms.
   In a preferred embodiment, the vectors may be used to transform dicotyledons,
20 preferably forage legume species such as clovers (Trifolium species) and medics
   (Medicago species), more preferably white clover (Trifolium repens), red clover
   (Trifolium pratense), subterranean clover (Trifolium subterraneum) and alfalfa
   (Medicago sativa). Clovers, alfalfa and medics are key pasture legumes in
   temperate climates throughout the world.
25 Techniques for incorporating the vectors of the present invention into plant cells (for
   example by transduction, transfection or transformation) are well known to those
   skilled in the art. Such techniques include Agrobacterium mediated introduction,
   electroporation to tissues, cells and protoplasts, protoplast fusion, injection into
   reproductive organs, injection into immature embryos and high velocity projectile

                                              26
   introduction to cells, tissues, calli, immature and mature embryos. The choice of
   technique will depend largely on the type of plant to be transformed.
   Cells incorporating the vectors of the present invention may be selected, as
   described above, and then cultured in an appropriate medium to regenerate
 5 transformed plants, using techniques well known in the art. The culture conditions,
   such as temperature, pH and the like, will be apparent to the person skilled in the
   art. The resulting plants may be reproduced, either sexually or asexually, using
   methods well known in the art, to produce successive generations of transformed
   plants.
10 In a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a plant cell, plant, plant
   seed or other plant part, including, e.g. transformed with, a vector or construct,
   nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment of the present invention.
   The plant cell, plant, plant seed or other plant part may be from any suitable
   species, including dicotyledons, moncotyledons and gymnosperms. In a preferred
15 embodiment the plant cell, plant, plant seed or other plant part may be from a
   dicotyledon, preferably forage legume species such as clovers (Trifolium species)
   and medics (Medicago species), more preferably white clover (Trifolium repens),
   red clover (Trifolium pratense), subterranean clover (Trifolium subterraneum) and
   alfalfa (Medicago sativa).
20 The present invention also provides a plant, plant seed or other plant part, or a plant
   extract derived from a plant cell or plant of the present invention and preferably
   including e.g. transformed with, a vector or construct, nucleic acid or nucleic acid
   fragment of the present invention.
   In a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of modifying
25 flavonoid biosynthesis or metabolism; of modifying protein binding, metal chelation,
   anti-oxidation or UV-light absorption; of modifying plant pigment production; of
   modifying plant defense to biotic stresses such as viruses, microorganisms, insects,
   fungal pathogens; or of modifying forage quality by disrupting protein foam and
   conferring protection from rumen pasture bloat; said method including introducing

                                               27
   into said plant an effective amount of a nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment,
   construct and/or vector according to the present invention.
   By "an effective amount" it is meant an amount sufficient to result in an identifiable
   phenotypic trait in said plant, or a plant, plant seed or other plant part derived
 5 therefrom. Such amounts can be readily determined by an appropriately skilled
   person, taking into account the type of plant, the route of administration and other
   relevant factors. Such a person will readily be able to determine a suitable amount
   and method of administration. See, for example, Maniatis et al, Molecular Cloning:
   A Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Cold Spring Harbor, the
10 entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Using the methods and materials of the present invention, flavonoid biosynthesis or
   metabolism, protein binding, metal chelation, anti-oxidation, UV-light absorption,
   tolerance to biotic stresses such as viruses, microorganisms, insects and fungal
   pathogens; pigmentation in for example flowers and leaves; herbage quality and
15 bloat-safety; isoflavonoid content leading to health benefits, may be increased,
   decreased or otherwise altered, in a transformed plant relative to an untransformed
   control plant, for example by incorporating additional copies of a sense nucleic acid
   or nucleic acid fragment of the present invention, preferably to overexpress the
   polypeptide or in sense suppression. They may be decreased or otherwise altered,
20 for example by incorporating an antisense nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment of
   the present invention.
   One or more nucleic acids of the present invention may be used in the methods,
   constructs and vectors of the present invention, optionally in combination with one
   or more nucleic acids described in Applicant's earlier patent applications AU
25 2002333038,       PCT/AU2006/001020         and   PCT/AU2006/001590,     the    entire
   disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
   The present invention will now be more fully described with reference to the
   accompanying Examples and drawings. It should be understood, however, that the
   description following is illustrative only and should not be taken in any way as a
30 restriction on the generality of the invention described above.

                                         28
   Description of the Figures
   Figure 1 shows the consensus nucleotide sequence of TrFMTa (SEQ ID No: 1)
   Figure 2 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrFMTa (SEQ ID No: 2).
   Figure 3 shows the nucleotide sequences of nucleic acid fragments contributing to
 5 the consensus sequence of TrFMTa (SEQ ID Nos: 3-10).
   Figure 4 shows the consensus nucleotide sequence of TrUG3Ea (SEQ ID No: 11).
   Figure 5 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrUG3Ea (SEQ ID No: 12).
   Figure 6 shows the nucleotide sequences of nucleic acid fragments contributing to
   the consensus sequence of TrUG3Ea (SEQ ID Nos: 13 and 14).
10 Figure 7 shows the consensus nucleotide sequence of TrGSTa (SEQ ID No: 15).
   Figure 8 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrGSTa (SEQ ID No: 16).
   Figure 9 shows the nucleotide sequences of nucleic acid fragments contributing to
   the consensus sequence of TrGSTa (SEQ ID Nos: 17 and 18).
   Figure 10 shows the consensus nucleotide sequence of TrOMTa (SEQ ID No: 19).
15 Figure 11 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrOMTa (SEQ ID No: 20).
   Figure 12 shows the nucleotide sequences of nucleic acid fragments contributing to
   the consensus sequence of TrOMTa (SEQ ID Nos: 21-29).
   Figure 13 shows the nucleotide sequence of TrRTa (SEQ ID No: 30).
   Figure 14 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrRTa (SEQ ID No: 31).
20 Figure 15 shows the nucleotide sequence of TrCYTb5a (SEQ ID No: 32).
   Figure 16 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrCyTb5a (SEQ ID No: 33).
   Figure 17 shows the nucleotide sequence of TrLACa (SEQ ID No: 34).

                                           29
   Figure 18 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrLACa (SEQ ID No: 35).
   Figure 19 shows a plasmid map of the cDNA encoding TrLA Ca.
   Figure 20 shows the full nucleotide sequence of the white clover TrLACa cDNA
   (SEQ ID No: 36).
 5 Figure 21 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of the TrLACa cDNA (SEQ ID
   No: 37).
   Figure 22 shows plasmid maps of the cDNA encoding TrLACa in the sense and
   antisense orientations in the pPZP221 binary transformation vector
   Figure 23 shows the consensus nucleotide sequence of TrMADSa (SEQ ID No:
10 38).
   Figure 24 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrMADSa (SEQ ID No: 39).
   Figure 25 shows the nucleotide sequences of nucleic acid fragments contributing to
   the consensus sequence of TrMADSa (SEQ ID Nos: 40-43).
   Figure 26 shows the nucleotide sequence of TrWRKYa (SEQ ID No: 44).
15 Figure 27 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrWRKYa (SEQ ID No: 45).
   Figure 28 shows the consensus nucleotide sequence of TrMYCa (SEQ ID No: 46).
   Figure 29 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrMYCa (SEQ ID No: 47).
   Figure 30 shows the nucleotide sequences of nucleic acid fragments contributing to
   the consensus sequence of TrMYCa (SEQ ID Nos: 48-49).
20 Figure 31 shows a plasmid map of the cDNA encoding TrMYCa
   Figure 32 shows the full nucleotide sequence of the TrMYCa cDNA (SEQ ID No:
   50).
   Figure 33 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of the TrMYCa cDNA (SEQ ID

                                           30
   No: 51).
   Figure 34 shows plasmid maps of the cDNA encoding TrMYCa in the sense and
   antisense orientations in the pPZP221 binary transformation vector
   Figure 35 shows the consensus nucleotide sequence of TrTT1a (SEQ ID No: 52).
 5 Figure 36 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrTT1a (SEQ ID No: 53).
   Figure 37 shows the nucleotide sequences of nucleic acid fragments contributing to
   the consensus sequence of TrTT1a (SEQ ID Nos: 54-55).
   Figure 38 shows the consensus nucleotide sequence of TrHLHa (SEQ ID No: 56).
   Figure 39 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrHLHa (SEQ ID No: 57).
10 Figure 40 shows the nucleotide sequences of nucleic acid fragments contributing to
   the consensus sequence of TrHLHa (SEQ ID Nos: 58 and 59).
   Figure 41 shows the consensus nucleotide sequence of TrMYBa (SEQ ID No: 60).
   Figure 42 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrMYBa (SEQ ID No: 61).
   Figure 43 shows the nucleotide sequences of nucleic acid fragments contributing to
15 the consensus sequence of TrMYBa (SEQ ID Nos: 62-63).
   Figure 44 shows a plasmid map of the cDNA encoding TrMYBa.
   Figure 45 shows the full nucleotide sequence of the TrMYBa cDNA (SEQ ID No:
   64).
   Figure 46 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of the TrMYBa cDNA (SEQ ID
20 No: 65).
   Figure 47 shows plasmid maps of the cDNA encoding TrMYBa in the sense and
   antisense orientations in the pPZP221 binary transformation vector
   Figure 48 shows the nucleotide sequence of TrABCa (SEQ ID No: 66).

                                             31
   Figure 49 shows the deduced amino acid sequence of TrABCa (SEQ ID No: 67).
   Figure 50 shows a plasmid map of the pDONR221                 GATEWAY entry vector
   (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, USA).
   Figure 51 shows the steps of selection during Agrobacterium-mediated white clover
 5 transformation
   Figure 52 shows 4-dimethylaminocinnemaldehyde (DMACA) staining patterns in
   Trifolium repens (cv 'Mink') leaf and immature inflorescence tissue and in Lotus
   corniculatus (cv 'Draco') leaf tissue
   Figure 53 shows the results of microarray (lines) and real-time RT-PCR (bars)
10 analyses of TrMYB24a expression in upper and lower halves of white clover (cv
   Mink) inflorescences at three stages of development (upper panel). Real-time RT
   PCR analysis was also used to test TrMYB24a expression in sepals (dark bars) or
   remaining floral organs (florets without sepals; light bars) from florets at 4 stages of
   development (lower panel). More particularly, the graphs show expression of
15 TrMYB24a normalised against expression of the elongation factor 1 alpha (EF-la)
   control gene. Complementary DNA from white clover (cv Mink) upper, lower and
   whole buds was tested by real-time RT-PCR using SYBR Green chemistry, primer
   sets designed using cDNA clones of flavonoid-related genes (Table 4). Microarray
   analysis was performed using custom-made 12K Combimatrix slides containing
20 oligonucleotide probes based on white clover cDNA sequences. All experiments
   were performed in triplicate.
   Figure 54 shows an alignment of the conserved R2 and R3 MYB domains of
   TrMYB24a and corresponding regions of R2R3 MYB proteins from the plant species
   Petunia hybrida, Antirrhinum majus, Arabidopsis thaliana, Vitus vinifera, Zea mays,
25 Oryza sativa, Lycopersicon esculentum and Picea mariana.
   Figure 55 shows a phylogenetic tree based on parsimony, comparing the amino
   acid sequences of TrMYB24a and R2R3 MYB proteins from the plant species Malus
   domestica,    Arabidopsis   thaliana,  Gossypium hirsutum,       Zea    mays,    Petunia

                                              32
   hybrida,Vitus vinifera, Antirrhinum majus, Oryza sativa, Lycopersicon esculentum
   and Antirrhinum majus.
                                         Example 1
    Preparation of cDNA libraries, isolation and sequencing of cDNAs coding for
 5    FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, laccase, MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1,
    HLH, MYB and ABC transporter and like proteins from white clover (Trifolium
                                           repens)
   cDNA libraries representing mRNAs from various organs and tissues of white clover
   (Trifolium repens) were prepared. The characteristics of the white clover libraries
10 are described below (Table 1).
                                          TABLE 1
                   cDNA libraries from white clover (Trifoliumrepens)
    Library    Organ/Tissue
    01wc       Whole seedling, light grown
    02wc       Nodulated root 3, 5, 10, 14, 21 &28 day old seedling
    03wc       Nodules pinched off roots of 42 day old rhizobium inoculated plants
    04wc       Cut leaf and stem collected after 0, 1, 4, 6 &14 h after cutting
    05wc       Inflorescences: <50% open, not fully open and fully open
    06wc       Dark grown etiolated
    07wc       Inflorescence - very early stages, stem elongation, < 15 petals, 15-20
               petals
    08wc       seed frozen at -80 0 C, imbibed in dark overnight at 10 C
    09wc       Drought stressed plants
    1Owc       AMV infected leaf
    11wc       WCMV infected leaf
    12wc       Phophorus starved plants

                                            33
     Library   Organ/Tissue
     13wc      Vegetative stolon tip
     14wc      stolon root initials
     15wc      Senescing stolon
     16wc      Senescing leaf
   The cDNA libraries may be prepared by any of many methods available. For
   example, total RNA may be isolated using the Trizol method (Gibco-BRL, USA) or
   the RNeasy Plant Mini kit (Qiagen, Germany), following the manufacturers'
 5 instructions. cDNAs may be generated using the SMART PCR cDNA synthesis kit
   (Clontech, USA), cDNAs may be amplified by long distance polymerase chain
   reaction using the Advantage 2 PCR Enzyme system (Clontech, USA), cDNAs may
   be cleaned using the GeneClean spin column (Bio 101, USA), tailed and size
   fractionated, according to the protocol provided by Clontech. The cDNAs may be
10 introduced into the pGEM-T Easy Vector system 1 (Promega, USA) according to
   the protocol provided by Promega. The cDNAs in the pGEM-T Easy plasmid vector
   are transfected into Escherichia coli Epicurian coli XL10-Gold ultra competent cells
   (Stratagene, USA) according to the protocol provided by Stratagene.
   Alternatively, the cDNAs may be introduced into plasmid vectors for first preparing
15 the cDNA libraries in Uni-ZAP XR vectors according to the manufacturer's protocol
   (Stratagene Cloning Systems, La Jolla, CA, USA). The Uni-ZAP XR libraries are
   converted into plasmid libraries according to the protocol provided by Stratagene.
   Upon conversion, cDNA inserts will be contained in the plasmid vector pBluescript.
   In addition, the cDNAs may be introduced directly into precut pBluescript II SK(+)
20 vectors (Stratagene) using T4 DNA ligase (New England Biolabs), followed by
   transfection into E. coli DH10B cells according to the manufacturer's protocol
   (GIBCO BRL Products).
   Once the cDNA inserts are in plasmid vectors, plasmid DNAs are prepared from
   randomly picked bacterial colonies containing recombinant plasmids, or the insert

                                                34
   cDNA sequences are amplified via polymerase chain reaction using primers specific
   for vector sequences flanking the inserted cDNA sequences. Plasmid DNA
   preparation may be performed robotically using the Qiagen QiaPrep Turbo kit
   (Qiagen, Germany) according to the protocol provided by Qiagen. Amplified insert
 5 DNAs are sequenced in dye-terminator sequencing reactions to generate partial
   cDNA sequences (expressed sequence tags or "ESTs"). The resulting ESTs are
   analyzed using an Applied Biosystems ABI 3700 sequence analyser.
                                           Example 2
                                    DNA sequence analyses
10 cDNA clones encoding FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, MADS, WRKY, MYC,
   TT1, HLH, MYB, ABC and -like proteins were identified by conducting a BLAST
   (Basic Local Alignment Search Tool; Altschul et al. (1993) J. Mol. Biol. 215:403-410)
   search. The DNA sequence was translated in all reading frames and compared for
   similarity to all publicly available protein sequences contained in the Uniprot protein
15 sequence database using the BLASTx algorithm (v 2.0.1) (Gish and States (1993)
   Nature Genetics 3:266-272) provided by the NCBI.
                                           Example 3
      Identification and full-length sequencing of cDNAs encoding white clover
      FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, laccase, MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1,
20                    HLH, MYB and ABC transporter and like proteins
   To fully characterise for the purposes of the generation of probes for hybridisation
   experiments and the generation of transformation vectors, a set of cDNAs encoding
   white clover FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, laccase, MADS box, WRKY,
   MYC, TT1, HLH, MYB and ABC transporter and like proteins are identified and fully
25 sequenced by the following method.
   Full-length or partial cDNAs were identified from our EST sequence database using
   relevant published sequences (NCBI databank) as queries for BLAST searches.
   Full-length cDNAs were identified by alignment of the query and hit sequences

                                              35
   using Sequencher (Gene Codes Corp., Ann Arbor, MI 48108, USA). The original
   cDNA in the pGEM-T easy vector is then used to transform chemically competent
   DH5     alpha  cells (Invitrogen,    Carlsbad,  USA).    At least two  colonies per
   transformation are picked for initial sequencing with M13F and M13R primers. The
 5 resulting sequences are aligned with the original EST sequence using Sequencher
   to confirm identity and one of the two clones is picked for full-length sequencing,
   usually the one with the best initial sequencing result.
   Sequencing is completed by primer walking, i.e. oligonucleotide primers are
   designed to the initial sequence and used for further sequencing from the 5' end. In
10 most instances, an extended poly-A tail necessitates the sequencing of the cDNA to
   be completed from the 5' end.
   Contigs are then assembled in Sequencher. The contigs include at least the 5' end
   of the original EST sequence and extend to at least the poly-A tail at the 3' end of
   the cDNA.
15 Plasmid maps and the full cDNA sequences of white clover laccase, MYCa and
   MYB24a were obtained by this method (Figures 19, 20, 31,44, 45 and Table 2).
   Plasmid maps      and full or partial cDNA sequences of white clover FMT, UG3E,
   GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, MADS box, WRKY, TT1, HLH and ABC transporter and
   like genes in the pGEM-T Easy vector are obtained by this method.
20

                                            36
                                         TABLE 2
                  Primers used for sequencing of full-length cDNAs
      gene      clone ID        sequencing         primer sequence (5'>3')   SEQ ID No:
      name                         primer
    TrLACa    14wclIsCO8     14wc1IsCO8.fl       CAGCATACATAACCCAATG               90
    TrLACa    14wclIsCO8 14wc1IsCO8.f2           GAATGGTGGAAATCAGATAC              91
    TrMYCa    05wclKsDO9 05wc1KsDO9.f1           ACGACTATTCCGGCTCTT                92
    TrMYCa    05wclKsDO9 05wc1KsDO9.f2           CTGAACAAGAACACCGTAGA              93
    TrMYCa    05wclKsDO9 05wc1KsDO9.f3a GCAATTAGGTAGTAATTCTACT                     94
    TrMYCa    05wclKsDO9 05wc1KsDO9.f3b CTACTGTAATTACTCATCAAG                      95
    TrMYCa    05wclKsDO9 05wc1KsDO9.f4           GCTCCTAGTGTTGTTCATG               96
    TrMYCa    05wclKsDO9 05wc1KsDO9.f5           CTCCGAATTCGAGAGGAAG               97
    TrMYCa    05wclKsDO9 05wc1KsDO9.f6           ATCATACATTACTGAGCTG               98
    TrMYCa    05wclKsDO9 05wclKsDO9.rl           GCTTGAAGACGTTGTTGG                99
    TrMYB24   07wc3SsFO2 07wc3SsFO2.rl           CAGGTAGTTTTGATGCTATG             100
   a
                                        Example 4
 5 Development of binary transformation vectors containing chimeric genes with
        cDNA sequences from white clover FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5,
     laccase, MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1, HLH, MYB and ABC transporter and
                                      like proteins
   To alter the expression of the proteins involved in flavonoid biosynthesis or
10 metabolism, protein binding, metal chelation, anti-oxidation, UV-light absorption,
   tolerance to biotic stresses such as viruses, micro-organisms, insects and fungal

                                              37
   pathogens; pigmentation in for example flowers and leaves; herbage quality and
   bloat-safety and isoflavonoid content leading to health benefits, through antisense
   and/or sense suppression technology and for over-expression of these key proteins
   in transgenic plants, a set of sense and antisense binary transformation vectors is
 5 produced by the following method.
   cDNA fragments are generated by high fidelity PCR using the original pGEM-T
   Easy plasmid cDNA as a template. The primers used contain attB1 and attB2
   GATEWAY@ recombination sites for directional cloning into the target vector. After
   PCR amplification and purification of the products, the cDNA fragments are cloned
10 into the recombination site of the pDONR221TM vector (Figure 50) using BP
   GATEWAY@ technology (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, USA). The pPZP221 binary vector
   (Hajdukiewicz et al., 1994, The small versatile pPZP family of Agrobacterium binary
   vectors for plant transformation. Plant Mol. Biol. 25:989-994.) was modified to
   contain the 35S2 cassette from pKYLX71:35S2 as follows. pKYLX71:35S2 was cut
15 with Clal. The 5' overhang was filled in using Klenow and the blunt end was A-tailed
   with Taq polymerase. After cutting with EcoRi, the 2kb fragment with an EcoRi
   compatible and a 3'-A tail was gel-purified. pPZP221 was cut with Hindlll and the
   resulting 5' overhang filled in and T-tailed with Taq polymerase. The remainder of
   the original pPZP221 multi-cloning site was removed by digestion with EcoRi, and
20 the expression cassette cloned into the EcoRi site and the 3' T overhang restoring
   the Hindlll site. This binary vector contains between the left and right border the
   plant selectable marker gene aaaC1 under the control of the 35S promoter and 35S
   terminator and the pKYLX71:35S2-derived expression cassette with a CaMV 35S
   promoter with a duplicated enhancer region and an rbcS terminator. This vector
25 was GATEWAY@-enabled by digesting it with Xbal and blunt-ended using Klenow
   DNA polymerase, allowing the RfA recombination cassette to be cloned in the
   sense or antisense orientation between the enhanced 35S promoter and the rbcS
   terminator.
   The orientation of the constructs (sense or antisense) is checked by restriction
30 enzyme digestion and sequencing. Transformation vectors containing chimeric
   genes using full-length open reading frame cDNAs in sense and antisense

                                              38
    orientations under the control of the CaMV 35S2 promoter are generated (Figures
    22, 34 and 47).
                                          TABLE 3
                 List of primers used to PCR-amplify the open reading frames of
5             flavonoid-related genes from white clover and expression cassettes
                               used in binary transformation vectors
    gene        clone ID          primer          primer sequence (5'->3') SEQ ID No:
    name
  TrLACa     14wc1IsC08 TrLACa.attBl.f           GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAA        101
                                                AGCAGGCTTCATGGCCACGGC
                                                 GCAATTTCG
  TrLACa     14wc1IsC08 TrLACa.attB2.r           GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAA        102
                                                AGCTGGGTCTCAACACTTAGG
                                                AAGGTCACTTGG
  TrMYCa     05wclKsDO9 TrMYCa.attBl.f           GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAA        103
                                                AGCAGGCTTCATGAATCTTTG
                                                 GAGCGACGAGAACTC
  TrMYCa     05wclKsDO9 TrMYCa.attB2.r           GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAA        104
                                                AGCTGGGTCTTATTGAACATC
                                                 CCCAACTTTAGAGGAC
  TrMYB2     07wc3SsFO2 TrMYB24a.attBl           GGGGACAAGTTTGTACAAAAA        105
  4a                         f                  AGCAGGCTTCATGGGAAGAGC
                                                 TCCTTGTTGTGAC
  TrMYB2     07wc3SsFO2 TrMYB24a.attB2           GGGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAA        106
  4a                         r                  AGCTGGGTCTCAATTTGTCTT
                                                AATGTCAGCATAAC

                                            39
                                        Example 5
     Production and analysis of transgenic white clover plants carrying chimeric
     white clover FMT, UG3E, GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, laccase, MADS box, WRKY,
         MYC, TT1, HLH, MYB and ABC transporter and like genes involved in
 5                               flavonoid biosynthesis
   Transgenic white clover plants carrying white clover genes involved in flavonoid
   biosynthesis or metabolism, protein binding, metal chelation, anti-oxidation, UV-light
   absorption, tolerance to biotic stresses such as viruses, micro-organisms, insects
   and fungal pathogens; pigmentation in for example flowers and leaves; herbage
10 quality and bloat-safety and isoflavonoid content leading to health benefits, are
   produced by the following method.
   pPZP221-based transformation vectors with cDNAs comprising the full open
   reading frame sequences in sense and antisense orientations under the control of
   the CaMV 35S promoter with duplicated enhancer region (35S2) are generated as
15 detailed in Example 4.
   Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer experiments are performed using these
   transformation vectors.
   Preparation of white clover cotyledonary explants
   White clover (cv 'Mink') seeds are rinsed for 5 minutes in running tap water and
20 incubated twice, for 5 minutes in 70% v/v ethanol in a 120 ml tissue culture
   container with gentle shaking. The same container is used to incubate the seeds for
   2 minutes in 1% sodium hypochlorite (1:3 ratio of DomestosTM bleach in water) with
   gentle shaking. The seeds are then rinsed six times in sterile water in a laminar flow
   hood and incubated for 18 hours at 40C in the dark. Cotyledonary explants are
25 extracted using 10 ml syringes attached to 21 G needles (Terumo, Japan) under a
   dissecting microscope in a laminar flow hood.     Both layers of the seed coat are
   peeled away, the end of the hypocotyl is cut off and the cotyledons with
   approximately 4 mm of hypocotyl are separated and transferred to a 90 x 90 x 20
   mm petri dish containing MGL medium.

                                             40
   Preparation of Agrobacterium
   Agrobacterium tumefaciens strain AGL-1 containing each PZP221-derived binary
   expression vector is streaked on LB medium containing 50 pg/ml rifampicin and 100
   pg/ml spectinomycin and grown at 27 OC for 48 hours. A single colony is used to
 5 inoculate 5 ml of LB medium containing 50 pg/ml rifampicin and 100 pg/ml
   spectinomycin and grown over night at 27 OC and 250 rpm on an orbital shaker. The
   overnight culture is used as an inoculum for 40 ml of YEP medium containing 100
   pg/ml spectinomycin and 40 mg/I acetosyringone. Incubation is over night at 27 OC
   and 250 rpm on an orbital shaker in a 250 ml Erlenmeyer flask.
10 The overnight cultures are centrifuged for 15 min at 5500 xg and the supernatant
   discarded. The cells are resuspended in MGL media with 40 mg/I acetosyringone to
   a volume corresponding to an OD6 0 0 reading of 0.4. The cells are then incubated at
   27 OC and 250 rpm until the OD6 0 0 reading reaches 0.8.
   Cocultivation and selection of white clover transformants
15 The MGL medium is removed from the petri dish containing white clover
   cotyledonary explants and replaced with the prepared Agrobacterium suspension
   using a sterile serological pipette. The petri dish is sealed with laboratory film,
   covered with aluminium foil and incubated with gentle shaking for 45 min. The dish
   is opened in the laminar flow hood and the Agrobacterium suspension removed with
20 a pipette. The explants are then transferred to plates containing RM73 media with
   40 mg/I acetosyringone (Table 1) and incubated for 3 days in a plant tissue culture
   room at 22 0 C with a 16 hour photoperiod. After this, the explants are transferred,
   with the hypocotyl end in the media, to plates containing RM73 media with 75 mg/I
   gentamicin and 250 mg/I cefotaxime. The explants are transferred to fresh plates
25 every two weeks for 6-8 weeks.        Shoots are then transferred to 120 ml tissue
   culture vessels containing RIM media (Table 2) with 75 mg/I gentamicin and 250
   mg/I cefotaxime. When roots develop, the plantlets are transferred to pots of soil
   and after 2 weeks of recovery in a misting bench, are grown under standard
   glasshouse conditions.

                                            41
   Preparation of genomic DNA
   1-2 leaflets of white clover plants recovered from the transformation process are
   harvested and freeze-dried. The tissue is homogenised on a Retsch MM300 mixer
   mill, then centrifuged for 10 min at 1700xg to collect cell debris. Genomic DNA is
 5 isolated from the supernatant using Wizard Magnetic 96 DNA Plant System kits
   (Promega) on a Biomek FX (Beckman Coulter). 5 pl of the sample (50 pl) is then
   analysed on an agarose gel to check the yield and the quality of the genomic DNA.
   Analysis of DNA from putative transgenic lines using real-time PCR
   Genomic DNA is analysed for the presence of the transgene by real-time PCR
10 using SYBR Green chemistry. PCR primer pairs were designed to detect the aacC1
   gentamycin resistance gene in the transferred T-DNA region using MacVector
   (Accelrys). The sequences of these primers are as follows:
   pPZPaacCl-1f         5'-TCAAGTATGGGCATCATTCGCAC-3' (SEQ ID No: 107)
   pPZPaacCl-1.r        5'-TGCTCAAACCGGGCAGAACG-3' (SEQ ID No: 108)
15 2.5 pl of each genomic DNA sample is run in a 25 pl PCR reaction including SYBR
   Green on an ABI (Applied Biosystems) together with samples containing DNA
   isolated from wild type white clover plants (cv 'Mink', negative control), samples
   containing buffer instead of DNA (buffer control) and samples containing the
   plasmid used for transformation (positive plasmid control).

                                        42
                                      TABLE 4
                 Composition of RM73 tissue culture media, pH 5.75
  Component                  [Stock]                       For 1 litre
  MS Macronutients           10 x                           100 mL
  MS Micronutrients          100 x                          10 mL
  MS Vitamins                100 x                          10 mL
  TDZ                        100mM                           50uL
  NAA                        1 mM                           0.5 mL
  Sucrose (BDH Chemicals)    -                               30 g
  Agar                                                         8g
                                      TABLE 5
5       Composition of root-inducing tissue culture media (RIM73), pH 5.75
  Component                     [Stock]                    For 1 litre
  MS macronutrients             10 x                        100 mL
  MS micronutrients             100 x                       10 mL
  MS vitamins                   100 x                       10 mL
  Indole-3-butyric acid         1 mM                        1.2 mL
  Sucrose (BDH Chemicals)       -                             15 g
  Agar (Becton-Dickinson)       -                              8g

                                             43
                                          Example 6
          Analysis of condensed tannins and their monomers in the leaves of
       transgenic white clover plants carrying chimeric white clover FMT, UG3E,
     GST, OMT, RT, CYTb5, laccase, MADS box, WRKY, MYC, TT1, HLH, MYB and
 5         ABC transporter and like genes involved in flavonoid biosynthesis
   Accumulation of condensed tannins and their monomers is analysed qualitatively in
   leaves of transgenic and wild type (cv 'Mink') white clover plants using 4
   dimethylaminocinnemaldehyde         (DMACA)   staining    according to the following
   method.
10 Two mature leaflets from each plant are decolourised in absolute ethanol in 6-well
   tissue culture plates for 3 hours with gentle shaking. The ethanol is removed and
   replaced with a 0.01% w/v solution of DMACA (Fluka), freshly made up in absolute
   ethanol with 2.4% v/v concentrated hydrochloric acid.       After 1 hour of incubation
   with gentle shaking, the leaflets are rinsed with distilled water and mounted in 50%
15 glycerol for analysis with a dissecting microscope (Figure 52).       Wild type white
   clover plants show blue staining in epidermal cells in the floral organs and in
   trichomes. Lotus corniculatus (cv 'Draco'), a forage legume with a 'bloat-safe' level
   of condensed tannins in the leaves, shows blue staining of approximately 50% of
   mesophyll cells in leaves. Achieving a level of condensed tannins in white clover
20 leaves that is comparable to the level seen in leaves of L. comiculatus by metabolic
   engineering would be agronomically valuable.
   DMACA staining can detect economically significant levels of condensed tannins
   and their monomers in the leaves of established bloat-safe forage legumes.
   However, the condensation of catechin monomers to form condensed tannins and
25 their transport from the cytoplasm to the vacuole is poorly understood.        Hence,
   modifying the regulation of known enzymes and transcription factors in the flavonoid
   pathway may up-regulate catechin levels but not increase condensed tannin levels,
   and therefore, bloat-safety. The PVPP-butanol-HCI assay detects only condensed
   tannins, relying on the ability of condensed tannins, but not their monomers to bind
30 to PVPP. The detailed method is as follows.

                                            44
   Clover leaf and inflorescence (positive control) tissue is snap-frozen and ground to
   a fine powder in a mortar and pestle under liquid nitrogen. After grinding, 0.75 g of
   the powder from each sample is transferred to a 14 ml screw-cap centrifuge tube
   (Falcon), vortex-mixed with 1.5 ml of extraction buffer containing 80% v/v methanol
 5 in distilled water with 5.3 mM sodium bisulfite. Samples are mixed for 5 hours on a
   mixing wheel before centrifugation at 3000 xg for 10 minutes. A 1 ml aliquot of each
   supernatant is transferred to a 1.5 ml microcentrifuge tube and reduced to 0.25 ml
   in a vacuum centrifuge. Equal volumes of the sample are added to each of two 1.5
   ml microcentrifuge tubes containing 25 mg of polyvinyl polypyrrolidone (PVPP).
10 Each mixture is vortex-mixed intermittently for 15 min and centrifuged for 1 min at
   maximum speed in a microcentrifuge. After removal of the supernatant, the pellet is
   washed four times with 1 ml of methanol, with a 1 min centrifugation step at
   maximum speed in a microcentrifuge between each wash. A freshly-made 70:30
   (v/v) solution of butanol and concentrated hydrochloric acid is added to each pellet
15 and one tube of the mixture is incubated for 1 hour at 70 0C, whereas the other tube
   is incubated at ambient temperature. The difference in the absorbance (530 nm)
   between the two tubes from each plant sample is proportional to the level of
   condensed tannins in the sample. This assay can be quantitated with a condensed
   tannin of known concentration.
20                                      Example 7
        Analysis of the temporal and spatial pattern of flavonoid-related gene
                                       expression.
   Biochemical, molecular and microscopic analyses suggest that at least two
   proanthocyanidin     (PA) and two anthocyanin (ANT) pathways are active in
25 developing white clover florets. A PA pathway which is developmentally regulated in
   epidermal cells of IW with accumulation of flavan-3-ol monomers peaking at the
   stage 3 and sharply down-regulated at the later stages; another PA pathway is
   active in the trichomes located in sepals at all six developmental stages; an ANT
   pathway which is developmentally and light-regulated in epidermal cells of IW at the

                                              45
   stages 4-6 and ANT pathway that is active at all stages in a small group of cells in
   sepals (Figure 53).
   We monitored the expression pattern of 12,000 T. repens genes at six stages of
   inflorescence development using custom-made CombiMatrix oligonucleotide arrays
 5 in order to identify flavonoid genes differentially expressed in developing white
   clover florets. Each gene was represented by a sequence-specific, 30-40 base pair
   oligonucleotide. This approach aimed to determine which flavonoid-related genes
   and isoforms are most likely to be involved in condensed tannin production, or in the
   production of other flavonoids, and could therefore be targeted for overexpression
10 or downregulation in the metabolic engineering of bloat-safe white clover. The
   expression of the TrMYB24a gene peaked at stage 3 (50% open inflorescence,
   upper half) and then declined (Figure 53).
   Real-time RT-PCR is a recently developed technique that allows more quantitative
   analyses of gene expression than Northern or conventional RT-PCR experiments.
15 Essentially, real-time RT-PCR with SYBR Green chemistry and gene-specific
   primers involves the automatic measurement of the level of a fluorescent PCR
   product generated from a cDNA species over each cycle. The abundance of each
   template    is  proportional to    the  amplification  rate. Therefore,     a threshold
   corresponding to the start of the exponential phase of PCR allows the relative
20 abundance of target genes to be standardised against a uniformly expressed
   'housekeeping' gene in each tissue and compared to a negative control without a
   template. Real-time RT-PCR with SYBR Green                chemistry has been       used
   successfully by others in the field to quantify the expression of four flavonoid-related
   genes in Lotus corniculatus plants exposed to different light regimes (Paolocci et al,.
25 2005, Light and an exogenous transcription factor qualitatively and quantitatively
   affect the biosynthetic pathway of condensed tannins in Lotus corniculatus leaves.
   J. Exp. Bot. 56: 1093-1103).
   A Real-Time RT-PCR strategy involving with SYBR Green chemistry and absolute
   quantification was used to validate the microarray results. Real-time RT-PCR was
30 also used to test whether expression of the TrMYB24a gene is restricted to the

                                              46
   inner whorls (IW) of white clover florets at inflorescence stages 3, 4, 5 and 6,
   correlating with PA production.
   The full-length cDNA sequences encoding TrMYB24a and TrEFia were used as
   input data for the Primer Express (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, USA) primer
 5 design program, using the default settings, no 3' GC clamp and a predicted
   amplicon size of 50-150 base pairs.       Primers close to the 3' ends of the input
   sequences are preferred, due to the likelihood of a large number of cDNA
   molecules derived from clover samples being incomplete at the 5' end.
   The specificity of the primer sets was tested using 1 ul of plasmid DNA (0.01 ng/ul)
10 from the original cDNA cloned into pGEM-T Easy or autoclaved, purified water, 12.5
   ul 2x SYBR Green Master Mix (Applied Biosystems), 0.5 ul each of the forward and
   reverse primers (10 uM) and 10.5 ul of autoclaved, purified water (Sartorius AG,
   Goettingen, Germany).       Real-time PCR was performed in 96-well optical PCR
   plates (Applied Biosystems) using the Stratagene MX3000P cycler and the following
15 cycling parameters: 95 0C for 10 min, 40 cycles of 95 0C for 30 sec and 60 0C for 1
   min, followed by 55 0C for 1 min and 95 0C for 1 min. Primer sets generally amplified
   a satisfactory level of products from the corresponding cDNA templates with a cycle
   threshold cut-off of 24 cycles. The primer sets were generally isoform-specific.
   Total RNA was extracted from white clover tissues using a CTAB-based method
20 (Chang, S., Puryear, J. and Cairney, J. (1993). A simple and efficient method for
   isolating RNA from pine trees. Plant Mol Biol Rep 11:113-116) and contaminating
   genomic DNA was digested on the column using the optional on-column DNAse
   digestion method from the RNeasy kit (QIAGEN             GmbH,     Hilden, Germany)
   according to the manufacturers' instructions.       Complementary DNA (cDNA) is
25 synthesised from 0.5 ug of total RNA using the Quantitect Reverse Transcriptase
   Kit (QIAGEN GmbH). Real-time RT-PCR reactions are set up and run as described
   earlier using 1 ul of cDNA, plasmid control DNA or autoclaved, purified water as the
   template.

                                               47
   Real-time RT-PCR results supported the expression profile of TrMYB24a seen in
   the microarray experiment. TrMYB24a was also found to be expressed at a
   significantly higher level in inner whorls than in sepals (Figure 53).
                                           TABLE 6
 5           List of primers designed for Real-time RT-PCR analysis of condensed
              tannin-rich organs of white clover, based on the cDNA sequences of
                                         white clover genes
   Gene name Clone ID              primer 1 (forward)              primer 2 (reverse)
      TrEF-1 a                TCGAGAAGGAAGCTGCTGAA
                   14wc2PsG
                              A                             CCCAGGCATACTTGAATGACCT
                       04
                               (SEQ  ID No.    109)         (SEQ   ID No.   110)
    TrMYB24a                  TGAATCTTTGGAACCACTAA
                   07wc3SsFO
                              TGGA                         AAGCAACAACTTGAAGCAAAATCA
                        2
                               (SEQ  ID No.    111)         (SEQ   ID No.   112)
   Finally, it is to be understood that various alterations, modifications and/or additions
10 may be made without departing from the spirit of the present invention as outlined
   herein.
   It will also be understood that the term "comprises" (or its grammatical variants) as
   used in this specification is equivalent to the term "includes" and should not be
   taken as excluding the presence of other elements or features.
15 Documents cited in this specification are for reference purposes only and their
   inclusion is not acknowledgment that they form part of the common general
   knowledge in the relevant art.

                                                 47
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.      A substantially purified or isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment
   encoding a helix-loop-helix (HLH) polypeptide from a Trifolium or Medicago species.
   2.      A nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to claim 1, wherein said
 5 polypeptide is from a Trifolium species.
   3.      A nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to claim 2, wherein said
   Trifolium species is Trifolium repens.
   4.      A substantially purified or isolated nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment
   encoding a HLH protein, or complementary or antisense to a sequence encoding a
10 HLH protein, said nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment including a nucleotide
   sequence selected from the group consisting of:
            (a) sequences shown in Sequence ID Nos: 55, 56, 58 and 59;
            (b) complements of the sequences recited in (a);
            (c) sequences antisense to the sequences recited in (a) and (b);
15          (d) functionally active fragments of the sequences recited in (a), (b) and (c)
   having a size of at least 30 nucleotides; and
            (e) functionally active variants of the sequences recited in (a), (b), (c) and (d),
   said functionally active variants having at least 80% identity to the sequence recited
   in (a), (b), (c) or (d).
20 5.      A nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to claim 4, wherein said
   functionally active fragments have a size of at least 60 nucleotides and said
   functionally active variants have at least approximately 90% identity to the
   sequence recited in (a), (b), (c) or (d).
   6.      A nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to claim 4, wherein said
25 functionally active fragments have a size of at least 100 nucleotides and said
   functionally active variants have at least approximately 95% identity to the
   sequence recited in (a), (b), (c) or (d).

                                              48
   7.      A nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to claim 4, wherein said
   nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment includes a nucleotide sequence selected from
   the group consisting of sequences shown in Sequence ID Nos: 55, 56, 58 and 59.
   8.      A nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to any one of claims 4 to 7,
 5 wherein said nucleic acid is from a Trifolium or Medicago species.
   9.      A nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to claim 8, wherein said
   nucleic acid is from a Trifolium species.
   10.     A nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to claim 9, wherein said
   Trifolium species is Trifolium repens.
10 11.     A construct including a nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to any
   one of claims 1 to 10.
   12.     A vector including a nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to any
   one of claims 1 to 10.
   13.     A vector according to claim 12, further including a promoter and a terminator,
15 said promoter, nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment and terminator being
   operatively linked.
   14.     A plant cell, plant, plant seed or other plant part, including a construct
   according to claim 11 or a vector according to claim 12 or 13.
   15.     A plant, plant seed or other plant part derived from a plant cell or plant
20 according to claim 14 and including a construct according to claim 11 or a vector
   according to claim 12 or 13.

                                               49
   16.     A method of modifying:
           (a) flavonoid biosynthesis in a plant;
           (b) protein binding, metal chelation, anti-oxidation, and/or UV-light absorption
   in a plant;
 5         (c) pigment production in a plant;
           (d) plant defense to a biotic stress; or
           (e) forage quality of a plant by disrupting protein foam and/or conferring
   protection from rumen pasture bloat;
                   said method including introducing into said plant an effective amount
10 of a nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to any one of claims 1 to 10, a
   construct according to claim 11 and/or a vector according to claim 12 or 13.
   17.     A method according to claim 16, wherein said method is modifying plant
   defense to a biotic stress and said biotic stress is selected from the group consisting
   of viruses, microorganisms, insects and fungal pathogens.
15 18.     Use of a nucleic acid or nucleic acid fragment according to any one of claims
   1 to 10, and/or nucleotide sequence information thereof, and/or single nucleotide
   polymorphisms thereof as a molecular genetic marker.
   19.     A substantially purified or isolated HLH polypeptide from a Trifolium or
   Medicago species.
20 20.     A polypeptide according to claim 19, wherein said polypeptide is from a
   Trifolium species
   21.     A polypeptide according to claim 20, wherein said Trifolium species is
   Trifolium repens.
   22.     A substantially purified or isolated HLH polypeptide, said polypeptide
25 including an amino acid sequence selected from the group consisting of
           (a) sequence shown in Sequence ID No: 57;
           (b) functionally active fragments of the sequence recited in (a) having a size
   of at least 20 amino acids; and

                                               50
           (c) functionally active variants of the sequences recited in (a) and (b), said
   functionally active variants having at least 80% identity to the sequence recited in
   (a) or (b).
   23.     A polypeptide according to claim 22, wherein said functionally active
 5 fragments have a size of at least 50 amino acids and said functionally active
   variants have at least approximately 90% identity to the sequences recited in (a)
   and (b).
   24.     A polypeptide according to claim 22, wherein said functionally active
   fragments have a size of at least 50 amino acids and said functionally active
10 variants have at least approximately 95% identity to the sequences recited in (a)
   and (b).
   25.     A polypeptide according to claim 22, wherein polypeptide includes an amino
   acid sequence selected from
           (a) sequence shown in Sequence ID No: 57; and
15         (b) functionally active fragments of the sequences recited in (a) having a
   size of at least 50 amino acids.
   26.     A polypeptide according to claim 22, wherein said polypeptide includes an
   amino acid sequence shown in Sequence ID No: 57.
   27.     A polypeptide according to any one of claims 22 to 26, wherein said
20 polypeptide is from a Trifolium or Medicago species.
   28.     A polypeptide according to claim 27, wherein said polypeptide is from a
   Trifolium species.
   29.     A polypeptide according to claim 28, wherein said Trifolium species is
   Trifolium repens.

                                            51
30.    A substantially purified or isolated polypeptide encoded by a nucleic acid or
nucleic acid fragment according to any one of claims 1 to 10.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>                                                                         !                               "                   "
                      ##           "               "                                                                    "                   " #
<removed-apn>
              """     #                                             !                               "               !           "
                                                                                                !               !                                     #"
                           "                                                            #               !                           "
                  !                        !                !           "" """          ""              !"          "       "           !
              "                                "   "                    !      "
                           "                       "!           #                                                                       #             !
                               "                        "                   # ! "                           #                                     "
                  "                    "                    "                               !           #"                  "                             !

<removed-date>   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
<removed-apn>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $

<removed-date>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
<removed-apn>
              $$$$$$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
                                          $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $

<removed-date>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
<removed-apn>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
                                                            $$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$                  $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $

<removed-date>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
                                                             $$$$$$$$$$$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
<removed-apn>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $

<removed-date>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
<removed-apn>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
                                                              $$$$$$$$$$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$

<removed-date>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
<removed-apn>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
                $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
                                                            $$$$$$$$$$$$$$
                                                                    $$$$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $

<removed-date>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
<removed-apn>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
                                                                      $$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $

                        <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
%   %   %   %   %   %     %   %      %      %
"   "   "   "   "   "     "   "      "      "

<removed-date>   %   "               ""           " "!               #"         "
              %   "   "       "            #          #       #                  "
<removed-apn>
              %   "       "            "                  "            "   " "

<removed-date>
              %   "
              %   "   $$
              %   "
              %   "
<removed-apn>
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "
              %   "        $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>       #          " " " "         " "       "
              "        "      "         ""   " ! " "       #
<removed-apn>
                      "" "         ""

<removed-date>   $$$$$$
<removed-apn>
                                     $
                                                         $$$$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $

                                        <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
&   &   &   &   &   &   &   &   &   &     &   &      &      &

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
&   &   &     &    &     &   &    &

<removed-date>
              &           "                #           ""        "
              &       "       "                "                         #                   #
<removed-apn>
              &                                              ! "             "                   #   "
              &                                "            "#                      #                # #
              &       #               "#           "                 !       # !        "#
              &   "               "                                          "     " "
              &               !

<removed-date>
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
<removed-apn>
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$                    $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &                       $
              &         $                                            $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $

<removed-date>
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
<removed-apn>
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $

<removed-date>
              &                                              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              &                                                          $$$$$
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
<removed-apn>
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
              &               $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              &                                            $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$                       $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &                     $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &     $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              &
              &     $                  $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &                            $             $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &                    $

<removed-date>
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
<removed-apn>
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &

<removed-date>
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &
              &
<removed-apn>
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              &                                           $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              &
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              &   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $
              &

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
              !   "!                 "       ""   ""             !
                  "    ""        !            #   #    !         "   "
<removed-apn>
                            ""           "                 """       "   "

                    <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
'   '   '   '   '    '   '       '     '

<removed-date>
              '   #                       #       !           ""#       ""
              '       "       "       #       "       "   "   "     "
<removed-apn>
              '           "       "

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn>         <removed-date>
             "
     !!# #
     !
             #
     #
             #!#
                     #
             !
     # "

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
#      !"
$#     !"
$ $

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                                #
              "                   #       #!#       !
<removed-apn>
                  !!# #   !           #                  # "         "!!            "   "
                          #                         "                          ""           #
                      "                             "
                  #
                                                        #
                                            "           " #    # #
                              "             !            !     # # " #     !
                  "

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                      %           %                          %                          !"
                                                          '                                                      &
                                                                                              (
                   )*                     +                                                              )
                             '!                   '                  '                        '!
                                                                                         $    (
                                                      )* +
                                  %           %                          %                         !"
                                                      '                                                      &
                                                                                         (
              )*                      +                                                             )
                        '!                    '                  '                       '!
                                                                                 $   (
                                                          )* +

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>       "               "                          "        "       "
                      "                    "       "   "         "        "       "
<removed-apn>
                          "       "                                  "#   "   "
                              "       ##       #   "       " "
              !

<removed-date>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
<removed-apn>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$

<removed-date>
                                                  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
                                                         $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
<removed-apn>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$   $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$     $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$     $
                                       $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$

            <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
!   !   !     !   !      !      !

<removed-apn>       <removed-date>
             !     !
             !
                   #
             "
                   #
                   "
                   "
             #
                   #

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>         !   "        "                 !                   "
              " !            !                 !       ""   " "#   "
<removed-apn>
                            ""       ""   "!

<removed-date>   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$     $
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$     $
<removed-apn>
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
                               $                              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$    $

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
            !"
# $$
            !"
 ##         !"
#           !"
            !"
            !"
 #
       $

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>           !   "                "                          !                                                                    "
              " !              !                                  !                   ""                         " "#                  "
<removed-apn>
                              ""               ""            "!                                                           !       "
                  "           #"#                                         "           "                                                        !
                                   #       "                 !        "                                                           ##
              #                                          "                        "           #                       "       "
                          "        "                "                                                            ""
                                                                                                      #    "          "                " "
                                           ""           # " "                 "
              "                    "            " "                       "               "       #
                                       !                              #                           "       " ##
                               "

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                      %           %                           %                          !"
                                                          '                                                       &
                                                                                               (
                   )*                     +                                                               )
                             '!                   '                   '                        '!
                                                                                          $    (
                                                      ) ,-+
                                  %           %                           %                         !"
                                                      '                                                       &
                                                                                          (
              )*                      +                                                              )
                        '!                    '                   '                       '!
                                                                                  $   (
                                                          ) ,-+

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-date>
                                           "!           #     "   "
              "" #   "    "       ""   "        #   "       #""       "       " "
<removed-apn>
                #    ""       !                                   # ! #   "

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
$                             $
$
    $$$$$$$$

<removed-date>   # #
              # #
<removed-apn>
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #

<removed-date>   # #   #                     !                     ##             !               #
              # #           " "       "               " "   "              "                           "
<removed-apn>
              # #                 "   "                              " "           "       "       "       "
              # #       "    "    "           "   "                                    #
              # #       !

<removed-date>
              # #
              # #   $$$$$
              # #           $$$
              # #
<removed-apn>
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #    $$$
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #
              # #

<removed-date>
              # #    $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              # #
              # #   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$     $
              # #
<removed-apn>

                        <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
(   (   (   (   (   (     (   (      (      (

<removed-date>   (   " " " "      !"                 !   "       #   !
              (            !        #       """           !               !
<removed-apn>
              (                         "                             "       #
              (        "

<removed-date>   (                   $
              (   $$$$$$$$$$$$$
<removed-apn>
              (
              (
              (
              (
              (
              (
              (
              (
              (
              (
              (
              (
              (
              (

<removed-date>
              (
              (
              (   $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$
              (
<removed-apn>

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
#
#     !"

                                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
(   (   (   (   (   (   (   (   (   (   (   (    (    (

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
       (     (   (    (

<removed-date>
              (                     !   "       #       !                       !
<removed-apn>
              (       #       """           !                       !
              (           "                                     "       #   "
              (                                     "       "                       "
              (   !

<removed-date>
                                      %           %                          %                          !"
                                                          '                                                      &
<removed-apn>
                                                                                              (
                   )*                     +                                                              )
                             '!                   '                  '                        '!
                                                                                         $    (
                                                      ) ,-
                                  %           %                          %                         !"
                                                      '                                                      &
                                                                                         (
              )*                      +                                                             )
                        '!                    '                  '                       '!
                                                                                 $   (
                                                          ) ,-

                        <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
(   (   (   (   (   (    (   (       (     (

<removed-date>
              (       !               !   #   "                       "   "
              (                   "                       #       "
<removed-apn>
              (       """ !   "           "       "   "       !
              (   "

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                                            <removed-apn>                                 <removed-date>
         .       .       .       .       .
             .       .       .       .                                      $ " #%      !# "&       '" % (         ) *%         !   +
                                                                              .         .       .      .          .       . $       . #
                                                            /" /
                                                        /"          0
                                                        1/
                                                            1       0
!" #!"                                       !" #!"
                                                      , /       /
                                             #
#
                                                      , /           0
                                                                        2
                                                                                  2 .                       .                       .
                                                                                    $ " #%       !# "&          '" %
                                                                                    (" & ! " ,        !#+

<removed-date>
                   (                   !   "                #          !             !
               ) ( *+                  ! ""               ""#      $# !              !
               , - *                   !   "              ""#      $# !              !
<removed-apn>
               .     *                 ! ""                 #      $   !             !
               .!" *                   ! ""                 #      $ #!              !
               .     *     /           ! #"                 #      $" !              !
               0 (       *     #       !   "                #      $" #!             !
               . (       *             ! ""    "                   $" !              !
              +, *                     ! ""                   "#   $" !              !
              +, *                     !   "                   #   $" ! "            !
               0 ( *                   ! ""    "               "   $" !              !
               0 ( (*                  ! ""    "               "   $" !              !
               # *                     ! ""    "               "   $" !              !
               . ( *%                  ! ""    "               "   $" !              !
              &1 ( *                   ! ""    "               "   $   !             !
               0 ( *(                  ! ""               "        $" !#             !
               0 ( *(                  ! ""               "        $" !#             !
               )     *                 ! """          "            $" !#             !
               2       *               ! ""                        $" !#             !
               .       *               ! ""                        $" !#             !
               .       *               ! ""                        $" !#             !
               , ( *                   ! ""                   #    $" !              !
                                           "                  #     " !              !
                   (                   #      """                      !             !
               ) ( *+                           ""            #        !    #   "    !    #
               , - *                            ""            #        !    #   "    !    #
               .     *                        " ""            #        !             !    #
               .!" *                          " ""            #        !             !    #
               .     *     /                    """           #        !        "   #!
               0 (       *                      "             #        !        "    !    #
               . (       *                      """           #        !    #   "    !    #
              +, *                             """            #        !    #   "    !    #
              +, *                              ""            #        !        "    !
               0 ( *                            ""            #        !        "    !    #
               0 ( (*                           ""            #        !        "    !    #
               # *                         #    ""            #        !        "    !    #
               . ( *%                           ""            #        !        "    !    #
              &1 ( *                            ""            #        !        "    !    #
               0 ( *(                      "    "             #        !             !#   ##
               0 ( *(                      "    "             #        !             !#   ##
               )     *             #            "             #        !             !    #
               2       *           #         " "              #        !             !
               .       *                        "             #        !             !    #
               .       *                        "             #        !             !    #
               , ( *                            """           #        !        "    !
                                                "             #        !                  #

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                   AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
                                                    SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110>      Agr i c ul t ur e Vi c t or i a Ser v i c es Pt y Lt d
              <120>      MODI FI CATI ON OF PLANT FLAVONOI D METABOLI SM
              <130>      81413106: DLT
              <150>      2007903525
              <151>      2007- 06- 29
              <160>      112
<removed-apn>
              <170>      Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>      1
              <211>      2057
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 1
              at c t c t c aac agt t c c t t aa c c c c at t t t c at at c at t c t t aagt aac ag at c t c at c t t      60
              t c gat c c at c at c t aaat t t t c t t c c t t t c t t aat t t gc t t aat at t at t t t t ac gat c c    120
              aaggt t c t ag at ggc aaaac c aagt gc t gc t gat aat agg ac t agaagt t c t gt gc agat                     180
              c t t t at agt a gt t ggt t t gt gc t gt t t c t t c t at at at t g ggagc gt ggc aaagaagt gg              240
              at t t ggaaaa ggagat agc a t agc at t aga gat t ac c aag aat aat gc t g aat gt gat gt                     300
              agt t c c aaat t t aagt t t t g at t c ac ac c a t gc t ggagaa gt t agt c aaa t c gat gaat c              360
              t gat t c aaag gc t aaggt gt t t aaac c gt g t gat gc t c gt t at ac ggat t ac ac t c c gt g              420
              t c aagat c aa c gt c gt gc t a t gac at t t c c t agagaaaac at gaac t at a gagagagac a                   480
              t t gc c c t c c a gaggaagaga agt t ac ac t g t at gat c c c t gc ac c aaaag gt t at gt aac               540
              ac c t t t t c c a t ggc c t aaga gt agggat t a t gt t c c t t at gc t aat gc ac c c t ac aagag           600
              t c t c ac agt t gagaaggc c a t t c agaat t g gat c c aat at gagggaaat g t gt t aagat t                   660
              c c c t ggt ggt ggaac t c aat t t c c t c aagg t gc t gat aaa t at at t gat c aac t t gc at c             720
              t gt ggt t c c t at agat gat g ggac ggt t ag gac ggc gc t t gac ac c ggt t gt ggggt t gc                  780
              aagt t ggggt gc at at c t c t ggagc agaaa t gt t gt t gc c at gt c gt t t g c ac c aaggga                 840
              c t c t c at gaa gc ac aagt gc aat t t gc t c t t gaaaggggt gt ac c t gc t g t t at t ggt gt              900
              t c t t ggaac a at aaagt t gc c at at c c at c t agagc c t t c gac at ggc t c at t gc t c t c g           960
              c t gt t t gat t c c gt ggggag c aaat gc t gg aat at at at g at ggaagt t g at agagt t c t                1020
              aaggc c t ggt ggt t at t ggg t gc t t t c t gg t c c t c c aat c aat t ggaagg t c aac t ac aa            1080
              ac c at ggc aa agac c aaagg aggaac t c ga ggaagaac aa agaaat at t g aagaggt t gc                         1140
              t aagaaac t t t c c t gggaga agaagt c t ga gaaggc t gaa at t gc c at t t ggc aaaagac                     1200
              t ac c gac t c t gaat c t t gt c gt agc agac a agat gac t c c agt gt agaat t t t gt gaagc                1260
              at c agat c c t gat gat gt c t ggt at aagaa aat ggaggc c t gt gt t ac t c c aac ac c t aa                1320
              agt t t t gggt ggt gat c t t a aac c at t t c c aaac aggc t a t at gc gat c c c t c c t agagt            1380
              t t c t agt ggt t c t at t c c t g gagt t t c t t c t gagac at ac c agaat gat a ac aaagagt g             1440
                                                                       Page 1

                                                 AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              gaaaaagc at gt c agt gc t t ac aagaaaat t aat t c ac t c t t ggat t c c g gt agat at c g          1500
              c aac at t at g gat at gaat g c t ggt t t ggg t agt t t c gc t gc agc t at t c at t c gt c gaa    1560
              at c at gggt c at gaat gt t g t gc c aac t at agc t gagaaa agt ac t c t c g gt gc gat at a        1620
              t gagc gagga c t gat t ggc a t c t at c at ga t t ggt gt gaa gc c t t t t c c a c at at c c aag   1680
              aac at ac gat c t c at t c at g c t aat ggc c t c t t t agt c t g t ac aaggat a aat gc aat ac     1740
              agaagac at t c t t c t c gaaa t ggac c ggat t t t gc gac c a gaaggt gc t g t c at aat c c g       1800
<removed-apn>
              c gac gaagt c gat gt at t aa t t c aggt aaa gaaat t aat c ggaggaat ga gat ggaat at                1860
              gaaat t agt t gat c at gaag at ggt c c t c t t gt t c c t gag aaagt ac t aa t t gc t gt c aa      1920
              ac agt at t gg gt t ac t gat g gaaat t c c ac at c aac ac aa t aat c ac t ga aaaac aagt t         1980
              gaat t t ac at c c c t ac c c t t at c t at at ac aac aat agt c aaagagt t c a t at ggt t t t g    2040
              t gt c at c at c ac aac t a                                                                       2057
              <210>     2
              <211>     610
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>     2
              Met Al a Ly s Pr o Ser Al a Al a As p As n Ar g Thr Ar g Ser Ser Val Gl n
              1                  5                       10                    15
              I l e Phe I l e Val Val Gl y Leu Cy s Cy s Phe Phe Ty r I l e Leu Gl y Al a
                              20                    25                      30
              Tr p Gl n Ar g Ser Gl y Phe Gl y Ly s Gl y As p Ser I l e Al a Leu Gl u I l e
                        35                     40                       45
              Thr Ly s As n As n Al a Gl u Cy s As p Val Val Pr o As n Leu Ser Phe As p
                  50                       55                     60
              Ser Hi s Hi s Al a Gl y Gl u Val Ser Gl n I l e As p Gl u Ser As p Ser Ly s
              65                      70                      75                     80
              Al a Ly s Val Phe Ly s Pr o Cy s As p Al a Ar g Ty r Thr As p Ty r Thr Pr o
                                85                       90                      95
              Cy s Gl n As p Gl n Ar g Ar g Al a Met Thr Phe Pr o Ar g Gl u As n Met As n
                             100                     105                    110
              Ty r Ar g Gl u Ar g Hi s Cy s Pr o Pr o Gl u Gl u Gl u Ly s Leu Hi s Cy s Met
                        115                      120                      125
              I l e Pr o Al a Pr o Ly s Gl y Ty r Val Thr Pr o Phe Pr o Tr p Pr o Ly s Ser
                    130                      135                   140
              Ar g As p Ty r Val Pr o Ty r Al a As n Al a Pr o Ty r Ly s Ser Leu Thr Val
                                                           Page 2

                                             AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              145                      150                      155                        160
              Gl u Ly s Al a I l e Gl n As n Tr p I l e Gl n Ty r Gl u Gl y As n Val Leu Ar g
                                   165                       170                     175
              Phe Pr o Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Gl n Phe Pr o Gl n Gl y Al a As p Ly s Ty r I l e
                            180                    185                      190
              As p Gl n Leu Al a Ser Val Val Pr o I l e As p As p Gl y Thr Val Ar g Thr
<removed-apn>
                        195                  200                       205
              Al a Leu As p Thr Gl y Cy s Gl y Val Al a Ser Tr p Gl y Al a Ty r Leu Tr p
                   210                    215                    220
              Ser Ar g As n Val Val Al a Met Ser Phe Al a Pr o Ar g As p Ser Hi s Gl u
              225                   230                   235                     240
              Al a Gl n Val Gl n Phe Al a Leu Gl u Ar g Gl y Val Pr o Al a Val I l e Gl y
                                 245                    250                    255
              Val Leu Gl y Thr I l e Ly s Leu Pr o Ty r Pr o Ser Ar g Al a Phe As p Met
                           260                     265                     270
              Al a Hi s Cy s Ser Ar g Cy s Leu I l e Pr o Tr p Gl y Al a As n Al a Gl y I l e
                        275                    280                       285
              Ty r Met Met Gl u Val As p Ar g Val Leu Ar g Pr o Gl y Gl y Ty r Tr p Val
                   290                   295                    300
              Leu Ser Gl y Pr o Pr o I l e As n Tr p Ly s Val As n Ty r Ly s Pr o Tr p Gl n
              305                    310                      315                      320
              Ar g Pr o Ly s Gl u Gl u Leu Gl u Gl u Gl u Gl n Ar g As n I l e Gl u Gl u Val
                                  325                     330                       335
              Al a Ly s Ly s Leu Ser Tr p Gl u Ly s Ly s Ser Gl u Ly s Al a Gl u I l e Al a
                             340                    345                     350
              I l e Tr p Gl n Ly s Thr Thr As p Ser Gl u Ser Cy s Ar g Ser Ar g Gl n As p
                         355                    360                    365
              As p Ser Ser Val Gl u Phe Cy s Gl u Al a Ser As p Pr o As p As p Val Tr p
                   370                  375                     380
              Ty r Ly s Ly s Met Gl u Al a Cy s Val Thr Pr o Thr Pr o Ly s Val Leu Gl y
              385                     390                    395                   400
              Gl y As p Leu Ly s Pr o Phe Pr o As n Ar g Leu Ty r Al a I l e Pr o Pr o Ar g
                                 405                     410                      415
              Val Ser Ser Gl y Ser I l e Pr o Gl y Val Ser Ser Gl u Thr Ty r Gl n As n
                                                        Page 3

                                                   AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
                                420                           425                      430
              As p As n Ly s Gl u Tr p Ly s Ly s Hi s Val Ser Al a Ty r Ly s Ly s I l e As n
                        435                      440                    445
              Ser Leu Leu As p Ser Gl y Ar g Ty r Ar g As n I l e Met As p Met As n Al a
                  450                   455                       460
              Gl y Leu Gl y Ser Phe Al a Al a Al a I l e Hi s Ser Ser Ly s Ser Tr p Val
<removed-apn>
              465                   470                       475                   480
              Met As n Val Val Pr o Thr I l e Al a Gl u Ly s Ser Thr Leu Gl y Al a I l e
                               485                      490                   495
              Ty r Gl u Ar g Gl y Leu I l e Gl y I l e Ty r Hi s As p Tr p Cy s Gl u Al a Phe
                             500                       505                      510
              Ser Thr Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr Ty r As p Leu I l e Hi s Al a As n Gl y Leu Phe
                      515                     520                      525
              Ser Leu Ty r Ly s As p Ly s Cy s As n Thr Gl u As p I l e Leu Leu Gl u Met
                  530                     535                     540
              As p Ar g I l e Leu Ar g Pr o Gl u Gl y Al a Val I l e I l e Ar g As p Gl u Val
              545                      550                     555                        560
              As p Val Leu I l e Gl n Val Ly s Ly s Leu I l e Gl y Gl y Met Ar g Tr p As n
                                 565                    570                      575
              Met Ly s Leu Val As p Hi s Gl u As p Gl y Pr o Leu Val Pr o Gl u Ly s Val
                           580                     585                    590
              Leu I l e Al a Val Ly s Gl n Ty r Tr p Val Thr As p Gl y As n Ser Thr Ser
                        595                     600                    605
              Thr Gl n
                  610
              <210>      3
              <211>      568
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 3
              at c t c t c aac agt t c c t t aa c c c c at t t t c at at c at t c t t aagt aac ag at c t c at c t t     60
              t c gat c c at c at c t aaat t t t c t t c c t t t c t t aat t t gc t t aat at t at t t t t ac gat c c   120
              aaggt t c t ag at ggc aaaac c aagt gc t gc t gat aat agg ac t agaagt t c t gt gc agat                    180
              c t t t at agt a gt t ggt t t gt gc t gt t t c t t c t at at at t g ggagc gt ggc aaagaagt gg             240
              at t t ggaaaa ggagat agc a t agc at t aga gat t ac c aag aat aat gc t g aat gt gat gt                    300
              agt t c c aaat t t aagt t t t g at t c ac ac c a t gc t ggagaa gt t agt c aaa t c gat gaat c             360
                                                                      Page 4

                                                  AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              t gat t c aaag gc t aaggt gt t t aaac c gc g t gat gc t c gt t at ac t gat t ac ac t c c gt g         420
              t c aagat c aa c gt c gt gc t a t gac gt t t c c gagagaaaac at gaac t at a gagagagac a                480
              t t gc c c t c c a gaggaagaga agt t ac ac t g t at gat c c c t gc ac c aaaag ggt at gt aac            540
              ac c t t t t c c a t ggc c t aaga gt agggat                                                           568
              <210>     4
              <211>     579
<removed-apn>
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 4
              aggc t aaggt gt t t aaac c g t gt gat gc t c gt t at ac gga t t ac ac t c c g t gt c aagat c           60
              aac gt c gt gc t at gac at t t c c t agagaaa ac at gaac t a t agagagaga c at t gc c c t c             120
              c agaggaaga gaagt t ac ac t gt at gat c c c t gc ac c aaa aggt t at gt a ac ac c t t t t c            180
              c at ggc c t aa gagt agggat t at gt t c c t t at gc t aat gc ac c c t ac aag agt c t c ac ag          240
              t t gagaaggc c at t c agaat t ggat c c aat at gagggaaa t gt gt t aaga t t c c c t ggt g               300
              gt ggaac t c a at t t c c t c aa ggt gc t gat a aat at at t ga t c aac t t gc a t c t gt ggt t c      360
              c t at agat ga t gggac ggt t aggac ggc gc t t gac ac c gg t t gt ggggt t gc aagt t ggg                420
              gt gc at at c t c t ggagc aga aat gt t gt t g c c at gt c gt t t gc ac c aagg gac t c t c at g        480
              aagc ac aagt gc aat t t gc t c t t gaaaggg gt gt ac c t gc t gt t at t ggt gt t c t t ggaa            540
              c aat aaagt t gc c at at c c a t c t agagc c t t c gac at gg                                          579
              <210>     5
              <211>     390
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 5
              gt gt t t aaac c gt gt gat gc t c gt t at ac g gat t ac ac t c c gt gt c aaga t c aac gt c gt          60
              gc t at gac at t t c c t agaga aaac at gaac t at agagaga gac at t gc c c t c c agaggaa                120
              gagaagt t ac ac t gt at gat c c c t gc ac c a aaaggt t at g t aac ac c t t t t c c at ggc c t         180
              aagagt aggg at t at gt t c c t t at gc t aat gc ac c c t ac a agagt c t c ac agt t gagaag             240
              gc c at t c aga at t ggat c c a at at gaggga aat gt gt t aa gat t c c c t gg t ggt ggaac t            300
              c aat t t gc t c aaggt gc t ga t aaat at at t gat c aac t t g c at c t gt ggt t t c t at agat         360
              gat gggac gg t t aggac ggc gc t t gac ac c                                                            390
              <210>     6
              <211>     571
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 6
              gt gc aat t t g c t c t t gaagg ggt gt ac c t g c t gt t at t gg t gt t c t t gga ac aat aaagt         60
              t gc c at at c c at c t agagc c t t c gac at gg c t c at t gc t c t c gc t gt t t g at t c c gt ggg   120
                                                                      Page 5

                                            AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              gagc aaat gc t ggaat at at at gat ggaag t t gat agagt t c t aaggc c t ggt ggt t at t                 180
              gggt gc t t t c t ggt c c t c c a at c aat t gga aggt c aac t a c aaac c at gg c aaagac c aa         240
              aggaggaac t c gaggaagaa c aaagaaat a t t gaagaggt t gc t aagaaa c t t t gc t ggg                     300
              agaagaagt c t gagaaggc t gaaat t gc c a t t t ggc aaaa gac t ac t gac t c t gaat c t t               360
              gt c gt agc ag ac aagat gac t c c agt gt ag aat t t t gt ga agc at c agat c c t gat gac g            420
              t c t ggt at aa gaaaat ggag gc c t gt gt t a c t c c aac ac c t aaagt t t t g ggt ggt gat c          480
<removed-apn>
              t t aaac c at t t c c aaac agg c t at at gc ga t c c c t c c t ag agt t t c t agt ggt t c t at t c   540
              c t ggagt t t c t t c t gagac a t ac c agaat g a                                                     571
              <210>     7
              <211>     599
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 7
              t t gaagaggt t gc t aagaaa c t t t c c t ggg agaagaagt c t gagaaggc t gaaat t gc c a                  60
              t t t ggc aaaa gac t ac c gac t c t gaat c t t gt c gt agc ag ac aagat gac t c c agt gt ag           120
              aat t t t gt ga agc at c agat c c t gat gat g t c t ggt at aa gaaaat ggag gc c t gt gt t a           180
              c t c c aac ac c t aaagt t t t g ggt ggt gat c t t aaac c at t t c c aaac agg c t at at gc ga        240
              t c c c t c c t ag agt t t c t agt ggt t c t at t c c t ggagt t t c t t c t gagac a t ac c agaat g   300
              at aac aaaga gt ggaaaaag c at gt c agt g c t t ac aagaa aat t aat t c a c t c t t ggat t             360
              c c ggt agat a t c gc aac at t at ggat at ga at gc t ggt t t gggt agt t t c gc t gc agc t a          420
              t t c at t c gt c gaaat c at gg gt c at gaat g t t gt gc c aac t at agc t gag aaaagt ac t c          480
              t c ggt gc gat at at gagc ga ggac t gat t g gc at c t at c a t gat t ggt gt gaagc c t t t t          540
              c c ac at at c c aagaac at ac gat c t c at t c at gc t aat gg c c t c t t t agt c t gt ac aag        599
              <210>     8
              <211>     591
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 8
              gaaac t t t c c t gggagaaga agt c t gagaa ggc t gaaat t gc c at t t ggc aaaagac t ac                  60
              c gac t c t gaa t c t t gt c gt a gc agac aaga t gac t c c agt gt agaat t t t gt gaagc at c          120
              agat c c t gat gat gt c t ggt at aagaaaat ggaggc c t gt gt t ac t c c aa c ac c t aaagt              180
              t t t gggt ggt gat c t t aaac c at t t c c aaa c aggc t at at gc gat c c c t c c t agagt t t c       240
              t agt ggt t c t at t c c t ggag t t t c t t c t ga gac at ac c ag aat gat aac a aagagt ggaa          300
              aaagc at gt c agt gc t t ac a agaaaat t aa t t c ac t c t t g gat t c c ggt a gat at c gc aa         360
              c at t at ggat at gaat gc t g gt t t gggt ag t t t c gc t gc a gc t at t c at t c gt c gaaat c       420
              at gggt c at g aat gt t gt gc c aac t at agc t gagaaaagt ac t c t c ggt g c gat at at ga             480
              gc gaggac t g at t ggc at c t at c at gat t g gt gt gaagc c t t t t c c ac at at c c aagaac          540
                                                                      Page 6

                                                  AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              at ac gat c t c at t c at gc t a at ggc c t c t t t agt c t gt ac aaggat aaat g                   591
              <210>     9
              <211>     565
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 9
              t agat at c gc aac at t at gg at at gaat gc t ggt t t gggt agt t t c gc t g c agc t at t c a       60
              t t c gt c gaaa t at gggt c at gaat gt t gt g c c aac t at ag c t gagaaaag t ac t c t c ggt       120
<removed-apn>
              gc gat at at g agc gaggac t gat t ggc at c t at c at gat t ggt gt gaagc c t t t t c c ac a        180
              t at c c aagaa c at ac gat c t c at t c at gc t aat ggc c t c t t t agt c t gt a c aaggat aaa     240
              t gc aat ac ag aagac at t c t t c t c gaaat g gac c ggat t t t gc gac c aga aggt gc t gt c        300
              at aat c c gc g ac gaagt c ga t gt at t aat t c aggt aaaga aat t aat c gg aggaat gaga             360
              t ggaat at ga aat t agt t ga t c at gaagat ggt c c t c t t g t t c c t gagaa agt ac t aat t       420
              gc t gt c aaac agt at t gggt t ac t gat gga aat t c c ac at c aac ac aat a at c ac t gaaa         480
              aac aagt t ga at t t ac at c c c t ac c c t t at c t at at ac aa c aat agt c aa agagt t c at a    540
              t ggt t t t gt g t c at c at c ac aac t a                                                         565
              <210>     10
              <211>     541
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 10
              t at c gc aac a t t at ggat at gaat gc t ggt t t gggt agt t t c gc t gc agc t at t c at t c g      60
              t c gaaat c at gggt c at gaa t gt t gt gc c a ac t at agc t g agaaaagt ac t c t c ggt gc g        120
              at at at gagc gaggac t gat t ggc at c t at c at gat t ggt gt gaagc c t t t t c c ac at at         180
              c c aagaac at ac gat c t c at t c at gc t aat ggc c t c t t t a gt c t gt ac aa ggat aaat gc      240
              aat ac agaag ac at t c t t c t c gaaat ggac c ggat t t t gc gac c agaagg t gc t gt c at a         300
              at c c gc gac g aagt c gat gt at t aat t c ag gt aaagaaat t aat c ggagg aat gagat gg              360
              aat at gaaat t agt t gat c a t gaagat ggt c c t c t t gt t c c t gagaaagt ac t aat t gc t         420
              gt c aaac agt at t gggt t ac t gat ggaaat t c c ac at c aa c ac aat aat c ac t gaaaaac            480
              aagt t gaat t t ac at c c c t a c c c t t at c t a t at ac aac aa t agt c aaaga gt t c at at gg   540
              t                                                                                                 541
              <210>     11
              <211>     571
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 11
              c at c at c t gc aac t gt t t at ggc ac ac c t g aaaagat ac c t t gt gaggag gat t t c aat t        60
              t at aagc c at gaat c c at at ggac ggac c a agc t t t t c c t c gaagaaat c gc ac gagat a          120
              t t c agaaagc t gagc c agaa t ggaggat c a t t t t ac t gag at ac t t c aat c c agt t gggg         180
                                                                Page 7

                                                 AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              c c c at gaaag c ggt agac t c ggt gaagat c c c aagggc at c c c aaat aat c t c at gc c t t       240
              at at ac agc g t gt agc t gt t gaaagat t ac c c gagc t c aa t gt at at ggt c at gat t at c      300
              c t ac gaggga t ggt t c t gc g at t c gggac t at at c c at gt gat ggac t t a gc agat ggt c      360
              ac at t gc t gc at t gagaaag c t t t t c ac aa c agaaaac at aggt t gt gc t gc t t ac aac t      420
              t gggaac t gg t c gt ggt ac a t c t gt ac t t g aaat ggt t ga t gc at t t gag aaagc t t c t g   480
              gc aagaaaat t c c agt gaaa t t gt gt c c ac gaagggc ggg agat gc t ac g gaggt t t at g           540
<removed-apn>
              c at c t ac aga gagagc t gag aaagaac t t g g                                                    571
              <210>     12
              <211>     167
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>     12
              Met As n Pr o Ty r Gl y Ar g Thr Ly s Leu Phe Leu Gl u Gl u I l e Al a Ar g
              1                  5                      10                      15
              As p I l e Gl n Ly s Al a Gl u Pr o Gl u Tr p Ar g I l e I l e Leu Leu Ar g Ty r
                              20                       25                        30
              Phe As n Pr o Val Gl y Al a Hi s Gl u Ser Gl y Ar g Leu Gl y Gl u As p Pr o
                       35                      40                     45
              Ly s Gl y I l e Pr o As n As n Leu Met Pr o Ty r I l e Gl n Ar g Val Al a Val
                   50                        55                      60
              Gl u Ar g Leu Pr o Gl u Leu As n Val Ty r Gl y Hi s As p Ty r Pr o Thr Ar g
              65                      70                     75                      80
              As p Gl y Ser Al a I l e Ar g As p Ty r I l e Hi s Val Met As p Leu Al a As p
                                 85                         90                    95
              Gl y Hi s I l e Al a Al a Leu Ar g Ly s Leu Phe Thr Thr Gl u As n I l e Gl y
                              100                     105                  110
              Cy s Al a Al a Ty r As n Leu Gl y Thr Gl y Ar g Gl y Thr Ser Val Leu Gl u
                        115                     120                    125
              Met Val As p Al a Phe Gl u Ly s Al a Ser Gl y Ly s Ly s I l e Pr o Val Ly s
                  130                    135                     140
              Leu Cy s Pr o Ar g Ar g Al a Gl y As p Al a Thr Gl u Val Ty r Al a Ser Thr
              145                     150                     155                    160
              Gl u Ar g Al a Gl u Ly s Gl u Leu
                                  165
              <210>     13
                                                                   Page 8

                                                  AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              <211>     571
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 13
              c at c at c t gc aac t gt t t at ggc ac ac c t g aaaagat ac c t t gt gaggag gat t t c aat t           60
              t at aagc c at gaat c c at at ggac ggac c a agc t t t t c c t c gaagaaat c gc ac gagat a             120
              t t c agaaagc t gagc c agaa t ggaggat c a t t t t ac t gag at ac t t c aat c c agt t gggg            180
              c c c at gaaag c ggt agac t c ggt gaagat c c c aagggc at c c c aaat aat c t c at gc c t t            240
<removed-apn>
              at at ac agc g t gt agc t gt t gaaagat t ac c c gagc t c aa t gt at at ggt c at gat t at c           300
              c t ac gaggga t ggt t c t gc g at t c gggac t at at c c at gt gat ggac t t a gc agat ggt c           360
              ac at t gc t gc at t gagaaag c t t t t c ac aa c agaaaac at aggt t gt gc t gc t t ac aac t           420
              t gggaac t gg t c gt ggt ac a t c t gt ac t t g aaat ggt t ga t gc at t t gag aaagc t t c t g        480
              gc aagaaaat t c c agt gaaa t t gt gt c c ac gaagggc ggg agat gc t ac g gaggt t t at g                540
              c at c t ac aga gagagc t gag aaagaac t t g g                                                         571
              <210>     14
              <211>     543
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 14
              t c at c t gc aa c t gt t t at gg c ac ac c t gaa aagat ac c t t gt gaggagga t t t c aat t t a        60
              t aagc c at ga at c c at at gg ac ggac c aag c t t t t c c t c g aagaaat c gc ac gagat at t          120
              c agaaagc t g agc c agaat g gaggat c at t t t ac t gagat ac t t c aat c c agt t ggggc c              180
              c at gaaagc g gt agac t c gg t gaagat c c c aagggc at c c c aaat aat c t c at gc c t t at            240
              at ac agc gt g t agc t gt t ga aagat t ac c c gagc t c aat g t at at ggt c a t gat t at c c t        300
              ac gagggat g gt t c t gc gat t c gggac t at at c c at gt ga t ggac t t agc agat ggt c ac             360
              at t gc t gc at t gagaaagc t t t t c ac aac a gaaaac at ag gt t gt gc t gc t t ac aac t t g          420
              ggaac t ggt c gt ggt ac at c t gt ac t t gaa at ggt t gat g c at t t gagaa agc t t c t ggc           480
              aagaaaat t c c agt gaaat t gt gt c c ac ga agggc gggag at gc t ac gga ggt t t at gc a                540
              t ct                                                                                                 543
              <210>     15
              <211>     576
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 15
              gagt aat t c a ac t t t c gat a at at at at at at at c c t c c t t c t c t c t t gt t gaaac at at     60
              at t t c c t t t t t t t t t t t t c t t t t c aaaaga aac c at ggt a gt gaaggt gt at ggt c c t c a   120
              c t gt gc c t c a ac c aaaagag t gt t ggt t t g t c t t gt t gag aaggaaat ag aat t t gaggt           180
              t gt c c c t at t aat t t c t t ag aaggagaac a gaagaat c c t gagt ac c t c a aat t ac agc c          240
              t t t t ggaac t c t t c c t gt ga t t c aagat gg agac t at ac c c t t t at gaat c t c gt gc aat      300
                                                                    Page 9

                                                  AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              aat aagat ac t at gc t gaaa aat at agat c t c aaggggt t gaat t ac t t g gaaagac aat                  360
              agaagaaaaa ggt c t agt gg aac aat ggt t agaagt t gaa gc ac aaaac t t t aac c c at c                  420
              agc at ac aac t t ggc c c t t c at at at t at t t c c t t c ac t a c t agc t gac a ac ac t c c aaa   480
              t c c t aaggt a at t gaagaga gt gaac c aaa ac t t gt gaag gt t t t gaac a t t t at gaaga             540
              gaggc t at c a aagagc aagt at t t ggc t gg t gat t t                                                 576
<removed-apn>
              <210>     16
              <211>     160
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>     16
              Met Val Val Ly s Val Ty r Gl y Pr o Hi s Cy s Al a Ser Thr Ly s Ar g Val
              1                5                       10                     15
              Leu Val Cy s Leu Val Gl u Ly s Gl u I l e Gl u Phe Gl u Val Val Pr o I l e
                           20                     25                      30
              As n Phe Leu Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl n Ly s As n Pr o Gl u Ty r Leu Ly s Leu Gl n
                       35                      40                       45
              Pr o Phe Gl y Thr Leu Pr o Val I l e Gl n As p Gl y As p Ty r Thr Leu Ty r
                   50                    55                       60
              Gl u Ser Ar g Al a I l e I l e Ar g Ty r Ty r Al a Gl u Ly s Ty r Ar g Ser Gl n
              65                       70                        75                      80
              Gl y Val Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Ly s Thr I l e Gl u Gl u Ly s Gl y Leu Val Gl u
                                85                      90                      95
              Gl n Tr p Leu Gl u Val Gl u Al a Gl n As n Phe As n Pr o Ser Al a Ty r As n
                            100                     105                    110
              Leu Al a Leu Hi s I l e Leu Phe Pr o Ser Leu Leu Al a As p As n Thr Pr o
                       115                    120                   125
              As n Pr o Ly s Val I l e Gl u Gl u Ser Gl u Pr o Ly s Leu Val Ly s Val Leu
                   130                      135                     140
              As n I l e Ty r Gl u Gl u Ar g Leu Ser Ly s Ser Ly s Ty r Leu Al a Gl y As p
              145                       150                   155                     160
              <210>     17
              <211>     534
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 17
              gagt aat t c a ac t t t c gat a at at at at at at at c c t c c t t c t c t c t t gt t gaaac at at     60
              at t t c c t t t t t t t t t t t t c t t t t c aaaaga aac c at ggt a gt gaaggt gt at ggt c c t c a   120
                                                                         Page 10

                                                   AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              c t gt gc c t c a ac c aaaagag t gt t ggt t t g t c t t gt t gag aaggaaat ag aat t t gaggt             180
              t gt c c c t at t aat t t c t t ag aaggagaac a gaagaat c c t gagt ac c t c a aat t ac agc c            240
              t t t t ggaac t c t t c c t gt ga t t c aagat gg agac t at ac c c t t t at gaat c t c gt gc aat        300
              aat aagat ac t at gc t gaaa aat at agat c t c aaggggt t gaat t ac t t g gaaagac aat                    360
              agaagaaaaa ggt c t agt gg aac aat ggt t agaagt t gaa gc ac aaaac t t t aac c c at c                    420
              agc at ac aac t t ggc c c t t c at at at t at t t c c t t c ac t a c t agc t gac a ac ac t c c aaa     480
<removed-apn>
              t c c t aaggt a at t gaagaga gt gaac c aaa ac t t gt gaag gt t t t gaac a t t t a                      534
              <210>     18
              <211>     569
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 18
              t t c c ac t t t c gat aat at at at at at at c c t c c t t c t c t c t t gt t gaaac at at at t t c c    60
              t t t t t t t t t t t t c t t t t aaa agaaac c at g gt agt gaagg t gt at ggt c c t c ac t gt gc c      120
              t c aac c aaaa gagt gt t ggt t t gt c t t gt t gagaaggaaa t agaat t t ga ggt t gt c c c t              180
              at t aat t t c t t agaaggaga ac agaagaat c c t gagt ac c t c aaat t ac a gc c t t t t gga              240
              ac t c t t c c t g t gat t c aaga t ggagac t at ac c c t t t at g aat c t c gt gc aat aat aaga         300
              t ac t at gc t g aaaaat at ag at c t c aaggg gt t gaat t ac t t ggaaagac aat agaagaa                   360
              aaaggt c t ag t ggaac aat g gt t agaagt t gaagc ac aaa ac t t t aac c c at c agc at ac                 420
              aac t t ggc c c t t c at at at t at t t c c t t c a c t ac t agc t g ac aac ac t c c aaat c c t aag    480
              gt aat t gaag agagt gaagc aaaac t t gt g aaggt t t t ga ac at t t at ga agagaggc t a                   540
              t c aaagagc a agt at t t ggc t ggt gat t t                                                             569
              <210>     19
              <211>     1288
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 19
              c ac c t t gaga at t at t gc ga t c aagat t gc aat gaaaat t t t ggat aagg c c at c c c t c c            60
              c t c c c c t c c t c t c t at at aa gt agt t ggt t ggt t agt gt c aat at aagaa gaaaaac ac a           120
              aac c aaac c a t at at at agt at c aat at c a at t aagc t ag c t at t t c c aa at c aac at gg          180
              c t c c t t c aac aac t gaat c c aat aaac aac aaat c c c c aa c ggaaaagac aat c at c t aa              240
              aac c ac aac a ac aagaagaa gat gat gat g c c c t c gaat t t gc c ac ac aa at aac aggt t                300
              c c at t gt t gt t c c at t ggc t t t gaggt c ag c c at t gat c t t ggc at c t t t gac at c c t ag     360
              c c aaagc t gg c gaaggt gc a gaac t c t c t g c ac aagac at t gc t gt t aag at t ggaac c a             420
              ac aac c c gga agc ac c aac a at gt t gaat c gt c t t c t t ag gt t gt t ggc c agt c ac t c t a        480
              t t c t aaac t c c t c t gt t c c t c aac aac at g at gat c aac a aat at t c t ac agc c t c t c c a    540
              at c gc t c c aa at at t t t gt c ac c gat gc t g ac ggc at c t c gt t gggac c c ac c t t ggc at       600
                                                                     Page 11

                                                 AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              t ac t t c t c ga c aat gt c t t c t ac c aaagc t ggt c ggagc t gaaaggagc g at agt ggaag          660
              gaggaat ac c gt t c aat aga gt at at ggaa t gc at gc c t t t gagt ac c c a c gt gt ggat c         720
              c aaggt t c aa t gat gt t t t c aac aaagc t a t gc t t agt t c aac c ac t at t aat at gaaga       780
              gaat t c t t ga at t t t at c aa ggt t t t gagc at gt c ac t aa gt t ggt t gac gt t ggt ggt g     840
              gt c t t ggac a t aac c t c aaa t t gat c ac ag c c aaat at t c c c at at t c at ggaat t aat t    900
              t t gac t t gc c t c at gt gc t a c aaaat gc t c c t aac t ac c c aggt gt t gaa c ac gt gggag     960
<removed-apn>
              gagat at gt t t gagagc gt t c c t ac agggg at gc c at t t t t at gaagt gg at ac t t c at g       1020
              at t ggagt ga t gaac ac t gc t t gaagc t gt t gaaaaat t g t t ac aaagc t at t c c t gaga         1080
              at ggaaaggt t at t gt t gt g gac ac aat c c t t c c c ac c ac gc c c gagac a ac agggagc g        1140
              c aaagt t t gg t t t c t c gt c t gat c t t t t aa t gat gac t c a aaat c c agga ggaaaagaga      1200
              gaac t gagc a ggaat t c at a aaat t ggc aa aaggat c t gg at t c agt ggc at c aaac c t a          1260
              t at gt t gt gt gt c t ggac t a t gggt t at                                                      1288
              <210>     20
              <211>     370
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>     20
              Met Al a Pr o Ser Thr Thr Gl u Ser As n Ly s Gl n Gl n I l e Pr o As n Gl y
              1                 5                     10                        15
              Ly s As p As n Hi s Leu Ly s Pr o Gl n Gl n Gl n Gl u Gl u As p As p As p Al a
                             20                      25                       30
              Leu Gl u Phe Al a Thr Gl n I l e Thr Gl y Ser I l e Val Val Pr o Leu Al a
                       35                      40                     45
              Leu Ar g Ser Al a I l e As p Leu Gl y I l e Phe As p I l e Leu Al a Ly s Al a
                  50                       55                      60
              Gl y Gl u Gl y Al a Gl u Leu Ser Al a Gl n As p I l e Al a Val Ly s I l e Gl y
              65                       70                     75                        80
              Thr As n As n Pr o Gl u Al a Pr o Thr Met Leu As n Ar g Leu Leu Ar g Leu
                                 85                     90                    95
              Leu Al a Ser Hi s Ser I l e Leu As n Ser Ser Val Pr o Gl n Gl n Hi s As p
                           100                     105                   110
              As p Gl n Gl n I l e Phe Ty r Ser Leu Ser As n Ar g Ser Ly s Ty r Phe Val
                        115                     120                   125
              Thr As p Al a As p Gl y I l e Ser Leu Gl y Pr o Thr Leu Al a Leu Leu Leu
                  130                       135                   140
                                                                   Page 12

                                                  AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              As p As n Val Phe Ty r Gl n Ser Tr p Ser Gl u Leu Ly s Gl y Al a I l e Val
              145                    150                    155                      160
              Gl u Gl y Gl y I l e Pr o Phe As n Ar g Val Ty r Gl y Met Hi s Al a Phe Gl u
                                   165                    170                     175
              Ty r Pr o Ar g Val As p Pr o Ar g Phe As n As p Val Phe As n Ly s Al a Met
                             180                    185                    190
<removed-apn>
              Leu Ser Ser Thr Thr I l e As n Met Ly s Ar g I l e Leu Gl u Phe Ty r Gl n
                      195                    200                     205
              Gl y Phe Gl u Hi s Val Thr Ly s Leu Val As p Val Gl y Gl y Gl y Leu Gl y
                   210                   215                   220
              Hi s As n Leu Ly s Leu I l e Thr Al a Ly s Ty r Ser Hi s I l e Hi s Gl y I l e
              225                    230                      235                      240
              As n Phe As p Leu Pr o Hi s Val Leu Gl n As n Al a Pr o As n Ty r Pr o Gl y
                                245                    250                      255
              Val Gl u Hi s Val Gl y Gl y As p Met Phe Gl u Ser Val Pr o Thr Gl y As p
                            260                    265                   270
              Al a I l e Phe Met Ly s Tr p I l e Leu Hi s As p Tr p Ser As p Gl u Hi s Cy s
                         275                     280                    285
              Leu Ly s Leu Leu Ly s As n Cy s Ty r Ly s Al a I l e Pr o Gl u As n Gl y Ly s
                  290                    295                       300
              Val I l e Val Val As p Thr I l e Leu Pr o Thr Thr Pr o Gl u Thr Thr Gl y
              305                    310                    315                   320
              Ser Al a Ly s Phe Gl y Phe Ser Ser As p Leu Leu Met Met Thr Gl n As n
                                325                   330                 335
              Pr o Gl y Gl y Ly s Gl u Ar g Thr Gl u Gl n Gl u Phe I l e Ly s Leu Al a Ly s
                             340                     345                      350
              Gl y Ser Gl y Phe Ser Gl y I l e Ly s Pr o I l e Cy s Cy s Val Ser Gl y Leu
                       355                     360                       365
              Tr p Val
                   370
              <210>      21
              <211>      583
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 21
              c ac c t t gaga at t at t gc ga t c aagat t gc aat gaaaat t t t ggat aagg c c at c c c t c c   60
                                                                  Page 13

                                                  AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              c t c c c c t c c t c t c t at at aa gt agt t ggt t ggt t agt gt c aat at aagaa gaaaaac ac a          120
              aac c aaac c a t at at at agt at c aat at c a at t aagc t ag c t at t t c c aa at c aac at gg         180
              c t c c t t c aac aac t gaat c c aat aaac aac aaat c c c c aa c ggaaaagac aat c at c t aa             240
              aac c ac aac a ac aagaagaa gat gat gat g c c c t c gaat t t gc c ac ac aa at aac aggt t               300
              c c at t gt t gt t c c at t ggc t t t gaggt c ag c c at t gat c t t ggc at c t t t gac at c c t ag    360
              c c aaagc t gg c gaaggt gc a gaac t c t c t g c ac aagac at t gc t gt t aag at t ggaac c a            420
<removed-apn>
              ac aac c c gga agc ac c aac a at gt t gaat c gt c t t c t t ag gt t gt t ggc c agt c ac t c t a       480
              t t c t aaac t c c t c t gt t c c t c aac aac at g at gat c aac a aat at t c t ac agc c t c t c c a   540
              at c gc t c c aa at at t t t gt c ac c gat gc t g ac ggc at c t c gt t                                583
              <210>      22
              <211>      545
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 22
              c t c t c c c t c c c t c c c c t c c t c t c t at at aa gt agt t ggt t ggt t agt gt c aat at aagaa    60
              gaaaaac ac a aac c aaac c a t at at at agt at c aat at c a at t aagc t ag c t at t t c c aa           120
              at gaac at gg c t c c t t c aac aac t gaat c c aat aaac aac aaat c c c c aa c ggaaaagac               180
              aat c at c t aa aac c ac aac a ac aagaagaa gat gat gat g c c c t c gaat t t gc c ac ac aa             240
              at aac aggt t c c at t gt t gt t c c at t ggc t t t gaggt c ag c c at t gat c t t ggc at c t t t      300
              gac at c c t ag c c aaagc t gg c gaaggt gc a gaac t c t c t g c ac aagac at t gc t gt t aag           360
              at t ggaac c a ac aac c c gga agc ac c aac a at gt t gaat c gt c t t c t t ag gt t gt t ggc c         420
              agt c ac t c t a t t c t aaac t c c t c t gt t c c t c aac aac at g at gat c aac a aat at t c t ac    480
              agc c t c t c c a at c gc t c c aa at at t t t gt c ac c gat gc t g ac ggc at c t c gt t gggac c c    540
              ac c t t                                                                                              545
              <210>      23
              <211>      699
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <220>
              <221>      mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>      ( 241) . . ( 241)
              <223>      n i s a, c , g, or t
              <400> 23
              aaac c aaac c at at at at ag t at c aat at c aat t aagc t a gc t at t t c c a aat c aac at g           60
              gc t c c t t c aa c ggc t ggggc gaat aaac aa c aaat c c c c a ac ggaaaaga c aat c at c t a            120
              aaac c ac aac aac aagaaga agat gat gat gc c c t c gaat t t gc c ac ac a aat aac aggg                  180
              t c c at t gt t g t t c c at t ggc t t t gagggc a gc c at t gat c t t ggc at ggg ggggat c c t a       240
              nc c aaagc t g gc gaaggt gc aaaac t c t c t gc ac aagac a t t gc t gt t aa gat t ggaac c              300
                                                               Page 14

                                                  AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              aac aac c c gg aagc ac c aac aat gt t gaat c gt c t t c t t a ggt t gt t ggc c agt c ac t c t         360
              at t c t aaac t c c t c t gt t c c t c aac aac at gat gat c aac aaat at t c t a c agc c t c t c c     420
              aat c gc t c c a aat at t t t gt c ac c gat gc t gat ggc at c t c gt t gggac c c ac c t t ggc a       480
              t t ac t t c t c g ac aat gt c t t c t ac c aaagc t ggt c ggagc t gaaaggagc gat agt ggaa              540
              ggaggaat ac c gt t c aat ag agt at at gga at gc at gc c t t t gagt ac c c ac gt gt ggat               600
              c c aaggt t c a at gat t t t t t c aac aaagc t at gc t t agt t c aac c ac t at t aat at gaag          660
<removed-apn>
              agaat t c t t g aat t t t at c a aggt t t gagc at gt c ac t a                                         699
              <210>     24
              <211>     613
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 24
              aac c at at at at agt at c aa t at c aat t aa gc t agc t at t t c c aaat c aa c at ggc t c c t         60
              t c aac aac t g aat c c aat aa ac aac aaat c c c c aac ggaa aagac aat c a t c t aaaac c a             120
              c aac aac aag aagaagat ga t gat gc c c t c gaat t t gc c a c ac aaat aac aggt t c c at t              180
              gt t gt t c c at t ggc t t t gag gt c agc c at t gat c t t ggc a t c t t t gac at c c t agc c aaa     240
              gc t ggc gaag gt gc agaac t c t c t gc ac aa gac at t gc t g t t aagat t gg aac c aac aac             300
              c c ggaagc ac c aac aat gt t gaat c gt c t t c t t aggt t gt t ggc c agt c a c t c t at t c t a       360
              aac t c c t c t g t t c c t c aac a ac at gat gat c aac aaat at t c t ac agc c t c t c c aat c gc     420
              t c c aaat at t t t gt c ac c ga t gc t gac ggc at c t c gt t gg gac c c ac c t t ggc at t ac t t     480
              c t c gac aat g t c t t c t ac c a aagc t ggt c g gagc t gaaag gagc gat agt ggaaggagga                540
              at ac c gt t c a at agagt at a t ggaat gc at gc c t t t gagt ac c c ac gt gt ggat c c aagg            600
              t t c aat gat g t t t                                                                                 613
              <210>     25
              <211>     519
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 25
              t t aagc t agc t at t t c c aaa gaac at ggc t c c t t c aac aa c t gaat c c at aaac aac aaa            60
              t c c c c aac gg aaaagac aat c at c t aaaac c ac aac aac a ac aagaagat gat gat gc c c                 120
              t c gaat t t gc c ac ac aaat a ac aggt t c c a t t gt t gt t c c at t ggc t t t g aggt c agc c a      180
              t t gat c t t gg c at c t t t gac at c c t agc c a aagc t ggc ga aggt gc agaa c t c t c t gc ac       240
              aagac at t gc t gt t aagat t ggaac c aac a ac c c ggaagc ac c aac aat g t t gaat c gt c               300
              t t c t t aggt t gt t ggc c agt c ac t c t at t c t aaac t c c t c t gt t c c t c aa c aac at gat g   360
              at c aac aaat at t c t ac agc c t c t c c aat c gc t c c aaat a t t t t gt c ac c gat gc t gac g      420
              gc at c t c gt t gggac c c ac c t t ggc at t ac t t c t c gac aa t gt c t t c t ac c aaagc t ggt      480
              c ggagc t gaa aggagc gat a gt ggaaggag gaat ac c gt                                                   519
                                                         Page 15

                                                   AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>     26
              <211>     524
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 26
              c at ggc t c c t t aac aac t ga at c c aat aaa c aac aaat c c c c aac ggaaa agac at c at c              60
              t aaaac c ac a ac aac aagaa gaagat gat g at gc c c t c ga at t t gc c ac a c aaat aac ag               120
<removed-apn>
              gt t c c at t gt t gt t c c at t g gc t t t gaggt c agc c at t ga t c t t ggc at c t t t gac at c c    180
              t agc c aaagc t ggc gaaggt gc agaac t c t c t gc ac aaga c at t gc t gt t aagat t ggaa                 240
              c c aac aac c c ggaagc ac c a ac aat gt t ga at c gt c t t c t t aggt t gt t g gc c agt c ac t         300
              c t at t c t aaa c t c c t c t gt t c c t c aac aac at gat gat c a ac aaat at t c t ac agc c t c t     360
              c c aat c gc t c c aaat at t t t gt c ac c gat g c t gac ggc at c t c gt t ggga c c c ac c t t gg      420
              c at t ac t t c t c gac aat gt c t t c t ac c aga gc t ggt c gga gc t gaaagga gc gat agt gg            480
              aaggaggaat ac c gt t c aat agagt at at g gaat gc at gc c t t t                                         524
              <210>     27
              <211>     188
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 27
              t c t c c aat c g c t c c aaat at t t t gt c ac c g at gc t gac gg c at c t c gc t g ggac c c ac c t    60
              t ggc at t ac t t c t c gac aat gt c t t c t ac c aaagc t ggt c ggagc t gaaa ggagc gat ag              120
              t ggaaggagg aat ac c gt t c aat agagt at at ggaat gc a t gc c t t t gag t at c c ac gt g               180
              t ggat c c a                                                                                           188
              <210>     28
              <211>     588
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <220>
              <221>     mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>     ( 491) . . ( 491)
              <223>     n i s a, c , g, or t
              <400> 28
              agt ggaaggg ggaat ac c gt t c aat agagt at at ggaat g c at gc c t t t g agt ac c c ac g                 60
              t gt ggat c c a aggt t c aat g at gt t t t c aa c aaagc t at g c t t agt t c aa c c ac t at t aa       120
              t at gaagaga at t c t t gaat t t t at c aagg t t t t gagc at gt c ac t aagt t ggt t gac gt             180
              t ggt ggt ggt c t t ggac at a ac c t c aaat t gat c ac agc c aaat at t c t c at at t c at gg           240
              aat t aat t t t gac t t gc c t c at gt gc t ac a aaat gc t c c t aac t ac c c ag gt gt t gaac a        300
              c gt gggagga gat at gt t t g agagc gt t c c t ac aggggat gc c at t t t t a t gaagt ggat                360
              ac t t c at gat t ggagt gat g aac ac t gc t t gaagc t gt t g aaaaat t gt t ac aaagc t at               420
                                                                      Page 16

                                              AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              t c c t gagaat ggaaaggt t a t t gt t gt gga c ac aat c c t t c c c ac c at gc c c gagac aac        480
              agggagc gc a nagt t t ggt t t c t c gt c t ga t c t t t t aat g at gac t c aaa at c c aggagg       540
              aaaagagaga ac t gagc agg aat t c at aaa at t ggc aaaa ggat c t gg                                  588
              <210>     29
              <211>     598
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
<removed-apn>
              <400> 29
              ggaat gc at g c c t t t gagt a t c c c gt gt gg at c c aggt t c aat gat gt t t t aac aaagc t        60
              at gc t t agt t c aac c ac t at t aat at gaag aggat t c t t g aat t t t at aa ggt t t t gagc       120
              at gt c ac t aa gt t ggt t gac gt t ggt ggt g gt c t t ggac a t aac c t c aaa t t gat c ac ag      180
              c c aaat at t c c c at at t c at ggaat t aat t t t gac t t gt c t c at gt gc t a c aaaat gc t c    240
              c t aac t ac c c aggt gt t gaa c ac gt gggag gagat at gt t t gagagc gt t c c t ac agggg            300
              at gc c at t t t t at gaagt gg at ac t t c at g at t ggagt ga t gaac ac t gc t t gaagc t gt        360
              t gaaaaat t g t t ac aaagc t at t c c t gaga at ggaaaggt t at t gt t gt g gac ac aat c c           420
              t t c c c ac c ac gc c c gagac a ac agggagc g c aaagt t t gg t t t c t c gt c t gat c t t t t aa   480
              t gat gac t c a aaat c c agga ggaaaagaga gaagt gagc a ggaat t c at a aaat t ggc aa                 540
              aaggat c t gg at t c agt ggc at c aaac c t a t at gt t gt gt gt c t ggac t a t gggt t at           598
              <210>     30
              <211>     544
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 30
              t t gt ggat aa aagagt ggt t ggac aagc aa c c ac gt agc a c ggt at t at a t gt ggc t t t t           60
              ggt agt gaag c aaaac c aag t c aagaagaa gt c ac t aaga t agc t t t t gg gt t ggaggaa               120
              t c aaagat t c c gt t c t t t t g ggt c c t t agg gt t c agc gt g gac c aac t ga c aat gt ggt g    180
              t t gc agc t gc c agaagggt t t gaggagc ga aac aaggggc gc ggagt ggt at gc ac t gat                  240
              t gggc t c c gc aagt gaaaat aat gggt c ac gt ggc agt t g gt gggt t c t t gac t c at gc t           300
              ggt t ggac at c agt t gt gga ggc t gt t c aa aat gaaaagc c ac t t gt gc t ac t aac at t t          360
              c t t gc agat c aaggaat aaa t gc gagggt g t t ggaggaaa agaagat ggg t t ac t c agt g                420
              c c t agggat g aac gagat gg gt c at t c ac a agt gac t c gg t ggc t gc t t c gat t agac t a        480
              gt t at gc t t g aagaagaggg aagaat c t ac aaggaaaaga t t aaagagat gaaggac t t g                    540
              t t cg                                                                                             544
              <210>     31
              <211>     181
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>     31
                                                                    Page 17

                                            AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Leu Tr p I l e Ly s Gl u Tr p Leu As p Ly s Gl n Pr o Ar g Ser Thr Val Leu
              1                   5                        10                           15
              Ty r Val Al a Phe Gl y Ser Gl u Al a Ly s Pr o Ser Gl n Gl u Gl u Val Thr
                            20                     25                      30
              Ly s I l e Al a Phe Gl y Leu Gl u Gl u Ser Ly s I l e Pr o Phe Phe Tr p Val
                         35                     40                       45
<removed-apn>
              Leu Ar g Val Gl n Ar g Gl y Pr o Thr As p As n Val Val Leu Gl n Leu Pr o
                  50                      55                     60
              Gl u Gl y Phe Gl u Gl u Ar g As n Ly s Gl y Ar g Gl y Val Val Cy s Thr As p
              65                      70                       75                    80
              Tr p Al a Pr o Gl n Val Ly s I l e Met Gl y Hi s Val Al a Val Gl y Gl y Phe
                                  85                      90                     95
              Leu Thr Hi s Al a Gl y Tr p Thr Ser Val Val Gl u Al a Val Gl n As n Gl u
                           100                    105                   110
              Ly s Pr o Leu Val Leu Leu Thr Phe Leu Al a As p Gl n Gl y I l e As n Al a
                        115                 120                    125
              Ar g Val Leu Gl u Gl u Ly s Ly s Met Gl y Ty r Ser Val Pr o Ar g As p Gl u
                   130                    135                    140
              Ar g As p Gl y Ser Phe Thr Ser As p Ser Val Al a Al a Ser I l e Ar g Leu
              145                    150                  155                      160
              Val Met Leu Gl u Gl u Gl u Gl y Ar g I l e Ty r Ly s Gl u Ly s I l e Ly s Gl u
                               165                       170                       175
              Met Ly s As p Leu Phe
                            180
              <210>     32
              <211>     523
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 32
              t aat aac at t at t at t at t g c t c c t c t aaa gc t c aaac c t c at t t ac aac c at ggc aaat    60
              c aaaaggt t t t c ac c c t c t c ac aaat c t c c c aac ac aagt c c aac aaaaa c t gt t ggc t t     120
              gt aat c aac g ac agagt gt t gaac gt gac a aagt t t t t gg aggaac at c c aggaggagaa               180
              gaggt aat t c t agaggt t gc agggaaagat gc c ac aaagg agt t t gat ga t at t ggac at                240
              agt aaagc ag c t c aaaat t t agt c c t c aaa t at c aagt t g gt gt ac t t ga aggt gc c aag        300
              gt t gaaaaga t t gat aat at ggat t t t gt t gaggac aagg agt c c aagag c aaagaaat g                360
              agt gc t t t t g t t gt c aaaga ggat ac t agt t c c aaaac t g c aac at t t t t agagt t gt t t     420
                                                                   Page 18

                                                     AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              gt gc c at t t c t t t t t gc t t t t at c t at t t t ggt t ac agt g t c at c ac c ag agc agac ac t   480
              gt t ggt t ac t aaat c at ggg ggat gt c t ag ac c t t ggt c t gt g                                    523
              <210>     33
              <211>     161
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>     33
<removed-apn>
              Hi s Ty r Ty r Ty r Cy s Ser Ser Ly s Al a Gl n Thr Ser Phe Thr Thr Met
              1                   5                      10                   15
              Al a As n Gl n Ly s Val Phe Thr Leu Ser Gl n I l e Ser Gl n Hi s Ly s Ser
                             20                   25                      30
              As n Ly s As n Cy s Tr p Leu Val I l e As n As p Ar g Val Leu As n Val Thr
                        35                     40                       45
              Ly s Phe Leu Gl u Gl u Hi s Pr o Gl y Gl y Gl u Gl u Val I l e Leu Gl u Val
                   50                     55                       60
              Al a Gl y Ly s As p Al a Thr Ly s Gl u Phe As p As p I l e Gl y Hi s Ser Ly s
              65                       70                     75                       80
              Al a Al a Gl n As n Leu Val Leu Ly s Ty r Gl n Val Gl y Val Leu Gl u Gl y
                                  85                    90                    95
              Al a Ly s Val Gl u Ly s I l e As p As n Met As p Phe Val Gl u As p Ly s Gl u
                            100                       105                   110
              Ser Ly s Ser Ly s Gl u Met Ser Al a Phe Val Val Ly s Gl u As p Thr Ser
                       115                   120                   125
              Ser Ly s Thr Al a Thr Phe Leu Gl u Leu Phe Val Pr o Phe Leu Phe Al a
                  130                   135                  140
              Phe I l e Ty r Phe Gl y Ty r Ser Val I l e Thr Ar g Al a As p Thr Val Gl y
              145                     150                    155                    160
              Ty r
              <210>     34
              <211>     557
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 34
              c at agaagaa gc t c t at agc aac at t t c t t t gt t gagt ag aggt at at aa c t c aaaaggg               60
              t t gc t at ggc c ac ggc gc aa t t t c gaat t a t ac t at t gt t ggt agc at gt t t gc t t c c at      120
              t t t c t gt t ga t gc t ac ggt t c gac ac t ac a agt t c aat gt t gt gt t gaaa aat gc c ac aa        180
                                                                      Page 19

                                                AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              gat t gt gt t c aac c aaac c a at t gt aac c a t aaat ggaaa at c c c c aggt c c c ac c at c t        240
              at gc t agaga agat gac aat gt t c t aat t a aggt t gt c aa c c at gt c aaa t ac aat gt t a           300
              gc at ac ac t g gc at ggt gt c aaac aac t aa gaac gggt t g ggc c gac ggg c c agc at ac a             360
              t aac c c aat g t c c aat t c aa c c gggt c agg c c t at gt t t a c aac t t c ac t c t t ac aggc c   420
              agagaggc ac ac t t t ggt gg c at gc t c at a t t c t t t ggc t t agagc c ac t gt c c at ggt g        480
              c c t t ggt c at t t t ac c aaag c t t ggagt t c c t t ac c c t t t t c c c aaac c t c at at ggaac   540
<removed-apn>
              aagt t at t gt at t aggt                                                                             557
              <210>     35
              <211>     164
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>     35
              Met Al a Thr Al a Gl n Phe Ar g I l e I l e Leu Leu Leu Val Al a Cy s Leu
              1                 5                         10                   15
              Leu Pr o Phe Ser Val As p Al a Thr Val Ar g Hi s Ty r Ly s Phe As n Val
                           20                    25                      30
              Val Leu Ly s As n Al a Thr Ar g Leu Cy s Ser Thr Ly s Pr o I l e Val Thr
                      35                      40                    45
              I l e As n Gl y Ly s Ser Pr o Gl y Pr o Thr I l e Ty r Al a Ar g Gl u As p As p
                    50                      55                       60
              As n Val Leu I l e Ly s Val Val As n Hi s Val Ly s Ty r As n Val Ser I l e
              65                      70                    75                     80
              Hi s Tr p Hi s Gl y Val Ly s Gl n Leu Ar g Thr Gl y Tr p Al a As p Gl y Pr o
                                  85                     90                      95
              Al a Ty r I l e Thr Gl n Cy s Pr o I l e Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl n Al a Ty r Val Ty r
                              100                      105                      110
              As n Phe Thr Leu Thr Gl y Gl n Ar g Gl y Thr Leu Tr p Tr p Hi s Al a Hi s
                       115                   120                    125
              I l e Leu Tr p Leu Ar g Al a Thr Val Hi s Gl y Al a Leu Val I l e Leu Pr o
                    130                    135                    140
              Ly s Leu Gl y Val Pr o Ty r Pr o Phe Pr o Ly s Pr o Hi s Met Gl u Gl n Val
              145                    150                     155                     160
              I l e Val Leu Gl y
              <210>     36
              <211>     2085
                                                                     Page 20

                                                   AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 36
              t aagc agt gg t aac aac gc a gagt ac gc gg ggat t gc at t gc at t t t c aa gagagt gat c                   60
              ac t agc c agc at agaagaag c t c t at agc a ac at t t c t t t gt t gagt aga ggt at at aac                120
              t c aaaagggt t gc t at ggc c ac ggc gc aat t t c gaat t at ac t at t gt t g gt agc at gt t               180
              t gc t t c c at t t t c t gt t gat gc t ac ggt t c gac ac t ac aa gt t c aat gt t gt gt t gaaaa          240
<removed-apn>
              at gc c ac aag at t gt gt t c a ac c aaac c aa t t gt aac c at aaat ggaaaa t c c c c aggt c              300
              c c ac c at c t a t gc t agagaa gat gac aat g t t c t aat t aa ggt t gt c aac c at gt c aaat             360
              ac aat gt t ag c at ac ac t gg c at ggt gt c a aac aac t aag aac gggt t gg gc c gac gggc                 420
              c agc at ac at aac c c aat gt c c aat t c aac c gggt c aggc c t at gt t t ac aac t t c ac t c            480
              t t ac aggc c a gagaggc ac a c t t t ggt ggc at gc t c at at t c t t t ggc t t agagc c ac t g            540
              t c c at ggt gc c t t ggt c at t t t ac c aaagc t t ggagt t c c t t ac c c t t t t c c c aaac c t c      600
              at at ggaac a agt t at t gt a t t aggt gaat ggt ggaaat c agat ac c gag gc t at aat aa                    660
              at gaagc t t t aaaat c t gga t t agc t c c aa at at t t c t ga t gc t c ac ac a at c aat ggt c           720
              t t c c agggt c t ggc c aaggt t gt gc t t c ac aagat ggat t c t c at t ggaa gt t c aac aaa               780
              aaaaaac c t a c t t ac t aaga at c at c aat g c t gc ac t c aa t gaagaac t c t t t t t c aaaa            840
              t t gc aaac c a t c aat t aac t gt t gt t gaag t t gat gc aac t t at gt aaaa c c at t c aaaa             900
              c t gac ac aat t gt t at agc a c c t ggc c aaa c c ac aaac gt gc t t t t agaa ac c aaac aag              960
              c ac t aggaaa c t ac t t aat t gc agc t t c t c c t t t c at gga t gc ac c aat t gt t gt t gac a        1020
              ac aaaac t gc c at t gc c ac a t t ac ac t at t c aaac ac ac t t ggt t c c ac a gt c ac t t c c t       1080
              t aac t t c t t t ac c t c c aaaa aat gc t ac t c c aat t gc t aa t ac t t t c ac a gat t c t c t t a   1140
              gaggc t t aaa c t c gaaaaaa t at c c ggc t a at gt t c c t t t aaagat t gat aat aaat t at               1200
              t at t c ac t gt t t c t c t t ggt at t aat c c t t gt c c t ac at g t gt c aat aat agt c gc gt c g     1260
              t agc t gat t t c aac aat gt t ac at t c gt ga t gc c gaaaac c gc gc t t at t c aagc ac at t            1320
              t t t t t aagat t aaaggagt t t t t agt gat g at t t t c c t gg aaat c c t c c t gt ggt gt at a          1380
              at t t t ac t gg gac ac agt t g ac aaat t t t g ggac t ac t aa agggac aagg c t t t at agac              1440
              t t gc t t at aa t t c t ac t gt t gaat t ggt t t t gc aagat ac t ggaat gat a ac ac c t gaga            1500
              at c at c c t at t c at c t t c at ggat t c aat t t c t t t gt agt t ggt agt ggt aaagggaac t            1560
              t t gat t c t aa aaaagat gc a aaaaagt t t a at c t t gt t ga t c c t gt t gag aggaat ac t g             1620
              t t ggt gt t c c ggc c ggaggt t ggac t gc t a t c agat t c ag ggc t gat aat c c aggggt gt               1680
              ggt t t at gc a t t gt c at t t g gagat t c at a c aac at gggg ac t aaagat g gc t t t t gt t g          1740
              t ggac aat gg t aaaggc c c a aat gaat c t c t at t ac c ac c t c c aagt gac c t t c c t aagt            1800
              gt t gaggaaa gt ac c aat t a ac at t c aat g t t at t t gaag agaac aac at at t t t aat gg               1860
              aaggat t aaa c aaggc aaat gac aagat t t t c t t ggaat a t ggaaagaat aagat gt c c a                      1920
                                                                      Page 21

                                              AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              at t t t c t t at aaaaaaaaaa t gt c c aat t g ac at t t at t g gt at at t t t a at t c c t t t t a     1980
              gt t gt at t at t t t c at t gt t t gt ac c c at c t t t c t t c t t c t t gaaagat a t t t t agggt t   2040
              aat c aaaat t t t aagaat t t t t aagaaat c t t t t c t t t t g t t gc c                                2085
              <210>     37
              <211>     556
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
<removed-apn>
              <400>     37
              Met Al a Thr Al a Gl n Phe Ar g I l e I l e Leu Leu Leu Val Al a Cy s Leu
              1                 5                         10                   15
              Leu Pr o Phe Ser Val As p Al a Thr Val Ar g Hi s Ty r Ly s Phe As n Val
                           20                    25                      30
              Val Leu Ly s As n Al a Thr Ar g Leu Cy s Ser Thr Ly s Pr o I l e Val Thr
                      35                      40                    45
              I l e As n Gl y Ly s Ser Pr o Gl y Pr o Thr I l e Ty r Al a Ar g Gl u As p As p
                    50                      55                       60
              As n Val Leu I l e Ly s Val Val As n Hi s Val Ly s Ty r As n Val Ser I l e
              65                      70                    75                     80
              Hi s Tr p Hi s Gl y Val Ly s Gl n Leu Ar g Thr Gl y Tr p Al a As p Gl y Pr o
                                  85                     90                      95
              Al a Ty r I l e Thr Gl n Cy s Pr o I l e Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl n Al a Ty r Val Ty r
                              100                      105                      110
              As n Phe Thr Leu Thr Gl y Gl n Ar g Gl y Thr Leu Tr p Tr p Hi s Al a Hi s
                       115                   120                    125
              I l e Leu Tr p Leu Ar g Al a Thr Val Hi s Gl y Al a Leu Val I l e Leu Pr o
                    130                    135                    140
              Ly s Leu Gl y Val Pr o Ty r Pr o Phe Pr o Ly s Pr o Hi s Met Gl u Gl n Val
              145                    150                     155                     160
              I l e Val Leu Gl y Gl u Tr p Tr p Ly s Ser As p Thr Gl u Al a I l e I l e As n
                                 165                     170                      175
              Gl u Al a Leu Ly s Ser Gl y Leu Al a Pr o As n I l e Ser As p Al a Hi s Thr
                            180                    185                      190
              I l e As n Gl y Leu Pr o Gl y Ser Gl y Gl n Gl y Cy s Al a Ser Gl n As p Gl y
                         195                    200                      205
              Phe Ser Leu Gl u Val Gl n Gl n Ly s Ly s Thr Ty r Leu Leu Ar g I l e I l e
                  210                   215                     220
                                                        Page 22

                                           AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              As n Al a Al a Leu As n Gl u Gl u Leu Phe Phe Ly s I l e Al a As n Hi s Gl n
              225                     230                   235                       240
              Leu Thr Val Val Gl u Val As p Al a Thr Ty r Val Ly s Pr o Phe Ly s Thr
                              245                    250                    255
              As p Thr I l e Val I l e Al a Pr o Gl y Gl n Thr Thr As n Val Leu Leu Gl u
                             260                      265                   270
<removed-apn>
              Thr Ly s Gl n Al a Leu Gl y As n Ty r Leu I l e Al a Al a Ser Pr o Phe Met
                       275                     280                      285
              As p Al a Pr o I l e Val Val As p As n Ly s Thr Al a I l e Al a Thr Leu Hi s
                   290                     295                     300
              Ty r Ser As n Thr Leu Gl y Ser Thr Val Thr Ser Leu Thr Ser Leu Pr o
              305                   310                  315                 320
              Pr o Ly s As n Al a Thr Pr o I l e Al a As n Thr Phe Thr As p Ser Leu Ar g
                                  325                      330                  335
              Gl y Leu As n Ser Ly s Ly s Ty r Pr o Al a As n Val Pr o Leu Ly s I l e As p
                            340                     345                    350
              As n Ly s Leu Leu Phe Thr Val Ser Leu Gl y I l e As n Pr o Cy s Pr o Thr
                        355                 360                     365
              Cy s Val As n As n Ser Ar g Val Val Al a As p Phe As n As n Val Thr Phe
                   370                    375                   380
              Val Met Pr o Ly s Thr Al a Leu I l e Gl n Al a Hi s Phe Phe Ly s I l e Ly s
              385                   390                      395                     400
              Gl y Val Phe Ser As p As p Phe Pr o Gl y As n Pr o Pr o Val Val Ty r As n
                               405                     410                    415
              Phe Thr Gl y Thr Gl n Leu Thr As n Phe Gl y Thr Thr Ly s Gl y Thr Ar g
                           420                   425                   430
              Leu Ty r Ar g Leu Al a Ty r As n Ser Thr Val Gl u Leu Val Leu Gl n As p
                       435                     440                  445
              Thr Gl y Met I l e Thr Pr o Gl u As n Hi s Pr o I l e Hi s Leu Hi s Gl y Phe
                  450                     455                       460
              As n Phe Phe Val Val Gl y Ser Gl y Ly s Gl y As n Phe As p Ser Ly s Ly s
              465                  470                     475                    480
              As p Al a Ly s Ly s Phe As n Leu Val As p Pr o Val Gl u Ar g As n Thr Val
                                  485                   490                     495
                                                         Page 23

                                                 AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl y Val Pr o Al a Gl y Gl y Tr p Thr Al a I l e Ar g Phe Ar g Al a As p As n
                            500                     505                      510
              Pr o Gl y Val Tr p Phe Met Hi s Cy s Hi s Leu Gl u I l e Hi s Thr Thr Tr p
                        515                   520                      525
              Gl y Leu Ly s Met Al a Phe Val Val As p As n Gl y Ly s Gl y Pr o As n Gl u
                   530                   535                    540
<removed-apn>
              Ser Leu Leu Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser As p Leu Pr o Ly s Cy s
              545                   550                    555
              <210>     38
              <211>     885
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 38
              agagaaat gg gaagaggaag agt t gaat t g aagagaat t g agaac aaaat c aac agac aa                       60
              gt t ac c t t t g c aaaac gaag aaat ggt c t t t t gaagaaag c t t at gaac t t t c t gt t c t t     120
              t gt gat gc t g aggt t gc t c t c at c gt c t t c t c c aat agag gaaaac t c t a t gagt t t t gc   180
              agc ac t t c t a gc at gc t c aa aac t c t t gag aggt at c aga aat gc aac t a t ggagc ac c t      240
              gaagc t aat g t gac at c aaa ggaagc t t t g gt at t ggaat t aagc agt c a ac aagaat ac             300
              t t gaagc t t a aggc ac gt t a t gaat c t c t t c aac gc t c gc aaaggaat c t t at gggagaa         360
              gat c t t ggc c c t c t aagt ag c aaagat c t t gaac c ac t t g aaaggc agc t agat t c gt c c       420
              t t gaagc aaa t c agat c c ac aaggac c c aa t t c at gc t gg at c agc t t gg t gat c t t c aa     480
              c gt aaggaac ac t t gc t at g t gaagc aaac agagc t c t c a gac aaaggat ggaagggt at                540
              c aaat aaat t c t c t c c aac t gaat c t gagt gc t gaagat a t gggat at gg t c gt c at c at        600
              c c agt t c ac a c c c agggt ga t gaac t at t t c aac c aat t g agt gc gaac c aac c t t ac aa     660
              at t ggat at c aagc t gat c c aggat c agt g gt gac agc ag gc c c aagc at gaat aat t t c           720
              at gggt ggat ggt t ac c at g at gat gt t aa agt t at at at t gagaac gag t gt gaagc at             780
              gc at aaagat c aaat gaaaa t t t gt aat ac t agc at gt t a t at aat ggac t ac ac t aaac            840
              t at gt at t ag t gt c t ac t t a c t at gt aggc aaaat aat at agt aa                              885
              <210>     39
              <211>     244
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>     39
              Met Gl y Ar g Gl y Ar g Val Gl u Leu Ly s Ar g I l e Gl u As n Ly s I l e As n
              1                  5                      10                        15
              Ar g Gl n Val Thr Phe Al a Ly s Ar g Ar g As n Gl y Leu Leu Ly s Ly s Al a
                            20                     25                     30
                                                         Page 24

                                                 AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ty r Gl u Leu Ser Val Leu Cy s As p Al a Gl u Val Al a Leu I l e Val Phe
                        35                   40                      45
              Ser As n Ar g Gl y Ly s Leu Ty r Gl u Phe Cy s Ser Thr Ser Ser Met Leu
                  50                      55                     60
              Ly s Thr Leu Gl u Ar g Ty r Gl n Ly s Cy s As n Ty r Gl y Al a Pr o Gl u Al a
              65                     70                       75                       80
<removed-apn>
              As n Val Thr Ser Ly s Gl u Al a Leu Val Leu Gl u Leu Ser Ser Gl n Gl n
                               85                     90                   95
              Gl u Ty r Leu Ly s Leu Ly s Al a Ar g Ty r Gl u Ser Leu Gl n Ar g Ser Gl n
                            100                     105                    110
              Ar g As n Leu Met Gl y Gl u As p Leu Gl y Pr o Leu Ser Ser Ly s As p Leu
                        115                    120                   125
              Gl u Pr o Leu Gl u Ar g Gl n Leu As p Ser Ser Leu Ly s Gl n I l e Ar g Ser
                   130                     135                  140
              Thr Ar g Thr Gl n Phe Met Leu As p Gl n Leu Gl y As p Leu Gl n Ar g Ly s
              145                   150                   155                     160
              Gl u Hi s Leu Leu Cy s Gl u Al a As n Ar g Al a Leu Ar g Gl n Ar g Met Gl u
                                165                      170                     175
              Gl y Ty r Gl n I l e As n Ser Leu Gl n Leu As n Leu Ser Al a Gl u As p Met
                             180                     185                   190
              Gl y Ty r Gl y Ar g Hi s Hi s Pr o Val Hi s Thr Gl n Gl y As p Gl u Leu Phe
                        195                      200                    205
              Gl n Pr o I l e Gl u Cy s Gl u Pr o Thr Leu Gl n I l e Gl y Ty r Gl n Al a As p
                   210                       215                     220
              Pr o Gl y Ser Val Val Thr Al a Gl y Pr o Ser Met As n As n Phe Met Gl y
              225                   230                    235                   240
              Gl y Tr p Leu Pr o
              <210>     40
              <211>     576
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 40
              agagaaat gg gaagaggaag agt t gaat t g aagagaat t g agaac aaaat c aac agac aa                     60
              gt t ac c t t t g c aaaac gaag aaat ggt c t t t t gaagaaag c t t at gaac t t t c t gt t c t t   120
                                                                  Page 25

                                                 AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              t gt gat gc t g aggt t gc t c t c at c gt c t t c t c c aat agag gaaaac t c t a t gagt t t t gc   180
              agc ac t t c t a gc at gc t c aa aac t c t t gag aggt at c aga aat gc aac t a t ggagc ac c t      240
              gaagc t aat g t gac at c aaa ggaagc t t t g gt at t ggaat t aagc agt c a ac aagaat ac             300
              t t gaagc t t a aggc ac gt t a t gaat c t c t t c aac gc ac gc aaaggaat c t t at gggagaa          360
              gat c t t ggc c c t c t aagt ag c aaagat c t t gaac c ac t t g aaaggc agc t agat t c gt c c       420
              t t gaagc aaa t c agat c c ac aaggac c c aa t t c at gc t gg at c agc t t gg t gat c t t c aa     480
<removed-apn>
              c gt aaggaac ac t t gc t at g t gaagc aaac agagc t c t c a gac aaaggat ggaagggt at                540
              c aaat aaat t c t c t c c aac t gaat c t gagt gc t gaa                                            576
              <210>     41
              <211>     583
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 41
              agagaaat gg gaagaggaag agt t gaat t g aagagaat t g agaac aaaat c aac agac aa                       60
              gt t ac c t t t g c aaaac gaag aaat ggt c t t t t gaagaaag c t t at gaac t t t c t gt t c t t     120
              t gt gat gc t g aggt t gc t c t c at c gt c t t c t c c aat agag gaaaac t c t a t gagt t t t gc   180
              agc ac t t c t a gc at gc t c aa aac t c t t gag aggt at c aga aat gc aac t a t ggagc ac c t      240
              gaagc t aat g t gac at c aaa ggaagc t t t g gt at t ggaat t aagc agt c a ac aagaat ac             300
              t t gaagc t t a aggc ac gt t a t gaat c t c t t c aac gc t c gc aaaggaat c t t at gggagaa         360
              gat c t t ggc c c t c t aagt ag c aaagat c t t gaac c ac t t g aaaggc agc t agat t c gt c c       420
              t t gaagc aaa t c agat c c ac aaggac c c aa t t c at gc t gg at c agc t t gg t gat c t t c aa     480
              c gt aaggaac ac t t gc t at g t gaagc aaac agagc t c t c a gac aaaggat ggaagggt at                540
              c aaat aaat t c t c t c c aac t gaat c t gagt gc t gaagat a t gg                                  583
              <210>     42
              <211>     571
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 42
              gaat ac t t ga agc t t aaggc ac gt t at gaa t c t c t t c aac gc t c gc aaag gaat c t t at g       60
              ggagaagat c t t ggc c c t c t aagt agc aaa gat c t t gaac c ac t t gaaag gc agc t agat            120
              t c gt c c t t ga agc aaat c ag at c c ac aagg ac c c aat t c a t gc t ggat c a gc t t ggt gat    180
              c t t c aac gt a aggaac ac t t gc t at gt gaa gc aaac agag c t c t c agac a aaggat ggaa           240
              gggt at c aaa t aaat t c t c t c c aac t gaat c t gagt gc t g aagat at ggg at at ggt c gt         300
              c at c at c c ag t t c ac ac c c a gggt gat gaa c t at t t c aac c aat t gagt g c gaac c aac c    360
              t t ac aaat t g gat at c aagc t gat c c agga t c agt ggt ga c agc aggc c c aagc at gaat           420
              aat t t c at gg gt ggat ggt t ac c at gat ga t gt t aaagt t at at at t gag aac gagt gt g          480
              aagc at gc at aaagat c aaa t gaaaat t t g t aat ac t agc at gt t at at a at ggac t ac a           540
                                                                   Page 26

                                                 AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              c t aaac t at g t at t agt gt c t ac t t ac t at g                                                571
              <210>      43
              <211>      569
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 43
              gt t at gaat c t c t t c aac gc t c gc aaagga at c t t at ggg agaagat c t t ggc c c t c t aa       60
              gt agc aaaga t c t t gaac c a c t t gaaaggc agc t agat t c gt c c t t gaag c aaat c agat          120
<removed-apn>
              c c ac aaggac c c aat t c at g c t ggat c agc t t ggt gat c t t c aac gt aag gaac ac t t gc       180
              t at gt gaagc aaac agagc t c t c agac aaa ggat ggaagg gt at c aaat a aat t c t c t c c            240
              aac t gaat c t gagt gc t gaa gat at gggat at ggt c gt c a t c at c c agt t c ac ac c c agg        300
              gt gat gaac t at t t c aac c a at t gagt gc g aac c aac c t t ac aaat t gga t at c aagc t g       360
              at c c aggat c agt ggt gac a gc aggc c c aa gc at gaat aa t t t c at gggt ggat ggt t ac           420
              c at gat gat g t t aaagt t at at at t gagaa c gagt gt gaa gc at gc at aa agat c aaat g            480
              aaaat t t gt a at ac t agc at gt t at at aat ggac t ac ac t aaac t at gt a t t agt gt c t a       540
              c t t ac t at gt aggc aaaat a at at agt aa                                                        569
              <210>      44
              <211>      368
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 44
              at c t t c aaaa gat gc t t c t c at at t gat gt t aaac c c ggt aat gc c t c t a at at t c at gt    60
              t aaaaaggc a gagt t at t t c t aaaaac t at aaggaaggat ac at c aaagc agaaaggt ag                   120
              c aaagaaat c at gaagc ac a aat at gt at t t c aaac aagg agt c agat c g at at ac t aga             180
              c gat gggt t c c gat ggagaa agt ac gggga aaagt t ggt g aaaaac aac a aat at c c t ag               240
              aagt t at t ac aaat gc ac t t at c c aggc t g c aat gc aaag aaac aaat c c aaaggaat t c            300
              c aaac aggat c at at t gt at aaac aac t t a c gagggaat g c at at t c ac c c t gt c c agaa         360
              c t c aac t g                                                                                     368
              <210>      45
              <211>      106
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>      45
              Ser Ser Ly s As p Al a Ser Hi s I l e As p Val Ly s Pr o Gl y As n Al a Ser
              1                 5                        10                      15
              As n I l e Hi s Val Ly s Ly s Al a Gl u Leu Phe Leu Ly s Thr I l e Ar g Ly s
                              20                      25                   30
              As p Thr Ser Ly s Gl n Ly s Gl y Ser Ly s Gl u I l e Met Ly s Hi s Ly s Ty r
                       35                      40                      45
                                                         Page 27

                                                      AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Val Phe Gl n Thr Ar g Ser Gl n I l e As p I l e Leu As p As p Gl y Phe Ar g
                  50                    55                        60
              Tr p Ar g Ly s Ty r Gl y Gl u Ly s Leu Val Ly s As n As n Ly s Ty r Pr o Ar g
              65                       70                     75                       80
              Ser Ty r Ty r Ly s Cy s Thr Ty r Pr o Gl y Cy s As n Al a Ly s Ly s Gl n I l e
                                 85                      90                       95
<removed-apn>
              Gl n Ar g As n Ser Ly s Gl n As p Hi s I l e Val
                             100                     105
              <210>      46
              <211>      632
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 46
              c c t c t c t c t c t c t c t c t c c c c c ac t c c at t at c ac c ac c a c ac ggt c t c t t c t t c c t aac    60
              t t t c t c t t c t t c t c t t t c t t t t c c c t aat t t ac c t c c aaa at t aac c aaa aat aaat aat          120
              aaaaat t c c a t t t c at gaat c t t t ggagc g ac gagaac t c at c agt gat g gaggc t t t t a                     180
              t gac c t c at c c gat t t at c a ac c t t at ggc c at c ac aac c ac agc c gc c g t c gt c ac aac               240
              c ac c ac aaac c ac c ac c gga t t c aac c aag ac ac ac t c c a ac aac gt c t t c aagc t t t aa                 300
              t c gaaggc gc t t c c gaaat c t ggac t t ac g c t at c t t c t g gc aac c t t c t t ac gac t at t               360
              c c ggc t c t t c t c t t c t c ggt t ggggt gac g gt t at t ac aa aggc gaagaa gac aaat c aa                     420
              aat c aaaat c c aaagc t ac t t c ac c agc t g aac aagaac a c c gt agaaaa gt t c t c c gag                       480
              aac t t aat t c t t t aat c t c c ggt aat c c ag c ac c ggaaga at c t t c c gt c gat gaagaag                    540
              t t ac agat ac ggaat ggt t t t t t t t t agt t t c t at gac t c aat c t t t t gt t aac ggaagt                   600
              ggac t t c c t g gac aagc t t a t t t t aat t c a ac                                                            632
              <210>      47
              <211>      152
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>      47
              Met As n Leu Tr p Ser As p Gl u As n Ser Ser Val Met Gl u Al a Phe Met
              1                 5                      10                    15
              Thr Ser Ser As p Leu Ser Thr Leu Tr p Pr o Ser Gl n Pr o Gl n Pr o Pr o
                          20                   25                      30
              Ser Ser Gl n Pr o Pr o Gl n Thr Thr Thr Gl y Phe As n Gl n As p Thr Leu
                      35                      40                    45
              Gl n Gl n Ar g Leu Gl n Al a Leu I l e Gl u Gl y Al a Ser Gl u I l e Tr p Thr
                   50                      55                       60
                                                           Page 28

                                                      AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ty r Al a I l e Phe Tr p Gl n Pr o Ser Ty r As p Ty r Ser Gl y Ser Ser Leu
              65                       70                      75                    80
              Leu Gl y Tr p Gl y As p Gl y Ty r Ty r Ly s Gl y Gl u Gl u As p Ly s Ser Ly s
                                 85                       90                       95
              Ser Ly s Ser Ly s Al a Thr Ser Pr o Al a Gl u Gl n Gl u Hi s Ar g Ar g Ly s
                           100                    105                      110
<removed-apn>
              Val Leu Ar g Gl u Leu As n Ser Leu I l e Ser Gl y As n Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u
                      115                    120                     125
              Gl u Ser Ser Val As p Gl u Gl u Val Thr As p Thr Gl u Tr p Phe Phe Phe
                   130                   135                   140
              Ser Phe Ty r As p Ser I l e Phe Cy s
              145                   150
              <210>      48
              <211>      645
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 48
              c c t c t c t c t c t c t c t c t c c c c c ac t c c at t at c ac c ac c a c ac ggt c t c t t c t t c c t aac    60
              t t t c t c t t c t t c t c t t t c t t t t c c c t aat t t ac c t c c aaa at t aac c aaa aat aaat aat          120
              t t t c t c t t c t t c t c t t t c t t t t c c c t aat t t ac c t c c aaa at t aac c aaa aat aaat aat          180
              aaaaat t c c a t t t c at gaat c t t t ggagc g ac gagaac t c at c agt gat g gaggc t t t t a                     240
              t gac c t c t t c c gat t t at c a ac c t t at ggc c at c ac aac c ac agc c gc c g t c gt c ac aac              300
              c ac c ac aaac c ac c ac c gga t t c aac c aag ac ac ac t c c a ac aac gt c t t c aagc t t t aa                 360
              t c gaaggc gc t t c c gaaat c t ggac t t ac g c t at c t t c t g gc aac c t t c t t ac gac t at t               420
              c c ggc t c t t c t c t t c t c ggt t ggggt gac g gt t at t ac aa aggc gaagaa gac aaat c ga                     480
              aat c aaaat c c aaagc t ac t t c ac c agc t g aac aagaac a c c gt agaaaa gt t c t c c gag                       540
              aac t t aat t c t t t aat c t c c ggt aat c c gg c ac c ggaaga at c t t c c gt c gat gaagaag                    600
              t t ac agat ac ggaat ggt t t t t t t t agt t t c t at gac t c a at c t t                                        645
              <210>      49
              <211>      467
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 49
              t gat ggaggc t t t t at gac c t c at c c gat t t at c aac c t t at ggc c at c a c aac c ac agc                   60
              c gc c gt c gt c ac aac c ac c a c aaac c ac c a c c ggat t c aa c c aagac ac a c t c c aac aac                 120
              gt c t t c aagc t t t aat c gaa ggc gc t t c c g aaat c t ggac t t ac gc t at c t t c t ggc aac                 180
              c t t c t t ac ga c t at t c c ggc t c t t c t c t t c t c ggt t gggg t gac ggt t at t ac aaaggc g              240
                                                                           Page 29

                                                      AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              aagaagac aa at c aaaat c a aaat c c aaag c t ac t t c ac c agc t gaac aa gaac ac c gt a                         300
              gaaaagt t c t c c gagaac t t aat t c t t t aa t c t c c ggt aa t c c agt ac c g gaagaat c t t                   360
              c c gt c gat ga agaagt t ac a gat ac ggagt ggt t t t t t t t t agt t t c t at gac t c aat c t                   420
              t t t gt t aac g gaagt ggac t t c c t ggac aa gc t t at t t t a at t c aac                                      467
              <210>      50
              <211>      2579
<removed-apn>
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 50
              t aagc agt gg t aac aac gc a gagt ac gc gg ggat t c gt c t c t t t c t t c c t c t c t c t c t c t               60
              c t c t c c c c c a at c c at t at c ac c ac c ac ac ggt c t c t t c t t c c t aac t t t c t c t t c t t c t    120
              c t t t c t t t t c c c t aat t t ac c t c c aaaat t aac c aaaaat aaat aat aaa aat t c c at t t                 180
              c at gaat c t t t ggagc gac g agaac t c at c agt gat ggag gc t t t t at ga c c t c t t c c ga                   240
              t t t at c aac c t t at ggc c at c ac aac c ac a gc c gc c gt c g t c ac aac c ac c ac aaac c ac                300
              c ac c ggat t c aac c aagac a c ac t c c aac a ac gt c t t c aa gc t t t aat c g aaggc gc t t c                 360
              c gaaat c t gg ac t t ac gc t a t c t t c t ggc a ac c t t c t t ac gac t at t c c g gc t c t t c t c t         420
              t c t c ggt t gg ggt gac ggt t at t ac aaagg c gaagaagac aaat c gaaat c aaaat c c aa                            480
              agc t ac t t c a c c agc t gaac aagaac ac c g t agaaaagt t c t c c gagaac t t aat t c t t t                     540
              aat c t c c ggt aat c c ggc ac c ggaagaat c t t c c gt c gat gaagaagt t a c agat ac gga                         600
              at ggt t t t t t t t agt t t c t a t gac t c aat c t t t t gt t aac ggaagt ggac t t c c t ggac a                660
              agc t t at t t t aat t c aac t c c ggt gt ggt t agt c ggaggt gagaat c t c g c c c t c t c ggt                   720
              t t gc gagagg gc gagac aag gt c at gaac a t ggt t t ac ag ac gc t gac gt gt at ac c gt c                        780
              ggc gaac ggt gt t t t agagc t t ggat c t ac t gaat t gat t t at c agaat a ac gat c t gat                        840
              gaat aaagt t aagat gt t gt t t aat t t t aa t aat aat t c t gat t t t ggat c t t c t t ggc a                    900
              at t aggt agt aat t c t ac t g t aat t ac t c a t c aaggt gaa aat gat c t t t c t t c aat t t g                 960
              gc t t aat gat c c t gaaac t a gagat t c t gt t gat aat aat t c t c t t gc t g c agc aac aac                   1020
              aac aac aac g ac aac aaac a c t t c aat t t c aat t c c aagt c at c at c agc aac agc aac a                     1080
              gc ac c agaac aat agt aat a at c agagt t t gagt gt gac g aaaac gat t c aat t t gaaac                           1140
              gc gt ggt t c a agt ac t t t aa c agaagc t c c t agt gt t gt t c at gt t t c aa gt aagc aaaa                   1200
              t c aac aagga t t gt t t t c t a aagaaat gaa t c t t t t ggag t ac ggt gggg gt aat agt c a                     1260
              gc agc gt t c g t t gaagc c gg aat c t ggt ga gat t t t gagt t t t ggt ggt g agagt aaaaa                       1320
              gagt t c t t at gt t gc t aat a at ggaaat t c gaat t c gaat t t t t t c t c t g gt c aat c ac a                1380
              gt t agt t t c a gt t gc t gagg agaat gggaa t ggaaat gga aat gggaaga ggaggt c t c c                            1440
              gaat t c gaga ggaagc aat a at gat gat gg aat gc t at c t t t t ac t t c t g gt gt aat t gt                     1500
              t c c ac c ggt g aat t t gaaat t c t c t ggt gg t ac t ggt ggt ggt gat t c c g ac c at t c gga                 1560
                                                                           Page 30

                                               AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              t c t t gaagc t t c ggt ggt ga aggaagt gga t agt agt c gt gt ggt ggagc c ggagaagaa                    1620
              gc c gaggaag agagggagga aac c ggc gaa t ggaagagag gaac c gt t ga at c at gt t ga                      1680
              agc c gagaga c aac gaagag agaagc t gaa t c agagat t c t at gc t c t t c gt gc agt t gt                1740
              t c c t aat gt t t c aaagat gg at aaagc t t c ac t t t t gggt gat gc t at at c at ac at t ac          1800
              t gagc t gaaa ac aaagc t t g t gaaaac t ga at c c gat aaa gat gaat t ag aaaaac aac t                  1860
              t gat gc agt g aagaat gagc t t c agaaagt c aat gaaaac t c gt c t c at c c ac c gc c t c a             1920
<removed-apn>
              ac c t c aac aa c t ac aac aac aac aac aagt ac c c gat aaa c c c t c t t c c a at c aagc t t t        1980
              aat c gat t t a gat at t gat g t gaagat t at aggt t gggat gc aat gat aa gggt c c aat g                2040
              c agt aagaaa aac c ac c c t g c agc gaagt t gat ggc ggc g t t gat ggagc t t gac c t aga               2100
              agt gc ac c ac gc aagt gt t t c c gt ggt gaa t gat t t gat g at ac aac aag c aac c gt gaa             2160
              gat ggggggt c gt t t t t ac a c c c aggagc a gc t t c gggc a gc at t gt c c t c t aaagt t gg          2220
              ggat gt t c aa t aaagt c t gt aaat t gc t gc aat gt gaaat t aat t gggaa t gt t at gt at               2280
              gt aaat t t c t c at t c c t c c a t aat t t t ggg gc t c t gggat at t t t ac t ga t t c c c ggt aa   2340
              c t at gt aaac t agaagt gt c t t t gt t t t t g gt agc t t agt at gaat t t t g aggt aat t t t         2400
              at t t gggaat t t gt at ggag at gaagt ac t agaac t agag gt agc gt c ga t gaagt aagt                   2460
              aaaaac t aag t gt aat t t c t c c gc aat gc g t gc c c gt gt g t gt at at aga t gt t gt t gt a        2520
              t aat t c t c at aaat gggt aa c at ggt gaaa at t c t gaat a t t at t at t c t c agc t t ac c          2579
              <210>     51
              <211>     683
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>     51
              Met As n Leu Tr p Ser As p Gl u As n Ser Ser Val Met Gl u Al a Phe Met
              1                 5                      10                    15
              Thr Ser Ser As p Leu Ser Thr Leu Tr p Pr o Ser Gl n Pr o Gl n Pr o Pr o
                          20                   25                      30
              Ser Ser Gl n Pr o Pr o Gl n Thr Thr Thr Gl y Phe As n Gl n As p Thr Leu
                      35                      40                    45
              Gl n Gl n Ar g Leu Gl n Al a Leu I l e Gl u Gl y Al a Ser Gl u I l e Tr p Thr
                   50                      55                       60
              Ty r Al a I l e Phe Tr p Gl n Pr o Ser Ty r As p Ty r Ser Gl y Ser Ser Leu
              65                       70                      75                    80
              Leu Gl y Tr p Gl y As p Gl y Ty r Ty r Ly s Gl y Gl u Gl u As p Ly s Ser Ly s
                                 85                       90                       95
              Ser Ly s Ser Ly s Al a Thr Ser Pr o Al a Gl u Gl n Gl u Hi s Ar g Ar g Ly s
                           100                    105                      110
                                                        Page 31

                                            AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Val Leu Ar g Gl u Leu As n Ser Leu I l e Ser Gl y As n Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u
                      115                    120                     125
              Gl u Ser Ser Val As p Gl u Gl u Val Thr As p Thr Gl u Tr p Phe Phe Leu
                   130                   135                   140
              Val Ser Met Thr Gl n Ser Phe Val As n Gl y Ser Gl y Leu Pr o Gl y Gl n
              145                  150                   155                    160
<removed-apn>
              Al a Ty r Phe As n Ser Thr Pr o Val Tr p Leu Val Gl y Gl y Gl u As n Leu
                                 165                   170                    175
              Al a Leu Ser Val Cy s Gl u Ar g Al a Ar g Gl n Gl y Hi s Gl u Hi s Gl y Leu
                           180                     185                      190
              Gl n Thr Leu Thr Cy s I l e Pr o Ser Al a As n Gl y Val Leu Gl u Leu Gl y
                       195                     200                    205
              Ser Thr Gl u Leu I l e Ty r Gl n As n As n As p Leu Met As n Ly s Val Ly s
                  210                     215                     220
              Met Leu Phe As n Phe As n As n As n Ser As p Phe Gl y Ser Ser Tr p Gl n
              225                  230                     235                   240
              Leu Gl y Ser As n Ser Thr Val I l e Thr Hi s Gl n Gl y Gl u As n As p Leu
                                245                   250                      255
              Ser Ser I l e Tr p Leu As n As p Pr o Gl u Thr Ar g As p Ser Val As p As n
                            260                     265                    270
              As n Ser Leu Al a Al a Al a Thr Thr Thr Thr Thr Thr Thr As n Thr Ser
                       275                    280                 285
              I l e Ser I l e Pr o Ser Hi s Hi s Gl n Gl n Gl n Gl n Gl n Hi s Gl n As n As n
                    290                     295                      300
              Ser As n As n Gl n Ser Leu Ser Val Thr Ly s Thr I l e Gl n Phe Gl u Thr
              305                    310                  315                     320
              Ar g Gl y Ser Ser Thr Leu Thr Gl u Al a Pr o Ser Val Val Hi s Val Ser
                                325                   330                   335
              Ser Ly s Gl n As n Gl n Gl n Gl y Leu Phe Ser Ly s Gl u Met As n Leu Leu
                            340                     345                   350
              Gl u Ty r Gl y Gl y Gl y As n Ser Gl n Gl n Ar g Ser Leu Ly s Pr o Gl u Ser
                        355                     360                    365
              Gl y Gl u I l e Leu Ser Phe Gl y Gl y Gl u Ser Ly s Ly s Ser Ser Ty r Val
                   370                    375                     380
                                                          Page 32

                                            AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Al a As n As n Gl y As n Ser As n Ser As n Phe Phe Ser Gl y Gl n Ser Gl n
              385                      390                   395                   400
              Leu Val Ser Val Al a Gl u Gl u As n Gl y As n Gl y As n Gl y As n Gl y Ly s
                              405                      410                      415
              Ar g Ar g Ser Pr o As n Ser Ar g Gl y Ser As n As n As p As p Gl y Met Leu
                            420                     425                     430
<removed-apn>
              Ser Phe Thr Ser Gl y Val I l e Val Pr o Pr o Val As n Leu Ly s Phe Ser
                      435                    440                    445
              Gl y Gl y Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y As p Ser As p Hi s Ser As p Leu Gl u Al a Ser
                   450                     455                    460
              Val Val Ly s Gl u Val As p Ser Ser Ar g Val Val Gl u Pr o Gl u Ly s Ly s
              465                   470                   475                     480
              Pr o Ar g Ly s Ar g Gl y Ar g Ly s Pr o Al a As n Gl y Ar g Gl u Gl u Pr o Leu
                                  485                      490                      495
              As n Hi s Val Gl u Al a Gl u Ar g Gl n Ar g Ar g Gl u Ly s Leu As n Gl n Ar g
                            500                      505                     510
              Phe Ty r Al a Leu Ar g Al a Val Val Pr o As n Val Ser Ly s Met As p Ly s
                       515                    520                   525
              Al a Ser Leu Leu Gl y As p Al a I l e Ser Ty r I l e Thr Gl u Leu Ly s Thr
                   530                   535                       540
              Ly s Leu Val Ly s Thr Gl u Ser As p Ly s As p Gl u Leu Gl u Ly s Gl n Leu
              545                   550                     555                     560
              As p Al a Val Ly s As n Gl u Leu Gl n Ly s Val As n Gl u As n Ser Ser Hi s
                                 565                     570                    575
              Pr o Pr o Pr o Gl n Pr o Gl n Gl n Leu Gl n Gl n Gl n Gl n Gl n Val Pr o As p
                             580                     585                      590
              Ly s Pr o Ser Ser As n Gl n Al a Leu I l e As p Leu As p I l e As p Val Ly s
                        595                    600                     605
              I l e I l e Gl y Tr p As p Al a Met I l e Ar g Val Gl n Cy s Ser Ly s Ly s As n
                    610                       615                     620
              Hi s Pr o Al a Al a Ly s Leu Met Al a Al a Leu Met Gl u Leu As p Leu Gl u
              625                      630                   635                   640
              Val Hi s Hi s Al a Ser Val Ser Val Val As n As p Leu Met I l e Gl n Gl n
                                 645                 650                     655
                                                      Page 33

                                                    AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Al a Thr Val Ly s Met Gl y Gl y Ar g Phe Ty r Thr Gl n Gl u Gl n Leu Ar g
                           660                     665                    670
              Al a Al a Leu Ser Ser Ly s Val Gl y As p Val Gl n
                        675                  680
              <210>      52
              <211>      601
<removed-apn>
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 52
              at aaac c c t t t c t agggaga gac t aat t ga at at at t gc a c aaat c t agg gac t c t at c t              60
              c ac t c t aaaa c t aagat ggg ggggagagat aagt gc aat g t aaaagac aa gaat t t at at                       120
              c t t c aaac c c c aac t t t c at t gaat ggc t c aaac c t t c t t c at c ac t t t c at c t t c t c c t   180
              t c at c at c t t t aac t c at c a ac aagaaat a t c t c aagaaa c t t t t c agt t t t t ac c c at c       240
              t at agt ggaa t t aagt c c t t t gaggaaaac c at gggat gc aaaaggaaga t t t agaagt a                       300
              aaagaagaga aagt ggaaaa agt aac t gt g gc t t t gc ac a t t ggat t gc c t aac at agga                     360
              ggaggt gaat c t t at gat c a t gaagagaag aat aaggt t t t t gat gagaa c aat aaagt t                       420
              aat gaaaaag aat t aaagaa aaac t t gc at ggt t t t t gt t t t aaggaaga aagaaggt t t                       480
              t ggat ac c aa c t c c t gc t c a gat c c t t gt t ggac c t at gc aat t t gc t t g c t c c at at gc      540
              aac aagac t t t c aat agat a c aac aat at g c agat gc at a t gt ggggac a t ggat c agaa                   600
              t                                                                                                        601
              <210>      53
              <211>      175
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>      53
              Met Gl y Gl y Ar g As p Ly s Cy s As n Val Ly s As p Ly s As n Leu Ty r Leu
              1                  5                       10                      15
              Gl n Thr Pr o Thr Phe I l e Gl u Tr p Leu Ly s Pr o Ser Ser Ser Leu Ser
                            20                      25                    30
              Ser Ser Pr o Ser Ser Ser Leu Thr Hi s Gl n Gl n Gl u I l e Ser Gl n Gl u
                      35                   40                      45
              Thr Phe Gl n Phe Leu Pr o I l e Ty r Ser Gl y I l e Ly s Ser Phe Gl u Gl u
                  50                    55                        60
              As n Hi s Gl y Met Gl n Ly s Gl u As p Leu Gl u Val Ly s Gl u Gl u Ly s Val
              65                      70                      75                      80
              Gl u Ly s Val Thr Val Al a Leu Hi s I l e Gl y Leu Pr o As n I l e Gl y Gl y
                                85                      90                       95
                                                         Page 34

                                                    AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Gl y Gl u Ser Ty r As p Hi s Gl u Gl u Ly s As n Ly s Val Phe As p Gl u As n
                            100                      105                    110
              As n Ly s Val As n Gl u Ly s Gl u Leu Ly s Ly s As n Leu Hi s Gl y Phe Cy s
                        115                     120                    125
              Phe Ly s Gl u Gl u Ar g Ar g Phe Tr p I l e Pr o Thr Pr o Al a Gl n I l e Leu
                  130                      135                     140
<removed-apn>
              Val Gl y Pr o Met Gl n Phe Al a Cy s Ser I l e Cy s As n Ly s Thr Phe As n
              145                    150                     155                    160
              Ar g Ty r As n As n Met Gl n Met Hi s Met Tr p Gl y Hi s Gl y Ser Gl u
                                  165                   170                     175
              <210>      54
              <211>      601
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 54
              at aaac c c t t t c t agggaga gac t aat t ga at at at t gc a c aaat c t agg gac t c t at c t                60
              c ac t c t aaaa c t aagat ggg t t t gagagat aagt gc aat g t aaaagac aa gaat t t at at                      120
              c t t c aaac c c c aac t t t c at t gaat ggc t c aaac c t t c t t c at c ac t t t c at c t t c t c c t     180
              t c at c at c t t t aac t c at c a ac aagaaat a t c t c aagaaa c t t t t c agt t t t t ac c c at c         240
              t at agt ggaa t t aagt c c t t t gaggaaaac c at gggat gc aaaaggaaga t t t agaagt a                         300
              aaagaagaga aagt ggaaaa agt aac t gt g gc t t t gc ac a t t ggat t gc c t aac at agga                       360
              ggaggt gaat c t t at gat c a t gaagagaag aat aaggt t t t t gat gagaa c aat aaagt t                         420
              aat gaaaaag aat t aaagaa aaac t t gc at ggt t t t t gt t t t aaggaaga aagaaggt t t                         480
              t ggat ac c aa c t c c t gc t c a gat c c t t gt t ggac c t at gc aat t t gc t t g c t c c at at gc        540
              aac aagac t t t c aat agat a c aac aat at g c agat gc at a t gt ggggac a t ggat c agaa                     600
              t                                                                                                          601
              <210>      55
              <211>      591
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <220>
              <221>      mi s c _f eat ur e
              <222>      ( 74) . . ( 74)
              <223>      n i s a, c , g, or t
              <400> 55
              t aaac c c t t t c t agggagag ac t aat t gaa t at at t gc ac aaat c t aggg ac t c t at c t c                60
              ac t c t aaaac t aanat gggg gggagagat a agt gc aat gt agaagac aag aat t t at at c                          120
              t t c aaac c c c aac t t t c at t gaat ggc t c a aac c t t c t t c at c ac t t t c a t c t t c t c c t t   180
                                                                    Page 35

                                                   AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              c at c at c t t t aac t c at c aa c aagaaat at c t c aagaaac t t t t c agt t t t t ac c c at c t        240
              at agt ggaat t aagt c c t t t gaggaaaac c at gggat gc a aaaggaagat t t agaagt aa                        300
              aagaagagaa agt ggaaaaa gt aac t gt gg c t t t gc ac at t ggat t gc c t aac at aggag                     360
              gaggt gaat c t t at gat c at gaagagaaga at aaggt t t t t gat gagaac aat aaagt t a                       420
              at gaaaaaga at t aaagaaa aac t t gc at g gt t t t t gt t t t aaggaagaa agaaggt t t t                    480
              ggat ac c aac t c c t gc t c ag at c c t t gt t g gac c t at gc a at t t gc t t gc t c c at at gc a     540
<removed-apn>
              ac aagac t t t c aat agat ac aac aat at gc agat gc at at gt ggggac at g                                 591
              <210>     56
              <211>     768
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 56
              t ac ac ac ac a ac aaac aat a t ggac at gga t t c aac aggt ggt t c t t c t t gt t ggc t c t a            60
              t gat t at ggc t at gat at t t c t gt t c c t gc ac c t gat t t c at gc c t t c t g at c at c ac t c    120
              t c c t gc t t c t gt t t t c ac c t ggaat at gc c t c agac t c at at c at c aagc c t c c t t c c t c   180
              c aat at c agc t t ggaaat gg aat ac t c ac t ggac t c aac t gt ac t ggaaa gt ggt c c t t c              240
              at c aaagc gc t t ggaaat gg aat ac t c ac t ggat t c aac t gt ac t ggaaa at ggc c c t t c               300
              aaagc ggt t a aagac agaat c at gt gc at c t ggc t c c aag gc at gt c gc g agaaac agc g                  360
              c agggat aaa c t gaat gac a agt t t at gga at t gagt t c t gt c t t agagc c t gat ac ac t               420
              gc c c aaaac a gac aaagt t a c c t t at t aaa t gac gc ggt t c gt gt ggt t a c ac aat t aag             480
              aaat gaagc a gaaaggc t ga aggaaaggaa t gac gaat t g c gc gaaaaag t t aaagaac t                          540
              t aagac t gag aaaaat gagc t t c gc gat ga gaaaaat aag c t gaagt t ag ac aaagaaaa                        600
              gt t ggaac ag c aagt gaaat t aac aagt gt ac agt c c agc at c c t c t c ga at gc c at ggc                660
              ggc t aaagga c aat c t gc t g c t aac c ac aa gc t gat gc c t t t c at t ggt t at c c t ggaat           720
              t t c ggt gt gg c agt t t at gt c ac c t gc t ac agt t gat ac a t c ac agga                             768
              <210>     57
              <211>     255
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>     57
              Thr Hi s Thr Thr As n As n Met As p Met As p Ser Thr Gl y Gl y Ser Ser
              1                5                      10                     15
              Cy s Tr p Leu Ty r As p Ty r Gl y Ty r As p I l e Ser Val Pr o Al a Pr o As p
                            20                       25                      30
              Phe Met Pr o Ser As p Hi s Hi s Ser Pr o Al a Ser Val Phe Thr Tr p As n
                      35                      40                    45
                                                                       Page 36

                                           AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Met Pr o Gl n Thr Hi s I l e I l e Ly s Pr o Pr o Ser Ser As n I l e Ser Leu
                  50                       55                       60
              Gl u Met Gl u Ty r Ser Leu As p Ser Thr Val Leu Gl u Ser Gl y Pr o Ser
              65                     70                   75                     80
              Ser Ly s Ar g Leu Gl u Met Gl u Ty r Ser Leu As p Ser Thr Val Leu Gl u
                                85                     90                   95
<removed-apn>
              As n Gl y Pr o Ser Ly s Ar g Leu Ly s Thr Gl u Ser Cy s Al a Ser Gl y Ser
                             100                    105                    110
              Ly s Al a Cy s Ar g Gl u Ly s Gl n Ar g Ar g As p Ly s Leu As n As p Ly s Phe
                        115                      120                     125
              Met Gl u Leu Ser Ser Val Leu Gl u Pr o As p Thr Leu Pr o Ly s Thr As p
                  130                  135                    140
              Ly s Val Thr Leu Leu As n As p Al a Val Ar g Val Val Thr Gl n Leu Ar g
              145                  150                     155                  160
              As n Gl u Al a Gl u Ar g Leu Ly s Gl u Ar g As n As p Gl u Leu Ar g Gl u Ly s
                                  165                     170                     175
              Val Ly s Gl u Leu Ly s Thr Gl u Ly s As n Gl u Leu Ar g As p Gl u Ly s As n
                            180                    185                     190
              Ly s Leu Ly s Leu As p Ly s Gl u Ly s Leu Gl u Gl n Gl n Val Ly s Leu Thr
                       195                     200                     205
              Ser Val Gl n Ser Ser I l e Leu Ser As n Al a Met Al a Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n
                  210                    215                   220
              Ser Al a Al a As n Hi s Ly s Leu Met Pr o Phe I l e Gl y Ty r Pr o Gl y I l e
              225                     230                   235                       240
              Ser Val Tr p Gl n Phe Met Ser Pr o Al a Thr Val As p Thr Ser Gl n
                                245                   250                  255
              <210>     58
              <211>     658
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 58
              t ac ac ac ac a ac aaac aat a t ggac at gga t t c aac t ggt ggt t c t t c t t gt t ggc t c t a            60
              t gat t at ggc t at gat at t t c t gt t c c t gc ac c t gat t t c at gc c t t c t g at c ac t c t c c    120
              t gc t t c t gt t t t c ac c t gga at at gc c t c a gac t c at at c at c aagc c t c c t t c c t c c aa   180
              t at c agc t t g gaaat ggaat ac t c ac t gga c t c aac t gt a c t ggaaagt g gt c c t t c at c            240
              aaagc gc t t g gaaat ggaat ac t c ac t gga t t c aac t gt a c t ggaaaat g gc c c t t c aaa               300
                                                                       Page 37

                                             AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              gc ggt t aaag ac agaat c at gt gc at c t gg c t c c aaggc a t gt c gc gaga aat t gc gc ag                360
              ggat aaac t g aat gac aagt t t at ggaat t gagt t c t gt c t t agagc c t g at ac ac t gc c                420
              c aaaac agac aaagt t ac t t t at t aaat ga c gc ggt t c gt gt ggt t ac gc aat t aagaaa                   480
              t gaagc agaa aggc t gaagg aaaggaat ga c gaat t gc gc gaaaaagt t a aagaac t t aa                          540
              ggc t gagaag aat gagc t t c gc gat gagaa aaat aagc t g aagt t agac a aagaaaagt t                         600
              ggaac agc aa gt gaaat t aa c aagt gt ac a gt c c agc t t c c t c t c ggat g c c at ggc g                 658
<removed-apn>
              <210>     59
              <211>     760
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 59
              ac ac aac aaa c aat at ggac at ggat t c c a c aggt ggt t c t t c t t gt t gg c t c t at gat t             60
              gt ggc t at ga t at t t c t gt t c c t gc ac c t g at t t c at ggc t t c t gat c at c ac t c t c c t g   120
              c t t c t gt t t t c ac c t ggaat at gc c t c aga c t c at at c at c aagc c t c c t t c c t c c aat a    180
              t c agc t t gga aat ggaat ac t c ac t ggac t c aac t gt at t ggaaagt ggt c c t t c aaagc                 240
              gc t t ggaaat ggaat ac t c a c t ggat t c aa c t gt ac t gga aaat ggt c c t t c aaagc ggt                300
              t aaagac aga at c at gt gc a t c t ggc t c ga aggc at gt c g c gagaaac ag c gc agggat a                  360
              aac t gaat ga c aagt t t c t g gaat t gagt t c t gt c t t aga gc c t gat ac a c t gc c gaaaa             420
              c agac aaagt t ac c t t at t a aat gac gc gg t t c gt gt ggt t ac ac aat t a agaaat gaag                 480
              c agaaaggc t gaaggaaagg aat gat gaat t gc gc gaaaa agt t agagaa c t t aagac t g                          540
              agaaaac t ga gc t t c gc gat gagaaaaat a agc t gaagt t agac aaagaa aagt t ggaac                          600
              agc aagt gaa at t aac aagt gt ac agt c c a gc at c c t c t c gaat gc c at g gc ggc t aaag                660
              gac aat c t gc t gc t aac c ac aagc t gat gc c t t t c at t gg t t at c c t gga at t t c ggt gt          720
              ggc agt t t at gt c ac c t gc t ac agt t gat a c at c ac agga                                            760
              <210>     60
              <211>     594
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 60
              t gagagagag agagagagag agagaggc t a t gggaagc ag c t c c t t gt t g t gac aaagac                          60
              aaagt t aaga gaggac c at g gt c t c c t gat gaagat gc aa aac t c aagaa t t at t t agc a                  120
              at t c at ggc a c t gt t ggaaa t t ggat t gc a t t gc c t aaaa aagc t ggc c t t aagc ggt gt              180
              ggaaagagt t gt c gt c t aag gt ggc t gaat t at c t t aggc c t gac at c aa ac at ggaagc                   240
              t t t ac t gagg aagaagat ac c at c at t t gt ac c c t c t at g c t c aaat ggg t agc agat gg              300
              t c t gc c at ag c at c aaaac t ac c t gggaga ac agac aat g at gt aaaaaa c t at t ggaac                  360
              ac aaaac t ga agaagaaaat t at ggc agga aaagt t ggc c t c aaat c at t gac t gaaaat                        420
              gac aat ac t g t c c c t t c aac c c c at c agt g ac t c aaaat t gc aac at t at gt t agac aat            480
                                                                       Page 38

                                                 AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              aat t t t gat g c t agt t at gg at t c aagaat aat gaaaaaa ac at t ggt t t t gat c aaat t   540
              c at gat gt t g gt gt c t c aga aat t ggt gc a agt aac aac a at at t gat at t aat          594
              <210>    61
              <211>    197
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>    61
<removed-apn>
              Gl u Ar g Gl u Ar g Gl u Ar g Gl u Ar g Leu Tr p Gl u Al a Al a Pr o Cy s Cy s
              1                   5                       10                       15
              As p Ly s As p Ly s Val Ly s Ar g Gl y Pr o Tr p Ser Pr o As p Gl u As p Al a
                             20                      25                      30
              Ly s Leu Ly s As n Ty r Leu Al a I l e Hi s Gl y Thr Val Gl y As n Tr p I l e
                       35                      40                      45
              Al a Leu Pr o Ly s Ly s Al a Gl y Leu Ly s Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g
                   50                      55                      60
              Leu Ar g Tr p Leu As n Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o As p I l e Ly s Hi s Gl y Ser Phe
              65                     70                      75                       80
              Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u As p Thr I l e I l e Cy s Thr Leu Ty r Al a Gl n Met Gl y
                                 85                        90                     95
              Ser Ar g Tr p Ser Al a I l e Al a Ser Ly s Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n
                            100                     105                     110
              As p Val Ly s As n Ty r Tr p As n Thr Ly s Leu Ly s Ly s Ly s I l e Met Al a
                       115                      120                    125
              Gl y Ly s Val Gl y Leu Ly s Ser Leu Thr Gl u As n As p As n Thr Val Pr o
                   130                    135                   140
              Ser Thr Pr o Ser Val Thr Gl n As n Cy s As n I l e Met Leu As p As n As n
              145                  150                     155                     160
              Phe As p Al a Ser Ty r Gl y Phe Ly s As n As n Gl u Ly s As n I l e Gl y Phe
                                165                     170                       175
              As p Gl n I l e Hi s As p Val Gl y Val Ser Gl u I l e Gl y Al a Ser As n As n
                              180                    185                      190
              As n I l e As p I l e As n
                         195
              <210>    62
              <211>    568
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Tr i f ol i um r epens
                                                                Page 39

                                                 AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400> 62
              t gagagagag agagagagag agagaggc t a t gggaagagc t c c t t gt t gt gac aaagac a                     60
              aagt t aagag aggac c at gg t c t c c t gat g aagat gc aaa ac t c aagaat t at t t agc aa           120
              t t c at ggc ac t gt t ggaaat t ggat t gc at t gc c t aaaaa agc t ggc c t t aagc ggt gt g         180
              gaaagagt t g t c gt c t aagg t ggc t gaat t at c t t aggc c t gac at c aaa c at ggaagc t          240
              t t ac t gagga agaagat ac c at c at t t gt a c c c t c t at gc t c aaat gggt agc agat ggt         300
<removed-apn>
              c t gc c at agc at c aaaac t a c c t gggagaa c agac aat ga t gt aaaaaac t at t ggaac a            360
              c aaaac t gaa gaagaaaat t at ggc aggaa aagt t ggc c t c aaat c at t g ac t gaaaat g               420
              ac aat ac t gt c c c t t c aac c c c at c agt ga c t c aaaat t g c aac at t at g t t agac aat a   480
              at t t t gat gc t agt t at gga t t c aagaat a at gaaaaaaa c at t ggt t t t gat c aaat t c         540
              at gat gt t gg t gt c t c agaa at t ggt gc                                                        568
              <210>     63
              <211>     581
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 63
              gagagagaga gaggc t at gg gaagc agc t c c t t gt t gt ga c aaagac aaa gt t aagagag                  60
              gac c at ggt c t c c t gat gaa gat gc aaaac t c aagaat t a t t t agc aat t c at ggc ac t g        120
              t t ggaaat t g gat t gc at t g c c t aaaaaag c t ggc c t t aa gc ggt gt gga aagagt t gt c         180
              gt c t aaggt g gc t gaat t at c t t aggc c t g ac at c aaac a t ggaagc t t t ac t gaggaag         240
              aagat ac c at c at t t gt ac c c t c t at gc t c aaat gggt ag c agat ggt c t gc c at agc at       300
              c aaaac t ac c t gggagaac a gac aat gat g t aaaaaac t a t t ggaac ac a aaac t gaaga               360
              agaaaat t at ggc aggaaaa gt t ggc c t c a aat c at t gac t gaaaat gac aat ac t gt c c             420
              c t t c aac c c c at c agt gac t c aaaat t gc a ac at t at gt t agac aat aat t t t gat gc t a     480
              gt t at ggat t c aagaat aat gaaaaaaac a t t ggt t t t ga t c aaat t c at gat gt t ggt g           540
              t c t c agaaat t ggt gc aagt aac aac aat a t t gat at t aa t                                      581
              <210>     64
              <211>     1045
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 64
              t aagc agt gg t aac aac gc a gagt ac gc gg gggagt gaga gagagagaga gagagagaga                       60
              ggc t at ggga agagc t c c t t gt t gt gac aa agac aaagt t aagagaggac c at ggt c t c c             120
              t gat gaagat gc aaaac t c a agaat t at t t agc aat t c at ggc ac t gt t g gaaat t ggat            180
              t gc at t gc c t aaaaaagc t g gc c t t aagc g gt gt ggaaag agt t gt c gt c t aaggt ggc t          240
              gaat t at c t t aggc c t gac a t c aaac at gg aagc t t t ac t gaggaagaag at ac c at c at          300
              t t gt ac c c t c t at gc t c aaa t gggt agc ag at ggt c t gc c at agc at c aa aac t ac c t gg    360
                                                                   Page 40

                                          AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              gagaac agac aat gat gt aa aaaac t at t g gaac ac aaaa c t gaagaaga aaat t at ggc                    420
              aggaaaagt t ggc c t c aaat c at t gac t ga aaat gac aat ac t gt c c c t t c aac c c c at c          480
              agt gac t c aa aat t gc aac a t t at gt t aga c aat aat t t t gat gc t agt t at ggat t c aa         540
              gaat aat gaa aaaaac at t g gt t t t gat c a aat t c at gat gt t ggt gt c t c agaaat t gg            600
              t gc aagt aac aac aat at t g at at t aat c c t at ggt gt c a at at c t c aag ac aat t c aag         660
              c at t ggagt g aac aac aat t gt gt at c ac t t c aagat c aa gc t ggt gat g aat c t t t gga          720
<removed-apn>
              ac c ac t aat g gat t t t ggc t t t ggagt t gg t agt gat t t t gc t t c aagt t gt t gc t t t c c    780
              t gagt gggt t gat t t t agt t at gc t gac at t aagac aaat t gac t ggt t c aaaat c t t gc            840
              at t gt c t agt t c t agt aat t aaat at ggga t t aat t aat t at gt aat agc aaaat t ac at            900
              t ac at aggt g aaat at t t t t agt t t t gc t a agt at t aaat t t aat t t t t c t t c c aac aat     960
              aaat t ggt c t gagt gat aaa c at t t t aagt c c c t t aagc a gt t agt c ggg gat t gc aagt          1020
              t c t t c aac aa aat t t at t c a t c at t                                                         1045
              <210>      65
              <211>      252
              <212>      PRT
              <213>      Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>      65
              Met Gl y Ar g Al a Pr o Cy s Cy s As p Ly s As p Ly s Val Ly s Ar g Gl y Pr o
              1                  5                        10                      15
              Tr p Ser Pr o As p Gl u As p Al a Ly s Leu Ly s As n Ty r Leu Al a I l e Hi s
                            20                       25                     30
              Gl y Thr Val Gl y As n Tr p I l e Al a Leu Pr o Ly s Ly s Al a Gl y Leu Ly s
                       35                       40                      45
              Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Leu As n Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o
                   50                      55                     60
              As p I l e Ly s Hi s Gl y Ser Phe Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u As p Thr I l e I l e Cy s
              65                        70                    75                        80
              Thr Leu Ty r Al a Gl n Met Gl y Ser Ar g Tr p Ser Al a I l e Al a Ser Ly s
                                85                     90                       95
              Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n As p Val Ly s As n Ty r Tr p As n Thr Ly s
                            100                     105                     110
              Leu Ly s Ly s Ly s I l e Met Al a Gl y Ly s Val Gl y Leu Ly s Ser Leu Thr
                       115                      120                    125
              Gl u As n As p As n Thr Val Pr o Ser Thr Pr o Ser Val Thr Gl n As n Cy s
                   130                    135                   140
                                                                    Page 41

                                           AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              As n I l e Met Leu As p As n As n Phe As p Al a Ser Ty r Gl y Phe Ly s As n
              145                     150                     155                      160
              As n Gl u Ly s As n I l e Gl y Phe As p Gl n I l e Hi s As p Val Gl y Val Ser
                                  165                      170                      175
              Gl u I l e Gl y Al a Ser As n As n As n I l e As p I l e As n Pr o Met Val Ser
                              180                     185                        190
<removed-apn>
              I l e Ser Gl n As p As n Ser Ser I l e Gl y Val As n As n As n Cy s Val Ser
                        195                    200                      205
              Leu Gl n As p Gl n Al a Gl y As p Gl u Ser Leu Gl u Pr o Leu Met As p Phe
                  210                      215                    220
              Gl y Phe Gl y Val Gl y Ser As p Phe Al a Ser Ser Cy s Cy s Phe Pr o Gl u
              225                    230                   235                    240
              Tr p Val As p Phe Ser Ty r Al a As p I l e Ly s Thr As n
                                245                      250
              <210>     66
              <211>     589
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400> 66
              agc t gc at gg aaaat t gc c g at aagt c t c c t c c t c agaat t ggc c gagt c at ggc ac t at       60
              agagt t aaat aat t t ac agg t t aggt ac ag gc c aaac ac t c c t c t agt t c t t aagggaat         120
              c t c t c t aac c at t gaaggt g gagaaaaagt t ggt gt c gt t ggt c gt ac ag gaagt ggaaa            180
              at c aac ac t t at t c aagt gt t at t t agat t aat t gagc c t t c agc t ggt a aaat t at t at     240
              t gat ggt at c aat at t t c c a at at t ggc c t t c at gat t t a aggt c ac gt t t t ggaat t at   300
              ac c ac aagag c c t gt c c t c t t t c aaggaac agt aagaac c aat at t gac c c t c t t ggagt       360
              at at t c agaa gaagaaat t t ggaagagt c t c gagc gc t gc c aat t gaaag aagt ggt ggc               420
              t gc aaagc c t gagaaac t c g aggc t t c agt ggt t gat ggt ggagac aat t ggagt gt ggg              480
              ac aaagac ag c t t c t at gc t t aggaaggat c at gc t aaaa c gaagc c aaa t ac t at t c at         540
              ggac gaagc a ac agc at c t g t c gat t c ac a aac t gat gc t gt aat ac aa                        589
              <210>     67
              <211>     196
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>     67
              Al a Al a Tr p Ly s I l e Al a As p Ly s Ser Pr o Pr o Gl n As n Tr p Pr o Ser
              1                   5                        10                       15
              Hi s Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu As n As n Leu Gl n Val Ar g Ty r Ar g Pr o As n
                            20                       25                     30
                                                          Page 42

                                               AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Thr Pr o Leu Val Leu Ly s Gl y I l e Ser Leu Thr I l e Gl u Gl y Gl y Gl u
                       35                    40                      45
              Ly s Val Gl y Val Val Gl y Ar g Thr Gl y Ser Gl y Ly s Ser Thr Leu I l e
                   50                    55                     60
              Gl n Val Leu Phe Ar g Leu I l e Gl u Pr o Ser Al a Gl y Ly s I l e I l e I l e
              65                    70                      75                         80
<removed-apn>
              As p Gl y I l e As n I l e Ser As n I l e Gl y Leu Hi s As p Leu Ar g Ser Ar g
                                   85                        90                     95
              Phe Gl y I l e I l e Pr o Gl n Gl u Pr o Val Leu Phe Gl n Gl y Thr Val Ar g
                             100                       105                   110
              Thr As n I l e As p Pr o Leu Gl y Val Ty r Ser Gl u Gl u Gl u I l e Tr p Ly s
                       115                      120                    125
              Ser Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl n Leu Ly s Gl u Val Val Al a Al a Ly s Pr o Gl u
                  130                     135                   140
              Ly s Leu Gl u Al a Ser Val Val As p Gl y Gl y As p As n Tr p Ser Val Gl y
              145                    150                    155                    160
              Gl n Ar g Gl n Leu Leu Cy s Leu Gl y Ar g I l e Met Leu Ly s Ar g Ser Gl n
                                 165                    170                     175
              I l e Leu Phe Met As p Gl u Al a Thr Al a Ser Val As p Ser Gl n Thr As p
                            180                    185                   190
              Al a Val I l e Gl n
                       195
              <210>   68
              <211>   105
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Tr i f ol i um r epens
              <400>   68
              Val Ly s Ar g Gl y Pr o Tr p Ser Pr o As p Gl u As p Al a Ly s Leu Ly s As n
              1                  5                       10                      15
              Ty r Leu Al a I l e Hi s Gl y Thr Val Gl y As n Tr p I l e Al a Leu Pr o Ly s
                            20                      25                        30
              Ly s Al a Gl y Leu Ly s Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Leu
                        35                      40                      45
              As n Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o As p I l e Ly s Hi s Gl y Ser Phe Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u
                   50                      55                       60
                                                                Page 43

                                                AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              As p Thr I l e I l e Cy s Thr Leu Ty r Al a Gl n Met Gl y Ser Ar g Tr p Ser
              65                        70                     75                     80
              Al a I l e Al a Ser Ly s Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n As p Val Ly s As n
                                  85                      90                     95
              Ty r Tr p As n Thr Ly s Leu Ly s Ly s Ly s
                             100                    105
<removed-apn>
              <210>   69
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Pet uni a x hy br i da
              <400>   69
              Leu Ly s Ly s Gl y Pr o Tr p Thr Pr o Gl u Gl u As p Gl n Ly s Leu Leu Al a
              1                  5                       10                      15
              Ty r I l e Gl u Gl u Hi s Gl y Hi s Gl y Ser Tr p Ar g Al a Leu Pr o Al a Ly s
                              20                       25                     30
              Al a Gl y Leu Gl n Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Thr As n
                        35                      40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o As p I l e Ly s Ar g Gl y Ly s Phe Thr Leu Gl n Gl u Gl u
                   50                       55                      60
              Gl n Thr I l e I l e Gl n Leu Hi s Al a Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Al a
              65                        70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Ly s Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Ty r
                                  85                     90                        95
              Tr p As n Thr Hi s Leu Ly s Ly s Ar g
                            100
              <210>   70
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ant i r r hi num maj us
              <400>   70
              Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Pr o Tr p Thr Val As p Gl u As p Gl n Ly s Leu Leu Al a
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Ty r I l e Gl u Gl u Hi s Gl y Hi s Gl y Ser Tr p Ar g Ser Leu Pr o Leu Ly s
                              20                       25                    30
              Al a Gl y Leu Gl n Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Al a As n
                        35                      40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o As p I l e Ly s Ar g Gl y Pr o Phe Ser Leu Gl n Gl u Gl u
                                                            Page 44

                                               AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
                   50                          55                      60
              Gl n Thr I l e I l e Gl n Leu Hi s Al a Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Al a
              65                        70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Ser Hi s Leu Pr o Ly s Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Ty r
                                  85                     90                        95
              Tr p As n Thr Hi s Leu Ly s Ly s Ar g
<removed-apn>
                            100
              <210>     71
              <211>     104
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar abi dops i s t hal i ana
              <400>     71
              Ty r Ly s Ly s Gl y Leu Tr p Thr Val Gl u Gl u As p As n I l e Leu Met As p
              1                   5                     10                       15
              Ty r Val Leu As n Hi s Gl y Thr Gl y Gl n Tr p As n Ar g I l e Val Ar g Ly s
                           20                      25                        30
              Thr Gl y Leu Ly s Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Met As n
                       35                      40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ser Pr o As n Val As n Ly s Gl y As n Phe Thr Gl u Gl n Gl u Gl u
                   50                    55                      60
              As p Leu I l e I l e Ar g Leu Hi s Ly s Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                        70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Ly s Ar g Val Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl n Val Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                     90                      95
              Tr p As n Thr Hi s Leu Ser Ly s Ly s
                            100
              <210>     72
              <211>     104
              <212>     PRT
              <213>     Ar abi dops i s t hal i ana
              <400>     72
              Ty r Ly s Ly s Gl y Leu Tr p Thr Val Gl u Gl u As p Ly s I l e Leu Met As p
              1                   5                     10                       15
              Ty r Val Ly s Al a Hi s Gl y Ly s Gl y Hi s Tr p As n Ar g I l e Al a Ly s Ly s
                            20                       25                        30
              Thr Gl y Leu Ly s Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Met As n
                       35                      40                     45
                                                                Page 45

                                               AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ty r Leu Ser Pr o As n Val Ly s Ar g Gl y As n Phe Thr Gl u Gl n Gl u Gl u
                   50                    55                      60
              As p Leu I l e I l e Ar g Leu Hi s Ly s Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                        70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Ly s Ar g Val Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl n Val Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                     90                      95
<removed-apn>
              Tr p As n Thr Hi s Leu Ser Ly s Ly s
                            100
              <210>   73
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar abi dops i s t hal i ana
              <400>   73
              Leu As n Ar g Gl y Al a Tr p Thr As p Hi s Gl u As p Ly s I l e Leu Ar g As p
              1                  5                       10                       15
              Ty r I l e Thr Thr Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y Ly s Tr p Ser Thr Leu Pr o As n Gl n
                             20                      25                    30
              Al a Gl y Leu Ly s Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Ly s As n
                        35                      40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o Gl y I l e Ly s Ar g Gl y As n I l e Ser Ser As p Gl u Gl u
                   50                       55                        60
              Gl u Leu I l e I l e Ar g Leu Hi s As n Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                        70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Hi s
                                   85                     90                        95
              Tr p As n Ser As n Leu Ar g Ly s Ar g
                            100
              <210>   74
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Vi t i s v i ni f er a
              <400>   74
              Leu Hi s Ar g Gl y Ser Tr p Thr Al a Ar g Gl u As p Thr Leu Leu Thr Ly s
              1                  5                      10                    15
              Ty r I l e Gl n Al a Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y Hi s Tr p Ar g Ser Leu Pr o Ly s Ly s
                              20                       25                     30
              Al a Gl y Leu Leu Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Met As n
                                                         Page 46

                                             AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
                        35                        40                      45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o As p I l e Ly s Ar g Gl y As n I l e Thr Pr o As p Gl u As p
                   50                       55                        60
              As p Leu I l e I l e Ar g Leu Hi s Ser Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                        70                   75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Ty r
<removed-apn>
                                   85                     90                        95
              Tr p As n Thr Hi s Leu Ser Ly s Ly s
                            100
              <210>   75
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar abi dops i s t hal i ana
              <400>   75
              Leu Ly s Ar g Gl y Ar g Tr p Thr Al a Gl u Gl u As p Gl u I l e Leu Thr Ly s
              1                  5                       10                       15
              Ty r I l e Gl n Thr As n Gl y Gl u Gl y Ser Tr p Ar g Ser Leu Pr o Ly s Ly s
                              20                      25                    30
              Al a Gl y Leu Leu Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p I l e As n
                        35                     40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Ar g As p Leu Ly s Ar g Gl y As n I l e Thr Ser As p Gl u Gl u
                   50                     55                        60
              Gl u I l e I l e Val Ly s Leu Hi s Ser Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                        70                   75                      80
              I l e Al a Thr Hi s Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Ty r
                                  85                     90                        95
              Tr p As n Ser Hi s Leu Ser Ar g Ly s
                            100
              <210>   76
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Zea may s
              <400>   76
              Leu Ly s Ar g Gl y Ar g Tr p Thr Al a Gl u Gl u As p Gl n Leu Leu Al a As n
              1                  5                       10                     15
              Ty r I l e Al a Gl u Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y Ser Tr p Ar g Ser Leu Pr o Ly s As n
                              20                       25                    30
                                                              Page 47

                                               AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Al a Gl y Leu Leu Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p I l e As n
                        35                     40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Al a As p Val Ly s Ar g Gl y As n I l e Ser Ly s Gl u Gl u Gl u
                   50                     55                        60
              As p I l e I l e I l e Ly s Leu Hi s Al a Thr Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                          70                    75                      80
<removed-apn>
              I l e Al a Ser Hi s Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Ty r
                                  85                     90                        95
              Tr p As n Ser Hi s Leu Ser Ar g Gl n
                            100
              <210>   77
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Zea may s
              <400>   77
              Val Ly s Ar g Gl y Al a Tr p Thr Ser Ly s Gl u As p As p Al a Leu Al a Al a
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Ty r Val Ly s Al a Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y Ly s Tr p Ar g Gl u Val Pr o Gl n Ly s
                            20                       25                      30
              Al a Gl y Leu Ar g Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Leu As n
                        35                      40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o As n I l e Ar g Ar g Gl y As n I l e Ser Ty r As p Gl u Gl u
                   50                       55                        60
              As p Leu I l e I l e Ar g Leu Hi s Ar g Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                        70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                     90                        95
              Tr p As n Ser Thr Leu Gl y Ar g Ar g
                            100
              <210>   78
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Vi t i s v i ni f er a
              <400>   78
              Leu Ly s Ar g Gl y Pr o Tr p Thr Pr o Gl u Gl u As p Gl u Leu Leu Al a As n
              1                  5                       10                     15
              Ty r Val Ly s Ar g Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl y Ar g Tr p Ar g Thr Leu Pr o Ly s Ar g
                                                           Page 48

                                                AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
                              20                           25                       30
              Al a Gl y Leu Leu Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Met As n
                        35                     40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o Ser Val Ly s Ar g Gl y Gl n I l e Al a Pr o As p Gl u Gl u
                   50                    55                        60
              As p Leu I l e Leu Ar g Leu Hi s Ar g Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
<removed-apn>
              65                      70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g I l e Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                       90                        95
              Tr p As n Thr Hi s Leu Ser Ly s Ly s
                            100
              <210>    79
              <211>    104
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Vi t i s v i ni f er a
              <400>    79
              Leu Ly s Ar g Gl y Pr o Tr p Thr Pr o Gl u Gl u As p Gl u Val Leu Al a As n
              1                  5                       10                     15
              Ty r I l e Ly s Ly s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl y Ar g Tr p Ar g Thr Leu Pr o Ly s Ar g
                              20                       25                     30
              Al a Gl y Leu Leu Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Met As n
                        35                     40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o Ser Val Ly s Ar g Gl y Gl n I l e Al a Pr o As p Gl u Gl u
                   50                    55                        60
              As p Leu I l e Leu Ar g Leu Hi s Ar g Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Al a Leu
              65                      70                    75                       80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g I l e Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                       90                        95
              Tr p As n Thr Hi s Leu Ser Ly s Ly s
                            100
              <210>    80
              <211>    104
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Pet uni a x hy br i da
              <400>    80
              Leu Ly s Ar g Gl y Pr o Tr p Thr Pr o Gl u Gl u As p Gl u I l e Leu Thr As n
              1                  5                       10                       15
                                                                 Page 49

                                              AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ty r I l e As n Ly s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl y Ar g Tr p Ar g Thr Leu Pr o Ly s Ly s
                              20                       25                     30
              Al a Gl y Leu Leu Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Met As n
                        35                     40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o Ser Val Ly s Ar g Gl y Hi s I l e Al a Pr o As p Gl u Gl u
                   50                    55                        60
<removed-apn>
              As p Leu I l e Leu Ar g Leu Hi s Ar g Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                      70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g I l e Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                       90                        95
              Tr p As n Thr Hi s Leu Ser Ly s Ly s
                            100
              <210>    81
              <211>    104
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar abi dops i s t hal i ana
              <400>    81
              Met Ly s Ar g Gl y Pr o Tr p Thr Val Gl u Gl u As p Gl u I l e Leu Val Ser
              1                  5                      10                       15
              Phe I l e Ly s Ly s Gl u Gl y Gl u Gl y Ar g Tr p Ar g Ser Leu Pr o Ly s Ar g
                             20                       25                     30
              Al a Gl y Leu Leu Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Met As n
                        35                     40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o Ser Val Ly s Ar g Gl y Gl y I l e Thr Ser As p Gl u Gl u
                   50                    55                        60
              As p Leu I l e Leu Ar g Leu Hi s Ar g Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                      70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g I l e Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                       90                        95
              Tr p As n Thr Hi s Leu Ar g Ly s Ly s
                            100
              <210>    82
              <211>    104
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Or y z a s at i v a
              <400>    82
              Leu Ly s Ar g Gl y Pr o Tr p Thr Pr o Gl u Gl u As p Gl u Val Leu Al a Ar g
                                                          Page 50

                                               AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              1                     5                         10                           15
              Phe Val Al a Ar g Gl u Gl y Cy s As p Ar g Tr p Ar g Thr Leu Pr o Ar g Ar g
                           20                       25                     30
              Al a Gl y Leu Leu Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Met As n
                        35                     40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o As p I l e Ly s Ar g Cy s Pr o I l e Al a As p As p Gl u Gl u
<removed-apn>
                   50                       55                        60
              As p Leu I l e Leu Ar g Leu Hi s Ar g Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                      70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                     90                        95
              Tr p As n Ser Hi s Leu Ser Ly s Ly s
                            100
              <210>   83
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Vi t i s v i ni f er a
              <400>   83
              Val Ar g Ly s Gl y Al a Tr p I l e Gl n Gl u Gl u As p Val Leu Leu Ar g Ly s
              1                  5                         10                    15
              Cy s I l e Gl u Ly s Ty r Gl y Gl u Gl y Ly s Tr p Hi s Leu Val Pr o Leu Ar g
                              20                       25                     30
              Al a Gl y Leu As n Ar g Cy s Ar g Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Leu As n
                        35                      40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ly s Pr o As p I l e Ly s Ar g Gl y Gl u Phe Al a Leu As p Gl u Val
                   50                       55                      60
              As p Leu Met I l e Ar g Leu Hi s As n Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                      70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr Al a As n As p Val Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                     90                      95
              Tr p Hi s Ser Hi s Hi s Phe Ly s Ly s
                            100
              <210>   84
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Vi t i s v i ni f er a
              <400>   84
                                                                Page 51

                                               AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              Val Ar g Ly s Gl y Al a Tr p Thr Gl n Gl u Gl u As p Val Leu Leu Ar g Ly s
              1                  5                       10                    15
              Cy s I l e Gl u Ly s Ty r Gl y Gl u Gl y Ly s Tr p Hi s Leu Val Pr o Leu Ar g
                              20                       25                     30
              Al a Gl y Leu As n Ar g Cy s Leu Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Leu As n
                        35                     40                     45
<removed-apn>
              Ty r Leu Ly s Pr o As p I l e Ly s Ar g Gl y Gl u Phe Al a Leu As p Gl u Val
                   50                       55                      60
              As p Leu Met I l e Ar g Leu Hi s As n Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                      70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr Al a As n As p Val Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                     90                      95
              Tr p Hi s Gl y Hi s Hi s Leu Ly s Ly s
                             100
              <210>   85
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Pet uni a x hy br i da
              <400>   85
              Val Ar g Ly s Gl y Al a Tr p Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u As p Leu Leu Leu Ar g Gl u
              1                  5                       10                    15
              Cy s I l e As p Ly s Ty r Gl y Gl u Gl y Ly s Tr p Hi s Leu Val Pr o Val Ar g
                              20                       25                     30
              Al a Gl y Leu As n Ar g Cy s Ar g Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Leu As n
                        35                      40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o Hi s I l e Ly s Ar g Gl y As p Phe Ser Leu As p Gl u Val
                   50                       55                      60
              As p Leu I l e Leu Ar g Leu Hi s Ly s Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                      70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr Al a As n As p Val Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                     90                      95
              Tr p As n Thr Hi s Leu Ar g Ly s Ly s
                            100
              <210>   86
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ly c oper s i c on es c ul ent um
                                                                Page 52

                                             AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400>   86
              Val Ar g Ly s Gl y Ser Tr p Thr As p Gl u Gl u As p Phe Leu Leu Ar g Ly s
              1                  5                      10                    15
              Cy s I l e As p Ly s Ty r Gl y Gl u Gl y Ly s Tr p Hi s Leu Val Pr o I l e Ar g
                              20                       25                     30
              Al a Gl y Leu As n Ar g Cy s Ar g Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Leu As n
<removed-apn>
                        35                      40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o Hi s I l e Ly s Ar g Gl y As p Phe Gl u Gl n As p Gl u Val
                   50                       55                      60
              As p Leu I l e Leu Ar g Leu Hi s Ly s Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                      70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr Al a As n As p Val Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                     90                      95
              Tr p As n Thr As n Leu Leu Ar g Ly s
                            100
              <210>   87
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar abi dops i s t hal i ana
              <400>   87
              Leu Ar g Ly s Gl y Al a Tr p Thr Thr Gl u Gl u As p Ser Leu Leu Ar g Gl n
              1                  5                      10                    15
              Cy s I l e As n Ly s Ty r Gl y Gl u Gl y Ly s Tr p Hi s Gl n Val Pr o Val Ar g
                              20                       25                      30
              Al a Gl y Leu As n Ar g Cy s Ar g Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Leu As n
                        35                      40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ly s Pr o Ser I l e Ly s Ar g Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Ser As p Gl u Val
                   50                      55                      60
              As p Leu Leu Leu Ar g Leu Hi s Ar g Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                    70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr Al a As n As p Val Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                     90                      95
              Tr p As n Thr Hi s Leu Ser Ly s Ly s
                            100
              <210>   88
              <211>   104
                                                              Page 53

                                              AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar abi dops i s t hal i ana
              <400>   88
              Leu Ar g Ly s Gl y Al a Tr p Thr Al a Gl u Gl u As p Ser Leu Leu Ar g Leu
              1                  5                       10                    15
              Cy s I l e As p Ly s Ty r Gl y Gl u Gl y Ly s Tr p Hi s Gl n Val Pr o Leu Ar g
                              20                       25                      30
<removed-apn>
              Al a Gl y Leu As n Ar g Cy s Ar g Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Leu As n
                        35                      40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ly s Pr o Ser I l e Ly s Ar g Gl y Ar g Leu Ser As n As p Gl u Val
                   50                      55                      60
              As p Leu Leu Leu Ar g Leu Hi s Ly s Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser Leu
              65                    70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Leu Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr Al a As n As p Val Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                     90                      95
              Tr p As n Thr Hi s Leu Ser Ly s Ly s
                            100
              <210>   89
              <211>   104
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Pi c ea mar i ana
              <400>   89
              Leu As n Ly s Gl y Al a Tr p Ser Al a Gl u Gl u As p Ser Leu Leu Gl y Ly s
              1                  5                       10                    15
              Ty r I l e Gl n Thr Hi s Gl y Gl u Gl y As n Tr p Ar g Ser Leu Pr o Ly s Ly s
                              20                      25                     30
              Al a Gl y Leu Ar g Ar g Cy s Gl y Ly s Ser Cy s Ar g Leu Ar g Tr p Leu As n
                        35                      40                     45
              Ty r Leu Ar g Pr o Cy s I l e Ly s Ar g Gl y As n I l e Thr Al a As p Gl u Gl u
                   50                       55                        60
              Gl u Leu I l e I l e Ar g Met Hi s Al a Leu Leu Gl y As n Ar g Tr p Ser I l e
              65                        70                    75                      80
              I l e Al a Gl y Ar g Val Pr o Gl y Ar g Thr As p As n Gl u I l e Ly s As n Ty r
                                   85                     90                        95
              Tr p As n Thr As n Leu Ser Ly s Ly s
                            100
                                                              Page 54

                                                AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>     90
              <211>     19
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 90
              c agc at ac at aac c c aat g                                                    19
<removed-apn>
              <210>     91
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 91
              gaat ggt gga aat c agat ac                                                      20
              <210>     92
              <211>     18
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 92
              ac gac t at t c c ggc t c t t                                                   18
              <210>     93
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 93
              c t gaac aaga ac ac c gt aga                                                    20
              <210>     94
              <211>     22
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 94
              gc aat t aggt agt aat t c t a c t                                               22
              <210>     95
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
                                                                Page 55

                                                   AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400> 95
              c t ac t gt aat t ac t c at c aa g                                                 21
              <210>      96
              <211>      19
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
<removed-apn>
              <400> 96
              gc t c c t agt g t t gt t c at g                                                   19
              <210>      97
              <211>      19
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 97
              c t c c gaat t c gagaggaag                                                         19
              <210>      98
              <211>      19
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 98
              at c at ac at t ac t gagc t g                                                      19
              <210>      99
              <211>      18
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 99
              gc t t gaagac gt t gt t gg                                                         18
              <210>      100
              <211>      20
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>      Sy nt het i c
              <400> 100
              c aggt agt t t t gat gc t at g                                                     20
              <210>      101
              <211>      51
              <212>      DNA
              <213>      Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                                    Page 56

                                               AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt het i c
              <400> 101
              ggggac aagt t t gt ac aaaa aagc aggc t t c at ggc c ac g gc gc aat t t c g               51
              <210>    102
              <211>    54
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt het i c
              <400> 102
              ggggac c ac t t t gt ac aaga aagc t gggt c t c aac ac t t a ggaaggt c ac t t gg          54
              <210>    103
              <211>    57
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt het i c
              <400> 103
              ggggac aagt t t gt ac aaaa aagc aggc t t c at gaat c t t t ggagc gac g agaac t c         57
              <210>    104
              <211>    58
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt het i c
              <400> 104
              ggggac c ac t t t gt ac aaga aagc t gggt c t t at t gaac a t c c c c aac t t t agaggac   58
              <210>    105
              <211>    55
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt het i c
              <400> 105
              ggggac aagt t t gt ac aaaa aagc aggc t t c at gggaaga gc t c c t t gt t gt gac           55
              <210>    106
              <211>    56
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>    Sy nt het i c
              <400> 106
              ggggac c ac t t t gt ac aaga aagc t gggt c t c aat t t gt c t t aat gt c ag c at aac     56
                                                                Page 57

                                                AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              <210>     107
              <211>     23
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 107
              t c aagt at gg gc at c at t c g c ac                                            23
<removed-apn>
              <210>     108
              <211>     20
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 108
              t gc t c aaac c gggc agaac g                                                    20
              <210>     109
              <211>     21
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 109
              t c gagaagga agc t gc t gaa a                                                   21
              <210>     110
              <211>     22
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 110
              c c c aggc at a c t t gaat gac c t                                              22
              <210>     111
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
              <400> 111
              t gaat c t t t g gaac c ac t aa t gga                                           24
              <210>     112
              <211>     24
              <212>     DNA
              <213>     Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223>     Sy nt het i c
                                                                Page 58

                                            AS. DPI . 0191 Sequenc e Li s t i ng. t x t
<removed-date>
              <400> 112
              aagc aac aac t t gaagc aaa at c a                                           24
<removed-apn>
                                                              Page 59

