                           BIOREFINING METHOD
                                       Abstract
       The present invention relates generally to the generation of bio-products from
organic matter feedstocks. More specifically, the present invention relates to improved
methods for the hydrothermal/thermochemical         conversion of lignocellulosic and/or
fossilised organic feedstocks into biofuels (e.g. bio-oils) and/or chemical products (e.g.
platform chemicals).

                               BIOREFINING METHOD
                            Incorporation by Cross-Reference
          This application claims priority from Australian provisional patent application number
 5 2013902103 filed on 11 June 2013, the entire content of which is incorporated herein by
   cross-reference.
                                          Technical Field
          The present invention relates generally to the generation of bio-products from organic
10 matter feedstocks. More specifically, the present invention relates to improved methods for
   the hydrothermal/thermochemical        conversion of lignocellulosic and/or fossilised organic
   feedstocks into biofuels (e.g. bio-oils) and/or chemical products (e.g. platform chemicals).
15                                          Background
          The global demand for energy continues to rise while reserves of conventional
   petroleum (e.g. oil, gas, and natural gas liquids) are in decline. This has led to increased focus
   and research into unconventional fuel resources (e.g. heavy oil, oil sands, oil shale) and other
   non-fossil sources of energy (e.g. lignocellulosic materials).
20        A significant amount of research in the field of "alternative" energy production has
   focussed on the generation of biofuels from lignocellulosic matter. This technology raises the
   prospect of a shift to an abundant and renewable feedstock for energy production as an
   alternative to the depleting reserves of hydrocarbon-based raw materials. The enrichment of
   low energy density fossil fuels (e.g. lignite, peat and oil shale) into high energy fuel products
25 also represents an attractive alternative given the relative abundance of those resources.
          In particular, the thermochemical conversion of biomass and other complex organic
   matter into biofuels and chemicals based on hydrothermal reactions has shown significant
   promise. In general, it is desirable that such methods are continuous or at least semi
   continuous in nature which may lead to improved product characteristics and/or improved
30 process economics in comparison to batch processes. Process economics are also more
   favourable when increased concentrations of organic matter are used in the thermochemical
   conversion steps, because the amount of water or other solvent that must be heated to
   elevated temperatures is less. However, when high concentrations of organic matter are
                                                    1

   converted at elevated temperature and pressure the main products are frequently viscous
   solutions. A common problem in such situations is a partial de-solubilisation of organic and
   incidental inorganic matter, leading to deposition on apparatus surfaces, otherwise known as
   "scaling". Additionally, when water is used as the primary depolymerisation agent swelling
 5 of organic matter can occur restricting the concentration that can be used. The high levels of
   energy needed to raise and maintain water at reaction temperature can also result in charring
   on the inside of reactor vessel walls. With prolonged operation such deposits can have an
   adverse effect on the process, necessitating time-consuming and costly descaling operations
   in order to restore process performance. Furthermore, at high concentrations of organic
10 matter, the present inventors have observed that a pressure differential (i.e. a pressure
   gradient) develops along the length of tube reactors under continuous flow operations which
   is detrimental to process efficiency.
          A need exists for improved methods capable of reducing or avoiding problems such as
   scaling, charring and/or the development of pressure gradients across reactors during the
15 thermochemical conversion of organic matter into bio-products.
                                   Summary of the Invention
          The present inventors have unexpectedly identified that the inclusion of an effective
20 amount of solid substrate to organic matter feedstock used in thermochemical conversion
   processes reduces scaling and/or reduces the development of pressure differentials during
   treatment.
          In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method for producing a bio-product
   from organic matter feedstock, the method comprising:
25        providing a reaction mixture comprising the organic matter feedstock, a solvent, and a
   solid substrate;
          treating the reaction mixture in a reactor vessel at a reaction temperature and pressure
   suitable for conversion of all or a portion of the organic matter feedstock into a product
   mixture comprising the bio-product; and
30        depressurising and cooling the product mixture;
          wherein the solid substrate is solid or substantially solid at the reaction temperature and
   pressure and;
                 sequesters organic and/or inorganic matter that de-solubilises within the reaction
   mixture or the product mixture; and/or
                                                    2

                alters one or more flow characteristics of the reaction mixture and/or the product
   mixture in the reactor vessel.
         In a second aspect, the present invention provides a method for inhibiting scaling in a
   reactor vessel during the conversion of organic matter feedstock into a bio-product, the
 5 method comprising:
         providing a reaction mixture comprising the organic matter feedstock, a solvent, and a
   solid substrate;
         treating the reaction mixture at a reaction temperature and pressure suitable for
   conversion of all or a portion of the organic matter feedstock into a product mixture
10 comprising the bio-product; and
         depressurising and cooling the product mixture;
         wherein the solid substrate is solid or substantially solid at the reaction temperature and
   pressure and;
                sequesters organic and/or inorganic matter that de-solubilises within the reaction
is mixture or the product mixture; and/or
                alters one or more flow characteristics of the reaction mixture and/or the product
   mixture in the reactor vessel.
         In one embodiment of the first and second aspects, the treating is performed under
   continuous flow conditions.
20       In a third aspect, the present invention provides a method for inhibiting development of
   a pressure gradient in a continuous flow reactor vessel during the conversion of organic
   matter feedstock into a bio-product, the method comprising:
         providing a reaction mixture comprising the organic matter feedstock, a solvent, and a
   solid substrate;
25       treating the reaction mixture at a reaction temperature and pressure suitable for
   conversion of all or a portion of the organic matter feedstock into a product mixture
   comprising the bio-product; and
         depressurising and cooling the product mixture;
         wherein the solid substrate is solid or substantially solid at the reaction temperature and
30 pressure and;
                sequesters organic and/or inorganic matter that de-solubilises within the reaction
   mixture or the product mixture; and/or
                alters one or more flow characteristics of the reaction mixture and/or the product
   mixture in the reactor vessel.
                                                   3

          In one embodiment of the third aspect, the depressurising is facilitated by a pressure let
   down device in the reactor vessel;
          the reaction mixture is pressurised to a maximum pressure prior to or during the
   treating; and
 5        prior to the depressurising facilitated by the pressure let down device, the product
   mixture is pressurised at less than 98%, less than 95%, less than 90%, less than 85%, less
   than 80%, less than 75%, less than 70%, less than 65%, less than 60%, less than 55%, or less
   than 50%, of the maximum pressure.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate generates
10 additional metal surface area within the reactor vessel by an abrasive action, to thereby
   provide additional metal surface area for provision of additional heterogeneous catalysts to
   the reaction mixture.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate is inert or
   substantially inert at the reaction temperature and pressure.
is        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate is chemically
   inert or substantially chemically inert at the reaction temperature and pressure.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate is a
   carbonaceous material comprising at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, or at
   least 90% by weight carbon.
20        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate is selected
   from the      group    consisting of:   coals,   anthracitic  coal, meta-anthracite,    anthracite
   semianthracite, bituminous coal, subbituminous coal, lignite (i.e. brown coal), coking coal,
   coal tar, coal tar derivatives, coal char, coke, high temperature coke, foundry coke, low and
   medium temperature coke, pitch coke, petroleum coke, coke oven coke, coke breeze, gas
25 coke, brown coal coke, semi coke, charcoal, pyrolysis char, hydrothermal char, carbon black,
   graphite fine particles, amorphous carbon, carbon nanotubes, carbon nanofibers, vapor-grown
   carbon fibers, and any combination thereof.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate is a non
   carbonaceous material comprising no more than 10%, no more than 5%, no more than 1%, or
30 no carbon.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate is selected
   from the group consisting of fly ash, a mineral, calcium carbonate, calcite, a silicate, silica,
   quartz, an oxide, a metal oxide, an insoluble or substantially insoluble metal salt, iron ore, a
   clay mineral, talc, gypsum, and any combination thereof.
                                                    4

          In another embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate is
   selected from the group consisting of carbonates of calcium, carbonates of magnesium,
   carbonates of calcium and magnesium, calcite, limestone, dolomite, hydroxides of calcium,
   hydroxides of magnesium, oxides of calcium, oxides of magnesium, hydrogen carbonates of calcium,
 5 hydrogen carbonates of magnesium, kaolinite, bentonite, illite, zeolites, calcium phosphate,
   hydroxyapataite, phyllosilicates, and any combination thereof.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate is provided
   in the form of a powder, or a slurry comprising the powder.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate is present in
10 the reaction mixture at a concentration of more than 0.5%, more than 1%, more than 3%,
   more than 5%, more than 10%, more than 250%, or more than 30% by weight.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate is present in
   the reaction mixture at a concentration of less than 0.5%, less than 1%, less than 3%, less
   than 5%, less than 10%, less than     2 5 %, or less than 50% by weight.
is        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the sequestering of the organic
   and/or inorganic matter by the solid substrate comprises adsorbing the organic matter and/or
   inorganic matter onto a surface of the solid substrate.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the sequestering of the organic
   and/or inorganic matter by the solid substrate comprises absorption of the organic matter
20 and/or inorganic matter into the solid substrate.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the organic matter feedstock is
   lignocellulosic matter.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the organic matter feedstock is
   lignocellulosic matter comprising at least 10% lignin, at least 35% cellulose, and at least 20%
25 hemicellulose.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the organic matter feedstock
   comprises more than about 10% of each of lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the reaction mixture comprises
   more than 10%, more than 15%, more than             2 0%,  more than  3 0%,  more than 3 5%, or more
30 than 40%, of the organic matter by weight.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the reaction mixture comprises
   less than 10%, less than 15%, less than       2 0%,   less than 3 0%, less than 3 5%,           4 0 %,
                                                                                         less than
   less than 50%, between 5% and 4 0%, between 10% to 3 5%, or between 15% and 3 0%, of the
   organic matter by weight.
                                                        5

          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the organic matter feedstock is
   provided in the form of a liquid slurry comprising some or all of the solvent.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the treating comprises treating
   the organic matter, the solid substrate and the solvent in the form of a slurry.
 5        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the treating is performed under
   conditions of continuous flow and the slurry has a flow velocity of above 0.01 cm/s, above
   0.05 cm/s, above 0.5 cm/s, above 0.1 cm/s, above 1.5 cm/s, or above 2.0 cm/s.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the method further comprises
   separating the solid substrate from the product mixture after the depressurising and cooling,
10 and recycling the solid substrate into a second slurry or second reaction mixture comprising
   organic matter feedstock.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the reaction mixture further
   comprises an oil additive.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the reaction mixture further
15 comprises an oil additive that is mixed with the feedstock and/or solvent prior to the treating.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the reaction mixture further
   comprises an oil additive that constitutes between 5% and 60%, between 5% and 50%,
   between 5% and 40%, between 5% and 30%, between 5% and between 20%, more the 5% ,
   more than 10%, more than 15%, more than           2 0%, more than  3 0%,  less than 2 0%, less than
20 15% or less than 10% of the oil additive by weight.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the reaction mixture further
   comprises an oil additive selected from the group consisting of paraffinic oil, gas-oil, crude
   oil, synthetic oil, coal-oil, bio-oil, shale oil, kerogen oil, mineral oil, white mineral oil,
   aromatic oil, tall oil, distilled tall oil, plant or animal oils, fats and their acidic forms and
25 esterified forms, and any combination thereof.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solvent is a mixed solvent
   comprising an aqueous solvent component and an oil solvent component, wherein the two
   components are substantially immiscible or partly miscible at ambient temperature.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solvent is a mixed solvent
30 comprising an aqueous solvent component and an oil solvent component, wherein the oil
   component is crude tall oil, distilled tall oil or a combination thereof.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solvent comprises water and
   oil in a ratio of about 1: 1 by mass, of about 1:2 by mass, of about 2:1 by mass, of about 3:1
   by mass, of about 1:3 by mass, of about 1:4 by mass, of about 4:1 by mass, of about 1:5 by
                                                      6

   mass, of about 5:1 by mass, of about 1:6 by mass, of about 6:1 by mass, of about 1:7 by mass,
   of about 7:1 by mass, of about 1:8 by mass, of about 8:1 by mass, of about 1:9 by mass, of
   about 9:1 by mass, of about 1:10 by mass, or of about 10:1 by mass.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the method further comprises
 5 separating oil from the product and recycling the oil into a second slurry or second reaction
   mixture comprising organic matter feedstock.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the method further comprises
   separating the solid substrate and oil from the product, and recycling the solid substrate and
   the oil into a second slurry or second reaction mixture comprising organic matter feedstock.
10        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the treating comprises treating
   the reaction mixture at a temperature of between 250C and 400C, and a pressure of between
   100 bar and 300 bar.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the treating comprises treating
   the reaction mixture at a temperature of between 3 10 C and 360C, and a pressure of between
is 160 bar and 250 bar.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the treating comprises treating
   the reaction mixture at a temperature of between 320C and 360C, and a pressure of between
   220 bar and 250 bar.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the treating comprises treating
20 the reaction mixture at a temperature of between at least about 1000 C, at least about 150C,
   at least about 200C,         at least about 250C,      at least about 300C, at least about
   350C, between about 200C and about 250C, between about 200C and about 400C,
   between about 250C and about 400C, between about 250C and about 350C, and between
   about 250C and about 350'C; generating subcritical or supercritical steam independently of
25 the slurry; and contacting the slurry with the subcritical or supercritical steam in at least one
   vessel or chamber of the reactor vessel.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the treating comprises
   pressurising the reaction mixture at a pressure of between about 100 bar and about 400 bar,
   between about 150 bar and about 400 bar, between about 200 bar and about 400 bar, between
30 about 150 bar and about 350 bar, between about 180 bar and about 350 bar, between about
   150 bar and about 300 bar, between about 150 bar and about 280 bar, between about 150 bar
   and about 270 bar, or between about 200 bar and about 300 bar.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the reaction mixture further
   comprises a catalyst additive.
                                                   7

          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the reaction mixture further
   comprises a catalyst additive that is mixed with the feedstock and/or solvent prior to the
   treating.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the catalyst additive is added to
 5 the reaction mixture after the reaction mixture reaches said reaction temperature and pressure.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the catalyst additive is selected
   from the group consisting of: a base catalyst, an alkali metal hydroxide catalyst, a transition
   metal hydroxide catalyst, sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, sodium carbonate,
   potassium carbonate, an acid catalyst, a solid acid catalyst, an alkali metal formate catalyst, a
10 transition metal catalyst, a transition metal formate catalyst, a supported transition metal
   catalyst, a reactive carboxylic acid catalyst, a transition metal catalyst, a sulphide catalyst, a
   noble metal catalyst, a water-gas-shift catalyst, sodium formate, potassium formate, sodium
   hydroxide, and combinations thereof.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the catalyst additive is not
15 present, or is substantially not present, in any one or more of the organic matter, the solid
   substrate, the solvent, or a wall of a reactor vessel in which the method is performed.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the catalyst additive is also
   present in any one or more of the organic matter, the solid substrate, the solvent, or a wall of
   a reactor vessel in which the method is performed.
20        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the catalyst is provided in a
   slurry comprising the organic matter feedstock, and the catalyst is between 1% and 30%,
   between   5 % and  30%, between 10% and 30%, between           5%                       5%
                                                                     and 30%, between         and 20%,
   between    5%  and 15%, between 10% and 30%, between 10% and 30%, between 10% and
   15%, less than 20%, less than 30%, less than 25%, less than 15%, less than 10%, or less than
25 5% of the weight of the organic matter in the reaction mixture
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the reaction mixture comprises
   the organic matter feedstock (e.g. lignocellulosic matter) and the solid substrate at a ratio of
   about 1:1, about 3:2, about 2:1, about 3:1, about 4:1, about 5:1, about 6:1 about 8:1, about
   10:1, about 20:1, or about 30:1.
30        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate constitutes:
   at least 1%, at least 2 %, at least 3 %, at least 4%, at least 5%, at least 6 %, at least 7%, at least
   8%, at least 9%, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 2 0%, at least 30 %, at least 40 %, at least
   50 %, between lwt% and 2 0%, between 1% and 10%, between 1% and 5%, between 5% and
   10%, between 5% and 15%, between 5% and 2 0%, between 20 % and 40 %, between                     2 0%
                                                      8

   and 50%, between 20% and 30%, between 30% and 40%, or between 40% and 50% of the
   total combined mass of the solid substrate and organic matter feedstock (e.g. lignocellulosic
   matter) in the reaction mixture.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the reaction mixture comprises
 5 less than 20%, less than 30%, less than 35%, less than 40%, less than 40%, less than          7 0 %,
   less than 80%, less than 90%, less than 95%, between 10% and 95%, between 30% and 95%,
   between 50% to 7 0%, or between      6 0% to 8 0%, of the solvent by weight.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solvent is an aqueous
   solvent, an oil solvent, or a mixture of an aqueous solvent and an oil solvent.
10        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the he oil solvent or the mixture
   of the aqueous solvent and the oil solvent comprises crude tall oil, distilled tall oil, or a
   combination thereof.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the oil solvent is recycled from
   a bio-product produced according to the method.
is        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate solvent is
   recycled from a bio-product produced according to the method.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the oil solvent and solid
   substrate are recycled in a mixture from a bio-product produced according to the method, and
   the mixture of recycled oil and recycled substrate is solid at ambient temperature.
20        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the aqueous solvent comprises
   water, or water and an alcohol.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the aqueous solvent comprises
   water and an alcohol, and the alcohol is selected from ethanol, methanol, or a combination of
   methanol and ethanol.
25        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, prior to and/or after the treating,
   the reaction mixture comprises a percentage by weight of said alcohol of more than 3%, more
   than 5%, more than 10%, more than 15%, more than 2 0%, more than           2 5%,
                                                                                    more than    3 0 %,
   less than 3 0%, less than  2 5%, less than 2 0%, less than 15%, less than 10%, less than 5%, or
   less than 3%.
30        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the bio-product comprises an
   oil component having a gross calorific value of at least 30 MJ/kg, at least 32 MJ/kg, at least
   35 MJ/kg, or at least 36 MJ/kg, and a mixed substrate and oil component having a gross
   calorific value of at least 26 MJ/kg, at least 28 MJ/kg, at least 30 MJ/kg, at least 32 MJ/kg, or
   at least 33 MJ/kg.
                                                    9

          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the bio-product comprises a
   compound selected from the group consisting of: waxes; aldehydes; carboxylic acids;
   carbohydrates;    phenols; furfurals; alcohols; ketones; resins; resin acids; compounds
   structurally related to resin acids; alkanes; alkenes; fatty acids; fatty acid esters; sterols;
 5 sterol-related compounds; furanic oligomers; cyclopentanones; cyclohexanones; alkyl- and
   alkoxy- cyclopentanones; alkyl- and alkoxy- cyclohexanones; cyclopenteneones; alkyl- and
   alkoxy- cyclopentenones; aromatic compounds; naphthalenes; alkyl- and alkoxy--substituted
   naphthalenes; cresols; alkyl- and alkoxy- phenols; alkyl- and alkoxy- catechols; alkyl- and
   alkoxy- dihydroxybezenes; alkyl- and alkoxy- hydroquinones; indenes; indene-derivatives,
10 and any combination thereof.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the slurry is subjected to:
          (a)   heating and pressurisation to a target temperature and pressure,
          (b)   treatment at target temperature(s) and pressure(s) for a defined time period (i.e.
   the "retention time"), and
is        (c)   cooling and de-pressurisation,
   under continuous flow conditions.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the method comprises a first
   preheating stage in which the reaction mixture is heated to a temperature that is below the
   reaction temperature, and a second heating stage in which the reaction mixture is heated to
20 the reaction temperature.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the second heating stage
   comprises contacting the reaction mixture with subcritical or supercritical steam.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the catalyst additive is added to
   the reaction mixture before the first preheating stage.
25        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the catalyst additive is added to
   the reaction mixture during or after the first preheating stage and prior to the second heating
   stage.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the catalyst additive is added to
   the reaction mixture during or after the second heating stage.
30        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the treating is for a time period
   of between about 20 minutes and about 30 minutes.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the method comprises the step
   of heating the organic matter feedstock and solvent to the temperature in a time period of less
   than about 2 minutes, prior to the treating.
                                                   10

          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the method comprises the step
   of heating and pressurising the organic matter feedstock and solvent to the temperature and
   pressure in a time period of less than about 2 minutes, prior to the treating.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the method comprises the steps
 5 of:
          (i)   cooling the product mixture to a temperature of between about 160'C and about
   200'C in a time period of less than about 30 seconds after said treating; and
          (ii)  depressurisation and cooling the product mixture to ambient temperature by
   release through a pressure let down device.
10        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the pressure let down device is
   enveloped in ambient temperature water.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate is made from
   residue obtained by distillation or pyrolysis of the bio-product.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the bio-product comprises one
15 or more of an oil component, a char component, an aqueous component comprising a solution
   of organic chemicals in water, and a gaseous component comprising: methane, hydrogen,
   carbon monoxide and/or carbon dioxide.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the bio-product comprises a
   bio-oil.
20        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the bio-product is fractionated
   to provide platform chemicals.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the treating comprises heating
   and pressurising the slurry in at least one vessel or chamber of the reactor vessel.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the treating comprises
25 generating subcritical or supercritical steam independently of the slurry and contacting the
   slurry with the subcritical or supercritical steam in at least one vessel or chamber of said
   reactor vessel.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the slurry is at ambient or near
   ambient temperature and pressure prior to said contacting with the subcritical or supercritical
30 steam.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the treating comprises: heating
   the slurry to a temperature selected from the group consisting of at least about 1000 C, at least
   about 150C, at least about 200C, at least about 250C, at least about 300C, at least about
   350C, between about 200C and about 250C, between about 200C and about 400C,
                                                   11

   between about 250C and about 400C, between about 250C and about 350C, and between
   about 250C and about 350'C; generating subcritical or supercritical steam independently of
   the slurry; and contacting the slurry with the subcritical or supercritical steam in at least one
   vessel or chamber of the reactor vessel.
 5        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the slurry is pressurised prior to
   and/or after said contacting.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the depressurising and cooling
   of the product mixture occurs simultaneously.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the depressurising and cooling
10 of the product mixture occurs separately.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the organic matter feedstock
   (e.g. lignocellulosic matter) is present in an amount of between 5wt% and 50wt%, between
   1Owt% and 40wt%, or between 5wt% and 30wt%, of the slurry and/or the reaction mixture.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the organic matter feedstock
is (e.g. lignocellulosic matter) is present in an amount of more than 5wt% of the slurry and/or
   the reaction mixture.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the organic matter feedstock
   (e.g. lignocellulosic matter) is present in an amount of at least 5wt%, at least lOwt%, at least
   15wt%, at least 20wt%, or at least 30wt% of the slurry and/or the reaction mixture.
20        In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the solid substrate is present in
   the slurry and/or reaction mixture in an amount of between 0.5wt% and 50wt% of the total
   wt% amount of the organic matter feedstock (e.g. lignocellulosic matter) present in the slurry
   and/or reaction mixture.
          In one embodiment of the first, second or third aspects, the organic matter feedstock is
25 wood (e.g. radiat pine).
          In a fourth aspect, the present invention provides a bio-product obtained by the method
   of the first, second or third aspect.
30                            Brief Description of the Drawings
          Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
   example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings wherein:
                                                   12

          Figure 1 is a schematic flow diagram showing an apparatus for converting organic
   matter into bio-products in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The pressure
   drop across the reactor is measured between points 4 and 5.
          Figure 2 is a graph showing measured pressure difference across reactor (pressure in
 5 pressure out) versus experimental duration for experiments without        (Runs 1-3) and with
   (Runs 4-9) solid substrate added to reaction mixture containing organic matter.
          Figure 3 is a graph showing TGA curves (weight loss from sample versus temperature)
   for samples of mixed solid substrate and oil product from runs 5, 6 and 7. Key: Upper graphs
   weight % versus temperature (left hand axis). Lower graphs - derivative of weight loss w.r.t
10 temperature (right hand axis). Solid line, Run 6. Dashed line (----) and Dash-dot ( .. ) line,
   Run 5, Dash dot dot (....)    line, Run7.
          Figures 4A-4E are representative graphs showing gauge pressure near the start of the
   reactor (pressure in) and near the end of the reactor (pressure out) versus experimental
   duration for experiments with and without solid substrate added to reaction mixture
15 containing organic matter. Figure 4A shows gauge pressure near the start of the reactor
   (pressure in) and near the end of the reactor (pressure out) versus experimental duration for a
   run (Run 1 - Table 2) without substrate. Figure 4B shows gauge pressure near the start of
   the reactor (pressure in) and near the end of the reactor (pressure out) versus experimental
   duration for a run (Run 2 - Table 2) without substrate. Figure 4C shows gauge pressure near
20 the start of the reactor (pressure in) and near the end of the reactor (pressure out) versus
   experimental duration for a run (Run 7- Table 2) with substrate (lignite). Figure 4D shows
   gauge pressure near the start of the reactor (pressure in) and near the end of the reactor
   (pressure out) versus experimental duration for a run (Run 9 - Table 2) with substrate
   (lignite). Figure 4E shows gauge pressure near the start of the reactor (pressure in) and near
25 the end of the reactor (pressure out) versus experimental duration for a run (Run E - Table 7)
   with substrate (lignite).
30                                           Definitions
          As used in this application, the singular form "a", "an" and "the" include plural
   references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. For example, the term "a catalyst"
   also includes a plurality of catalysts.
          As used herein, the term "comprising" means "including."        Variations of the word
35 "comprising", such as "comprise" and "comprises," have correspondingly varied meanings.
                                                  13

   Thus, for example, a bio-product "comprising" a bio-oil may consist exclusively of bio-oil or
   may include other additional substances.
          As used herein, the terms "organic matter" and "organic materials" have the same
   meaning and encompass any material comprising carbon including both fossilised and non
 5 fossilised materials. Non-limiting examples of organic matter include renewable sources of
   biomass (e.g. lignocellulosic matter), as well as hydrocarbon-containing materials (e.g.
   lignite, oil shale and peat) which may be non-renewable.
          As used herein the term "bio-product" encompasses any product that can be obtained
   by the treatment of organic matter feedstock as defined above in accordance with the methods
10 of the present invention. Non-limiting examples of bio-products include biofuels (e.g. bio
   oils, char products, gaseous products) and chemical products (e.g. platform chemicals,
   organic acids, furanics, furfural, hydroxymethylfurfural,      levoglucosan, sorbitol, cylitol,
   arabinitol, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde).
          As used herein, the term "biofuel" refers to an energy-containing material derived from
15 the treatment of organic matter feedstock as defined above in accordance with the methods of
   the present invention. Non-limiting examples of biofuels include bio-oils, char products (e.g.
   upgraded pulvarised coal injection (PCI) equivalent products and fuels for direct injection
   carbon engines (DICE)), and gaseous products (a gaseous product comprising methane,
   hydrogen, carbon monoxide and/or carbon dioxide).
20        As used herein the term "bio-oil" refers to a complex mixture of compounds derived
   from the treatment of organic matter feedstock as defined above in accordance with the
   methods of the present invention. The bio-oil may comprise compounds including, but not
   limited to, any one or more of alkanes, alkenes, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, carbohydrates,
   phenols, furfurals, alcohols, and ketones. The bio-oil may comprise multiple phases
25 including, but not limited to, a water-soluble aqueous phase which may comprise, compounds
   including, but not limited to, any one or more of carbohydrates, aldehydes, carboxylic acids,
   carbohydrates, phenols, furfurals, alcohols, and ketones, resins and resin acids, and
   compounds structurally related to resin acids, alkanes and alkenes, fatty acids and fatty acid
   esters, sterols and sterol-related compounds, furanic oligomers, cyclopentanones, and
30 cyclohexanones, alkyl- and alkoxy- cyclopentanones, and cyclohexanones, cyclopenteneones,
   alkyl- and alkoxy- cyclopentenones, aromatic compounds including naphthalenes and alkyl
   and alkoxy--substituted naphthalenes, cresols, alkyl- and alkoxy- phenols, alkyl- and alkoxy
   catechols, alkyl- and alkoxy- dihydroxybezenes, alkyl- and alkoxy- hydroquinones, indenes
   and indene-derivatives; and a water-insoluble phase which may comprise, compounds
                                                   14

   including, but not limited to, any one or more of waxes, aldehydes, carboxylic acids,
   carbohydrates, phenols, furfurals, alcohols, and ketones, resins and resin acids, and
   compounds structurally related to resin acids, alkanes and alkenes, fatty acids and fatty acid
   esters, sterols and sterol-related compounds, furanic oligomers, cyclopentanones, and
 5 cyclohexanones, alkyl- and alkoxy- cyclopentanones, and cyclohexanones, cyclopenteneones,
   alkyl- and alkoxy- cyclopentenones, aromatic compounds including naphthalenes and alkyl
   and alkoxy--substituted naphthalenes, cresols, alkyl- and alkoxy- phenols, alkyl- and alkoxy
   catechols, alkyl- and alkoxy- dihydroxybezenes, alkyl- and alkoxy- hydroquinones, indenes
   and indene-derivatives.
10        As used herein, the terms "lignocellulosic matter" and "lignocellulosic biomass" are
   used interchangeably and have the same meaning. The terms encompass any substance
   comprising lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose. By way of non-limiting example, the
   lignocellulosic matter may comprise at least 10% lignin, at least 10% cellulose and at least
   10% hemicellulose.
15        As used herein, the term "fossilised organic matter" encompasses any organic material
   that has been subjected to geothermal pressure and temperature for a period of time sufficient
   to remove water and concentrate carbon to significant levels. For example, fossilised organic
   material may comprise more than about 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 75%, 80%,
   85%, 90% or 95 wt% carbon. Non-limiting examples of fossilised organic matter include
20 coals (e.g. anthracitic coals such as meta-anthracite, anthracite and semianthracite;
   bituminous coals; subbituminous coals; lignite (i.e. brown coal), coking coal, coal tar, coal tar
   derivatives, coal char), cokes (e.g. high temperature coke, foundry coke, low and medium
   temperature coke, pitch coke, petroleum coke, coke oven coke, coke breeze, gas coke, brown
   coal coke, semi coke), peat (e.g. milled peat, sod peat), kerogen, tar sands, oil shale, shale
25 tar, asphalts, asphaltines, natural bitumen, bituminous sands, or any combination thereof.
          As used herein, the term "solvent" includes within its scope an "aqueous solvent", an
   "oil solvent", and combinations thereof.
          As used herein, the term "aqueous solvent" refers to a solvent comprising at least one
   percent water based on total weight of solvent. An "aqueous solvent" may therefore comprise
30 between one percent water and one hundred percent water based on total weight of solvent.
   An "aqueous solvent" will also be understood to include within its scope "aqueous alcohol",
   "aqueous ethanol", and "aqueous methanol".
          As used herein, the term "aqueous alcohol" refers to a solvent comprising at least one
   percent alcohol based on total weight of solvent.
                                                    15

          As used herein, the term "aqueous ethanol" refers to a solvent comprising at least one
   percent ethanol based on total weight of solvent.
          As used herein, the term "aqueous ethanol" refers to a solvent comprising at least one
   percent methanol based on total weight of solvent.
 5         As used herein, the term "oil solvent" refers to a solvent comprising any suitable oil,
   non-limiting examples of which include paraffinic oil, gas-oil, crude oil, synthetic oil, coal
   oil, bio-oil, shale oil/kerogen oil, aromatic oils (i.e. single or multi-ringed components or
   mixtures thereof), tall oils, triglyceride       oils, fatty acids, ether extractables,    hexane
   extractables, and any mixture of any of the previous components, and in which the oil
10 constitutes at least one percent of the solvent based on total solvent weight.
           As used herein the term "oil additive" refers to any suitable oil component for inclusion
   in a feedstock, solvent and/or reaction mixture according to the present invention, non
   limiting examples of which include paraffinic oil, gas-oil, crude oil, synthetic oil, coal-oil,
   bio-oil, shale oil/kerogen oil, aromatic oils (i.e. single or multi-ringed components or
is mixtures thereof), tall oils, triglyceride       oils, fatty acids, ether extractables,    hexane
   extractables, and any mixture of any of the previous components. The oil additive may
   constitute at least one percent portion of the feedstock, solvent and/or reaction mixture to
   which it is added, based on total weight of the feedstock, solvent and/or reaction mixture.
          As used herein, a "supercritical" substance (e.g. a supercritical solvent) refers to a
20 substance that is heated above its critical temperature and pressurised above its critical
   pressure (i.e. a substance at a temperature and pressure above its critical point).
          As used herein, a "subcritical" substance (e.g. a subcritical solvent) refers to a
   substance at a temperature and/or pressure below the critical point of the substance.
   Accordingly, a substance may be "subcritical" at a temperature below its critical point and a
25 pressure above its critical point, at a temperature above its critical point and a pressure below
   its critical point, or at a temperature and pressure below its critical point.
          As used herein, a "solid substrate" is a component that is solid or substantially solid at a
   reaction temperature and pressure used in accordance with the methods of the present
   invention. The solid substrate may be capable of sequestering organic and/or inorganic matter
30 that de-solubilises within the reaction mixture and/or a product mixture produced from the
   reaction mixture. Additionally or alternatively, the solid substrate may be capable of altering
   the flow characteristics of the reaction mixture or the product mixture in a reactor vessel.
   Solid substrates encompass both carbonaceous and non-carbonaceous materials, non-limiting
   examples of which include coals, anthracitic coal, meta-anthracite, anthracite semianthracite,
                                                    16

   bituminous coal, subbituminous coal, lignite (i.e. brown coal), coking coal, coal tar, coal tar
   derivatives, coal char, coke, high temperature coke, foundry coke, low and medium
   temperature coke, pitch coke, petroleum coke, coke oven coke, coke breeze, gas coke, brown
   coal coke, semi coke, charcoal, pyrolysis char, hydrothermal char, carbon black, graphite fine
 5 particles, amorphous carbon, carbon nanotubes, carbon nanofibers, vapor-grown carbon
   fibers, fly ash, a mineral, calcium carbonate, calcite, a silicate, silica, quartz, an oxide, a metal
   oxide, an insoluble or substantially insoluble metal salt, iron ore, a clay mineral, talc,
   gypsum, carbonates of calcium, carbonates of magnesium, carbonates of calcium and magnesium,
   calcite, limestone, dolomite, hydroxides of calcium, hydroxides of magnesium, oxides of calcium,
10 oxides of magnesium, hydrogen carbonates of calcium, hydrogen carbonates of magnesium, kaolinite,
   bentonite, illite, zeolites, calcium phosphate, hydroxyapataite, phyllosilicates, and any combination
   thereof.
           As used herein, the term "continuous flow" refers to a process wherein a slurry
   comprising organic matter feedstock and any one or more of: a solvent, solid substrate,
is catalyst additive and/or oil additive, is subjected to:
       (a)    heating and pressurisation to a target temperature and pressure,
       (b)    treatment at target temperature(s) and pressure(s) for a defined time period (a
       "retention time"), and
       (c) cooling and de-pressurisation;
20     during which the slurry is maintained in a stream of continuous movement along the
   length (or partial length) of a given surface of a reactor vessel. It will be understood that
   "continuous flow" conditions as contemplated herein are defined by a starting point of
   heating and pressurisation (i.e. (a) above) and by an end point of cooling and de
   pressurisation (i.e. (c) above). Continuous flow conditions as contemplated herein imply no
25 particular limitation regarding flow velocity of the slurry provided that it is maintained in a
   stream of continuous movement.
           As used herein, a "catalyst additive" is a catalyst incorporated into a feedstock slurry
   and/or reaction mixture that is supplementary to catalytic compounds intrinsically present in
   organic matter feedstock treated in accordance with the methods of the invention, catalytic
30 compounds intrinsically present in any solvent used in accordance with the methods of the
   invention, catalytic compounds intrinsically present in a solid substrate used to perform the
   methods of the invention, and/or catalytic compounds intrinsically present in the walls of a
   reactor apparatus used to perform the methods of the invention.
                                                       17

          As used herein, the term "intrinsic catalyst" will be understood to be a catalyst that is
   innately present in a given reaction component such as, for example, any one or more of
   organic matter feedstock, an aqueous solvent, and/or vessel walls of a reactor apparatus, or, a
   catalyst that form in situ during the treatment process.
 5        As used herein, the terms "reactor", "reactor apparatus", and "reactor vessel" are used
   interchangeably and have the same meaning. Each term encompasses any apparatus suitable
   for performing the methods of the present invention including, for example, continuous flow
   reactors and batch reactors.
          As used herein a "substantially solid" substrate refers to a substrate that is
10 predominantly solid at a specified reaction temperature and/or pressure in that at least 50%, at
   least 60%, at least 70%, at least 80%, at least 90%, preferably at least 95%, and more
   preferably at least 98% of the substrate is in a solid form.
          As used herein, a "substantially insoluble" substance is one that is predominantly
   insoluble at a specified reaction temperature and/or pressure in that at least 90%, preferably at
is least 95%, and more preferably at least 98% of the substrate is not solubilised.
          As used herein, an "inert" or "chemically inert" solid substrate is one that does not
   chemically react with other components in a reaction mixture or catalyse reactions between
   components in a reaction mixture, at a specified reaction temperature and pressure or at a
   range of reaction temperatures and pressures.
20        As used herein, a "substantially inert" or "substantially chemically inert" solid substrate
   one that does not to any significant degree chemically react with other components in a
   reaction mixture or catalyse reactions between components in a reaction mixture, at a
   specified reaction temperature and pressure or at a range of reaction temperatures and
   pressures. A "substantially inert" or "substantially chemically inert" solid substrate will be
25 understood to react with any other component in a given reaction mixture, or catalyse a
   reaction between any given components in a reaction mixture, on less than 5%, less than 4%,
   less than 3%, less than 2%, or less than 1%, of interaction events with the component(s).It
   will be understood that use of the term "about" herein in reference to a recited numerical
   value (e.g. a temperature or pressure) includes the recited numerical value and numerical
30 values within plus or minus ten percent of the recited value.
          It will be understood that use of the term "between" herein when referring to a range of
   numerical values encompasses the numerical values at each endpoint of the range. For
   example, a temperature range of between 100 C and 15'C is inclusive of the temperatures
   10 C and 15'C.
                                                    18

          Any description of a prior art document herein, or a statement herein derived from or
   based on that document, is not an admission that the document or derived statement is a part
   of the common general knowledge of the relevant art.
          For the purposes of description all documents referred to herein are incorporated by
 5 reference in their entirety unless otherwise stated.
                            Detailed Description of the Invention
          Current methods for the production of bio-oil from organic matter suffer from a number
10 of drawbacks. Apart from the generally high oxygen content and poor stability of most bio
   oils, the need to conduct depolymerisation reactions at high temperature and pressure requires
   a reactor apparatus (e.g. continuous flow reactors, batch reactors and the like) introducing
   additional difficulties.
          For example, water is generally used as the primary depolymerisation agent in
is hydrothermal liquefaction processes (e.g. hydrothermal upgrading (HTU) and catalytic
   hydrothermal reactor technology (Cat-HTR)). The use of water restricts the concentration of
   organic matter (e.g. lignocellulosic biomass) that can be used in slurry feedstock in a reactor
   due to swelling. Moreover, high energy levels are required to heat water up to reaction
   temperature (and maintain it there) resulting in charring on the inside of the reactor vessel
20 walls. Although the use of a suitable co-solvent such as ethanol offers a potential means of
   reducing charring it also significantly increases the overall cost of the process. Ballistic
   heating is another method that may be used to minimise charring. This process involves the
   rapid convergence of two separate streams (a slurry stream and a sub/supercritical water
   stream) in a ballistic heating chamber. However, the cost of the supercritical boiler used in
25 ballistic heating and associated water de-ionisation stage has a significantly adverse effect on
   cost efficiency.
          Another disadvantage of known methods for bio-oil production that use hydrothermal
   liquefaction of organic matter feedstock is that the product typically comprises multiple
   layers of oil having different chemical properties. Separation of the different layers can be
30 difficult and requires additional resources.
          A further disadvantage of known methods for bio-oil production that use hydrothermal
   liquefaction of organic matter feedstock is that when high concentrations of liquefied organic
   matter (e.g. lignocellulosic matter) are flowing in a tube reactor it has been determined by the
   present inventors that a large pressure difference may develop between the upstream and
                                                   19

   downstream reactor elements. During operation of a large tube reactor under continuous flow
   conditions a large pressure differential is typically sufficient to prevent further operation of
   the reactor for operational control and safety reasons.
          An additional disadvantage of known methods for bio-oil production that use
 5 hydrothermal liquefaction of organic matter feedstock is that when high concentrations of
   liquefied organic matter are flowing in a tube reactor it has been observed that organic and/or
   inorganic matter may deposit on the reactor walls, particularly where the tube profile
   changes, for example at unions or bends linking two straight reactor tube elements.
          The present invention relates to the unexpected finding that at least one of the
10 aforementioned disadvantages can be alleviated by incorporating a solid substrate into the
   feed material and/or reaction mixture used in hydrothermal liquefaction processes. The solid
   substrate is generally one which remains solid or substantially solid at the reaction
   temperature and pressure utilised.
          Without limitation to particular mechanism(s) of action, it is postulated that the solid
is substrate additive may act as an alternative deposition locus for de-solubilised organic and/or
   inorganic materials that would otherwise deposit as scale on the reactor walls. This
   sequestration effect may be enhanced where the substrate has a high surface area per unit
   mass. Additionally or alternatively, it is proposed that the presence of the solid substrate may
   alter the flow characteristics of the feedstock slurry, reaction mixture and/or product mixture.
20 These and other potential mechanisms may be responsible for the observed reduction in
   pressure differential that otherwise develops between the upstream and downstream reactor
   elements when higher concentrations of organic matter (e.g. lignocellulosic matter) are used
   in slurry feed, and/or the observed reduction in deposition of organic and/or inorganic matter
   on reactor vessel walls (scaling).
25        Furthermore and again without limitation to mechanistic theory, it is postulated that the
   solid substrate may additionally enhance the properties of bio-products by the methods of the
   present invention by making available additional metal surface area within the reactor by a
   mild abrasive action on the surfaces that would otherwise be protected by means of a
   passivation layer. These additional metal surfaces may act as heterogeneous catalysts for
30 favourable reactions (e.g. decarboxylation and hydrogen-transfer reactions, and other reaction
   types).
          Accordingly, certain aspects of the present invention relate to methods for producing
   bio-products by treating organic matter feedstock with various solvents and in the presence of
                                                   20

   solid substrates at increased temperature and pressure. Additional aspects of the present
   invention relate to bio-products generated by the methods described herein.
          The methods of the present invention are demonstrated to provide several notable
   advantages.
 5        One such advantage is the prevention of pressure build-up and/or scale formation in
   reactors during the conversion of organic matter feedstock into bio-products (e.g. biofuels,
   platform chemicals) at high temperature and pressure. In particular, when the conversion
   process is conducted under continuous flow conditions in a tube reactor or similar, the
   development of a pressure differential across the reactor and/or scaling on reactor walls may
10 require operations to be terminated and necessitate expensive and time-consuming de-scaling
   or cleaning procedures. A second advantage is that inclusion of the solid substrate may assist
   in increasing the availability of metal surfaces in the reactor that can partake in heterogeneous
   catalysis. A third advantage is that if a liquid biofuel is pyrolytically distilled from a product
   mixture comprising the solid substrate after de-pressurisation              and separation (see
is methodology in Examples), a char can be generated that can be recycled to provide solid
   substrate for treatment of additional organic matter feedstock. Furthermore, char produced in
   excess of solid substrate requirements is a renewable carbon-rich solid product with
   suitability for use in bio-char carbon sequestration, fuel and/or chemical applications.
20 Organic matter
          The present invention provides methods for the conversion of organic matter feedstock
   into bio-products (e.g. biofuels including bio-oils; chemical products etc.). As used herein,
   "organic matter" (also referred to herein as "organic material") encompasses any matter
   comprising carbon, including both fossilised and non-fossilised forms of carbon-comprising
25 matter.
          No limitation exists regarding the particular type of organic matter feedstocks utilised
   in the methods of the invention, although it is contemplated that the use of a solid substrate in
   accordance with the methods of the present invention may be more beneficial during the
   conversion of non-fossilised forms of organic matter (e.g. lignocellulosic matter) compared to
30 fossilised forms of organic matter.
          Organic matter utilised in the methods of the invention may comprise naturally
   occurring organic matter (e.g. lignocellulosic biomass and the like) and/or synthetic organic
   materials (e.g. synthetic rubbers, plastics, nylons and the like). In some embodiments, organic
   matter utilised in the methods of the invention comprises a mixture of fossilised organic
                                                    21

   matter and non-fossilised organic matter (e.g. lignocellulosic matter). In such cases, the
   fossilised organic matter may remain solid at reaction temperature and pressure in which case
   it may act as a solid substrate as described herein. In the case where more than one type (i.e. a
   mixture) of organic matter is utilised, no limitation exists regarding the particular proportion
 5 of the different components of organic matter.
          In preferred embodiments, organic matter utilised in the methods of the invention is or
   comprises lignocellulosic matter. Lignocellulosic matter as contemplated herein refers to any
   substance comprising lignin, cellulose and hemicellulose.
          For example, the lignocellulosic matter may be a woody plant or component thereof.
10 Examples of suitable woody plants include, but are not limited to, pine (e.g. Pinus radiata),
   birch, eucalyptus, bamboo, beech, spruce, fir, cedar, poplar, willow and aspen. The woody
   plants may be coppiced woody plants (e.g. coppiced willow, coppiced aspen).
          Additionally or alternatively, the lignocellulosic matter may be a fibrous plant or a
   component thereof. Non-limiting examples of fibrous plants (or components thereof) include
15 grasses (e.g. switchgrass), grass clippings, flax, corn cobs, corn stover, reed, bamboo,
   bagasse, hemp, sisal, jute, cannibas, hemp, straw, wheat straw, abaca, cotton plant, kenaf, rice
   hulls, and coconut hair.
          Additionally or alternatively, the lignocellulosic matter may be derived from an
   agricultural source. Non-limiting examples of lignocellulosic matter from agricultural sources
20 include agricultural crops, agricultural crop residues, and grain processing facility wastes
   (e.g. wheat/oat hulls, corn fines etc.). In general, lignocellulosic matter from agricultural
   sources may include hard woods, soft woods, hardwood stems, softwood stems, nut shells,
   branches, bushes, canes, corn, corn stover, cornhusks, energy crops, forests, fruits, flowers,
   grains, grasses, herbaceous crops, wheat straw, switchgrass, salix, sugarcane bagasse, cotton
25 seed hairs, leaves, bark, needles, logs, roots, saplings, short rotation woody crops, shrubs,
   switch grasses, trees, vines, cattle manure, and swine waste.
          Additionally or alternatively,     the lignocellulosic   matter may be derived from
   commercial or virgin forests (e.g. trees, saplings, forestry or timber processing residue, scrap
   wood such as branches, leaves, bark, logs, roots, leaves and products derived from the
30 processing of such materials, waste or byproduct streams from wood products, sawmill and
   paper mill discards and off-cuts, sawdust, and particle board).
          Additionally or alternatively, the lignocellulosic matter may be derived from industrial
   products and by-products. Non-limiting examples include wood-related materials and woody
                                                   22

   wastes and industrial products (e.g. pulp, paper (e.g. newspaper) papermaking sludge,
   cardboard, textiles and cloths, dextran, and rayon).
          It will be understood that organic material used in the methods of the invention may
   comprise a mixture of two or more different types of lignocellulosic matter, including any
 5 combination of the specific examples provided above.
          The relative proportion of lignin, hemicellulose and cellulose in a given sample will
   depend on the specific nature of the lignocellulosic matter.
          By way of example only, the proportion of hemicellulose in a woody or fibrous plant
   used in the methods of the invention may be between about 15% and about 40%, the
10 proportion of cellulose may be between about 30% and about 60%, and the proportion of
   lignin may be between about 5% and about 40%. Preferably, the proportion of hemicellulose
   in the woody or fibrous plant may be between about 23% and about 32%, the proportion of
   cellulose may be between about 38% and about 50%, and the proportion of lignin may be
   between about 15% and about 25%.
is        In some embodiments, lignocellulosic matter used in the methods of the invention may
   comprise between about       2%    and about    3 5%   lignin, between about 15% and about  4 5%
   cellulose, and between about 10% and about 3 5% hemicellulose.
          In other embodiments, lignocellulosic matter used in the methods of the invention may
   comprise between about       2 0%   and about 35% lignin, between about      2 0% and about 45%
20 cellulose, and between about 20% and about 35% hemicellulose.
          In some embodiments, the lignocellulosic matter may comprise more than about 5%,
   10%, 15 %, 2 0%, 2 5 %, 3 0%, 3 5 %, 4 0%, 4 5 %, or 50% lignin.
          In some embodiments, the lignocellulosic matter may comprise more than about 5%,
   10%, 15%,    2 0%, 2 5 %, 3 0%, 3 5 %, 4 0%, 4 5 %, or   50% cellulose.
25        In some embodiments, the lignocellulosic matter may comprise more than about 5%,
   10%, 15%,    2 0%, 2 5 %, 3 0%, 3 5 %, 4 0%, 4 5 %, or   50% hemicellulose.
          The skilled addressee will recognize that the methods described herein are not
   constrained by the relative proportions of lignin, hemicellulose and cellulose in a given
   source of lignocellulosic matter.
30        In certain embodiments of the invention, a mixture of organic material comprising
   lignite (brown coal) and lignocellulosic matter may be utilised as organic matter feedstock in
   the methods of the invention. The lignocellulosic matter of the mixture may, for example,
   comprise woody plant material and/or fibrous plant material. The proportion of lignite in the
                                                       23

   mixture may be greater than about 20%, 40%, 60% or 80%. Alternatively, the proportion of
   lignocellulosic matter in the mixture may be greater than about 20%, 40%, 60% or 80%.
          In some preferred embodiments, organic matter utilised in the methods of the invention
   comprises carbon-containing polymeric materials, non-limiting examples of which include
 5 rubbers (e.g. tyres), plastics and polyamides (e.g. nylons).
          Non-limiting examples of suitable rubbers include natural and synthetic rubbers such as
   polyurethanes, styrene rubbers, neoprenes, polybutadiene, fluororubbers, butyl rubbers,
   silicone rubbers, plantation rubber, acrylate rubbers, thiokols, and nitrile rubbers.
          Non-limiting examples of suitable plastics include PVC, polyethylene, polystyrene,
10 terphtalate, polyethylene and polypropylene.
          Organic matter feedstocks utilised in the methods of the invention may comprise
   carbon-containing wastes such as sewage, manure, or household or industrial waste materials.
   Pre-treatment of organic matter
15        Organic matter utilised in the methods of the present invention may optionally be pre
   treated prior converting it into bio-product(s).
          It will be recognised that no strict requirement exists to perform a pre-treatment step
   when using the methods described herein. For example, pre-treatment of the organic matter
   may not be required if it is obtained in the form of a liquid or in a particulate form. However,
20 it is contemplated that in many cases pre-treatment of the organic matter may be
   advantageous in enhancing the outcome of the methods described herein.
          In general, pre-treatment may be used to break down the physical and/or chemical
   structure of the organic matter making it more accessible to various reagents utilised in the
   methods of the invention (e.g. oil-based solvent, catalysts and the like) and/or other reaction
25 parameters (e.g. heat and pressure). In certain embodiments, pre-treatment of organic matter
   may be performed for the purpose of increasing solubility, increasing porosity and/or
   reducing the crystallinity of sugar components (e.g. cellulose). Pre-treatment of the organic
   matter may be performed using an apparatus such as, for example, an extruder, a pressurized
   vessel, or batch reactor.
30        Pre-treatment of the organic matter may comprise physical methods, non-limiting
   examples of which include grinding, chipping, shredding, milling (e.g. vibratory ball
   milling), compression/expansion, agitation, and/or pulse-electric field (PEF) treatment.
          Additionally or alternatively, pre-treatment of the organic matter may comprise physio
   chemical methods, non-limiting examples of which include pyrolysis, steam explosion,
                                                    24

   ammonia fiber explosion (AFEX), ammonia recycle percolation (ARP), and/or carbon
   dioxide explosion. Pre-treatment with steam explosion may additionally involve agitation of
   the organic matter.
          Additionally or alternatively, pre-treatment of the organic matter may comprise
 5 chemical methods, non-limiting examples of which include ozonolysis, acid hydrolysis (e.g.
   dilute acid hydrolysis using H 2 SO 4 and/or HCl), alkaline hydrolysis (e.g. dilute alkaline
   hydrolysis using sodium, potassium, calcium and/or ammonium hydroxides), oxidative
   delignification (i.e. lignin biodegradation catalysed by the peroxidase enzyme in the presence
   of H 2 0 2 ), and/or the organosolvation method (i.e. use of an organic solvent mixture with
10 inorganic acid catalysts such as H2 SO 4 and/or HCl to break lignin-hemicellulose bonds).
          Additionally or alternatively, pre-treatment of the organic matter may comprise
   biological methods, non-limiting examples of which include the addition of microorganisms
   (e.g. rot fungi) capable of degrading/decomposing various component(s) of the organic
   matter.
is        In some embodiments, organic matter used in the methods of the present invention is
   lignocellulosic matter which may be subjected to an optional pre-treatment step in which
   hemicellulose is extracted. Accordingly, the majority of the hemicellulose (or indeed all of
   the hemicellulose) may be extracted from the lignocellulosic matter and the remaining
   material (containing predominantly cellulose and lignin) used to produce a biofuel by the
20 methods of the invention. However, it will be understood that this pre-treatment is optional
   and no requirement exists to separate hemicellulose from lignocellulosic matter when
   performing the methods of the present invention. Suitable methods for the separation of
   hemicellulose from lignocellulosic matter are described, for example, in PCT publication
   number WO/2010/034055, the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
25        For example, the hemicellulose may be extracted from lignocellulosic matter by
   subjecting     a slurry comprising the lignocellulosic      matter (e.g.  5%-15% w/v solid
   concentration) to treatment with a mild aqueous acid (e.g. pH 6.5-6.9) at a temperature of
   between about 100'C and about 250'C, a reaction pressure of between about 2 and about 50
   atmospheres, for between about 5 and about 20 minutes. The solubilised hemicellulose
30 component may be separated from the remaining solid matter (containing predominantly
   cellulose and lignin) using any suitable means (e.g. by use of an appropriately sized filter).
   The remaining solid matter may be used directly in the methods of the invention, or
   alternatively mixed with one or more other forms of organic matter (e.g. lignite) for use in the
   methods of the invention.
                                                   25

   Slurry characteristics
          Organic matter feedstock utilised in accordance with the methods of the present
   invention is preferably treated in the form of a slurry. The slurry may comprise the organic
   matter in combination with a solvent (e.g. an aqueous solvent, an aqueous alcohol solvent, an
 5 aqueous ethanol solvent, an aqueous methanol solvent) optionally in combination with a solid
   substrate, a catalyst additive, and/or an oil additive.      The slurry may be generated, for
   example, by generating a particulate form of the organic matter (e.g. by physical methods
   such as those referred to above and/or by other means) and mixing with the solvent.
         No particular limitation exists regarding the relative proportions of solvent, feedstock,
10 oil additive and/or solid substrate in the slurry. Non-limiting examples of potential quantities
   of these various components are described in the sections below.
   Organicmatterfeedstock component
         A slurry for use in accordance with the methods of the present invention will generally
15 comprise organic matter feedstock.
          In certain embodiments of the invention, the concentration of organic matter in the
   slurry may be less than about 85 wt%, less than about 75 wt%, or less than about 50 wt%.
   Alternatively, the concentration of organic matter may be more than about 10 wt%, more than
   about 20 wt%, more than about 30 wt%, more than about 40 wt%, more than about 50 wt%,
20 or more than about 60 wt%. In some embodiments the slurry may comprise between about
   35 wt% and about 45 wt% of an oil additive. In other embodiments, the slurry may comprise
   about 40 wt% oil or 39.5 wt% of an oil additive.
          The optimal particle size of solid components of the organic matter feedstock and the
   optimal concentration of those solids in the slurry may depend upon factors such as, for
25 example, the heat transfer capacity of the organic matter utilised (i.e. the rate at which heat
   can be transferred into and through individual particles), the desired rheological properties of
   the slurry and/or the compatibility of the slurry with component/s of a given apparatus within
   which the methods of the invention may be performed (e.g. reactor tubing). The optimal
   particle size and/or concentration of solid components of the organic matter components in a
30 slurry used for the methods of the present invention can readily be determined by a person
   skilled in the art using standard techniques. For example, a series of slurries may be
   generated, each sample in the series comprising different particle sizes and/or different
   concentrations of the solid organic matter components compared to the other samples. Each
   slurry can then be treated in accordance with the methods of the invention under a conserved
                                                   26

   set of reaction conditions. The optimal particle size and/or concentration of solid organic
   matter components can then be determined upon analysis and comparison of the products
   generated from each slurry using standard techniques in the art.
          In certain embodiments of the invention, the particle size of solid organic matter
 5 components in the slurry may be between about 10 microns and about 10,000 microns. For
   example, the particle size may be more than about 50, 100, 500, 750, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000,
   5000, 6000, 7000, 8000 or 9000 microns. Alternatively, the particle size may less than about
   50, 100, 500, 750, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000, 6000, 7000, 8000 or 9000 microns. In some
   embodiments, the particle size is between about 10 microns and about 50 microns, between
10 about 10 microns and about 100 microns, between about 10 microns and about 200 microns,
   between about 10 microns and about 500 microns, between about 10 microns and about 750
   microns, or between about 10 microns and about 1000 microns. In other embodiments, the
   particle size is between about between about 100 microns and about 1000 microns, between
   about 100 microns and about 750 microns, between about 100 microns and about 500
is microns, or between about 100 microns and about 250 microns.
   Solvent component
         A slurry for use in accordance with the methods of the present invention will generally
   comprise a solvent component. The solvent may be an aqueous solvent, an oil solvent, or a
20 combination thereof.
          The solvent may comprise or consist of water.
          In certain embodiments of the invention, the concentration of water in the slurry may be
   above about 80 wt%, above about 85 wt%, or above about 90 wt%. Accordingly, the
   concentration of water may be above about 75 wt%, above about 70 wt%, above about 60
25 wt%, above about 50 wt%, above about 40 wt%, or above about 30 wt%.                    In some
   embodiments, the concentration of water is between about 90 wt% and about 95 wt%.
          In some embodiments the slurry comprises between about 10 wt% and about 30 wt%
   water. In other preferred embodiments, the slurry comprises about 20 wt% oil or about 15
   wt% water.
30        In some embodiments, the water is recycled from the product of the process. For
   example, a portion water present following completion of the reaction may be taken off as a
   side stream and recycled into the slurry.
          The solvent may comprise or consist of one or more aqueous alcohol/s.
                                                 27

          For example, it may be suitable or preferable to use an aqueous alcohol as the solvent
   when the organic matter used in the methods consists of or comprises a significant amount of
   lignocellulosic material and/or other materials such rubber and plastics due to the stronger
   chemical bonds in these types of organic matter.
 5        Suitable alcohols may comprise between one and about ten carbon atoms. Non-limiting
   examples of suitable alcohols include methanol, ethanol, isopropyl alcohol, isobutyl alcohol,
   pentyl alcohol, hexanol and iso-hexanol.
          The slurry may comprise more than about 5 wt%, 10 wt%, 15 wt%, 20 wt%, 25 wt%,
   30 wt%, 35 wt%, 40 wt%, 45 wt% or 50 wt% alcohol aqueous alcohol.
10        In certain embodiments, the solvent comprises a mixture of two or more aqueous
   alcohols. Preferably, the alcohol is ethanol, methanol or a mixture thereof.
   Solid substrate component
          A slurry for use in accordance with the methods of the present invention may comprise
is a solid substrate component as described herein.
          Favourable characteristics of the solid substrate may include any one or more of the
   following: it remains inert or substantially inert at the reaction temperature and pressure used;
   it remains unaltered or substantially unaltered upon completion of the process; it remains as a
   solid or substantially solid at the reaction temperatures and pressures used; it is of low or
20 moderate hardness so that it does not induce substantial abrasion or erosive corrosion in
   reactors (e.g. continuous flow reactors); it has a high internal or external specific surface area
   so that it can adsorb and/or absorb large quantities of bio-products and/or other precipitates
   during the conversion process.
          The solid substrate may be a carbonaceous material. By way of non-limiting example
25 only, the solid substrate may be a carbonaceous material comprising at least 50%, at least
   60%, at least 7 0%, at least 80%, at least 90%, or at least 95% by weight carbon.
          Non-limiting examples of suitable carbonaceous materials for use as the solid substrate
   include coals (e.g. anthracitic coals such as meta-anthracite, anthracite and semianthracite;
   bituminous coals, subbituminous coals, lignite (i.e. brown coal), coking coal, coal tar, coal tar
30 derivatives, coal char); cokes (e.g. high temperature coke, foundry coke, low and medium
   temperature coke, pitch coke, petroleum coke, coke oven coke, coke breeze, gas coke, brown
   coal coke, semi coke); charcoal; pyrolysis char; hydrothermal char; carbon black; graphite
   fine particles; amorphous carbon; carbon nanotubes; carbon nanofibers; vapor-grown carbon
   fibers; and any combination thereof.
                                                   28

           In some preferred embodiments of the present invention the solid substrate may be a
   carbon rich char made from the previous processing of organic matter according to the
   present invention followed by a thermal treatment in the substantial absence of oxygen to
   remove volatile materials (e.g. by pyrolysis or vacuum distillation at temperatures in the
 5 range of 200'C to 800'C).
           The solid substrate may be a non-carbonaceous material. By way of non-limiting
   example only, the solid substrate may be a non-carbonaceous material comprising less than
   20%, less than 10%, less than 5%, less than 3%, less than 2%, or less than 1%, by weight
   carbon, or comprise no carbon.
10        Non-limiting examples of suitable non-carbonaceous materials for use as the solid
   substrate include ash (e.g. fly ash); minerals (e.g. calcium carbonate, calcite, silicates, silica,
   quartz, oxides including iron ore, clay minerals, talc, gypsum); an insoluble or substantially
   insoluble metal salt; and any combination thereof.
           Further non-limiting examples of suitable materials for use as the solid substrate
is include carbonates of calcium, carbonates of magnesium, carbonates of calcium and magnesium,
   calcite, limestone, dolomite, hydroxides of calcium, hydroxides of magnesium, oxides of calcium,
   oxides of magnesium, hydrogen carbonates of calcium, hydrogen carbonates of magnesium, kaolinite,
   bentonite, illite, zeolites, calcium phosphate, hydroxyapataite, phyllosilicates, and any combination
   thereof.
20         In certain embodiments of the present invention, the concentration of solid substrate in
   the slurry may be less than about 20 wt%, less than about 15 wt%, or less than about 10 wt%.
   Alternatively, the concentration of solid substrate may be more than about 0.5 wt%, more
   than about 1 wt%, more than about 3 wt%, more than about 5 wt%, more than about 50 8
   wt%, or more than about 10 wt%.
25         The optimal particle size and optimal concentration of the solid substrate may depend
   upon factors such as, for example, the heat transfer capacity of the organic matter utilised (i.e.
   the rate at which heat can be transferred into and through individual particles), the desired
   rheological properties of the slurry and/or the compatibility of the slurry with component/s of
   a given apparatus within which the methods of the invention may be performed (e.g. reactor
30 tubing). The optimal particle size and/or concentration of the solid substrate component in a
   slurry used for the methods of the invention can readily be determined by a person skilled in
   the art using standard techniques. For example, a series of slurries may be generated, each
   sample in the series comprising a specific solid substrate of different size and/or different
   concentration to those of other samples. Each slurry can then be treated in accordance with
                                                     29

   the methods of the invention under a conserved set of reaction conditions. The optimal solid
   substrate size and/or concentration can then be determined upon analysis and comparison of
   the products generated from each slurry using standard techniques in the art.
         In certain embodiments of the invention, the size of a solid substrate component in the
 5 slurry may be between about 10 microns and about 10,000 microns. For example, the size
   may be more than about 50, 100, 500, 750, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, 5000, 6000, 7000, 8000
   or 9000 microns. Alternatively, the size may less than about 50, 100, 500, 750, 1000, 2000,
   3000, 4000, 5000, 6000, 7000, 8000 or 9000 microns. In some embodiments, the size is
   between about 10 microns and about 50 microns, between about 10 microns and about 100
10 microns, between about 10 microns and about 200 microns, between about 10 microns and
   about 500 microns, between about 10 microns and about 750 microns, or between about 10
   microns and about 1000 microns. In other embodiments, the size is between about between
   about 100 microns and about 1000 microns, between about 100 microns and about 750
   microns, between about 100 microns and about 500 microns, or between about 100 microns
is and about 250 microns.
         In some embodiments of the invention, the particle size distributions and particle
   surface charge characteristics of the organic matter component of the slurry and/or the solid
   substrate component of the slurry may be optimized in order to provide desirable slurry
   characteristics when mixed, for example, to obtain minimum viscosity for a given solids
20 content. The optimal particle size and/or particle surface charge of solid components in a
   given slurry used can readily be determined by a person skilled in the art using standard
   techniques. For example, a series of slurries may be generated, each sample in the series
   comprising different particle sizes and/or different concentrations of solid components
   compared to the other samples. Each slurry can then be treated in accordance with the
25 methods of the invention under a conserved set of reaction conditions. The optimal particle
   size and/or particle surface charge of solid organic matter components can then be
   determined upon analysis and comparison of the products generated from each slurry using
   standard techniques known in the art.
30 Catalysts
         The conversion of organic matter feedstock into bio-products using the methods of the
   present invention may be enhanced by the use of one or more catalyst additives. Although
   some catalysts may be an intrinsic component of the organic matter (e.g. minerals), solvent
   (e.g. hydronium/hydroxide ions of water, compound/s in the oil), solid substrate, and/or
                                                 30

   vessel walls of a reactor apparatus in which the organic matter may be treated (e.g.
   transition/noble metals), the invention contemplates the use of catalyst additive(s) to enhance
   the production of biofuel from organic material.
          Accordingly, certain embodiments of the invention relate to the production of bio
 5 products from organic matter by treatment with a solvent, a solid substrate and optionally an
   oil additive under conditions of increased temperature and pressure in the presence of at least
   one catalyst additive. By catalyst additive it will be understood that the catalyst is
   supplementary to catalytic compounds intrinsically present in the organic matter, solvent,
   solid substrate, and/or walls of a reactor apparatus in which the method is performed.
10        For example, an embodiment of the invention in which an organic matter feedstock
   (e.g. lignocellulosic matter) is treated with a solvent and a solid substrate under conditions of
   increased temperature and pressure in a reactor apparatus would not be considered to utilise
   an catalyst additive.
          Alternatively, an embodiment of the invention in which an organic matter feedstock
15 (e.g. lignocellulosic matter) is mixed with a solvent, a solid substrate and a supplementary
   base catalyst (e.g. sodium hydroxide) added, and the resulting mixture then treated under
   conditions of increased temperature and pressure in a reactor apparatus, the method would be
   considered to utilise an catalyst additive.
          Although the use of catalyst additive/s may be advantageous in certain circumstances,
20 the skilled addressee will recognise that the methods of the invention may be performed
   without using them.
          An catalyst additive as contemplated herein may be any catalyst that enhances the
   formation of biofuel from organic matter using the methods of the invention, non-limiting
   examples of which include base catalysts, acid catalysts, alkali metal hydroxide catalysts,
25 transition metal hydroxide catalysts, alkali metal formate catalysts, transition metal formate
   catalysts, reactive carboxylic acid catalysts, transition metal catalysts, sulphide catalysts,
   noble metal catalysts, water-gas-shift catalysts, and combinations thereof. Suitable catalysts
   are described, for example, in United States of America patent publication number 2012
   0311658 Al entitled "Methods for biofuel production", the entire contents of which are
30 incorporated herein by reference.
          The optimal quantity of an catalyst additive used in the methods of the invention may
   depend on a variety of different factors including, for example, the type of organic matter
   under treatment, the volume of organic matter under treatment, the solvent utilised, the
                                                   31

   specific temperature and pressure employed during the reaction, the type of catalyst and the
   desired properties of the biofuel product. By following the methods of the invention, the
   optimal quantity of an catalyst additive to be used can be determined by one skilled in the art
   without inventive effort.
 5         In certain embodiments, an catalyst additive or combination of catalyst additives may
   be used in an amount of between about 0.1% and about 10% w/v catalysts, between about
   0.1% and about 7.5% w/v catalysts, between about 0.1% and about 5% w/v catalysts,
   between about 0.1% and about 2.5% w/v catalysts, between about 0.1% and about 1% w/v
   catalysts, or between about 0.1% and about 0.5 % w/v catalysts (in relation to the solvent).
10         In general, the catalyst additives may be used to create or assist in forming and/or
   maintaining a reducing environment favouring the conversion of organic matter to biofuel.
   The reducing environment may favour hydrolysis of the organic matter, drive the
   replacement of oxygen with hydrogen, and/or stabilise the biofuel formed.
           Treatment under subcritical conditions (as opposed to supercritical conditions) may be
is advantageous in that less energy is required to perform the methods and reaction components
   may be better preserved during treatment. When subcritical conditions are utilised it is
   contemplated that the additional use of one or more catalysts may be particularly beneficial in
   increasing the yield and/or quality of the bio-products. Further, the cost benefits of reduced
   input energy (i.e. to maintain subcritical rather than supercritical conditions) and preservation
20 of the solvent may significantly outweigh the extra cost incurred by additionally including
   one or more of the catalyst additives described herein.
           It is contemplated that under conditions of increased temperature and pressure water
   molecules in the solvent may dissociate into acidic (hydronium) and basic (hydroxide) ions
   facilitating hydrolysis of solid organic        matter under treatment      (i.e. solid to liquid
25 transformation). In certain embodiments, the temperature and pressure at which the reaction
   is performed may be sufficiently high for desired levels of hydrolysis to occur without the use
   of catalyst additives. In other cases, the temperature and pressure at which the reaction is
   performed may not be sufficiently high for desired levels of hydrolysis to occur without the
   further addition of catalyst additives.
30         The catalyst additives may be hydrolysis catalysts. In certain embodiments, the
   hydrolysis catalysts may be base catalysts. Any suitable base catalyst may be used.
          Non-limiting examples of suitable base catalysts for hydrolysis include alkali metal
   salts, transition metal salts, organic bases, and mixtures thereof.
                                                    32

          The alkali metal salts or transition metal salts may comprise any inorganic anion(s),
   non-limiting examples of which include sulfate, sulfite, sulfide, disulfide, phosphate,
   aluminate, nitrate, nitrite, silicate, hydroxide, methoxide, ethoxide, alkoxide, carbonate and
   oxide.
 5        Preferred alkali metal or transition metal salts are sodium, potassium, iron, calcium and
   barium salts, and may comprise one or more anions selected from phosphate, aluminate,
   silicate, hydroxide, methoxide, ethoxide, carbonate, sulphate, sulphide, disulphide and oxide.
          Non-limiting examples of suitable organic bases include ammonia, basic and polar
   amino-acids      (e.g.   lysine,  histidine,  arginine),   benzathin,    benzimidazole,   betaine,
10 cinchonidine,        cinchonine,     diethylamine,      diisopropylethylamine,      ethanolamine,
   ethylenediamine, imidazole, methyl amine, N-methylguanidine, N-methylmorpholine, N
   methylpiperidine, phosphazene bases, picoline, piperazine, procain, pyridine, quinidine,
   quinoline, trialkylamine, tributylamine, triethyl amine, trimethylamine and mixtures thereof.
          In certain embodiments, the hydrolysis catalysts may be acid catalysts although it will
is be recognised that acid catalysts may generally slower in catalysing hydrolysis of the organic
   matter than base catalysts. Any suitable acid catalyst may be used.
          Non-limiting examples of suitable acid catalysts for hydrolysis include liquid mineral
   acids, organic acids, and mixtures thereof. The liquid mineral acids and organic acids may
   comprise any inorganic anion(s), non-limiting examples of which include aluminate, sulfate,
20 sulfite, sulfide, phosphate, phosphite, nitrate, nitrite, silicate, hydroxide and alkoxide (under
   supercritical or near supercritical conditions), carbonate and carboxy group anions.
          Non-limiting examples of suitable organic acids include acetic acid, butyric acid,
   caproic acid, citric acid, formic acid, glycolic acid, 3- hydroxypropionic acid, lactic acid,
   oxalic acid propionic acid, succinic acid, uric acid, and mixtures thereof.
25        In certain embodiments, acid catalyst(s) for hydrolysis may be present in minerals of
   the organic matter and/or derived from the in situ formation of carboxylic acids and/or
   phenolics during the treatment process. In these cases the acid catalyst are not catalyst
   additives, but instead considered to be intrinsic catalysts.
          In certain embodiments of the invention, a mixture of one or more additive acid
30 hydrolysis catalysts and one or more additive base hydrolysis catalysts may be used to
   enhance hydrolysis of solid matter under treatment.
          The methods of the invention may employ catalyst additives for hydrolysis of the
   organic matter (as discussed in the preceding paragraphs). Additionally or alternatively, the
                                                    33

   methods may utilise catalysts that increase and/or accelerate the removal of oxygen (either
   directly or indirectly) from compounds in the organic matter under treatment. The removal of
   oxygen may provide a number of advantageous effects such as, for example, increasing the
   energy content and stability of the biofuel produced.
 5        An additive acid catalyst may be used to enhance the removal of oxygen, for example,
   by dehydration (elimination) of water. Accordingly, in certain embodiments an acid catalyst
   may be used to enhance hydrolysis, and to enhance the removal of oxygen from organic
   matter under treatment.
          Any suitable acid catalyst may be used to enhance oxygen removal. Non-limiting
10 examples of suitable acid catalysts for oxygen removal include liquid mineral acids, organic
   acids, and mixtures thereof. The liquid mineral acids and organic acids may comprise any
   inorganic anion(s), non-limiting examples of which include aluminate, sulfate, sulfite,
   sulfide, phosphate, phosphite, nitrate, nitrite, silicate, hydroxide and alkoxide (under
   supercritical or near supercritical conditions), carbonate and carboxy group anions.
15        Non-limiting examples of suitable organic acids include acetic acid, butyric acid,
   caproic acid, citric acid, formic acid, glycolic acid, 3- hydroxypropionic acid, lactic acid,
   oxalic acid propionic acid, succinic acid, uric acid, and mixtures thereof.
          In certain embodiments alumino-silicates including hydrated forms (e.g. zeolites) may
   be used during the treatment of organic matter to assist in dehydration (elimination) of water.
20        Additionally or alternatively, the removal of oxygen may be enhanced by thermal
   means involving decarbonylation of, e.g. aldehydes (giving R 3C-H and CO gas) and
   decarboxylation of carboxylic acids in the material under treatment (giving R 3C-H and CO 2
   gas). The speed of these reactions may be enhanced by additive acid and/or transition (noble)
   metal catalysts. Any suitable transition or noble metal may be used including those supported
25 on solid acids. Non-limiting examples include Pt/A12 0 3 /SiO 2 , Pd/A12 0 3 /SiO 2 , Ni/A12 0 3/SiO 2 ,
   and mixtures thereof.
          Additionally or alternatively, a combined acid and hydrogenation catalyst additive may
   be used to enhance the removal of oxygen, for example, by hydrodeoxygenation (i.e.
   elimination of water (via acid component) and saturation of double bonds (via metal
30 component)). Any suitable combined acid and hydrogenation catalyst may be used including
   those supported on solid acids. Non-limiting examples include Pt/A12 0 3 /SiO 2 , Pd/A12 0 3/SiO 2 ,
   Ni/A12 0 3 /SiO 2 , NiO/MoO 3 , CoO/MoO 3 , NiO/WO 2 , zeolites loaded with noble metals (e.g.
   ZSM-5, Beta, ITQ-2), and mixtures thereof.
                                                    34

          The methods of the invention may employ catalyst additives that enhance hydrolysis of
   the organic matter under treatment, and/or catalysts that enhance the removal of oxygen from
   compounds in the organic matter (as discussed in the preceding paragraphs). Additionally or
   alternatively, the methods may utilise catalyst additives that enhance the concentration of
 5 hydrogen (either directly or indirectly) into compounds of the organic matter under treatment.
   The concentration of hydrogen may provide a number of advantageous effects such as, for
   example, increasing the energy content and stability of the biofuel produced.
          An additive transfer hydrogenation catalyst may be used to enhance the concentration
   of hydrogen into compounds of the organic matter under treatment, for example, by transfer
10 hydrogenation or in situ hydrogen generation.
          Any suitable transfer hydrogenation catalyst may be used to increase the concentration
   of hydrogen. Non-limiting examples of suitable transfer hydrogenation catalysts include
   alkali metal hydroxides (e.g. sodium hydroxide), transition metal hydroxides, alkali metal
   formates (e.g. sodium formate), transition metal formates, reactive carboxylic acids,
is transition or noble metals, and mixtures thereof.
          In certain embodiments, an additive sodium hydroxide catalyst is utilised in the reaction
   mixture at a concentration of between about 0.1M and about 0.5M.
          In other embodiments additive low-valent iron species catalysts (including their
   hydrides) are utilised in the reaction mixture, including iron zero homogeneous and
20 heterogeneous species.
          The alkali metal hydroxide or formate may comprise any suitable alkali metal.
   Preferred alkali metals include sodium, potassium, and mixtures thereof. The transition metal
   hydroxide or formate may comprise any suitable transition metal, preferred examples
   including Fe and Ru. The reactive carboxylic acid may be any suitable carboxylic acid,
25 preferred examples including formic acid, acetic acid, and mixtures thereof. The transition or
   noble metal may be any suitable transition or noble metal, preferred examples including
   platinum, palladium, nickel, ruthenium, rhodium, and mixtures thereof.
          Additionally or alternatively, an additive transition metal catalyst may be used to
   enhance the concentration of hydrogen into organic matter under treatment, for example, by
30 hydrogenation with H 2 . Non-limiting examples of suitable transition metal catalysts for
   hydrogenation with H2 include zero-valent metals (e.g. iron, platinum, palladium, and nickel),
   transition metal sulfides (e.g. iron sulfide (FeS, FexSy), and mixtures thereof.
                                                    35

           Additionally or alternatively, an additive water gas shift catalyst may be used to
     enhance the concentration of hydrogen into organic matter under treatment (i.e. via a water
     gas shift reaction). Any suitable water gas shift (WGS) catalyst may be used including, for
     example, transition metals, transition metal oxides, and mixtures thereof (e.g. magnetite,
 5   platinum-based WGS catalysts, finely divided copper and nickel).
           Additionally or alternatively, the concentration of hydrogen into organic matter under
     treatment may be facilitated by in situ gasification (i.e. thermal catalysis). The in situ
     gasification may be enhanced by additive transition metals. Any suitable transition metal may
     be used including, for example, those supported on solid acids (e.g. Pt/A12 0 3/SiO 2 ,
10   Pd/A12 0 3 /SiO 2 , Ni/A12 0 3 /SiO 2 , and mixtures thereof), and transition metal sulfides (e.g.
     FexSy, FeS/A12 0 3, FeS/SiO 2 , FeS/A12 0 3 /SiO 2 , and mixtures thereof). Table 1 below provides
     a summary of various exemplary catalysts that may be employed in the methods of the
     invention and the corresponding reactions that they may catalyse.
is   Table 1: summary catalysts and corresponding reactions
   Hydrolysis              Base catalysts       Sub/super-      Hydroxide ion
                                               critical water   in sub/super
                                                                critical water
                                               All alkali and   M = any alkali    M = Na, K, Fe,
                                               transition metal or transition     Ca, Ba
                                               salts, both      metal
                                               cations and
                                               anions can       A = anions,       A = aluminate,
                                               contribute.      including:        phosphate, silicate,
                                               Include all      aluminate,        hydroxide,
                                               common           sulfate, sulfite, methoxide,
                                               inorganic        sulfide           ethoxide
                                               anions           phosphate,        carbonate
                                                                phosphite         sulphate
                                                                nitrate, nitrite  sulphide
                                                                silicate          disulphide (FeS2 )
                                                                hydroxide         oxide
                                                                alkoxide
                                                                carbonate
                                                                oxide
                                                                ammonia,
                                               Any organic      pyridine, etc.
                                                          36

                                base
Hydrolysis       Acid catalysts Sub/super-       Hydronium
                 (slower)       critical water   ion in
                                                 sub/super
                                                 critical water
                                Any liquid       HA, where         Acids may form
                                mineral or                         from the in-situ
                                organic acid     A = anions,       formation of
                                                 including:        carboxylic acids,
                                                 aluminate,        phenolics and the
                                                 sulfate, sulfite, presence of
                                                 sulfide           minerals
                                                 phosphate,
                                                 phosphite
                                                 nitrate, nitrite
                                                 silicate
                                                 hydroxide
                                                 alkoxide
                                                 carbonate
                                                 carboxy group
Dehydration      Acid catalysts Sub/super-       Hydronium
(elimination)                   critical water   ion in
                                                 sub/super
                                                 critical water
                                Any liquid       HA, where         Acids may form
                                mineral or                         from the in-situ
                                organic acid     A = anions,       formation of
                                                 including:        carboxylic acids,
                                                 aluminate,        phenolics and the
                                                 sulfate, sulfite, presence of
                                                 sulfide           minerals.
                                                 phosphate,
                                                 phosphite         zeolites or
                                                 nitrate, nitrite  alumino-silicates
                                                 silicate          in general may be
                                                 hydroxide         added
                                                 alkoxide
                                                 carbonate
                                                 carboxy group
Transfer         Transfer       All alkali and   M = any alkali    M  =  Na, K
Hydrogenation or hydrogenatio   transition metal or transition
in-situ H2       n catalysts    hydroxides and   metal
generation                      formates
                                All reactive     A  =              A  = hydroxide,
                                carboxylic       hydroxide,        formate
                                acids            formate
                                                                   formic, acetic
                                           37

                                                                               M = Fe, Pd, Pd,
                                          All transition    All transition     Ni
                                          and noble         and noble          Ru Rh
                                          metals            metals
  Decarboxylation        Largely          Acid and          All transition     Pt/A1203/SiO2
                         thermal          transition        and noble          Pd/A12 0 3 /SiO 2
                                          (noble) metal     metals             Ni/A12 0 3/SiO 2
                                          cats have been    supported on
                                          reported to aid   solid acids
                                          the process
  Decarbonylation        Largely          As for            As for             As for
                         thermal          decarboxylatio    decarboxylatio     decarboxylation
                                          n                 n
  In-situ gasification   Largely          Transition        supported          Pt/A12 0 3 /SiO 2
                         thermal          metals            transition         Pd/A120 3/SiO 2
                                                            metals             Ni/A12 0 3/SiO 2
                                                                               Fe
                                                            sulfides           FexSy
                                                                               FeS/Al 2 03
                                                                               FeS/SiO 2
                                                                               FeS/A12 0 3/SiO 2
  Water-Gas Shift        WGS              Standard WGS      As per             As per literature
                         catalysts        catalysts         literature
  Direct                 Transition       Zero valent                          Fe, Pt, P, Ni as
  Hydrogenation          metals           metals                               zero valent
  with H2
                                          Sulfides                             FeS, FexSy
  Hydrode-               Combined         Transition        M = transition     Pt/A12 0 3 /SiO 2
  oxygenation            acid and         metal and solid   metal              Pd/A12 0 3 /SiO 2
                         hydrogenatio     acid                                 Ni/A12 0 3/SiO 2
                         n catalyst                         A = acidic         NiO/MoO 3
                                                            solid              CoO/MoO 3
                                                                               NiO/WO2
                                                                               zeolites loaded
                                                                               with noble metals,
                                                                               e.g. ZSM-5, Beta,
                                                                               ITQ-2
           Catalyst additives for use in the methods of the invention may be produced using
     chemical methods known in the art and/or purchased from commercial sources.
           It will be understood that no particular limitation exists regarding the timing at which
5    the catalyst additive(s) may be applied when performing the methods of the invention. For
     example, the catalyst additive(s) may be added to the organic matter, solvent, solid substrate,
     oil additive, or a mixture of one or more of these components (e.g. a slurry) before
     heating/pressurisation     to   target    reaction   temperature      and     pressure,     during
                                                     38

   heating/pressurisation to target reaction temperature and pressure, and/or after reaction
   temperature and pressure are reached. The timing of catalyst additive addition may depend on
   the reactivity of the feedstock utilised. For example, highly reactive feedstocks may benefit
   from catalyst additive addition close to or at the target reaction temperature and pressure,
 5 whereas less reactive feedstocks may have a broader process window for catalyst additive
   addition (i.e. the catalysts may be added prior to reaching target reaction temperature and
   pressure).
          Catalyst additives may be included in a reaction mixture used for treatment according
   to the present invention prior to heating and/or pressurising the reaction mixture, during
10 heating and/or pressurising of the reaction mixture, and/or after the reaction mixture reaches a
   desired reaction temperature and/or reaction pressure.
   Oil component
          In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the slurry, the reaction mixture, or
15 both comprises organic matter mixed with an oil additive. The oil additive may act as an oil
   solvent in the reaction. The oil may be any suitable oil, non-limiting examples of which
   include paraffinic oil, gas-oil, crude oil, synthetic oil, coal-oil, bio-oil, shale oil/kerogen oil,
   aromatic oils (i.e. single or multi-ringed components or mixtures thereof), tall oils,
   triglyceride oils, fatty acids, ether extractables, hexane extractables and any mixture of any of
20 the previous components. The oil may be incorporated into the slurry mixture at any point
   before target reaction temperature and/or pressure are reached. For example, the oil may be
   added to the slurry in a slurry mixing tank as shown in Figure 1. Additionally or
   alternatively, the oil may be added to the slurry en route to a reactor and/or during
   heating/pressurisation of the slurry.
25        In particularly preferred embodiments, the oil is a bio-oil product recycled from the
   process. For example, a portion of the bio-oil produced may be taken off as a side stream and
   recycled into the slurry, reaction mixture, or both.
          In some preferred embodiments, the bio-oil is recycled in combination with solid
   substrate, each being a component of the bio-product. For example, a portion of the bio-oil
30 produced mixed with solid substrate may be taken off as a side stream and recycled into the
   slurry, reaction mixture, or both.
          No particular limitation exists regarding the proportion of oil additive in a slurry
   comprising organic matter treated in accordance with the methods of the present invention.
   For example, the slurry may comprise more than about 2 wt% oil, more than about 5 wt% oil,
                                                     39

   more than about 10 wt% oil, or more than about 20, 30, 40, 50, 60 or 70 wt% oil.
   Alternatively, the slurry may comprise less than about 98 wt% oil, less than about 95 wt%
   oil, less than about 90 wt% oil, or less than about 80, 70, 60, 50, 40 or 30 wt% oil.
          In some preferred embodiments the slurry comprises between about 10 wt% and about
 5 30 wt% organic matter,       between about 2 wt%       and about 15 wt% solid substrate, and
   between about 50 wt% and about 90 wt% solvent where the solvent is a mixture of oil and
   aqueous phase in any proportion.
          In some preferred embodiments, the slurry comprises between about 40 wt% and about
   50 wt% oil. In other preferred embodiments, the slurry comprises about 45 wt% oil.
10        In other preferred embodiments the slurry comprises a feedstock to oil ratio of 0.5
   1.2:1. The oil may be paraffinic oil.
   Reaction conditions
          In accordance with the methods of the present invention, organic matter feedstock (e.g.
15 lignocellulosic matter) may be treated with a solvent in the presence of a solid substrate as
   described herein, and optionally in the presence of an oil additive and/or an catalyst additive,
   under conditions of increased temperature and pressure to produce bio-products.
          The specific conditions of temperature and pressure used when practicing the methods
   of the invention may depend on a number different factors including, for example, the type of
20 solvent used, the type of organic matter feedstock under treatment, the physical form of the
   organic matter feedstock under treatment, the relative proportions of components in the
   reaction mixture (e.g. the proportion of solvent, additive oil, catalyst additives, organic matter
   feedstock and/or any other additional component/s), the types of aditive catalyst(s) utilised (if
   present), the retention time, and/or the type of apparatus in which the methods are performed.
25 These and other factors may be varied in order to optimise a given set of conditions so as to
   maximise the yield and/or reduce the processing time. In preferred embodiments, all or
   substantially all of the organic material used as a feedstock is converted into bio-product(s).
          Desired reaction conditions may be achieved, for example, by conducting the reaction
   in a suitable apparatus (e.g. a sub/supercritical reactor apparatus) capable of maintaining
30 increased temperature and increased pressure.
   Temperature and Pressure
          According to the methods of the present invention a reaction mixture is provided and
   treated at a target temperature and pressure for a fixed time period ("retention time")
                                                   40

   facilitating the conversion of organic matter feedstock (e.g. lignocellulosic matter) into bio
   product(s).     The temperature and/or pressure required to drive conversion of organic
   feedstock into biofuel using the methods of the invention will depend on a number of factors
   including the type of organic matter under treatment and the relative proportions of
 5 components in the reaction (e.g. the proportion of solvent, additive oil, catalyst additives,
   organic matter feedstock and/or any other additional component/s), the types of aditive
   catalyst(s) utilised (if present), the retention time, and/or the type of apparatus in which the
   methods are performed. It will be recognised that various catalyst additives as described
   herein (see sub-section above entitled "Catalysts") may be used to increase the efficiency of
10 reactions which may in turn reduce the temperature and/or pressure required to drive
   conversion of the organic matter to bio-products using a given solvent and a solid substrate.
   Based on the description of the invention provided herein the skilled addressee could readily
   determine appropriate reaction temperature and pressure for a given reaction mixture. For
   example, the optimal reaction temperature and/or pressure for a given feedstock slurry may
is be readily determined by the skilled addressee by preparing and running a series of reactions
   that differ only by temperature and/or pressure utilised and analysing the yield and/or quality
   of the target bio-product(s) produced.
          The skilled addressee will also recognise that the pressure utilised is a function of the
   slurry components and pressure drop, induced by the slurry, and strongly dependent on any
20 particular reactor design (e.g. pipe diameter and/or length etc).
          In certain embodiments, treatment of organic matter feedstock to produce a bio-product
   using the methods of the invention may be conducted at temperature(s) of between about
   150'C and about 550'C and pressure(s) of between about 10 bar and about 400 bar.
   Preferably, the reaction mixture is maintained at temperature(s) of between about 150'C and
25 about 500'C and pressure(s) of between about 80 bar and about 350 bar. More preferably the
   reaction mixture is maintained at temperature(s) of between about 180'C and about 400'C
   and pressure(s) of between about 100 bar and about 330 bar. Still more preferably the
   reaction mixture is maintained at temperature(s) of between about 200'C and about 380'C
   and pressure(s) of between about 120 bar and about 250 bar.
30        In preferred embodiments, the reaction mixture is maintained at temperature(s) of
   between about 200'C and about 400'C, and pressure(s) of between about 100 bar and about
   300 bar.
                                                    41

          In other preferred embodiments, the reaction mixture is maintained at temperature(s) of
   between about 250'C and about 380'C, and pressure(s) of between about 50 bar and about
   300 bar.
          In other preferred embodiments, the reaction mixture is maintained at temperature(s) of
 5 between about 320'C and about 360'C and pressure(s) of between about 150 bar and about
   250 bar. In other preferred embodiments, the reaction mixture is maintained at temperature(s)
   of between about 330'C and about 350'C and pressure(s) of between about 230 bar and about
   250 bar. In another particularly preferred embodiment, the reaction mixture is maintained at
   temperature(s) of about 340'C and pressure(s) of between about 240 bar.
10        In other preferred embodiments, the reaction mixture is maintained at temperature(s) of
   between about 320'C and about 360'C, and pressure(s) of between about 220 bar and about
   250 bar.
          In certain embodiments, the reaction mixture is maintained at temperature(s) of above
   about 180'C and pressure(s) above about 150 bar. In other embodiments, the reaction mixture
15 is maintained at temperature(s) of above about 200'C and pressure(s) above about 180 bar. In
   additional embodiments, reaction mixture is maintained at temperature(s) of above about
   250'C and pressure(s) above about 200 bar. In other embodiments, reaction mixture is
   maintained at temperature(s) of above about 300'C and pressure(s) above about 250 bar. In
   other embodiments, reaction mixture is maintained at temperature(s) of above about 350'C
20 and pressure(s) above about 300 bar.
          It will be understood that in certain embodiments a solvent used in the methods of the
   present invention may be heated and pressurised beyond its critical temperature and/or
   beyond its critical pressure (i.e. beyond the 'critical point' of the solvent). Accordingly, the
   solvent may be a 'supercritical' solvent if heated and pressurised beyond the 'critical point'
25 of the solvent.
          In certain embodiments a solvent used in the methods of the present invention may be
   heated and pressurised to level(s) below its critical temperature and pressure (i.e. below the
   'critical point' of the solvent). Accordingly, the solvent may be a 'subcritical' solvent if its
   maximum temperature and/or maximum pressure is below that of its 'critical point'.
30 Preferably, the 'subcritical' solvent is heated and/or pressurised to level(s) approaching the
   'critical point' of the solvent (e.g. between about 10C to about 500 C below the critical
   temperature and/or between about 10 atmospheres to about 50 atmospheres below its critical
   pressure).
                                                  42

          In some embodiments, a solvent used in the methods of the present invention may be
   heated and pressurised to levels both above and below its critical temperature and pressure
   (i.e. heated and/or pressurised both above and below the 'critical point' of the solvent at
   different times). Accordingly, the solvent may oscillate between               'subcritical' and
 5 'supercritical' states when performing the methods.
   Retention time
          The specific time period over which the conversion of organic matter feedstock may be
   achieved upon reaching a target temperature and pressure (i.e. the "retention time") may
10 depend on a number different factors including, for example, the type of organic matter under
   treatment and the relative proportions of components in the reaction (e.g. the proportion of
   solvent, additive oil, catalyst additives, organic matter feedstock and/or any other additional
   component/s), the types of aditive catalyst(s) utilised (if present), the retention time, and/or
   the type of apparatus in which the methods are performed. These and other factors may be
15 varied in order to optimise a given method so as to maximise the yield and/or reduce the
   processing time. Preferably, the retention time is sufficient to convert all or substantially all
   of the organic material used as a feedstock into bio-product(s).
          In certain embodiments, the retention time is less than about 60 minutes, 45 minutes, 30
   minutes, 25 minutes, 20 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes or less than about 5 minutes. In
20 certain embodiments, the retention time is more than about 60 minutes, 45 minutes, 30
   minutes, 25 minutes, 20 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes or more than about 5 minutes. In
   other embodiments, the retention time is between about 1 minute and about 60 minutes. In
   additional embodiments, the retention time is between about 5 minutes and about 45 minutes,
   between about 5 minutes and about 35 minutes, between about 10 minutes and about 35
25 minutes, or between about 15 minutes and about 30 minutes. In further embodiments, the
   retention time is between about 20 minutes and about 30 minutes.
          Persons skilled in the art will recognised that various catalyst additives as described
   herein (see sub-section below entitled "Catalysts") may be used to increase the efficiency of
   the treatment which may in turn reduce the retention time required to convert the organic
30 matter into bio-product(s). Similarly, the retention time required will be influenced by the
   proportions of various components in the reaction mixture (e.g. water, oil additive, alcohol,
   solid substrates, catalyst additives etc).
          The optimal retention time for a given set of reaction conditions as described herein
   may be readily determined by the skilled addressee by preparing and running a series of
                                                   43

   reactions that differ only by the retention time, and analysing the yield and/or quality of bio
   product(s) produced.
   Heating/cooling,pressurisation/de-pressurisation
 5        A reaction mixture (e.g. in the form of a slurry) comprising organic matter feedstock
   (e.g. lignocellulosic matter), solvent, and optionally one or more catalyst additives as defined
   herein may be brought to a target temperature and pressure (i.e. the temperature/pressure
   maintained for the "retention time") over a given time period.
          Reaction mixes that do not contain a significant proportion of oil additive may require a
10 very fast initial conversion to generate some solvent in-situ. However, the incorporation of oil
   into the reaction mixture as described herein allows the oil to act as a solvent thus alleviating
   the requirement for rapid heating/pressurisation.
          In some embodiments, the reaction mix undergoes a separate pre-heating stage prior to
   reaching reaction temperature. The pre-heating stage may be performed on a feedstock slurry
15 prior to the full reaction mix being formed. Alternatively the pre-heating stage may be
   performed on a slurry comprising all components of the reaction mixture. In some
   embodiments, the pre-heating stage raises the temperature of the feedstock slurry or reaction
   mixture to a maximum temperature of about: 120"C, 130'C, 140'C, 150'C, 160'C, 170'C,
   180'C, 190'C, or 200'C. In other embodiments, the temperature is raised to less than about:
20 120"C, 130"C, 140"C, 150-C, 160"C, 170-C, 180-C, 190"C, or 200"C. In still other
   embodiments the temperature is raised to between about 1000C and about 200"C, between
   about 100"C and about 180'C, between about 100'C and about 160"C, between about 120"C
   and about 180"C, or between about 120"C and about 160"C.
          In continuous flow systems, pressure will generally change from atmospheric to target
25 pressure during the time it takes to cross the pump (i.e. close to instantaneous) whereas in a
   batch system it will mirror the time that it takes to heat the mixture up.
          In some embodiments, the reaction mixture may be brought to a target temperature
   and/or pressure in a time period of between about 30 seconds and about 30 minutes.
          In some embodiments, the reaction mixture may be brought to a target temperature
30 and/or pressure in a time period less than about 15 minutes, less than about 10 minutes, less
   than about 5 minutes, or less than about 2 minutes.
          In certain embodiments, the reaction mixture may be brought to a target pressure
   substantially instantaneously and brought to a target temperature in less than about 20
   minutes, less than about 10 minutes, or less than about 5 minutes. In other embodiments, the
                                                    44

   reaction mixture may be brought to a target pressure substantially instantaneously and
   brought to a target temperature in less than about two minutes. In other embodiments, the
   reaction mixture may be brought to a target pressure substantially instantaneously and
   brought to a target temperature in between about 1 and about 2 minutes.
 5        Additionally or alternatively, following completion of the retention time period the
   product mixture generated may be cooled to between about 150'C and about 200'C, between
   about 160'C and about 200'C, preferably between about 170'C and about 190'C, and more
   preferably about 180'C, in a time period of less than about 10 minutes, preferably less than
   about 7 minutes, more preferably less than about 6 minutes, preferably between about 4 and
10 about 6 minutes, and more preferably about 5 minutes. Following the initial cooling period,
   the temperature     may further reduced       to ambient temperature with concurrent         de
   pressurisation by fast release into a cool aqueous medium (e.g. cooled water).
          The processes of heating/pressurisation and cooling/de-pressurisation may be facilitated
   by performing the methods of the present invention in a continuous flow system (see section
15 below entitled "Continuous flow").
   Continuousflow
          Bio-product generation from organic matter feedstocks (e.g. lignocellulosic matter)
   using the methods of the present invention may be assisted by performing the methods under
20 conditions of continuous flow.
          Although the methods need not be performed under conditions of continuous flow,
   doing so may provide a number of advantageous effects. For example, continuous flow may
   facilitate the accelerated implementation and/or removal of heat and/or pressure applied to
   the slurry. This may assist in achieving the desired rates of mass and heat transfer,
25 heating/cooling and/or pressurisation/de-pressurisation. Continuous flow may also allow the
   retention time to be tightly controlled. Without limitation to a particular mode of action, it is
   postulated that the increased speed of heating/cooling and/or pressurisation/de-pressurisation
   facilitated by continuous flow conditions along with the capacity to tightly regulate retention
   time assists in preventing the occurrence of undesirable side-reactions (e.g. polymerisation)
30 as the slurry heats/pressurises and/or cools/de-pressurises. Continuous flow is also believed to
   enhance reactions responsible for conversion of organic matter to biofuel by virtue of
   generating mixing and shear forces believed to aid in emulsification which may be an
   important mechanism involved in the transport and "storage" of the oils generated away from
                                                   45

   the reactive surfaces of the feedstock as well as providing interface surface area for so-called
   'on-water catalysis'.
          Accordingly, in preferred embodiments the methods of the present invention are
   performed under conditions of continuous flow. As used herein, the term "continuous flow"
 5 refers to a process wherein organic matter feedstock mixed with a solvent in the form of a
   slurry (which may further comprise any one or more of a solid substrate, an oil additive
   and/or a catalyst additive) is subjected to:
       (a) heating and pressurisation to a target temperature and pressure,
       (b) treatment at target temperature(s) and pressure(s) for a defined time period (i.e. the
10          "retention time"), and
       (c) cooling and de-pressurisation,
       while the slurry is maintained in a stream of continuous movement along the length (or
   partial length) of a given surface. It will be understood that "continuous flow" conditions as
   contemplated herein are defined by a starting point of heating and pressurisation (i.e. (a)
15 above) and by an end point of cooling and de-pressurisation (i.e. (c) above).
          Continuous flow conditions as contemplated herein imply no particular limitation
   regarding flow velocity of the slurry provided that it is maintained in a stream of continuous
   movement.
          Preferably, the minimum (volume-independent) flow velocity of the slurry along a
20 given surface exceeds the settling velocity of solid matter within the slurry (i.e. the terminal
   velocity at which a suspended particle having a density greater than the surrounding solution
   moves (by gravity) towards the bottom of the stream of slurry).
          For example, the minimum flow velocity of the slurry may be above about 0.01 cm/s,
   above about 0.05 cm/s, preferably above about 0.5 cm/s and more preferably above about 1.5
25 cm/s. The upper flow velocity may be influenced by factors such as the volumetric flow rate
   and/or retention time. This in turn may be influenced by the components of a particular
   reactor apparatus utilised to maintain conditions of continuous flow.
          Continuous flow conditions may be facilitated, for example, by performing the methods
   of the invention in a suitable reactor apparatus. A suitable reactor apparatus will generally
30 comprise heating/cooling, pressurising/de-pressuring and reaction components in which a
   continuous stream of slurry is maintained.
          The use of a suitable flow velocity (under conditions of continuous flow) may be
   advantageous in preventing scale-formation along the length of a particular surface that the
                                                   46

   slurry moves along (e.g. vessel walls of a reactor apparatus) and/or generating an effective
   mixing regime for efficient heat transfer into and within the slurry.
   Bio-products
 5        The methods of the present invention may be used to produce bio-product(s) from
   organic matter feedstocks (e.g. lignocellulosic matter). The nature of the bio-product(s) may
   depend on a variety of different factors including, for example, the organic matter feedstock
   treated, and/or the reaction conditions/reagents utilised in the methods.
          In certain embodiments, the bio-product(s) may comprise one or more biofuels (e.g.
10 bio-oils, char products, gaseous products) and chemical products (e.g. platform chemicals,
   organic acids, furanics, furfural, hydroxymethylfurfural, levoglucosan, sorbitol, cylitol,
   arabinitol, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde).
          In general, bio-product(s) produced in accordance with the methods of the present
   invention comprise or consist of a bio-oil. The bio-oil may comprise compounds including,
is but not limited to, any one or more of alkanes, alkenes, aldehydes, carboxylic acids,
   carbohydrates,    phenols, furfurals, alcohols, and ketones. The bio-oil may comprise
   compounds including but not limited to aldehydes, carboxylic acids, carbohydrates, phenols,
   furfurals, alcohols, and ketones, resins and resin acids, and compounds structurally related to
   resin acids, alkanes and alkenes, fatty acids and fatty acid esters, sterols and sterol-related
20 compounds, furanic oligomers, cyclopentanones, and cyclohexanones, alkyl- and alkoxy
   cyclopentanones,      and    cyclohexanones,      cyclopenteneones,     alkyl-  and    alkoxy
   cyclopentenones, aromatic compounds including naphthalenes and alkyl- and alkoxy-
   substituted naphthalenes, cresols, alkyl- and alkoxy- phenols, alkyl- and alkoxy- catechols,
   alkyl- and alkoxy- dihydroxybezenes, alkyl- and alkoxy- hydroquinones, indenes and indene
25 derivatives.
          The bio-oil may comprise multiple phases, including but not limited to a water-soluble
   aqueous phase which may comprise, compounds including, but not limited to, any one or
   more of carbohydrates, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, carbohydrates, phenols, furfurals,
30 alcohols, and ketones, resins and resin acids, and compounds structurally related to resin
   acids, alkanes and alkenes, fatty acids and fatty acid esters, sterols and sterol-related
   compounds, furanic oligomers, cyclopentanones, and cyclohexanones, alkyl- and alkoxy
   cyclopentanones,      and    cyclohexanones,      cyclopenteneones,     alkyl-  and    alkoxy
   cyclopentenones, aromatic compounds including naphthalenes and alkyl- and alkoxy-
                                                  47

   substituted naphthalenes, cresols, alkyl- and alkoxy- phenols, alkyl- and alkoxy- catechols,
   alkyl- and alkoxy- dihydroxybezenes, alkyl- and alkoxy- hydroquinones, indenes and indene
   derivatives; and a water-insoluble phase which may comprise, compounds including, but not
   limited to, any one or more of waxes, aldehydes, carboxylic acids, carbohydrates, phenols,
 5 furfurals, alcohols, and ketones, resins and resin acids, and compounds structurally related to
   resin acids, alkanes and alkenes, fatty acids and fatty acid esters, sterols and sterol-related
   compounds, furanic oligomers, cyclopentanones, and cyclohexanones, alkyl- and alkoxy
   cyclopentanones,       and    cyclohexanones,     cyclopenteneones,   alkyl-    and    alkoxy
   cyclopentenones, aromatic compounds including naphthalenes and alkyl- and alkoxy-
10 substituted naphthalenes, cresols, alkyl- and alkoxy- phenols, alkyl- and alkoxy- catechols,
   alkyl- and alkoxy- dihydroxybezenes, alkyl- and alkoxy- hydroquinones, indenes and indene
   derivatives.
          Other non-limiting examples of the bio-products include oil char (e.g. carbon char with
   bound oils), char, and gaseous product (e.g. methane, hydrogen, carbon monoxide and/or
15 carbon dioxide, ethane, ethene, propene, propane).
          In some embodiments, a biofuel may be produced from organic matter comprising
   lignocellulosic matter. The biofuel may comprise a liquid phase comprising bio-oil.
          Biofuels (e.g. bio-oils) produced in accordance with the methods of the invention may
   comprise a number of advantageous features, non-limiting examples of which include
20 reduced oxygen content, increased hydrogen content, increased energy content and increased
   stability. In addition, bio-oils produced by the methods of the invention may comprise a
   single oil phase containing the liquefaction product. The product may be separated from the
   oil phase using, for example, centrifugation eliminating the need to evaporate large amounts
   of water.
25        A bio-oil bio-product produced in accordance with the methods of the invention may
   comprise an energy content of greater than about 25 MJ/kg, greater than about 30 MJ/kg,
   more preferably greater than about 32 MJ/kg, more preferably greater than about 35 MJ/kg,
   still more preferably greater than about 37 MJ/kg, 38 MJ/kg or 39 MJ/kg, and most
   preferably above about 41 MJ/kg. The bio-oil product may comprise less than about 15% wt
30 db oxygen, preferably less than about 10% wt db oxygen, more preferably less than about 8%
   wt db oxygen and still more preferably less than about 7% wt db oxygen, and preferably less
   than about 5% wt db oxygen. The bio-oil product may comprise greater than about 6% wt db
   hydrogen, preferably greater than about 7% wt db hydrogen, more preferably greater than
   about 8% wt db hydrogen, and still more preferably greater than about 9% wt db hydrogen.
                                                  48

   The molar hydrogen:carbon ratio of a bio-oil of the invention may be less than about 1.5, less
   than about 1.4, less than about 1.3, or less than about 1.2.
          A bio-oil produced in accordance with the methods of the invention may comprise, for
   example, any one or more of the following classes of compounds: phenols, aromatic and
 5 aliphatic acids, ketones, aldehydes, hydrocarbons, alcohols, esters, ethers, furans, furfurals,
   terpenes, polycyclics, oligo- and polymers of each of the aforementioned classes, plant
   sterols, modified plant sterols, asphaltenes, pre-asphaltenes, and waxes.
          A char or oil char bio-product produced in accordance with the methods of the
   invention may comprise an energy content of greater than about 20 MJ/kg, preferably greater
10 than about 25 MJ/kg, more preferably greater than about 30 MJ/kg, and still more preferably
   greater than about 31 MJ/kg, 32 MJ/kg, 33 MJ/kg or 34 MJ/kg. The char or oil char product
   may comprise less than about 20% wt db oxygen, preferably less than about 15% wt db
   oxygen, more preferably less than about 10% wt db oxygen and still more preferably less
   than about 9% wt db oxygen. The char or oil char product may comprise greater than about
15 2% wt db hydrogen, preferably greater than about 3% wt db hydrogen, more preferably
   greater than about 4% wt db hydrogen, and still more preferably greater than about 5% wt db
   hydrogen. The molar hydrogen:carbon ratio of a char or oil char product of the invention may
   be less than about 1.0, less than about 0.9, less than about 0.8, less than about 0.7, or less than
   about 0.6.
20        An oil char bio-product produced in accordance with the methods of the invention may
   comprise, for example, any one or more of the following classes of compounds: phenols,
   aromatic and aliphatic acids, ketones, aldehydes, hydrocarbons, alcohols, esters, ethers,
   furans, furfurals, terpenes, polycyclics, oligo- and polymers of each of the aforementioned
   classes, asphaltenes, pre-asphaltenes, and waxes.
25        A char bio-product (upgraded PCI equivalent coal) produced in accordance with the
   methods of the invention may comprise, for example, a mixture of amorphous and graphitic
   carbon with end groups partially oxygenated, giving rise to surface carboxy- and alkoxy
   groups as well as carbonyl and esters.
          Bio-products produced in accordance with the methods of the present invention may
30 comprise one or more biofuels (e.g. bio-oils, char products, gaseous products) and chemical
   products (e.g. platform chemicals, organic acids, furanics, furfural, hydroxymethylfurfural,
   levoglucosan, sorbitol, cylitol, arabinitol, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde).
                                                    49

          Bio-products produced in accordance with the methods of the present invention may be
   cleaned and/or separated into individual components using standard techniques known in the
   art.
          For example, solid and liquid phases of biofuel products (e.g. from the conversion of
 5 coal) may be filtered through a pressure filter press, or rotary vacuum drum filter in a first
   stage of solid and liquid separation. The solid product obtained may include a high carbon
   char with bound oils. In certain embodiments, the oil may be separated from the char, for
   example, by thermal distillation or by solvent extraction. The liquid product obtained may
   contain a low percentage of light oils, which may be concentrated and recovered though an
10 evaporator.
          Bio-products produced in accordance with the methods of the present invention may be
   used in any number of applications. For example, biofuels may be blended with other fuels,
   including for example, ethanol, diesel and the like. Additionally or alternatively, the biofuels
   may be upgraded into higher fuel products. Additionally or alternatively, the biofuels may be
15 used directly, for example, as petroleum products and the like.
          It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations and/or
   modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments without
   departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly described.           The present
   embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive.
20
                                             Examples
          The invention will now be described with reference to specific examples, which should
   not be construed as in any way limiting
25 Example 1: exemplary conversion of organic matter to a synthetic crude oil and
   additional chemical products in the presence of a solid substrate: comparison with
   conversion in absence of solid substrate
   (i) Slurry Preparation
30        Pre-ground feedstock (radiata pine biomass containing about 10- 20 wt % water) was
   slurried with water in an agitated slurrying tank both with and without solid substrate. The
   solid substrate was either lignite (containing about 30-50 % water) or activated carbon. For
                                                  50

   Run 10 the organic matter was bana grass and the solid substrate was a mixture of lignite and
   iron oxide powder (haematite powder).
           The particle size of the radiata pine organic matter was 0.15 mm- 2mm. The particle
   size of the solid substrate was < 2 mm.
 5         The mixing proportions of the materials used in the series of experiments are given in
   Table 2 below.
   Table 2. Examples of Slurry Compositions
   Run    Organic    Solid      Aqueous Oil     Organic   Solid         Aqueous    Oil      Added    Added
   No.    Matter     substrate  solvent solvent matter    substrate     solvent    solvent  Catalyst catalyst
          type       type       type    type    %      in %          in %       in %     in type     %     of
                                                slurry    slurry        slurry     slurry            dry
                                                                                                     matter
                                                                                                     in
                                                                                                     slurry
   1      Radiata    None       Water   -       12.2      -             87.8       -        NaOH      14.2
          pine
   2      Radiata    None       Water   -       12.2      -             87.8       -        NaOH     7.2
          pine
   3      Radiata    None       Water   -       15        -             85         -        NaOH     8.0
          pine
   4      Radiata    Lignite    Water   -       4         4             92         -        NaOH      12
          pine
   5      Radiata    Lignite    Water   -       7         3             90         -        NaOH      10
          pine
   6      Radiata    Activated  Water   -       9         3             88         -        NaOH      10
          pine       Carbon
   7      Radiata    Lignite    Water   -       7.8       4.7           87.5       -        NaOH     9
          pine
   8      Radiata    Lignite    Water   -       9.8       6             84.2       -        NaOH     9
          pine
   9      Radiata    Lignite    Water   -       12         1.7          86.3       -        NaOH      11
          pine
   10     Bana grass Lignite    Water   -       6         20 lignite    83.5       -
                     plus iron                            0.5
                     oxide                                haematite
                     haematitee
           An additional oil component was not added for this series of experiments. As the
10 organic matter liquefies within a matter of seconds upon being raised to reaction temperature
   it is considered that there is an oil phase present within the reactor even in the runs where no
   added oil solvent component is used, particularly for organic matter concentrations in the
   slurry greater than 5 % w/w.
15 (ii) Heating and Pressurisation
           A high-pressure pump was fed by the slurrying tank to deliver the slurry to heating
   section at pressures ranges as shown in Table 3 below. Heating of the slurry can be
   performed in several ways, for example, by a counter or co-current heat exchange system
   and/or by immersion of the heating section in a hot fluidized bed. Alternatively, the slurry
20 can be heated in a ballistic fashion by the intersection of the slurry in the heating section with
                                                      51

   an oil or water stream heated, for example, in the range of 400-720 degrees Celsius (see, for
   example, Australian provisional patent application number 2010902938 entitled "Ballistic
   heating process", the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference). In all
   cases, the target slurry temperature was in the range of 250 - 350 degrees Celsius
 5 (centigrade) upon entering the reactor. In certain cases, one or more catalysts incorporated
   into the slurry prior to entry into the reactor.
          In the particular experiments exemplified here the slurry was pre-heated by means of a
   counterflow heat exchanger to about 150 C and then further heated by mixing with an
   incident stream of supercritical steam to about 320-360 C before entering the reactor.
10
   (iii) Conversion Reaction
          The slurry was fed into the reactor (which can either have a vertical or horizontal
   orientation) under conditions of continuous flow with the reacting slurry being kept at a
   constant temperature and pressure inside the ranges as shown in Table 3 below.
is        The residence time at the reaction temperature was held to the range of 15-30 min.
   dependent on feedstock and catalyst/s applied. As the reaction is mildly endothermic (3-5
   MJ/kg of product) only a small amount of trim heating was necessary.
          This experimental observation means that little restriction exists to the diameter of the
   reactor tube as it does not need to be heated substantially; the thermal mass and lagging the
20 reactor sufficed. Another major positive factor related to scaling the system and keeping the
   reactor length to a minimum.
          Catalyst was added as an aqueous solution between the heating step and the reactor.
   Table 3. Examples of Process Conditions
     Run Organic       Solid         Aqueous     Reactor     Pressure    Residence     Pre-heater
    No. Matter         substrate     solvent     temperature Range       time      in  temperature
            type       type          type        range (C)   (Bar)       Minutes       (C)
     1      Radiata    None          Water       320-360     220-260     20-30         120-160
            pine
     2      Radiata    None          Water       320-360     220-260     20-30         120-160
            pine
     3      Radiata    None          Water       320-360     220-260     20-30         120-160
            pine
     4      Radiata    Lignite       Water       320-360     220-260     20-30         120-160
            pine
     5      Radiata    Lignite       Water       320-360     220-260     20-30         120-160
            pine
     6      Radiata    Activated     Water       320-360     220-260     20-30         120-160
            pine       Carbon
                                                    52

     7      Radiata    Lignite     Water      320-360        220-260      20-30        120-160
            pine
     8      Radiata    Lignite     Water      320-360        220-260      20-30        120-160
            pine
     9      Radiata    Lignite     Water      320-360        220-260      20-30        120-160
            pine
     10     Bana       Lignite     Water      320-360        220-260      20-30       n/a
            Grass      plus iron
                       oxide
   (iv) Cooling and PressureLet-Down
         At the end of the set residence time the product stream may optionally be passed
   through a heat exchanger with an exit temperature in the range of 50 - 180 degrees Celsius
 5 (at which stage reaction rates slow substantially), this final set temperature being feedstock
   dependent. Alternatively and as exemplified here the pressure is let down to atmospheric
   pressure by one or more depressurisation steps. Specifically the reacted mixture was
   depressurized by passing through a selectable capillary system to either approximately 20 bar
   and then to atmospheric pressure or directly to atmospheric pressure.           The exit of the
10 capillary tube may be immersed in water or another liquid. The pressure let-down system was
   used to generate the back-pressure in the reactor and heating system allowing a continuous
   flow reaction to be achieved at a constant pressure and temperature steady state. A suitable
   pressure let down system is described, for example, in United States of America patent
   publication no. 2012-0227822 Al entitled "Assembly for reducing slurry pressure in a slurry
is processing system", the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
    (v) Results
          In each case a water insoluble product separates from the aqueous phase on cooling.
   The water insoluble product may be a liquid or a viscous melt depending upon the ambient
20 temperature and upon whether or not it contains solid substrate and whether or not oil was
   used in the solvent phase.      Products containing solid substrate may be a glassy solid
   resembling pitch at ambient temperatures.
          In each case the aqueous phase contains water soluble organic compounds.
          It was observed that in the case where the no solid substrate was added to the slurry
25 feed, the pressure drop across the reactor, as measured by the difference between a pressure
   gauge located before the reactor and a pressure gauge located after the reactor but before the
   cooling or depressurisation steps, increased substantially with run duration, possibly an
   indication of partial blockages developing inside the reactor.       In contrast, where a solid
                                                  53

   substrate is added the pressure drop developed over the reactor is negligible and does not
   increase over time.
          The pressure drops across the reactor recorded in a series of experiments with and
   without added solid substrate are shown in Figure 2 and Figure 4.
 5        It is a key feature of the present invention that it allows for the reaction of high
   concentrations of organic matter in large-scale continuous reactors without the need for the
   design of elaborate reactor profiles at significantly higher cost.
          For example it is possible that long straight tubular reactor without any profile changes
   could also overcome the development of a pressure drop across the reactor, however such a
10 reactor would need to be about 18 metres long in order to achieve the same residence time as
   three 6 metre reactors linked in series.          Since a preferable configuration for many
   applications, in terms of reactor fabrication and arrangement to occupy a minimum footprint
   area, is three vertically mounted 6 metre tubes linked in series by narrow radius bends as
   opposed to an 18 metre tube mounted in either horizontal or vertical configuration, the
15 current invention leads to significant CapEx savings in the design of a commercial scale plant
   for the conversion of organic matter, especially in relation to lignocellulosic biomass.
    (vi) Nature of Productsfrom Process
          Depending on the nature of the solid substrate employed, the solid substrate may be
20 completely inert under reaction conditions and be substantially unchanged, or it may act as a
   catalyst to assist in the transformation of the organic matter to products, or it may partially
   react and partially contribute to the formation of products of the process, or a combination of
   each may occur.
          Without limitation to a particular mode of action substrates such as activated carbon
25 may, under the conditions described in this invention catalyse the conversion of organic
   matter to products containing less oxygen by facilitating decarboxylation reactions. (See for
   example Activated Carbons for Hydrothermal Decarboxylation of Fatty Acids, Jie Fu, Fan
   Shi, L. T. Thompson, Jr., Xiuyang Lu, and Phillip E. Savage, ACS Catal., 2011, 1 (3), pp
   227-231)
30        Where a solid substrate is employed it may be recovered from the process intimately
   mixed with water-insoluble fuel and chemical products. Alternatively and preferably the
   solid substrate is separated from the water-insoluble fuel and chemical products before or
   immediately after the depressurisation step by means of a hydrocyclone, centrifuge, decanter,
                                                    54

   filter or other means of physical separation. In that case the solid substrate is most preferably
   recycled into the process by slurrying with fresh organic matter being fed to the process.
          Alternatively liquid products are partially separated from the solid substrate before or
   immediately after the depressurisation step by means of a hydrocyclone, centrifuge, decanter,
 5 filter or other means of physical separation.        In that case the liquid products are most
   preferably taken off as a product stream and the solid substrate mixed with some liquid
   products is preferably recycled into the process by slurrying with fresh organic matter being
   fed to the process.
          Alternatively fuel and chemical products are separated from solid substrate in a
10 separate processing step for example by distillation or by extraction with a solvent. In that
   case the extracted fuel or chemical products that may be liquids or solids are taken off as a
   product stream and the residue, being the solid substrate is preferably recycled into the
   process by slurrying with fresh organic matter being fed to the process.
          In all cases solid substrate that is excess to requirements for recycling into the process
is constitutes an additional product, for instance a solid fuel, a coking or PCI coal, a precursor
   to activated carbon.
          Certain properties of the water-insoluble products from the runs exemplified are shown
   in Tables 4 and 5.
          In the case of the examples containing a solid substrate the properties labelled "Solid
20 Substrate ... Initial" are those corresponding to the solid substrate as mixed into the reaction
   mixture or slurry before passing through the reactor. The properties labelled "Mixed Solid
   Substrate & Oil Product" are those of the mixture of solid substrate and water-insoluble
   product oil after passing through the reaction and cooling and depressurization steps. The
   properties labelled "Separated oil Product" are those properties of the water-insoluble oil
25 product after separation from the solid substrate. The properties labelled 'Recovered Solid
   substrate/solid product" are the properties of the residual solid material after removal of the
   oil product. This material can be recycled after, if necessary, crushing or milling to a suitable
   particle size, as solid substrate to be combined with new organic matter entering the process.
          Without limitation, the means used to separate the oil products from the solid substrate
30 in these example were: solvent extraction with acetone or tetrahydofuran solvents; vacuum
   distillation or vacuum sublimation; distillation including partially-pyrolitic distillation under
   a flow of inert gas or vapour, for example steam and/or nitrogen or argon.
          The thermal separation of the products from the solid substrate is exemplified by
   thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) of the products under nitrogen atmosphere.              Figure 3
                                                    55

  shows the weight loss versus temperature for samples of Mixed Solid Substrate & Oil
  Product from runs 5 (two samples), 6, and 7. The data illustrate that up to 50 % by mass of
  the samples in question may be volatilized up to temperatures of 400'C.
  Table 4. Properties of the water-insoluble products from the runs exemplified.
  Run    Organic    Solid          Organic         Solid            Mixed Solid       Separated           Recovered
  No.    Matter     substrate      matter          Substrate        Substrate &       oil                 Solid
         type      type            GCV            GCV               Oil Product       Product             substrate/solid
                                   (MJ/kg         initial           GCV               GCV                 product GCV
                                   dry            (MJ/kg            (MJ/kg dry        (MJ/kg              (MJ/kg           dry
                                   basis)         dry               basis)            dry basis)          basis)
                                                  basis)
  1      Radiata   None            21             n/a               n/a               34
         pine
  2      Radiata   None            21             n/a               n/a               34
         pine
  3      Radiata   None            21             n/a               n/a               34
         pine
  4      Radiata   Lignite         21             25                -                 37                  27
         pine
  5      Radiata   Lignite         21             25                30.6              36                  31.7
         pine
  6      Radiata   Activated       21             30.5              33.4              33.5                29.3
         pine       Carbon
  7      Radiata   Lignite         21             25                -                 36.3
         pine
  8      Radiata   Lignite         21             25                -
         pine
  9      Radiata   Lignite         21             25                -
         pine
  10     Bana      Lignite         18.5           25                28.3              38.3                26.10
         Grass     plus iron
                    oxide
5
  Table 5. Examples of Water-insoluble Product Properties
  Run   Organic  Solid        Ultimate analysis of Separated Oil product dry Ultimate analysis    of recovered   substrate/solid
  No.   Matter   substrate    basis                                          product dry basis
        type     type
                              %C       %H      %N     %S      %Ash      %O   %C       %H       %N      %S      %Ash       %O
  1     Radiata  None         79.8     6.62                    1.5      12
        pine
  2     Radiata  None         78.2     7.01                   0.4       14.1
        pine
  3     Radiata  None         78       7.02                   0.18      14.7
        pine
  4     Radiata  Lignite      80.1     8.4     0.18           0.29      10.3 72.96    4.30     0.40            5.74       16.40
        pine
  5     Radiata  Lignite
        pine
  6     Radiata  Activated    75.8     7.33    0.58           0.18      16.1 73.23    3.54     0.91            7.12       15.20
        pine     Carbon
                                                           56

   7       Radiata  Lignite
           pine
   8       Radiata  Lignite
           pine
   9       Radiata  Lignite
           pine
   10      Bana     Lignite plus  83.47 8.90  0.28 0.17    0.02 7.16 74.5 3.90 0.85 0.26 7.2 13.3
           Grass    iron oxide
   (vii) Composition of Products
            The water-soluble and water-insoluble products from the reaction are complex mixtures
   of organic compounds. Listed in Table 6 below are a number of components identified in the
 5 water-soluble and water-insoluble phases of the products, where the organic matter
   comprised radiata pine. Most of the components are common to both water-soluble and
   water-insoluble phases.
   Table 6. Components identified in the water-soluble and water-insoluble phases of the
10 products
     Compound
     2-methyl-2-cyclopentene- 1-one
     3-methyl-2-cyclopentene-1 -one
     3,4-dimethyl-2-cyclopentene- 1-one
     2,3 -dimethyl-2-cyclopentene- 1-one
     2,3,4-trimethyl-2-cyclopentene- 1-one
     3-ethyl-2-cyclopentene-1-one
     m-Guaiacol (Mequinol)
     3-Methylguaiacol
     4-Methylguaiacol
     4-Ethylguaiacol
     4-Propylguaiacol (Dihydroeugenol)
     4-Vinylguaiacol
     Eugenol (4-Allylguaiacol)
     Isoeugenol (4-Propenylguaiacol)
     Vanillin (4-hydroxy-3-methoxy-benzaldehyde)
     Homovanillyl           alcohol      (4-hydroxy-3-methoxy
     phenylethanol)
     Homovanillic            acid       (4-Hydroxy-3-methoxy
                                                        57

phenylacetic acid)
Phenol
o-Cresol
m-Cresol
p-Cresol
2-Ethylphenol
3-Ethylphenol
4-Ethylphenol
2,3-dimethyl-phenol
2,3,6-trimethyl-phenol
4-Propylphenol
Pyrocatechol
Hydroquinone
3-Methyl-catechol
4-Methyl-catechol
2-Methyl-Hydroquinone
2,3-Dimethyl-Hydroquinone
2,5-Dimethyl-Hydroquinone
2,6-Dimethyl-Hydroquinone
4-Ethyl-catechol
4-Ethyl-1,3-Benzenediol
4-propyl-1,3-Benzenediol
1-Butanol
4-Hydroxy-acetophenone
4-Hydroxy-2-methylacetophenone
4-Hydroxy- 1-indanone
Abietic acid/Pimaric acid
Cyclopentanone
3-Methyl-1-hexene
3-Methylcyclopentanone
2-Octene
                               58

    3-Ethyl-cyclopentanone
    Giberrelic acid
    2,3-dihydro-1H-Inden-1-one
    2,3-dihydro-2-methyl-1H-Inden-1-one
    2,3-dihydro-1H-Inden-5-ol
     1-Methylindan-2-one
    7-Methylindan- 1-one
    Oleic acid
    9-Octadecenoic acid (Z)-, methyl ester
     1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-5,7-dimethyl-Naphthalene
    4-methyl-i -Naphthalenol
    Androstan derivatives
    2-Isopropyl- 10-methylphenanthrene
    Tetracosane C24H50
    Tetratriacontane C34H70
    Hexatriacontane C36H74
    Methanol
    Ethanol
    Acetone
    (viii) Discussion
           It is clear from the preceding examples that the addition of a solid substrate inhibits the
   build-up over time of a pressure difference across a tube-like reactor under continuous flow
   conditions. The solid substrate does not detract from the calorific value of the bio-products
 5 obtained, but in fact provides significant enhancement. Oil bio-products may be separated
   from the substrate by a variety of physical methods. The residual substrate may be recycled
   into the process or if not required for that purpose it represents a solid bio-product.
10
                                                    59

   Example 2: further exemplary conversion of organic matter to a synthetic crude oil and
   additional chemical products in the presence of a solid substrate:
   (i) Slurry Preparation
 5        Pre-ground feedstock (radiata pine biomass containing about 10- 20 wt % water) was
   slurried with water in an agitated slurrying tank with solid substrate. The solid substrate was
   either lignite or activated carbon.
            The mixing proportions of the materials used in the series of experiments are given in
   Table 7 below.
10
   (ii) Heating and Pressurisation
            Samples were pre-heated and a high-pressure pump was fed by the slurrying tank to
   deliver the slurry to the main part of the reactor. Heating of the slurry can be performed in
   several ways, for example, by a counter or co-current heat exchange system and/or by
15 immersion of the heating section in a hot fluidized bed. Alternatively, the slurry can be
   heated in a ballistic fashion by the intersection of the slurry in the heating section with an oil
   or water stream (e.g. supercritical steam) (see, for example, United States of America patent
   publication no. 2013-0205652 Al entitled "Ballisticheatingprocess ", the entire contents of
   which are incorporated herein by reference).
20          In all cases, the target slurry temperature was in the range of 250 - 3500C upon
   entering the reactor. In certain cases, one or more catalysts incorporated into the slurry prior
   to entry into the reactor. In the particular experiments exemplified here the slurry was pre
   heated by means of a counterflow heat exchanger to about 1500C and then further heated by
   mixing with an incident stream of supercritical steam to about 320-3600C before entering the
25 reactor.
   (iii) Conversion Reaction
          The slurry was fed into the reactor (which can either have a vertical or horizontal
   orientation) under conditions of continuous flow with the reacting slurry being kept at a
30 constant temperature and pressure inside the ranges as shown in Table 8 below. The
   residence time at the reaction conditions is also shown in Table 8.
          Catalyst was added as an aqueous solution after contact with the supercritical steam
   prior to the heated and pressurised slurry entering the reactor.
                                                   60

   (iv) Cooling and PressureLet-Down
           At the end of the set residence time the product stream may optionally be passed
   through a heat exchanger with an exit temperature in the range of 50 - 180 degrees Celsius
   (at which stage reaction rates slow substantially), this final set temperature being feedstock
 5 dependent. Alternatively and as exemplified here the pressure is let down to atmospheric
   pressure by one or more depressurisation steps. Specifically the reacted mixture was
   depressurized by passing through a selectable capillary system to either approximately 20 bar
   and then to atmospheric pressure or directly to atmospheric pressure.           The exit of the
   capillary tube may be immersed in water or another liquid. The pressure let-down system was
10 used to generate the back-pressure in the reactor and heating system allowing a continuous
   flow reaction to be achieved at a constant pressure and temperature steady state. A suitable
   pressure let down system is described, for example, in United States of America patent
   publication no. 2012-0227822 Al entitled "Assembly for reducingslurry pressure in a slurry
   processingsystem ", the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
15
   (v) ProductAnalysis
           Certain properties of the water-insoluble products from the runs exemplified are
   shown in Tables 9 and 10. Without limitation, the means used to separate the oil products
   from the solid substrate in these examples were: solvent extraction with acetone or
20 tetrahydrofuran solvents; vacuum distillation or vacuum sublimation; distillation including
   partially-pyrolitic distillation under a flow of inert gas or vapour (e.g. steam and/or nitrogen
   or argon).
                                                   61

          0
                           4)                                                                        a))a
                                                CI                      C)                      )                        l
       N)                                      .(      1                (Da                                              1
                                                FD    c)                Ui     )    )                 ao                Ui)
              NCL                                     CL-                                             CL                             CL
                              ca             C    E         =I       )E       c           0 E         ca            (   E        ca   =-       (
                                 c)       cO              o D       C-        0 C         C           -0 C          C                C:)       c
                              czL     U'    )V        cu LO         0)   V    cuLV)       0)     V    cKSLV         0)     V     Ca LO         c
                                                                                  C)C)                                              c
                               Zntu,                                         Z)             n C)      Zlcn                               c
                                                              0-a                  -              0-      -     0                    -0
                       4)                                                                                                                 0
                  CL0             =    0                  0 L 0.             0    O0                        T0                        1
             4-                                                                                           4 U =     a- -   =  u-    =3   4-  S
               4)         IM                                                                               0(D0
                  .o2                                 0                           0                        0
                                                                                                                                         cCi
                                                      Ccoc                       0,)                            cCI
                                                                                                                            c
      0Cnn                    a)00    a) 80                                                                 a)(
                                                                                                             C U)                                 U)
                                               U))    0--
                                                     mc       0              -E LP            ~                                  -c
                                          f)itcn             Onit U)c                                                                    -J_     I )ItU)
        ;-a)                      -D                       i)-                    4-                        (D                    D
                                                                                                           0-C                      4
40.                               0                                           CL                                U)
        ci)                      '5                  -/ou       )cz
                                                                                     La(nU)   V
                                     CZo-                          r- 7E                                        c~>
                              cn         it                         U)            C                                              C                       O 1i - t U
                              U)                      to                   o          U)              U)                         U)
U).                                                 .                         0                        0.
 0          0         cn      n.En.                                              n                         U).E
    .0
                                                                    62

                      (1 )                       aD                            (1)                    (1)                (1)
      a)              a)      a)                 aD          a)                (1  a,                 (1) a,             (1)
                                                       /)       c             .U   C:.U                    c             U)
   Co   5
E                 CD           zC D              E            z           a)Eo             I-     a) E    c    E     (   E
  2o      C)          E                        E             ~                E     *                 E       C:
V     c   WL       0)   V     co    LO        0)V             CZ LO        ;)    V CULC)           0)  V  au,          )
                      U*C)
                                                     -o~             o                       n                of
           0                      4--       0                     2 a
                               U)     ~ ~       ~              ~                            0n-c
                                                                                              )c
                                                         Cur                                                     CIS
                                                                                                              cu >
                           0         cn         0     co            ca,-                           cnE
       ZDno     a,              ).,.                           )-                  a)oa Zno-,             Zn
             wuC                                  -                 U                 -     U)-n
           o0                'E        _           o                             -               'E               3
                                   -0 -7;                                               0)
                               _D                                                           a)4-aa         )c
              0                    0C0 c~
                                                                ~4-                     0,
                                                             o_0
                                                              z     a,_a,0          o
                  co~         co   3: 75
                                                                                        3: 75OR
      An                   C              U)                                       U                      Cu
                             .fl                             Cu                                           to
      LO
                                                              63

                                                                              -      (JI
        0
         4)
       CL      D-              CD          DD                                   ZD
                                                                            U~r
                                                                                ce .      00      Ce)
                       -~                                                   0
     EoU
     U)                                                                       U                             C
               co  W )        toW          CDCU)
  <
 -,C,4
        ~      LLLLO
                    C4    C,4 C14C
                                       LO
                                      C14
                                               LOLO' ')
                                              CNCNN
                                                           U) ' U)LO LO
                                                               N                 N   N
                                                                            0
      0        C0                                                                                         CY )    OC~oC)C w- CO) r
                                          It   It  L CJCOD     Ocn                          C)    Ct)LCe)
                    C:
                U)CtLO                     O000tC)C
                                           C)             C                               Ct)     ctc)
                   C      CjN~jC'         C14 C4 C,4 C4 C14                 0
                               bi.)
               CD   CD 0.0 OC                    Y   )C)C
                    ItDDC l)O                  C)D P r- D
     C) CL  Et       C?    )   C?   o OD     ) LOC)co C-      C    U               0                        0
         E r U))CO)     co cp 6           6        d) -Ct)C6)7                                             -0
                                                                        0PL              CO       -Dc          cy  (
                                                                                               Co              Ci)C)
W z
                                                                     64

                       po'
            CoC)
                      0  CJ
                  ,o     LO
                  0,
       >)          U)    C~
   ,.  C.)        100
       0'         z
                         0)
                  0-     Co
  .10
        W>U)U
       o        ~        c0
      -Z    0            C')
               .zo       LO
                         C        o
  0 0
              o     0    (D C) co C
   00
       0)         10-        C)C
                  10             C)C
                  ~      CO) CDU
                    0                  0OC o ) C
                  '0     r0.or-c
-      6a
      Z-l
                                     0L
           *~65

   CLAIMS
          1.     A method for producing a bio-product from organic matter feedstock, the
   method comprising:
         providing a reaction mixture comprising the organic matter feedstock, a solvent,
 5 and a solid substrate;
          treating the reaction mixture in a reactor vessel at a reaction temperature and
   pressure suitable for conversion of all or a portion of the organic matter feedstock into a
   product mixture comprising the bio-product; and
          depressurising and cooling the product mixture;
10        wherein the solid substrate is solid or substantially solid at the reaction temperature
   and pressure and;
                 sequesters organic and/or inorganic matter that de-solubilises within the
   reaction mixture or the product mixture; and/or
                 alters one or more flow characteristics of the reaction mixture and/or the
is product mixture in the reactor vessel.
          2.     A method for inhibiting scaling in a reactor vessel during the conversion of
   organic matter feedstock into a bio-product, the method comprising:
         providing a reaction mixture comprising the organic matter feedstock, a solvent,
20 and a solid substrate;
          treating the reaction mixture at a reaction temperature and pressure suitable for
   conversion of all or a portion of the organic matter feedstock into a product mixture
   comprising the bio-product; and
          depressurising and cooling the product mixture;
25        wherein the solid substrate is solid or substantially solid at the reaction temperature
   and pressure and;
                 sequesters organic and/or inorganic matter that de-solubilises within the
   reaction mixture or the product mixture; and/or
                 alters one or more flow characteristics of the reaction mixture and/or the
30 product mixture in the reactor vessel.
          3.     The method according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the treating is performed
   under continuous flow conditions.
                                                 442

          4.     A method for inhibiting development of a pressure gradient in a continuous
   flow reactor vessel during the conversion of organic matter feedstock into a bio-product,
   the method comprising:
          providing a reaction mixture comprising the organic matter feedstock, a solvent,
 5 and a solid substrate;
          treating the reaction mixture at a reaction temperature and pressure suitable for
   conversion of all or a portion of the organic matter feedstock into a product mixture
   comprising the bio-product; and
          depressurising and cooling the product mixture;
10        wherein the solid substrate is solid or substantially solid at the reaction temperature
   and pressure and;
                 sequesters organic and/or inorganic matter that de-solubilises within the
   reaction mixture or the product mixture; and/or
                 alters one or more flow characteristics of the reaction mixture and/or the
is product mixture in the reactor vessel.
          5.     The method of claim 4, wherein
          the depressurising is facilitated by a pressure let down device in the reactor vessel;
          the reaction mixture is pressurised to a maximum pressure prior to or during the
20 treating; and
          prior to the depressurising facilitated by the pressure let down device, the product
   mixture is pressurised at less than 98%, less than 95%, less than 90%, less than 85%, less
   than 80%, less than 75%, less than 70%, less than 65%, less than 60%, less than 55%, or
   less than 50%, of the maximum pressure.
25
          6.     The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the solid substrate
   is inert or substantially inert at the reaction temperature and pressure.
          7.     The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the solid substrate
30 is a carbonaceous material comprising at least 50%, at least 60%, at least 7 0%, at least
   80%, or at least 90% by weight carbon.
          8.     The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the solid substrate
   is selected from the group consisting of: coals, anthracitic coal, meta-anthracite,
35 anthracite, semianthracite, bituminous coal, subbituminous coal, lignite (i.e. brown coal),
   coking coal, coal tar, coal tar derivatives, coal char, coke, high temperature coke, foundry

   coke, low and medium temperature coke, pitch coke, petroleum coke, coke oven coke,
   coke breeze, gas coke, brown coal coke, semi coke, charcoal, pyrolysis char,
   hydrothermal char, carbon black, graphite fine particles, amorphous carbon, carbon
   nanotubes, carbon nanofibers, vapor-grown carbon fibers, and any combination thereof.
 5
          9.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the solid substrate
   is a non-carbonaceous material comprising no more than 10%, no more than 5%, no more
   than 1%, or no carbon.
10        10.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6 or 9, wherein the solid
   substrate is selected from the group consisting of ash, fly ash, a mineral, calcium
   carbonate, calcite, a silicate, silica, quartz, an oxide, a metal oxide, an insoluble or
   substantially insoluble metal salt, iron ore, a clay mineral, talc, gypsum, carbonates of
   magnesium, carbonates of calcium and magnesium, limestone, dolomite, hydroxides of calcium,
15 hydroxides of magnesium, oxides of calcium, oxides of magnesium, hydrogen carbonates of
   calcium, hydrogen carbonates of magnesium, kaolinite, bentonite, illite, zeolites, calcium
   phosphate, hydroxyapataite, phyllosilicates, and any combination thereof.
          11.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the solid
20 substrate is provided in the form of a powder or, a slurry comprising the powder.
          12.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the solid
   substrate is present in the reaction mixture at a concentration of more than 0.5%, more
   than 1%, more than 3%, more than 5%, more than 10%, more than             2 5 %, or more than
25 30% by weight.
          13.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the solid
   substrate is present in the reaction mixture at a concentration of less than 0.5%, less than
    1%, less than 3%, less than 5%, less than 10%, less than         2 5%, or less than 50% by
30 weight.
          14.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein the sequestering
   of the organic and/or inorganic matter by the solid substrate comprises adsorbing the
   organic matter and/or inorganic matter onto a surface of the solid substrate.
35
                                                   4o

          15.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the sequestering
   of the organic and/or inorganic matter by the solid substrate comprises absorption of the
   organic matter and/or inorganic matter into the solid substrate.
 5        16.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein the organic
   matter feedstock is lignocellulosic matter.
          17.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein the organic
   matter feedstock is lignocellulosic matter comprising at least 10% lignin, at least 35%
10 cellulose and at least 20% hemicellulose.
          18.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 17, wherein the reaction
   mixture comprises more than 10%, more than 15%, more than 20%, more than 30%,
   more than 35%, or more than 40%, of the organic matter by weight.
15
          19.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 18, wherein the organic
   matter feedstock is provided in the form of a liquid slurry comprising some or all of the
   solvent.
20        20.   The method according to claim 19, wherein the treating is performed under
   conditions of continuous flow and the slurry has a flow velocity of above 0.01 cm/s,
   above 0.05 cm/s, above 0.5 cm/s, above 0.1 cm/s, above 1.5 cm/s, or above 2.0 cm/s.
          21.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 20, further comprising
25 separating the solid substrate from the product mixture after the            cooling and
   depressurising, and recycling the solid substrate into a second slurry or second reaction
   mixture comprising organic matter feedstock.
          22.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 21, wherein the reaction
30 mixture further comprises an oil additive.
          23.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 22, wherein the reaction
   mixture further comprises an oil additive that is mixed with the feedstock and/or solvent
   prior to the treating.
35
                                                4-n

           24.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 23, wherein the reaction
    mixture further comprises an oil additive that constitutes between 5% and 60%, between
    5% and 50%, between 5% and 40%, between 5% and 30%, between 5% and between
    20%, more the 5% , more than 10%, more than 15%, more than 2 0%, more than 3 0%, less
  5 than 2 0%, less than 15% or less than 10% of the reaction mixture by weight.
           25.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 24, wherein the reaction
    mixture further comprises an oil additive selected from the group consisting of paraffinic
    oil, gas-oil, crude oil, synthetic oil, coal-oil, bio-oil, shale oil, kerogen oil, mineral oil,
10  white mineral oil, aromatic oil, tall oil, distilled tall oil, plant or animal oils, fats and their
    acidic forms and esterified forms, and any combination thereof.
           26.   The method according to any one of claims 22 to 25, further comprising
    separating oil from the product and recycling the oil into a second slurry or second
15  reaction mixture comprising organic matter feedstock.
           27.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 26, wherein the treating
    comprises treating the reaction mixture at a temperature of between 250'C and 400'C, and
    a pressure of between 100 bar and 300 bar.
20
           28.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 27, wherein the treating
    comprises treating the reaction mixture at a temperature of between 3 10 C and 360'C, and
    a pressure of between 160 bar and 250 bar.
25         29.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 28, wherein the treating
    comprises treating the reaction mixture at a temperature of between 320'C and 360'C, and
    a pressure of between 220 bar and 250 bar.
           30.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 29, wherein the reaction
30  mixture further comprises a catalyst additive.
           31.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 30, wherein the reaction
    mixture further comprises a catalyst additive that is mixed with the feedstock and/or
    solvent prior to the treating.
35

           32.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 30, wherein the catalyst
    additive is added to the reaction mixture after the reaction mixture reaches said reaction
    temperature and pressure.
           33.   The method according to any one of claims 30 to 32, wherein the catalyst
  5 additive is selected from the group consisting of: a base catalyst, an alkali metal
    hydroxide catalyst, a transition metal hydroxide catalyst, sodium hydroxide, potassium
    hydroxide, sodium carbonate, potassium carbonate, an acid catalyst, a solid acid catalyst,
    an alkali metal formate catalyst, a transition metal catalyst, a transition metal formate
    catalyst, a supported transition metal catalyst, a reactive carboxylic acid catalyst, a
10  transition metal catalyst, a sulphide catalyst, a noble metal catalyst, a water-gas-shift
    catalyst, sodium formate, potassium         formate, sodium hydroxide, and combinations
    thereof.
           34.   The method according to any one of claims 30 to 33, wherein the catalyst is
is  provided in a slurry comprising the organic matter feedstock, and the catalyst is between
     1% and 30%, between 5% and 30%, between 10% and 30%, between 5% and 30%,
    between 5% and 20%, between 5% and 15%, between 10% and                  3 0%, between 10% and
    3 0% ,
           between 10% and 15%, less than 2 0%, less than 3 0%, less than 2 5%, less than 15%,
    less than 10%, or less than 5% of the weight of the organic matter in the reaction mixture.
20
           35.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 34, wherein the reaction
    mixture comprises the organic matter feedstock and the solid substrate at a ratio of about
     1:1, about 3:2, about 2:1, about 3:1, about 4:1, about 5:1, about 6:1 about 8:1, about 10:1,
    about 20:1 or about 30:1.
25
           36.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 34, wherein the solid
    substrate constitutes: at least 1%, at least 2 %, at least 3 %, at least 4 %, at least 5%, at least
    6%, at least 7%, at least 8 %, at least 9 %, at least 10%, at least 15%, at least 2 0%, at least
    30 %, at least 40 %, at least 50 %, between lwt% and              2 0%,  between 1% and 10%,
30  between 1% and 5%, between 5% and 10%, between 5% and 15%, between 5% and 2 0%,
    between 20 % and 40 %, between        2 0%  and 50%, between       2 0%  and 3 0%, between    3 0%
    and 4 0%, or between   4 0% and 50% of the total combined mass of the solid substrate and
    organic matter feedstock (e.g. lignocellulosic matter) in the reaction mixture.
35         37.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 36, wherein the solvent is an
    aqueous solvent, an oil solvent, or a mixture of an aqueous solvent and an oil solvent.
                                                    '71

          38.    The method according to claim 37, wherein the oil solvent or the mixture of
   the aqueous solvent and the oil solvent comprises crude tall oil, distilled tall oil, or a
   combination thereof.
 5
          39.    The method according to claim 37 or claim 38, wherein the oil solvent is
   recycled from a bio-product produced according to the method.
          40.    The method according to any one of claims 37 to 39, wherein the solid
10 substrate solvent is recycled from a bio-product produced according to the method.
          41.     The method according to any one of claims 1 to 40, wherein the aqueous
   solvent comprises water, or water and an alcohol.
15        42.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 41, wherein the aqueous
   solvent comprises water and an alcohol, and the alcohol is selected from ethanol,
   methanol, or a combination of methanol and ethanol.
          43.    The method according to claim 41 or claim 42, wherein prior to and/or after
20 the treating, the reaction mixture comprises a percentage by weight of said alcohol of
   more than 3%, more than 5%, more than 10%, more than 15%, more than 20%, more than
   25%, more than 30%, less than 30%, less than 25%, less than 20%, less than 15%, less
   than 10%, less than 5 %, or less than 3%.
25        44.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 43, wherein the bio-product
   comprises an oil component having a gross calorific value of at least 32 MJ/kg.
          45.    The method according to any one of claims 1 to 44, wherein the bio-product
   comprises a compound selected from the group consisting of: waxes; aldehydes;
30 carboxylic acids; carbohydrates; phenols; furfurals; alcohols; ketones; resins; resin acids;
   compounds structurally related to resin acids; alkanes; alkenes; fatty acids; fatty acid
   esters;    sterols; sterol-related  compounds;        furanic  oligomers; cyclopentanones;
   cyclohexanones; alkyl- and alkoxy- cyclopentanones; alkyl- and alkoxy- cyclohexanones;
   cyclopenteneones;      alkyl-   and  alkoxy-       cyclopentenones;  aromatic  compounds;
35 naphthalenes; alkyl- and alkoxy--substituted naphthalenes; cresols; alkyl- and alkoxy
                                                '-7')

    phenols; alkyl- and alkoxy- catechols; alkyl- and alkoxy- dihydroxybezenes; alkyl- and
    alkoxy- hydroquinones; indenes; indene-derivatives; and any combination thereof.
          46.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 45, wherein the organic
  5 matter feedstock is wood.
          47.   The method according to any one of claims            1 to 46, wherein the
    depressurising and cooling of the product mixture occurs simultaneously.
10        48.   The method according to any one of claims            1 to 46, wherein the
    depressurising and cooling of the product mixture occurs separately.
          49.   The method according to any one of claims 1 to 48, further comprising
    separating the solid substrate and oil from the product, and recycling the solid substrate
is  and the oil into a second slurry or second reaction mixture comprising organic matter
    feedstock.
          50.   A bio-product obtained by the method of any one of claims I to 49.
20
                                          Licella Pty Ltd
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
