   ABSTRACT
   A concrete tile comprising a tile body,
               the tile body having an upper face hardened through non-mold
   shaping, a lower face hardened through mold shaping, and a side surface that
 5 comprises a cut end face in at least one side of the tile body,
                wherein the tile body contains alkali-resistant fibers in an entire
   thickness thereof in a state that the alkali-resistant fibers form fiber-containing
   granular bodies each having a circle equivalent diameter of less than 10 mm;
               the alkali-resistant fibers comprise at least one member selected from
10 the group consisting of polyvinyl alcohol-based fibers, polyethylene fibers,
   polypropylene fibers, acrylic fibers, and aramid fibers; and
                a flexural strength of a tile body cut piece of 30 mm x 150 mm of the
   concrete tile is not less than 6 N/mm 2

              CONCRETE TILE AND MOLDING MATERIAL FOR SAME
   CROSS REFERENCE TO THE RELATED APPLICATION
                The present application is a divisional application from Australian
   patent    application number 2014344915,       which is based on and claims
 5 Convention priority to Japanese patent application No. 2013-230576, filed
   November 6, 2013, the entire disclosures of which are herein incorporated by
   reference as a part of this application.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
10              The present invention relates to a concrete tile manufactured by an
   extrusion molding method (roller/slipper system), and relates to a molding
   material for manufacturing the concrete tile.
   Description of Related Art
                Concrete tiles obtained by a roller/slipper method are cost-effective,
15 and are frequently used worldwide.        For example, Patent Document 1 has
   disclosed a method for manufacturing a light-weight concrete tile by the
   roller/slipper method.       Patent Document      1 (Japanese Laid-Open Patent
   Publication No. S61-91080) describes that a concrete roof tile is manufactured by
   a roller/slipper method, where a tile molding material composed of a mixture of
20 cement, sand, and water is compressed on a moving pallet, firstly by a roller, and
   secondary by a slipper.
                In more detail, this document indicates that a non-thixotropic silica
   fume and a silica fume dispersing agent are applied to the tile molding material
   to form a reaction product of the non-thixotropic silica fume and lime.
25              Patent Document 2 (Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No.
   H4-179502) discloses a light-weight concrete plate tile obtained by laminating a
   fiber-mixed layer formed from a mortar that contains fibers mixed therein and a
   fiber-free mortar layer.
   RELATED DOCUMENT

   PATENT DOCUMENT
                Patent Document 1          Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No.
   S61-91080
                Patent Document 2          Japanese Laid-Open Patent Publication No.
 5 H4-179502
                Any reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is
   given as prior art is not to be taken as an admission that that document or matter
   was known or that the information it contains was part of the common general
   knowledge as at the priority date of any of the claims.
10              Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word
   "comprise" and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is
   not intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                In general, a concrete tile is required to have a light weight where it is
15 used as a roof tile.    On the other hand, a concrete tile that satisfies the light
   weight requirement has a problem in strength.           Although Patent Document 1
   intends to improve the strength by the use of silica fume, it is difficult to
   sufficiently increase the strength of the concrete tile with very fine particles of
   silica fume.
20              On the other hand, according to Patent Document 2, a roof tile is
   partially provided with a layer containing fibers mixed therein in order to reduce
   the weight while maintaining the strength.             However, the tile of Patent
   Document 2 still includes a fiber-free mortar layer, and thus, is not sufficiently
   strong.   Further, with a two-layer structure composed of a fiber-mixed layer and
25 a mortar layer, it is impossible to reduce the total thickness of the tile, resulting in
   inferior reduction of weight and thickness.
                An aspect of the present invention is to provide a concrete tile having
   satisfactory strength and light weight, wherein the tile includes fibers in
                                             -<2>-

   its entire body in a state free of fiber-containing granular bodies.
                Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a molding
   material capable of forming a concrete tile having the above-described features.
                Still another aspect of the present invention is to provide a method for
 5 manufacturing a concrete tile by using such a molding material.
                A further aspect of the present invention is to provide a concrete tile
   comprising a tile body, the tile body having an upper face hardened through
   non-mold shaping, a lower face hardened through mold shaping, and a side
   surface that comprises a cut end face in at least one side of the tile body, wherein
10 the tile body contains alkali-resistant fibers in an entire thickness thereof in a
   state that the alkali-resistant fibers form fiber-containing granular bodies each
   having a circle equivalent diameter of less than 10 mm; the alkali-resistant fibers
   comprise at least one member selected from the group consisting of polyvinyl
   alcohol-based fibers, polyethylene fibers, polypropylene fibers, acrylic fibers,
15 and aramid fibers; and a flexural strength of a tile body cut piece of 30 mm x 150
   mm of the concrete tile is not less than 6 N/mm2
                As a result of extensive research to achieve the above described
   aspects, the inventors of the present invention have found the following.
                Where a specific alkali-resistant organic fibers are used as reinforcing
20 fibers included in the concrete tile, and the fibers can be dispersed in the concrete
   tile in a state substantially free of fiber-containing granular bodies, it is possible
   to enhance the strength of the concrete tile while reducing weight of the tile even
   where a concrete tile is manufactured by the roller/slipper method.        As a result
   of these findings, the inventors invented the present invention.
25              A first configuration of the present invention is a concrete tile that
   includes a tile body having:
                                             -<3>-

                an upper face hardened through non-mold shaping;
                a lower face hardened through mold shaping; and
                a side surface that includes a cut end face in at least one side of the
   tile,
 5              wherein alkali-resistant fibers are dispersed in the entire thickness of
   the tile body in a state substantially free of a fiber-containing granular body;
                the fibers are composed of at least one selected from the group
   consisting of polyvinyl alcohol-based fibers, polyethylene fibers, polypropylene
   fibers, acrylic fibers, and aramid fibers; and
10              flexural strength of a 30 mm x 150 mm sized cut piece of the tile
   body is not less than 6 N/mm2
                In the concrete tile, a specific gravity of the tile body may be about
    1.5 to 2.2.   Preferably, a surface of the tile body substantially does not have a
   protrusion due to the presence of fiber-containing granular body.
15              An average diameter of the alkali-resistant fibers may be 1 to 200 pm.
   An aspect ratio of each of the alkali-resistant fibers may be 50 to 1000.             In
   particular, the alkali-resistant fibers may be polyvinyl alcohol fibers.
                Preferably, the concrete tile passes EN490 standard of a tile bending
   test performed in accordance with EN491:201 1.         Preferably, the concrete tile is
                                            -<3a>-

       not substantially split-broken in a falling ball test performed according to JIS A
       1408.
                     A second configuration of the present invention is a molding material
       for manufacturing the concrete tile.
   5                 The molding material includes at least a cement, a fine aggregate, an
      alkali-resistant fibers, and water,
                     wherein a water cement ratio (W/C) of the molding material is 20 to
      50 % by mass;
                    the alkali-resistant fibers are composed of at least one selected from
 10   the group consisting          of polyvinyl      alcohol  fibers, polyethylene   fibers,
      polypropylene fibers, acrylic fibers, and aramid fibers;
                    a proportion of the alkali-resistant fibers in a solid content is 0.1 to
      2 % by mass; and
                    the molding material is substantially free of a fiber-containing
 15   granular body containing the alkali-resistant fibers.
                    The molding material may further include a functional aggregate.
                    The aspect ratio of the alkali-resistant fiber may be about 50 to 1000.
     The average fiber diameter of the alkali-resistant fiber may be about 1 to 200 pm.
                    Further, a third configuration         of the present invention also
20   encompasses use of the alkali-resistant fiber used in manufacture of the concrete
     tile, i.e., the use of alkali-resistant fibers composed of at least one selected from
     the group consisting of polyvinyl alcohol-based fibers, polyethylene fibers,
     polypropylene fibers, acrylic fibers, and aramid fibers for manufacturing the
     concrete tile.
25                  Still further, a fourth configuration of the present invention
     encompasses a method for manufacturing a concrete tile through a roller/slipper
     method.
                   The manufacturing method includes at least steps of:
                                                -<4>-

                  supplying the above-described molding material to a hopper of a
     roller/slipper-type extruder;
                  filling the molding material supplied from a lower portion of the
     hopper into a plurality of pallets adjacent to each other;
  5               compressing the filled molding material by using a roller and a
     slipper, and thereby forming a continuous band-shaped body on the pallets
     adjacent to each other; and
                  cutting the band-shaped body with a cutting blade to form individual
     raw tiles on individual pallets.
 10               In the above-described manufacturing method, the step of supplying
     the molding material may include a preparation process of the molding material,
     and the preparation process may include at least a step of dispersing the
     alkali-resistant fiber in a mixture including a cement, an aggregate, and water,
     such that the mixture is substantially free of a fiber-containing granular body
 15  containing the alkali-resistant fibers.
                  Any combination of at least two constructions, disclosed in the
     appended claims and/or the specification and/or the accompanying drawings
     should be construed as included within the scope of the present invention.        In
    particular, any combination of two or more of the appended claims should be
20  equally construed as included within the scope of the present invention.
    EFFECT OF THE INVENTION
                   According to the present invention, the alkali-resistant fibers are
    dispersed in a specific state to be included in the entire portion of the concrete
    tile manufactured through the roller/slipper method, whereby high strength and
25  light weight of the concrete tile can be achieved.
                 In addition, in the present invention, a concrete tile which is light in
    weight and excellent in strength can be manufactured by using the specific
    molding material.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                                             -<5>-

                 The present invention will be more clearly understood from the
    following description of preferred embodiments, when taken in conjunction with
    the accompanying drawings.        However, the embodiments and the drawings are
    given only for the purpose of illustration and explanation, and are not to be taken
 5  as limiting the scope of the present invention.          The scope of the present
    invention is to be determined by the appended claims.         In the accompanying
    drawings, like reference numerals are used to denote like parts throughout the
    several views.      It should be noted that each of the drawing is not always
    illustrated in a constant reduction scale, but includes an enlarged portion to show
10  a principle of the invention.
                 Fig. 1 is a schematic front view for explaining a concrete tile
    according to an embodiment of the present invention.
                 Fig. 2 is a schematic cross-sectional view for explaining the concrete
   tile shown in Fig. 1.
15               Fig. 3 is a schematic front view for explaining a concrete tile
   according to another embodiment of the present invention.
                 Fig. 4 is a schematic diagram for explaining a method for
   manufacturing a concrete tile according to an embodiment of the present
   invention.
20               Fig. 5 is a schematic diagram for explaining a method for
   manufacturing a concrete tile according to another embodiment of the present
   invention.
   DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
                 Hereinafter, embodiments of the present invention will be described
25 with reference to the drawings.     It should be noted that the present invention is
   not limited to the embodiments shown in the drawings.
                 Concrete Tile
                 A first configuration of the present invention is a concrete tile that
   includes a tile body.       The tile body has a front surface hardened through
                                            -<6>-

       non-mold shaping, a rear surface hardened through mold shaping, and a side
       surface.
                    Fig. 1 is a schematic front view for explaining a concrete tile
       according to an embodiment of the present invention.          Fig. 2 is a schematic
   5   cross-sectional view for explaining the concrete tile.
                   As shown in Fig. 1, the concrete tile includes a tile body 2 having a
       semi-cylindrical shape, and the tile body 2 has an upper face 3, a lower face 5,
       and a cut end face 1. The upper face 3 is a tile surface hardened through
       non-mold shaping.       For example, the upper face 3 may be formed by
 10    compression using a shaping roller and a slipper.        The lower face 5 is a tile
       surface hardened through mold shaping.       For example, the lower face 5 may be
       formed by the use of a mold which is referred to as a pallet in the roller/slipper
      system.
                   The cut end face 1 formed by cutting during the manufacturing
 15   process of the concrete tile may have, in at least a part of the cut surface, a
      rough-surface shape caused by the cutting.
                   In more detail, the rough-surface shape is formed, for example, by
      press-cutting the molding material with a cutter having a blunt end.           Such a
      rough-surface shape is made mainly as a result of aggregation of molding
20    material being compressed at the cut face.        It should be noted that the rough
      surface can be distinguished from the below-described protrusions due to the
     presence of a fiber-containing granular body by visual observation since the
     protrusions are not completely integrated with the surrounding molding material,
     and present as hardened bodies at least partially separated from the surrounding
25   molding material by void spaces.
                  As shown in Fig. 2, the tile body includes alkali-resistant fibers 7 in
     its entire portion in a state substantially free of fiber-containing granular bodies
     including the alkali-resistant fiber 7.    Here, "including the alkali-resistant fibers
     7 in the entire portion" means a state where the alkali-resistant fibers are
                                              -<7>-

        dispersed in the tile body throughout the entire thickness of the tile body.        "A
        state substantially free of a fiber-containing granular body including the
        alkali-resistant fiber" means a state where a fiber-containing granular body
       having a circle equivalent diameter of not less than 3 mm (preferably not less
   5   than 5 mm, and in particular, not less than 10 mm) cannot be observed at the cut
       face of the tile cut at a randomly-chosen position.          Details of an evaluation
       method are described in below-described Examples.
                     In a case where the molding material filled in a pallet is press-cut
       with a cutter such as a below-described blade, the cutter may not necessarily
 10    have a sharp cutting edge.            Therefore, there may be a case where an
       alkali-resistant fiber contained in the tile body is not cut but is pulled out from
       inside due to the pressure during press-cutting the molding material.        In such a
       case, at least a part of the alkali-resistant fiber may be present on the cut surface.
                    The concrete tile of the first constitution contains the alkali-resistant
 15   fiber in the entire portion of the tile body in a specific dispersed state.
      Therefore, the concrete tile is excellent in flexural strength even though the tile
      has a light weight.     The flexural strength of a cut piece of 30 mm x 150 mm in
      size is not less than 6 N/mm2 , preferably, may be not less than 6.5 N/mm2 , and
      more preferably, may be not less than 7.5 N/mm2 . The upper limit of the
20    strength is not limited in particular, but is normally 20 N/mm 2 in many cases.
      The flexural strength represents a value measured according to the method
      described in the below-described Example.
                    For example, the concrete tile can be usefully used as a light-weight
      concrete tile.    For example, the weight of the tile may be not greater than 40
25   kg/m2 (for example, 15 to 38 kg/m 2), and preferably not greater than 37 kg/m2
     (for example, 20 to 36 kg/m 2).
                    The weight of the concrete tile represents the weight per unit area of
     the concrete tile itself. Essentially, the value is calculated by obtaining the area
     and the weight per one tile, and dividing the weight by the area.
                                                 -<8>-

                   The concrete tile may have a protrusion caused by the aggregate
       inside the concrete, or a protrusion formed in accordance with a design.
       Preferably, the surface (for example, the upper face 3 and/or the lower face 5 of
       the tile body 2, preferably the upper face 3) of the tile body 2 does not have a
   5   protrusion due to the presence of a fiber-containing granular body composed of
       fibers assembled in a shape of spherule or the like.        For evaluation of the
       presence or absence of the protrusions due to the presence of the fiber-containing
       granular bodies, the surface of the tile body excluding the cut face may be
       subjected to the evaluation so as to distinguish the above-described protrusions
 10    from protrusions of the rough surface shape.
                   The protrusion due to the presence of a fiber-containing granular
      body can be recognized by cutting the tile along a plane including a protrusion
      and examining if a fiber-containing granular body having a circle equivalent
      diameter of not less than 3 mm (preferably not less than 5 mm, in particular, not
 15   less than 10 mm) exists in the protrusion.      Here, a fiber-containing granular
      body is a hardened body that includes the fibers, that is not completely integrated
     with the surrounding molding material, and that is at least partially separated
      from the surrounding molding material by a void space.           For example, the
     fiber-containing granular body may be composed of a fiber-containing lump
20   including a fiber lump or fiber agglomerate forming a core, and cement,
     aggregate, or the like that are kneaded and integrated with the fibers.   The circle
     equivalent diameter is the diameter of a circle having the same area as the
     projected area of the granule, and may be referred to as Heywood diameter.
     The surface of the tile body refers to the part that is designed to have no
25   protruding portions.
                  As shown in the cross-sectional view in Fig. 2, the alkali-resistant
     fibers 7 are contained in the tile body throughout the entire thickness of the tile
     body such that the alkali-resistant fibers 7 are dispersed in a specific state
     substantially free of a fiber-containing granular body.          For example, the
                                            -<9>-

       alkali-resistant fibers inside the tile body may be dispersed randomly in the
       thickness direction, or may be dispersed with an oriented state in a specific
       direction.    Randomly dispersed fiber and oriented fiber may coexist partially in
       the tile body.    Preferably, the fibers are oriented in the advancing direction of
   5   the roller/slipper system so as to improve the flexural reinforcement of the tile.
                    The tile may have any shape known in the field.      For example, the
       tile may have S-shape, cylindrical shape, semi-cylindrical shape, wave shape, F
       shape, flat shape, J shape, beaver shake, or the like.   An appropriate shape may
      be selected depending on the use of the tile.
 10                 An overlapped portion (or coupled portion) to be overlapped with
      adjacent tile may be formed on a rim of the upper face of the tile in one side, an
      overlapping portion (or coupling portion) to overlap the adjacent tile may be
      formed on a rim of the lower face of the tile in the other side.
                    For example, Fig. 3 is a schematic front view for explaining a
 15   concrete tile having an F shape.           This concrete tile has: a substantially
      rectangular tile body 12 having a cut end face 11 in at least one side; an
      overlapped portion 14 formed on an upper face 13 of the tile body 12; and an
      overlapping portion 16 formed on a lower face 15 of the tile body 12.       The cut
      end face 11 formed during the manufacturing process of the concrete tile has a
20   rough-surface shape caused by the cutting.
                   The overlapped portion 14 has a groove for engaging with the
     overlapping portion 16, and surface shape of the overlapping portion 16 is
     reversal to the surface shape of the grooved overlapped portion 14.     In Fig. 3, an
     adjacent tile is indicated by dotted lines.     The overlapped portion 14 may be
25   overlapped with the overlapping portion 16 of the adjacent tile substantially
     without any gap therebetween.        Here, "overlapping state substantially without
     any gap therebetween" means a state where the overlapped portion and the
     overlapping portion are engaged with each other without a gap of 10 mm or
                                              -<10>-

      greater therebetween.     Details of an evaluation method are described in the
      below described Examples.
                   The concrete tile of the first constitution of the present invention is
      preferably excellent in strength, and preferably passes the EN490 standard in a
  5   tile bending test performed in accordance with EN491:2011.          In this case, "pass
      a tile bending test" means that, in the case of a plate tile, tile strength is not less
      than 1200 N (preferably not less than 1500 N, and more preferably not less than
      1800 N) in a load test performed in accordance with EN491:2011.             The upper
      limit in the tile bending test is not particularly limited, but is about 4000 N in
 10  many cases.       Here, the numerical values obtained in the tile bending test
     indicate the values measured according to the method described in below
     described Example.
                  The concrete tile is excellent in strength, and thus, can be thinned.
     For example, the thickness of the thinnest part in the tile body may be about 8 to
15    100 mm, preferably about 10 to 95 mm, and more preferably about 15 to 90 mm.
                  Since the concrete tile can maintain strength even where the tile has
     thin thickness, it is not necessary that the concrete tile has small specific gravity
     as that of concrete.    Therefore, for example, the specific gravity of the concrete
    tile of the present invention may be about 1.5 to 2.2, preferably about 1.6 to 2.1,
20   and more preferably about 1.7 to 2.0.          It should be noted that the specific
    gravity represents a comparative weight of a material of 1 cubic centimeter in
    volume shown by a ratio to the weight of water of 1 cubic centimeter in volume
    at 4C where the weight of 1 cubic centimeter of water at 4C is defined as "1".
                  Preferably, the concrete tile is excellent in tenacity, and preferably is
25  not substantially split-broken in a falling ball test performed in reference to JIS A
     1408.    Here, the expression "is not substantially split-broken" means that the tile
    is not completely broken and does not split into two or more large pieces (where
    a volume of at least one piece is 20% to 80% of the volume of the entire tile
    before the breakage).     That is, surface fracture due to cracking and loss of small
                                             -(11>-

     pieces caused by surface chipping are not considered as a state where the tile is
     split-broken substantially.
                  Method for Manufacturing Concrete Tile
                  In a method for manufacturing a concrete tile according to another
  5  constitution of the present invention, a concrete tile can be manufactured from a
     predetermined molding material by using a roller/slipper system.       Specifically,
     the manufacturing method includes at least:
                  a step of supplying a molding material to a hopper of a
     roller/slipper-type extruder;
 10               a step of filling the molding material supplied from a lower portion of
     the hopper into a plurality of pallets adjacent to each other;
                  a step of compressing the filled molding material by using a roller
     and a slipper to form a band-shaped body continuously placed on the pallets
     adjacent to each other; and
15                a step of cutting the band-shaped body with a cutting blade to form
    individual raw tiles on individual pallets, respectively.
                  For example, a method for manufacturing a concrete tile according to
    an embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to Fig. 4.
    An extruder used in the roller/slipper system includes: a hopper H for supplying a
20  material; a hydraulic cylinder C for pushing out pallets P; a roller R for extruding
    the material downward from the hopper H and for compressing the material onto
    the pallets; and a slipper S for further compressing the material extruded by the
    roller R.
                 As shown in Fig. 4, first, a molding material M for manufacturing a
25  concrete tile is supplied to the hopper H. Below the hopper H, the pallets P...P
    each serving as a mold of a tile rear surface (tile lower face) shape are arranged
    forming a row, and these pallets are slid and moved on a table T.       The table T
    has guides on the bottom surface and the side surfaces for moving a series of the
    pallets P.. .P.    The extruder is provided with the hydraulic cylinder C for
                                              (12>-

     pushing out the pallets P.. .P which are the molds for the tile rear surface shape
     and are arranged forming a row.      When the hydraulic cylinder C reaches the end
     position of stroke, the hydraulic cylinder C stops once, and then, moves in the
     direction opposite to the arrow direction in order to return to the initial position.
  5              Through the action in the arrow direction, the hydraulic cylinder C
     pushes each pallet P downstream from the hopper side as the upstream side.
     Then, in accordance with the movement of the pallet P, the molding material M
     is extruded from a lower portion of the hopper H, and filled in the pallet P while
     being made flat by the use of the roller R and the slipper S. In more detail, for
 10  example, the molding material in the hopper H is filled into the pallet P due to
     the own weight, and rotation of the roller R in the arrow direction, and the like.
     The molding material M filled in the pallet P is made flat by the roller R and the
     slipper S, whereby a tile front surface (or tile upper face) is formed.        Where
    necessary, the hopper H may houses an extruding unit (for example, a paddle or
15  the like) for extruding the molding material M in the direction of pallet.
                 On the surface of each of the pallets P, the roller R, and/or the slipper
    S that are to be in contact with the molding material M may be designed to
    include projections/recesses.      The projections/recesses may constitute a tile
    shape, shapes of coupled (coupling) portion, shapes of non-coupled portion, and
20  pattern on the tile surface or the like.
                 The tile is cured and hardened, while being in contact with the pallet
    P with the lower surface.       Therefore, the tile has a surface hardened through
    molding.     On the other hand, the upper face of the tile is formed while being
    compressed by the roller R and/or the slipper S.      Since the shaping is performed
25  without using a mold, the upper face has a surface hardened through non-mold
    shaping.    The surface hardened through mold shaping tends to be a smooth
    surface caused by the shape of the mold.
                Then, the pallet P filled with the molding material M is moved to the
    downstream side of the hopper H by the action of the hydraulic cylinder C,
                                             -<13>-

       forming a band-shaped body continuously placed on the pallets adjacent to each
       other.   Then, the pallets P are respectively cut at the front end and the back end
       thereof by a blade B provided on the downstream side, whereby individual raw
       tiles are formed on the individual pallets, respectively.       These raw tiles are
   5   further cured under a predetermined condition, whereby the raw tiles are
       hardened and the tiles each having a predetermined shape can be obtained.
       When the tile is cut by the blade B, a rough surface caused by the cutting is
       usually formed on the cut end faces of each tile.
                   A method for manufacturing a concrete tile according to another
 10    embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference to Fig. 5.
       In this embodiment, instead of the table T shown in Fig. 4, a conveyor C is
      provided below the hopper H, the conveyor C being provided with the pallets
      P.. .P forming a row, each pallet P serving as a mold for providing a tile rear
      surface shape.
 15                The conveyor C moves toward the downstream side from the hopper
      at the upstream side.    In accordance with its movement, the molding material M
      is extruded, and filled and compressed in the pallet P while being made flat by
      the roller R and the slipper S. In more detail, for example, the molding material
      in the hopper H is filled into the pallet P due to the weight of the molding
20   material itself, rotation in the arrow direction of the roller R, and the like, and the
     molding material M extruded into the pallet P is made flat by the roller R and the
     slipper S, whereby a tile upper surface is formed.
                  Although not shown in Fig. 5, the conveyor may be moved by use of
     various kinds of drivers that are used in the technical field. For example, the
25   conveyor may be movable by drivers such as a motor or the like.
                  Further, as long as the pallets are movable, moving mechanism of the
     pallets is not particularly limited.   It is possible to use a device other than the
     above-explained moving device to move the pallet.
                  Concrete Tile Molding Material
                                             -<14>-

                   A molding material for manufacturing a concrete tile according to
      another constitution of the present invention includes at least a cement, an
      aggregate, an alkali-resistant fiber, and water, and the water cement ratio (W/C)
     may be, in percentage by mass, about 20 to 50%, preferably may be 20 to 45%
  5  (for example, 35 to 45%), and more preferably 20 to 40% (for example, 35 to
     40%).     The alkali-resistant fiber is not substantially present as a fiber-containing
     granular body in the molding material.               The substantial absence of a
     fiber-containing granular body formed of the alkali-resistant fiber in the molding
     material can be confirmed by the fact that a fiber-containing granular body
 10  having a circle equivalent diameter of not less than 3 mm (preferably not less
     than 5 mm, and in particular, not less than 10 mm) cannot be observed at a cut
     face formed by cutting the tile at a randomly selected position.          Details of an
     evaluation method are described in below-described Examples.
                  The proportion of the alkali-resistant fiber relative to the solid content
15   in the molding material may be about 0.1 to 2 % by mass, preferably about 0.3 to
     1.8 % by mass, and more preferably about 0.5 to 1.6 % by mass, so as to
     suppress formation of fiber-containing granular bodies.
                  In order to provide excellent kneadability and to mix the
     alkali-resistant fibers in the entire portion of the tile as a formed body, the
20   alkali-resistant fibers used in the present invention may be at least one
     alkali-resistant organic fibers selected from the group consisting of polyvinyl
     alcohol (hereinafter also referred as PVA) fibers, polyolefin-based fibers
     (polyethylene fibers, polypropylene fibers, and the like), ultra high molecular
    weight polyethylene fibers, polyamide fibers (polyamide 6, polyamide 6,6,
25  polyamide 6,10, and the like), aramid fibers (in particular, para-aramid fibers),
    and acrylic fibers.
                  Such fibers are useful for manufacturing the above-described
    concrete tile. Among these, PVA fibers are particularly preferable because of
    the following reasons.      PVA fibers can be advantageously used because of the
                                              -<15>-

        concrete reinforcing property and low production cost.      In addition, PVA fibers
        have excellent adhessibility to cement.
                    The alkali-resistant fibers may have aspect ratios of 50 to 1000 so as
       to suppress formation of fiber-containing granular bodies.            Preferably, the
   5    aspect ratios of the alkali-resistant fibers may be about 70 to about 900, more
       preferably about 100 to about 800, so as to provide a predetermined strength to
       the tile.   Here, the aspect ratio denotes a ratio of fiber length (L) to fiber
       diameter (D).
                    The strength of the tile as a whole can be enhanced as the fiber has
 10    high strength.    For example, the fiber strength may be not less than 8 cN/dtex,
       preferably not less than 9 cN/dtex, and more preferably not less than 10 cN/dtex.
       The upper limit of the fiber strength is not particularly limited, and can be set to
       an appropriate value depending on the selection of fiber.         For example, the
       upper limit of the fiber strength may be about 30DcN/dtex.        The fiber strength
 15    denotes a value measured according to the method described in the
       below-described Examples.
                   In order to suppress formation of fiber-containing granular bodies, to
       enhance mixability of fibers, and to enhance the strength of molded article, the
      alkali-resistant fibers to be admixed into the molding material may have an
20    average diameter of about 1 to 200 pm, preferably about 2 to 150 Rm, and more
      preferably about 5 to 100 pm.
                   Such a fiber can be selected arbitrarily and used by a skilled person in
      the art as long as the formation of fiber-containing granular bodies in the molding
     material is suppressed.      In many cases, the fiber is used as short cut fibers
25    formed by cutting a fiber bundle.              The short cut fibers easily form
     fiber-agglomerates during the step of cutting the fiber, the step of compressing
     the fiber into a fiber bale, and the like.        Although the fiber bale may be
     preliminarily roughly disentangled by using a bale opener or the like,
     fiber-agglomerates tend to remain in many cases.
                                              -<16>-

                   Where fiber-agglomerate are present in the molding material, there
       are cases where the aggregate and the cement containing water cover the
       fiber-agglomerates, thereby preventing the water and the cement from entering
       inside the fiber-agglomerates.   In such a case, fiber-containing granular bodies
   5  mainly composed of fiber-agglomerates are formed not only in the molding
      material but also in the concrete tile.
                   Where necessary, it is possible to perform below-described fiber
      dispersing step during preparation of the concrete tile molding material so as to
      prevent formation of such fiber-containing granular bodies.
 10                Examples of the cement include: portland cements such as ordinary
      portland cements, high early strength portland cements, ultra-high early strength
      portland cements, and moderate heat portland cements; aluminous cements; blast
      furnace cements; silica cements; and fly ash cements.      It is possible to use single
      type cement selected from these examples or two or more types in combination.
 15                Fine aggregates used in manufacture of the concrete tile may be
      aggregates having a particle size of not greater than 5 mm.           Examples of the
      fine aggregates may include: sands having a particle size of not greater than 5
      mm; fine aggregates formed by powdering or granulating inorganic materials
      such as silica stone, fly ash, blast furnace slag, volcanic ash-based shirasu,
20   various kinds of sludge, rocks or minerals; and the like.         It is possible to use
      single type aggregate selected from these examples or two or more types in
     combination.
                  Examples of the sands include river sand, mountain sand, sea sand,
     crushed sand, silica sand, slag, glass sand, iron sand, ash sand, calcium carbonate,
25   artificial sand, and the like.
                  The molding material may be blended with a natural light-weight
     aggregate such as volcanic gravel, expanded slag, or cinder; or an artificial
     light-weight aggregate such as expanded pearlstone, expanded perlite, expanded
     obsidian, vermiculite, or shirasu balloon.      Since the concrete tile of the present
                                              -(17>-

       invention can maintain strength even where the tile has a small thickness, it is
      possible to reduce the amount of the light-weight aggregate that is easily crushed
       during the manufacturing step, and to reduce the weight of the concrete tile of the
      present invention at the same time.        Therefore, the proportion of the amount of
   5  the light-weight aggregate in the amount of the aggregate can be reduced to not
      greater than 10%, and preferably not greater than 5%.
                  In addition to the fine aggregate, a functional aggregate may be added.
      Here, examples of the functional aggregate include colored aggregates, hard
      aggregates, elastic aggregates, and aggregates having specific shapes, and the
 10   functional aggregate may be a phyllosilicate (for example, mica, talc, kaolin),
      alumina, silica, or the like.     The proportion of the functional aggregate relative
      to the fine aggregate can be set at an appropriate value depending on the selected
     material.    For example, the mass ratio of the fine aggregate to the functional
      aggregate may be (fine aggregate)/(functional aggregate) = about 99/1 to about
 15  70/30, preferably about 98/2 to about 75/25, and more preferably about 97/3 to
     about 80/20.
                  Among these functional aggregates, phyllosilicate is preferably added.
     The flake diameter of the phyllosilicate may be, for example, about 10 to 800 pm,
     and preferably about 20 to 700 pm.
20                For example, mica is a kind of phyllosilicate and is mainly composed
     of SiO 2 , A12 0 3 , K 2 0, and crystal water.   Examples of preferable mica include
     muscovite, phlogopite, and the like.
                  The weight average flake diameter of the phyllosilicate may be, for
     example, about 50 to 800 im, and preferably 100 to 700 Jim.                The weight
25   average flake diameter indicates a value obtained by sieving the phyllosilicates
     using standard sieves of different mesh sizes, plotting the result of sieving on a
     Rosin-Rammlar chart, thereby determining a mesh size through which 50% by
     weight of the phyllosilicate subjected to the measurement passes, and multiply
                                               -<18>-

        the determined mesh size by square root (that is, the length of diagonal of square
        mesh).
                     By mutual reinforcement by the combined use of the phyllosilicate
        with the alkali-resistant fiber, it is possible to improve various strength properties
   5    of the concrete tile.
                     The proportion       of the       functional aggregate    (in  particular,
       phyllosilicate) relative to the alkali-resistant fiber can be set at an appropriate
       value depending on the selected species.           For example, the mass ratio of the
       functional aggregate to the alkali-resistant fiber may be (functional aggregate
 10    salt)/(alkali-resistant fiber) = about 1/1 to 50/1, preferably about 2/1 to about 40/1,
       and more preferably about 3/1 to about 30/1.
                    The mass ratio of the total amount (S) of the aggregate to the cement
       (C) may be aggregate (S)/cement (C) ratio = about 1/10 to about 5/1, preferably
       about 1/8 to about 4/1, and more preferably about 1/6 to about 3/1.
 15                 The concrete tile molding material allows the fiber to be mixed
      therein at a small water cement ratio (W/C).          Conventionally, where the fiber is
      mixed with a small water cement ratio (W/C), it has been impossible to enhance
      the strength of molded article by mixing the fiber homogeneously in the molding
      material due to the lack of fluidity of the material after the kneading.           Even
20    when an admixture is used, fluidity of the material is poorer than than that of
      concrete or mortar obtained for ordinary cast molding, and thus, it is difficult to
      uniformly mix the fibers in the molding material.
                   Where necessary, various kinds of admixture may be mixed in the
      concrete tile molding material, where the admixture may be selected from AE
25   agents, superplasticizing agents, water reducing agents, high-range water
     reducing agents, AE water reducing agents, high-range AE water reducing agents,
     thickening agents, water retention agents, water-repellent agents, expanding
     agents, accelerators, retarding agents, and polymer emulsions [acrylic emulsion,
     ethylene-vinyl acetate emulsion, or SBR (styrene-butadiene-rubber) emulsion],
                                                -<19>-

        for example.      It is possible to use single species or combination of two or more
        species selected from the above-described admixtures. The polymer emulsion
        can enhance the adhesion between the components in the molding material in
       addition to the effect of reducing brittleness of the tile.     Further, by combining
   5   the polymer emulsion, it is possible to retard excessive drying while improving
       waterproof performance of the tile.
                     The concrete tile molding material can be obtained by mixing the
       above-described cement, the aggregate, the alkali-resistant fibers, water, and the
       like in a range that allows to prevent the alkali-resistant fibers from substantially
 10    occurring as fiber-containing granular bodies in the molding material.
                    Preferably, preparation process of the molding material may at least
      include a process of dispersing the alkali-resistant fibers in a mixture including
      cement, aggregate, and water, such that the alkali-resistant fibers are not
      substantially present as a fiber-containing granular body.
 15                 It is sufficient if the mixture at least includes cement, aggregate, and
      water.    Each of the cement, aggregate, and water may be contained in the
      mixture with an entire or a partial amount compared with the designated amount
      contained in the molding material.          Where a partial amount is contained in the
      mixture, residual amount may be added in the time of dispersing the
20    alkali-resistant fibers in the mixture and/or after dispersing the alkali-resistant
      fibers.
                   More preferably,       the preparation process may include at least,
                   a mixing step of mixing at least cement, aggregate, and water to form
     a mixture; and
25                 a dispersing step of adding the alkali-resistant fiber in the mixture and
     dispersing the alkali-resistant in the mixture in a state substantially free of
     fiber-containing granular body.
                   For example, it is acceptable that at least the cement, the aggregate
     and water are mixed during the mixing.              For example, the cement and the
                                                 -<20>-

       aggregate may be mixed in a dry process, and subsequently, the dry mixture may
       be kneaded with water added afterwards.
                    The fibers may be dispersed by various methods as long as the
       molding material substantially free of fiber-containing granular bodies including
   5   the alkali-resistant fibers can be obtained.
                    In the dispersing process, in order to improve dispersibility of the
       fibers, for example, (i) the alkali-resistant fibers may be supplied in a constant
       amount, (ii) disentangled alkali-resistant fibers may be added, or (iii) a mixer or a
       kneader having high stirring performance may be used to mix the alkali-resistant
 10    fiber.  It is possible to apply one ways of (i) to (iii), or combine two or more
      ways selected from (i) to (iii).
                    Where the alkali-resistant fiber is supplied in a constant amount, the
      manner of supplying is not particularly limited as long as the fiber can be added
      continuously in the range of a predetermined amount.           For example, various
 15   types of constant-amount-supplying devices (for example, vibrating feeder,
      screw feeder, belt feeder, and the like) can be used as a device that supplies the
      fibers while controlling the amount and/or speed of adding the fibers.
                   Where      the    alkali-resistant   fibers   are   disentangled,    the
      fiber-agglomerate can be disentangled into smaller fiber assemblies by use of
20   predetermined disentangling device to an extent that allows to suppress
     occurrence of the fiber-containing granular bodies in the molding material.
     From the viewpoint of maintaining the fiber strength, it is preferable that
     disentangling of the fiber-agglomerate is performed such that fibrillation and
     crush of the fiber do not occur.
25                 Usually, the fiber-agglomerate can be disentangled according to
     various methods using a dry process.           For example, the fiber-agglomerate (a
     fiber bale, roughly disentangled fibers obtained from a fiber bale, a short cut fiber
     bundle, and the like) may be disentangled by causing a roll having projections to
     claw the fibers, by causing the fibers to pass between rotating gears opposed to
                                               -<21>-

       each other, by use of shearing force of a rotating disk having grooves, or by
       impact caused by air blow.    It is possible to perform a single method or two or
       more methods selected from the above-described disentangling methods.            For
       example, the fiber-agglomerate (e.g., a lump of short cut fibers cut to have a
   5  predetermined length) may be disentangled in a dry process, thereby separated
       from each other.
                   In a case where a mixer or a kneader having high stirring
      performance is used in mixing the alkali-resistant fiber, a dual arm kneader, a
      pressure kneader, an Eirich mixer, a super mixer, a planetary mixer, a Banbury
 10   mixer, a continuous mixer, a continuous kneader, or the like can be used as the
      mixer or the kneader having high stirring performance, for example.
                  The concrete tile molding material obtained in this manner is then
      supplied to a hopper of the roller/slipper-type extruder, whereby the concrete tile
      can be manufactured through the roller/slipper system.
 15   EXAMPLES
                  Hereafter, the present invention will be described in detail with
      reference to a Synthesis Example, Examples, and Comparative Examples.
      However, the present invention is not limited to these Examples.
                  [Method for Measuring Fiber Strength (cN/dtex)]
20               Evaluation was performed in accordance with JIS L1015 "Test
      methods for man-made staple fibres (8.5.1)".
                  [Method for measuring tile weight (kg/m2)]
                 With respect to 5 tiles, the weight and the projected area from the
     upper face of each tile were measured.       Then, sum of the areas of the respective
25   tiles and the sum of the weight of respective tiles were calculated, and then, the
     obtained total weight is divided by the obtained total area, to calculate the tile
     weight (kg/m2).
                 [Evaluation of appearance of tile body]
                                             -<22>-

                    Presence/Absence     of Protrusion Caused         By   Fiber-Containing
        Granular Body In Surface Part of Tile
                    With respect to the upper face of the tile body, the presence/absence
        of a protrusion caused by a fiber-containing granular body is examined by visual
   5    observation.   When a protrusion is present, the tile is cut along a plane including
       the protrusion.    Then, when a fiber-containing granular body having a circle
        equivalent diameter of not less than 10 mm is present in the protrusion, it is
       determined that the protrusion is derived from a fiber-containing granular body.
       Tiles were qualified as bad (C) where at least one fiber-containing granular body
 10    having a circle equivalent diameter of not less than 10 mm was found, acceptable
       (B) where at least one fiber-containing granular body having a circle equivalent
       diameter of not less than 3 mm and less than 10 mm was found; and good (A)
       where circle equivalent diameters of the fiber-containing granular bodies were
       less than 3 mm.    Randomly selected 10 tiles are subjected to the examination of
 15   protrusion, and the tiles are evaluated to have protrusions where the protrusion
      was observed in at least one tile.
                   Presence/Absence of Fiber-Containing Granular Body Inside the Tile
                   After cutting a tile at a randomly selected portion, the cut face was
      subjected to visual observation if a fiber-containing granular body having a circle
20    equivalent diameter of not less than 10 mm existed.       Tiles were qualified as bad
      (C) where at least one fiber-containing granular body having a circle equivalent
      diameter of not less than 10 mm was found, acceptable (B) where at least one
      fiber-containing granular body having a circle equivalent diameter of not less
     than 3 mm and less than 10 mm was found; and good (A) where circle equivalent
25   diameters of the fiber-containing granular bodies were less than 3 mm.
     Randomly selected 10 tiles are subjected to the examination of fiber-containing
     granular bodies, and the tiles are evaluated to have protrusions where at least one
     tile shows an existence of the fiber-containing granular body.
                                              -<23>-

                    The fiber-containing granular body can be recognized by visual
       observation since it is not integrated with surrounding molding material and
       occurs as a hardened body separated from the surrounding molding material via a
       void space in between possibly due to its origin from fiber-agglomerate.
   5                [Engagement state in overlapped portion]
                    The overlapping portion was placed on the overlapped portion, and
       overlapping state of the two portions was observed through visual observation.
       Where the two portions are engaged with each other without a gap of 10 mm or
      more therebetween, the state was evaluated as engagement substantially without
 10    a gap.    The state of the overlapped portion was evaluated as good (A) where a
      groove was formed uniformly, acceptable (B) where the groove was not divided
      but had non-uniform height, and bad (C) where the groove was not formed
      partially.   Randomly selected 10 tiles were subjected to observation of the
      overlapped portions to examine the overlapping state, and the tiles were
 15   evaluated as forming gaps where at least one of the overlapped portion showed
      an engagement with a gap.
                   [Measuring of flexural strength of cut piece]
                   Three strip-shaped test pieces each having a length of about 150 mm
      and a width of about 50 mm were cut out from each tile.      In order to control the
20    moisture content of the test piece constant at the time of measurement, the cut out
     test pieces were dried for 72 hours at 40 0C using a drier.    The flexural strength
     was measured in accordance with JIS A 1408, using Autograph AG5000-B
     manufactured by Shimadzu Corporation, where test speed (crosshead speed with
     load) was 2 mm/minute, load was applied at center, and bending span was 100
25   mm.
                  [Measurement of tile bending load]
                  In accordance with EN491:2011, a tile bending test was performed at
     a test speed (crosshead speed with load) of 500 N/minute.         The bending load
                                             -<24>-

        value obtained through this test was checked against the EN490 standard, to
        determine whether the tile has passed or not.
                     [Falling ball test on tile]
                     With reference to JIS A 1408, a falling ball test was performed under
   5    the conditions of opposite sides simply supported, span of 200 mm, ball mass of
        1.05 kg, and drop height of 30 cm.        Three pieces were tested for each one group.
        Where at least one piece was substantially split-broken, the whole group was
       evaluated as non-acceptable.         Here, " not substantially split-broken" means that
       the tile is not completely broken and split into two or more large pieces (the
 10    volume of each obtained piece is not less than 20% of the volume of the entire
       tile before the breakage).            Therefore, the concept expressed by "not
       substantially split-broken" excludes loss of small pieces caused by surface
       fracture due to cracking and chipping of the surface.
                    [Method for measuring average fiber diameter and aspect ratio]
 15                 In accordance with JIS L1015 "Test methods for man-made staple
       fibres (8.5.1)", the average fiber length was calculated and the aspect ratio of the
      fiber was evaluated on the basis of the ratio of the average fiber length to the
      average fiber diameter.        To determine the average fiber diameter, single-fibers
      were taken out at random one by one, and the fiber diameter at a center portion in
20    the length direction of the fiber was measured using an optical microscope.
      Then, the average of measured diameters of 100 fibers was defined as the
      average fiber diameter.
                    [Specific gravity of tile]
                   3 strip-shaped test pieces each having a length of about 150 mm and a
25   width of about 50 mm were cut out from each tile.               Then, by measuring the
     dimensions of each test piece, the volume of each test piece was calculated.
     Then, each cut-out piece was dried for 24 hours at 100*C in a drier, and the mass
     of each cut-out piece was separately measured.            Then, the specific gravity of
     each cut-out piece was calculated by the following formula, then the average
                                                 -<25>-

      value was calculated, and the obtained average value was defined as the specific
      gravity of the tile.
                   Specific gravity (g/cm3 )= mass of cut-out piece (g)/volume of cut-out
      piece (length x width x height)(cm 3)
   5               Examples 1 to 3
                   An ordinary portland cement (33.3 parts by mass), sea sand (63.2
      parts by mass) as a fine aggregate SI, mica (weight average flake diameter: 300
      pm, 2.5 parts by mass) as a functional aggregate S2 were mixed, and dry-blended
      for 1 minute using a 100-L volume planetary mixer.          Then, water was added to
 10   the mixture, and the resultant mixture was kneaded for 1 minute, whereby a
      cement mixture having water cement ratio (W/C) of 38 % by mass and aggregate
      (S)/cement (C) ratio = 2/1 was obtained.         After that, each kind of the fibers
      shown in Table 1 was added at the corresponding proportion shown in Table 1,
      and the resultant mixture was kneaded for 2 minutes, whereby a concrete tile
 15   molding material was obtained.         Each of the fibers has been disentangled
      preliminarily by passing between rotating gears provided opposed to each other.
                  The    molding    material    was    loaded   to    the hopper     of the
     roller/slipper-type extruder, and the material was extruded onto metal pallets for
     plain tile.    Then, the material was compressed by a slipper, whereby the
20   molding material was filled in the pallets.      Then, each pallet was cut at the front
     end and the back end thereof with a cutting blade, to manufacture a plain tile
     having dimensions of 422 mm x 333 mm x about 10 mm.                   These tiles were
     placed in a curing tank, and were hardened at 50*C and RH 100% for 18 hours.
     After the hardening, the tiles were taken out of the metal pallets, and were further
25   cured at 20'C and RH 85% for 29 days.          The characteristics of the obtained tiles
     are shown in Table 1.
                 Example 4
                                             -<26>-

                 Concrete tiles were obtained in the same manner as in Example 1
     except that the added amount of the fiber was 0.5 wt%.      The characteristics of
     the obtained tiles are shown in Table 1.
                 Comparative Example 1
  5              Concrete tiles were obtained in the same manner as in Example 1
     except that no fiber was used.      The characteristics of the obtained tiles are
     shown in table 1.
                 Comparative Example 2
                 Concrete tiles were obtained in the same manner as in Example 1
 10 except that, as the aggregate, 15 mass% of the fine aggregate was replaced with
    E-SPHERES which is a light-weight aggregate manufactured by Taiheiyo
    Cement Corporation, and no fiber was used.      The characteristics of the obtained
    tiles are shown in table 1.
                 Comparative Examples 3 to 4
15               Concrete tiles were obtained in the same manner as in Example 1
    except that the kind and the added amount of the fibers were changed as shown
    in table 1. The features of the obtained tiles are shown in Table 1.
                 Comparative Example 5
                Concrete tiles were obtained in the same manner as in Example 1
20  except that the fibers were not disentangled in advance.      The features of the
    obtained tiles are shown in Table 1.
                                          -<27)-

          in   - i   ac
              M  )  n knw)                    I
         >           0
   0 -L
         r-L9    QCL:      I"       C(PC      CL)
        ID
             ONr o       n                 n k
                                      00
                   CD               N
                                         o        00
                        m0        C
_1                            C.)
              x        x

                      As shown in Table 1, in each of Examples 1 to 4, the fibers are
        dispersed in a state where the fiber does not exist as a fiber-containing granular
        body, and the tile is excellent in appearance and shows sufficient characteristics
        as a tile in any of the cut piece flexural strength test, the tile bending test, and the
   5    falling ball test.     In addition, weight of the tile can be decreased while
        maintaining such a high strength.
                     On the other hand, in Comparative Example 1, since no fiber is
        included, satisfactory result was not obtained in any of cut piece flexural strength
       test, tile bending test, and the falling ball test.
 10                  In Comparative Example 2, the weight of the tile was reduced by the
       use of light-weight aggregate.      However, since no fiber is included, satisfactory
       result was not obtained in any of the cut piece flexural strength test, the tile
       bending test, and the falling ball test.
                     Comparative Example 3 shows inferior appearance possibly due to
 15    formation of fiber-agglomerates inside the tile caused by excessive amount of
       fiber. In addition sufficient strength was not achieved in the cut piece flexural
       strength test and in the tile bending test.
                     Comparative Example 4 shows inferior appearance possibly due to
       formation of fiber-agglomerates inside the tile caused by too large aspect ratio of
20     fiber. In addition sufficient strength was not achieved in the cut piece flexural
      strength test and in the tile bending test.
                     Comparative Example 5 shows inferior appearance due to the
      presence of fiber containing granular bodies.          In addition, sufficient strength
      was not achieved in the cut piece flexural strength test and in the tile bending
25    test.
      INDUSTRIAL APPLICABILITY
                    The concrete tile of the present invention can be usefully used as
     various types of roof materials, and also can be used as a wall tile, a floor tile, or
     the like.
                                                -<29>-

              Although the present invention has been fully described in connection
  with the preferred embodiments thereof with reference to the accompanying
  drawings which are used only for the purpose of illustration, those skilled in the
  art will readily conceive numerous changes and modifications within the
5 framework of obviousness upon the reading of the specification herein presented
  of the present invention.    Accordingly, such changes and modifications are,
  unless they depart from the scope of the present invention as delivered from the
  claims annexed hereto, to be construed as included therein.
                                      -<30>-

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1.          A concrete tile comprising a tile body,
                the tile body having an upper face hardened through non-mold
   shaping, a lower face hardened through mold shaping, and a side surface that
 5 comprises a cut end face in at least one side of the tile body,
                wherein the tile body contains alkali-resistant fibers in an entire
   thickness thereof in a state that the alkali-resistant fibers form fiber-containing
   granular bodies each having a circle equivalent diameter of less than 10 mm;
                the alkali-resistant fibers comprise at least one member selected from
10 the group consisting of polyvinyl alcohol-based fibers, polyethylene fibers,
   polypropylene fibers, acrylic fibers, and aramid fibers; and
                a flexural strength of a tile body cut piece of 30 mm x 150 mm of the
   concrete tile is not less than 6 N/mm 2
15 2.           The concrete tile according to claim 1, wherein
                a surface of the tile body is substantially free of protrusions caused by
   presence of the fiber-containing granular bodies.
   3.           The concrete tile according to claim I or 2, wherein a specific gravity
20 of the tile body is 1.5 to 2.2.
   4.           The concrete tile according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein an
   average diameter of the alkali-resistant fibers is 1 to 200 tm, and an aspect ratio
   of each of the alkali-resistant fibers is 50 to 1000.
25
   5.           The concrete tile according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the
   alkali-resistant fibers are polyvinyl alcohol fibers.
                                             -<31>-

   6.           The concrete tile according to any one of claims 1 to 5, that passes
   EN490 standard in a tile bending test performed in accordance with EN491:2011.
   7.           The concrete tile according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the
 5 tile body is not substantially split-broken in a falling ball test performed with
   reference to JIS A 1408.
   8.           A concrete tile molding material for manufacturing the concrete tile
   according to any one of claims 1 to 7,
10              the molding material comprising at least a cement, a fine aggregate,
   alkali-resistant fibers, and water,
                wherein a water cement ratio (W/C) is 20 to 50 mass%,
                the alkali-resistant fibers comprise at least one member selected from
   the group consisting of polyvinyl alcohol-based fibers, polyethylene fibers,
15 polypropylene fibers, acrylic fibers, and aramid fibers,
                a proportion of the alkali-resistant fiber in a solid content is 0.1 to
   2 % by mass, and
                the alkali-resistant fibers in the concrete tile molding material form
   fiber-containing granular bodies each having a circle equivalent diameter of less
20 than 10 mm.
   9.           The concrete tile molding material according to claim 8, wherein an
   aspect ratio of each of the alkali-resistant fibers is 50 to 1000.
25  10.         The concrete tile molding material according to claim 8 or 9, wherein
   the average diameter of the alkali-resistant fibers is 1 to 200 tm.
                                             -<32>-

    11.         The concrete tile molding material according to any one of claims 8
   to 10, wherein the alkali-resistant fibers are disentangled fibers obtained using a
   dry process.
 5  12.         The concrete tile molding material according to any one of claims 8
   to 11,   wherein a preparation process of the molding material comprises
   alkali-resistant fibers supplied in a constant amount during a dispersing process.
    13.         The concrete tile molding material according to any one of claims 8
10 to 12, further comprising a functional aggregate.
    14.         Use of alkali-resistant fibers for manufacturing the concrete tile
   according to any one of claims I to 7, the alkali-resistant fibers comprising at
   least one member selected from the group consisting of polyvinyl alcohol-based
15 fibers, polyethylene fibers, polypropylene fibers, acrylic fibers, and aramid fibers,
   the alkali-resistant fiber.
    15.         A method of manufacturing a concrete tile through a roller/slipper
   method, the method at least comprising:
20              a step of supplying the molding material according to any one of
   claims 8 to 13 to a hopper of a roller/slipper-type extruder;
                a step of filling the molding material supplied from a lower portion of
   the hopper into a plurality of pallets adjacent to each other;
                a step of compressing the filled molding material by using a roller
25 and a slipper to form a band-shaped body that is continuously placed on the
   pallets adjacent to each other; and
                a step of cutting the band-shaped body with a cutting blade to form
   individual raw tiles on individual pallets.
                                            -<33>-

  16.          The method of manufacturing a concrete tile according to claim 15,
  wherein
               the step of supplying of the molding material comprises a preparation
  process of the molding material, and
5              the preparation process at least comprises a step of dispersing the
  alkali-resistant fibers in a mixture comprising a cement, an aggregate, and water
  while avoiding      substantial occurrence     of the alkali-resistant fibers as a
  fiber-containing granular body.
                                          -<34>-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
