                                              8
   Abstract
  The present invention relates to a receptacle for holding a medical instrument having a
  sharp portion and a handle portion with a certain thickness. The receptacle includes
  two corresponding recesses adapted to receive the sharp and handle portions of the
5  medical instrument, respectively. The guiding means is adapted to guide the medical
  instrument placed in the receptacle into the recesses. Each of the recesses has a
  selected depth which is at least twice as deep as the thickness of the handle portion of
  the medical instrument.

    27514
                                          A Receptacle
   Technical Field
   This invention broadly relates to a receptacle. In particular, the present invention
 5  relates to a receptacle for holding one or more sharp medical instruments.
   Background of the Invention
   It is generally desirable in the medical equipment industry to provide a receptacle that
   enables the user to conveniently place one or more sharp medical instruments into a
   receptacle and that facilitates easy and safe access to the one or top sharp medical
10 instruments.
   Summary of the Invention
   According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a receptacle for
   holding a medical instrument having a sharp portion and a handle portion with a
   certain thickness, the receptacle including:
1s two corresponding recesses adapted to receive the sharp and handle portions of the
   medical instrument, respectively; and
   guiding means adapted to guide the medical instrument placed in the receptacle into
   the recesses;
   wherein each of the recesses has a selected depth which is at least twice as deep as
20 the thickness of the handle portion of the medical instrument.
   Preferably, each recess is defined by a pair of side walls and a floor. The selected depth
   is preferred to be measured from the floor to the highest point of the side walls.
   Preferably, the guiding means is in the form of a web. More preferably, the web is
   downwardly curved towards the recesses.

                                                  2
   In a preferred embodiment, the receptacle includes a pair of external walls. Preferably,
   the external walls meet at one end and diverge towards an opposite end. More
   preferably, each of the diverging external walls has a curved contour.
   It is preferred that a pair of indents is provided near an upper edge of the web towards
 5 the opposite end of the receptacle.
   Preferably, the curved web includes a trough adapted to facilitate access to the
   medical instrument for re-use.
   Typically, the medical instrument includes a scalpel or a pair of scissors.
   According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a receptacle
10 for holding a medical instrument with a sharp portion, the receptacle including:
   a first recess adapted to receive the sharp portion of the medical instrument; and
   a pair of external walls;
   wherein the external walls meet at one end of the medical instrument and diverge
   towards an opposite end.
15 In a preferred embodiment, the receptacle includes guiding means adapted to guide
   the sharp portion of the medical instrument placed in the receptacle into the recess.
   The guiding means is preferred to include a web defining a cavity. Preferably, the web
   is curved.
   Preferably, the receptacle includes a second recess, both the first and second recesses
20 being provided in the cavity.
   Preferably, each of the diverging external walls has a curved contour.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   The invention may be better understood from the following non-limiting description of
   a preferred embodiment, in which:

                                                 3
   Figure 1 is a plan view from top of a receptacle in accordance with the present
   invention;
   Figure 2 is a front view of the receptacle of Figure 1;
   Figure 3 is an end view of the receptacle of Figure 1;
 5 Figure 4 is a left side view of the receptacle of Figure 1;
   Figure 5 is a right side view of the receptacle of Figure 1;
   Figure 6 is a plan view from bottom of the receptacle of Figure 1;
   Figure 7 is a perspective view of the receptacle of Figure 1.
   Figure 8 is a side view of an exemplary side wall of one of the recesses provided in the
10 receptacle of Figure 1, and
   Figure 9 is a side view of a scalpel.
   Detailed Description of the Drawings
   It is noted that the medical instrument of the present invention may include a scalpel,
   a pair of scissors or any other type of elongate medical instruments with a sharp
15 portion.
   Referring to Figures 1 to 7, a receptacle 10 for holding a scalpel 12, for example, is
   shown. As shown in Figure 9, the scalpel 12 has a sharp portion in the form of a blade
   14 and a handle portion 16 with a certain thickness indicated by A-A.
   As best shown in Figures 1, 6 and 7, the receptacle 10 has two corresponding recesses
20 18 & 20 which are designed to receive the sharp and handle portions 14 & 16 of the
   scalpel 12, respectively. The receptacle 10 also has a guiding means in the form of a
   web 22 which is downwardly curved towards the recesses 18 & 20 to guide the scalpel

                                                 4
   12 placed in the receptacle 10 into the recesses 18 & 20. The web 22 defines a cavity
   44.
   Each of the recesses 18, 20 has a selected depth which is defined by a pair of side walls
   and a floor. For example, as shown in Figures 1 and 8, the recess 18 has a side wall 24
 5 and a floor 26. The selected depth indicated by B-B as shown in Figure 8 is measured
   from the floor 26 to the highest point 28. The depth B-B in this example is twice as
   deep as the thickness A-A of the handle portion 16 of the scalpel 12. It should however
   be noted that the depth B-B may be more than double the thickness A-A such that
   three of more scalpels may be held within the recesses 18 & 20.
10 As best shown in Figures 1, 6 and 7, the receptacle 10 has a pair of external curved
   walls 30 & 32. The external walls 30 & 32 meet at the front end 34 and diverge
   towards the rear (opposite) end 36 of the receptacle 10. This rear end 36 is designed
   to be substantially wider than the front 34 such that when the medical instrument is a
   pair of scissors for example, the finger grips thereof can be accommodation within the
1s interior of the receptacle 10 at the rear end 36.
   Referring to Figures 1 and 7, a pair of indents 38 & 40 is provided near an upper edge
   42 of the web 22 towards the rear end 36 of the receptacle. The pair of indents 38 &
   40 are provided to support the finger grips (usually in the form of loops) when the
   receptacle is a pair of scissors.
20 As best shown in Figures 1 & 7, the curved web 22 has a trough 42 at its bottom. The
   trough 42 divides the two recesses 18 & 20 and functions to facilitate access to the
   scalpel 12.
   Now that a preferred embodiment of the present invention has been described in
   some detail, it will be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the receptacle of the
25 present invention may offer at least the following advantages:
   1. it is capable of holding more than one type of sharp medical instrument;

                                                 5
   2. it is capable of holding one than one scalpel at a time;
   3. it provides an aesthetically pleasing appearance;
   4. it enables a user to place a sharp instrument into the receptacle within paying
      specific attention; and
 5 5. it enables the user to retrieve the sharp instrument easily without the danger of
      coming into contact with the sharp portion of the instrument and getting injured.
   Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention described herein is
   susceptible to variations and modifications other than those specifically described. For
   example, each of the recesses may have a selected depth which is three or more times
10 as deep as the thickness of the handle portion of the medical instrument. All such
   variations and modifications are to be considered within the scope and spirit of the
   present invention the nature of which is to be determined from the foregoing
   description.

                                                   6
     Claims
     1.      A receptacle for holding a medical instrument having a sharp portion and a
             handle portion with a certain thickness, the receptacle including:
             two corresponding recesses adapted to receive the sharp and handle portions
  5          of the medical instrument, respectively; and
             guiding means adapted to guide the medical instrument placed in the
             receptacle into the recesses;
            wherein each of the recesses has a selected depth which is at least twice as
             deep as the thickness of the handle portion of the medical instrument.
10  2.      The receptacle of claim 1, wherein each recess is defined by a pair of side walls
            and a floor.
    3.      The receptacle of claim 2, wherein the selected depth is measured from the
            floor to the highest point of the side walls.
    4.     The receptacle of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the guiding means is
15          in the form of a web.
    5.     The receptacle of claim 4, wherein the web is downwardly curved towards the
            recesses.
    6.     The receptacle of claim 5, which includes a pair of external walls which meet at
           one end and diverge towards an opposite end of the receptacle.
20  7.     The receptacle of claim 6, wherein each of the diverging external walls has a
           curved contour.
    8.     The receptacle of either claim 6 or 7, wherein a pair of indents is provided near
           an upper edge of the web towards the opposite end of the receptacle.
    9.     The receptacle of any one of claims 4 to 8, wherein the curved web includes a
25         trough adapted to facilitate access to the medical instrument.

                                              7
    10. The receptacle of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the medical
        instrument includes a scalpel or a pair of scissors.
    11. A receptacle for holding a medical instrument with a sharp portion, the
        receptacle including:
  5     a first recess adapted to receive the sharp portion of the medical instrument;
        and
        a pair of external walls;
        wherein the external walls meet at one end of the medical instrument and
        diverge towards an opposite end.
10  12. The receptacle of claim 11, which includes guiding means adapted to guide the
        sharp portion of the medical instrument placed in the receptacle into the
        recess.
    13. The receptacle of claim 12, wherein the guiding means includes a web defining
        a cavity.
1s  14. The receptacle of claim 13, wherein the web is curved.
    15. The receptacle of any one of claims 11 to 14, which includes a second recess,
        both the first and second recesses being provided in the cavity.
    16. The receptacle of any one of claims 11 to 15, wherein each of the diverging
        external walls has a curved contour.
20  17. A receptacle substantially as herein described with reference to any one of the
        accompanying drawings.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
