                                            ABSTRACT
A fastening or other steel component for use in building construction, the component being coated
with a base layer of zinc by hot-dip galvanising, and the component having at least one polymer
coating applied over the base layer to provide the component with a resistance to corrosion from
copper based preservative in treated timber, wherein the polymer coating is a thermosetting polymer
in the form of an epoxy resin.

   I: \txb\Introven\NRPortbl\DCC\TXB\15988795_l.docx-I0 /t12017
               FASTENINGS AND OTHER COMPONENTS FOR USE WITH TREATED
                                                                TIMBER
    This application is a divisional application derived from Australian Patent Application
   No.<removed-apn> (which was derived from Australian Patent No. 2011213775), the entire
 5  contents of which, as originally filed and accepted, is incorporated herein by reference.
    The present invention relates to fastenings and other components for use with treated timber,
   treated pine for example, in building construction.
   In building construction using external timber exposed to the weather, it is common to use
   timber treated with a preservative to improve its weather-resistance. Pine, a commonly used
10 timber for building construction, is widely available both in raw form and in a form in which it
    is treated with a wood preservative and this is usually referred to as "treated pine". A widely
   used preservative for this purpose is chromated copper arsenate (CCA) and preserves the wood
    from decay, fungi and wood-attacking insects. It has been used for many decades and is a
   very effective treatment although other copper-based treatments which avoid the use of arsenic
15  are now available. The copper primarily acts to protect the wood against decay and fungi,
   with other compounds acting as an insecticide (in CCA, it is the arsenic which provides the
    insecticidal function). An arsenic and chromium free alternative to CCA is available which
   uses copper and a quaternary ammonium compound (known as 'ACQ'). ACQ is also useful in
   protecting wood against fungi, termites and other wood-boring insects.
20  Conventionally, timber fastenings such as bolts or screws or other steel components for use in
    an external environment are coated against corrosion unless fabricated from stainless steel. A
    widely used anti-corrosion coating for components such as these is galvanising involving the
    application of a zinc coating. A widely practised method of applying the zinc coating is to use
    a hot dip method which produces a thicker and less porous zinc coating than that which can be
25  applied by other current methods such as mechanical pounding or electroplating.
   For galvanised components which have been used with pine or other timber treated with a
    copper based preservative, the copper present in the preservative tends to attack the zinc
    coating and the rate of attack can be quite severe in certain environmental conditions for

   I: \txb\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TXB\15988795_l.docx-I0 /t12017
                                                                -2
    example moist or damp conditions and in some coastal situations. Although a hot dip zinc
    coating can be quite robust, such zinc coated products break down over a period of time as a
    consequence of attack from the copper used in the timber treatment (i.e., for instance, either
    CCA or ACQ) , the underlying metal being subject to corrosion damage, and often quite
 5  severe damage.
   In order to overcome this shortcoming in the art the present invention relates to a polymer
    coating(s) to be applied to the zinc coating which thereby acts as a base layer, to shield that
   zinc layer against attack by the copper in the treated timber. This additional coating does not
    adversely affect the ordinary performance of the fastening component and in some
10  embodiments actually enhances the performance of the fastening component.
   According to the present invention there is provided a fastening or other steel component for
   use in building construction, the component being coated with a base layer of zinc, and the
    zinc base layer having at least one polymer coating.
    In a further aspect the invention provides a method of forming a copper resistant zinc coated
15  fastening or other steel component for use in association with copper treated wood; said
   method comprising the step of coating the zinc coated fastening or other steel component with
    a polymer.
   Advantageously the polymer used for the coating is a thermosetting polymer preferably based
    on an epoxy resin system.
20 Embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail by way of example only.
    Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described in relation to a steel bolt coated with
    a base layer of zinc by a conventional hot dip process.         Although for convenience the
    embodiment is being described in relation to a coating applied to a bolt, it is to be understood
    that the invention is applicable to a range of other fasteners and other components as may be
25 used in the building construction industry, such as nuts, washers, screws, nails, staples, nail
   plates, brackets, joist hangers, metal strap ties and so forth. It will be understood that in each
    case the component is basically fabricated from steel and after fabrication is coated with a zinc
   base layer using the hot dip coating method and then the polymer coating as will be described

   I: \txb\Introven\NRPortbl\DCC\TXB\15988795_l.docx-I0 /t12017
                                                                -3
    in detail.
   Accordingly, in preferred embodiments the invention provides a method of forming a copper
   resistant zinc coated fastening or other steel component comprising:
                     (i)           subjecting the fastening or other steel component to hot-dip galvanising in
 5                                 order to prepare a zinc coated fastening or other steel component; and
                     (ii)          coating the zinc coated fastening or other steel component with a polymer.
    The thickness of such a zinc coating achieved by the hot dip process in step (i) above is
   typically many times that which can be achieved by other galvanising methods and could be as
   high as 80 microns. The polymer coating is preferably applied over the entirety of the zinc
10  coating, although it will be appreciated that depending on the end use of the component, only
   part of the component may need to be polymer coated, for instance, any part which comes into
    contact with copper treated timber.
   Although a primary use of the bolt is with treated pine or other treated timber, nevertheless the
   bolt with a polymer outer coating and zinc base layer also has significant utility in
15  environments where an exposed outer coating layer of zinc would be exposed to salt-laden
   moist air as would typically be encountered in a coastal environment. In either case, the outer
    coating acts to shield the zinc base layer and thereby improves the corrosion resistance of the
   bolt.
   In an embodiment the polymer coated fastening or other steel component of the present
20  invention is used in conjunction with copper treated timber, and in particular either CCA or
   ACQ treated timber.
    The Polymer Coating
   In an embodiment the polymer coating is based on a thermosetting polymer, for example,
    epoxy resins or phenol formaldehyde resins.
25 In an embodiment the polymer coating is a polymer composition comprising an epoxy resin
   based coating system.

   I: \txb\Introven\NRPortbl\DCC\TXB\15988795_l.docx-I0 /t12017
                                                                -4
   In the system described above the epoxy resins may be produced from a reaction between
    epichlorohydrin and bisphenol-A (or derivatives or analogues thereof). Other systems involve
   the use of hardener or cross-linking components based on amines, guanidines, ureas, glycouril,
    or other nucleophilic nitrogen based compounds. Examples of suitable crosslinking/hardening
 5  components include triethylenetetraamine, hexamethylene, tetramine, methoxymethyl
   melamine as well as mixtures of the above.
   It will be appreciated by those in the art that in relation to the aforementioned embodiment the
    "curing" step to form the epoxy resin based coating system can be controlled through
   temperature, choice of resin and hardener/crosslinking components and the ratio of resin to
10 hardener/crosslinker.
    Typically the ratio of epoxy resin: hardener/crosslinker is about 3:1 to about 4:1, and
   preferably about 3.5:1 to about 4:1.
    The curing process is typically conducted in an oven at temperatures between 180'-250 'C.
    Curing times may vary but are typically in the range of 7-20 mins.
15  The polymer coating compositions of the present invention may include additional
    components including: pigments and opacifers such as metal based pigments derived from
    aluminium, cadmium, cobalt, lead, mercury, titanium (e.g., TiO 2 ), zinc (e.g., zinc phosphate),
    and iron (e.g., sanguine, caput mortuum, oxide red, Venetian red, Prussian blue, and iron oxide
    (clay earth) including yellow ochre, burnt and raw sienna, and burnt and raw umber; surface
20 modifiers to control floating, flooding and silking, to enhance and improve flow and levelling,
    and to provide scratch and mar resistance, etc., such modifiers including polyether modified
   polydimethylsiloxanes, polyacrylates, polyesters, waxes (e.g., polyethylene, polypropylene,
    and mono- and bis amide based waxes), urea and amide based modifiers, and so on; defoamers
    (such as siloxanes); and solvents (such as propylene glycol monomethyl ether acetate (PMA);
25 2-butoxyethanol (or BCS), dibenzyl ether, butyl alcohol, butyl acetate, xylene, toluene,
   trimethylbenzene, and the like which may also function as viscosity modifiers.
   In a preferred embodiment a bolt coated with a base layer of zinc is coated with the polymer
    such that the resultant polymer coating does not impede the performance of the bolt.

   I: \txb\Intrwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TXB\15988795_l.docx-I0 11l2017
                                                                 -5
   Preferably the coating is of a thickness of 10-40 microns, and preferably 25-30 microns.
   In relation to the embodiment where the polymer coating is a epoxy resin based coating
    system, the resin components are mixed and shortly thereafter a bolt is coated with the coating
    composition.                   The coating process may involve dipping or immersing the bolt into the
 5  composition or spraying the bolt with the composition. Once coated the bolt is subjected to
   heat or UV curing.
   In order to control coating thickness, the invention provides, in one embodiment, a double
    dipping (or immersion) method, whereby the zinc coated bolt is dipped into the polymer
    coating composition ('a primer coating') and subsequently cured, this sequence being repeated
10  a further time to achieve the required coating thickness. In the first dip and cure process it is
   preferred that a coating thickness of between 8-10 microns is achieved. The inventors have
    found that this double dipping technique with two layers of a primer coating ensures increased
    adhesion of the coating composition to the zinc surface of the bolt. In this embodiment, the
   primer coating (which is applied twice) is an epoxy resin based coating as described above.
15 A further process step between the coating and curing steps may involve a step to remove any
   unwanted coating on a bolt after the dipping (coating) process. For instance, this may involve
    subjecting the bolt to centrifugal forces at high speed. Such a process may better ensure
   uniformity in coating thickness.
   Modifications of the above double dipping process would be apparent to the skilled person.
20 For instance, the first coating/curing step may be performed with a primer coating composition
   with slight variations compared to the subsequent coating composition which is used in the
    second coating/curing step. One of the variations may be the addition of polymer components
    (or differing amounts of polymer components) to aid in the adhesion quality of the primer
    coating composition to the zinc surface of the bolt.
25 In a preferred embodiment the coating/curing step is repeated a further third time with a
    "finishing coat". As this third finishing coat is intended to be the outer coating, it may be
   modified (relative to the first two coatings) by including components which, for example,
   provide enhancement in relation to wear (e.g., scratch resistance), weathering, colour (which

   I: \txb\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TXB\15988795_l.docx-I0 /t12017
                                                                -6
   may be used to identify, for example, a particular sized bolt), and so on. Preferably the
    finishing coat is also an epoxy resin based coating.
   It will also be appreciated that the finishing coat may be applied in the same manner as the
   primer coating layer(s) described above.
 5 Accordingly, in a further aspect the invention provides a method of forming a copper resistant
   zinc coated fastening or other steel component comprising:
                     (i)          coating a zinc coated fastening or other steel component with a polymer;
                     (ii)         subjecting the resultant polymer coated zinc coated fastening or other steel
                                  component from step (i) to a further polymer coating process;
10                   (iii)        applying a finishing polymer coat to the resultant polymer coated zinc
                                  fastening or other steel component from step (ii).
   In relation to the above aspect it is preferred that at each stage the thickness of each coating
    does not exceed 10 microns.
   In a further preferred embodiment, which is based on the above aspect, the first two polymer
15  coating layers in steps (i) and (ii) are based on the same epoxy resin based coating ('primer
    coating'), and the third finishing polymer coat is a modified epoxy resin based coating (i.e.,
   modified in relation to the "primer coating").
   In other preferred embodiments, the second primer coating referred to earlier could form the
    outer finishing coat, or the finishing coat referred to earlier could be applied just to a single
20 primer coating whereby in either case, the bolt has just two polymer layers over its galvanised
   base layer.
   As a further recognised advantage the polymer coating on the fastening or other steel
    component functions to reduce friction when driving the fastener into timber, for instance, (i)
    into predrilled timber holes for fixing bolts or (ii) into pilot holes or directly into the timber
25 with "self-drilling" screws.

   I: \txb\Introven\NRPortbl\DCC\TXB\15988795_l.docx-I0 /t12017
                                                                    -7
    Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
    otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be
   understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but
   not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
 5  The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or
   to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
    admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from
    it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to
   which this specification relates.
10 While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above, it should be
   understood that they have been presented by way of example only, and not by way of
    limitation. It will be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art that various changes in
    form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the
    invention. Thus, the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described
15  exemplary embodiments.
   Examples
   Formulation of epoxy coating
                                               Raw Materials                    %
                              1                Epoxy Resin                      20-40
                              2                 Solvent                         1.0-5.0
                              3                Wetting and dispersing Additives 0-2.0
                              4                 TiO2 Pigment                    5.0-15.0
                              5                Yellow Pigment                   1.0-3.0
                              6                 Chemical Resistance Pigment     5.0-15.0
                              7                 Sealant                         0-1.0
                              8                 Solvent                         1.0-5.0
                              9                Epoxy Resin                      20-40

  I: \txb\Irntroven\NRPortbl\DCC\TXB\15988795_l.docx-I0 /t12017
                                                                 -8
                                              Raw Materials                      %
                              10               Amine Resin I                     2.0-12.0
                              11               Amine Resin II                    2.0-12.0
                              12               Surface Additives                 0-2.0
                              13              Leveling Additives                 0-2.0
                              14               Solvent                           0.1-5.0
                              15               Solvent                           1.0-5.0
                              16               Color Paste                       0-3.0
                                              Total                              100
  Preparation of epoxy coating
                          Process
                           1) Add the following raw materials 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 with middle
                          speed 200~400 r/min, high speed 600-1000 r/min disperate 10-15min,
                          send to three-roller mill in order to get thickness < 30 um, use 8 to clean
                          2) Add the following raw materials 9,          10, 11,    12,  13, 14 with
                          middle speed disperation about 10-20 min.
                          3) Use 15 to adjust viscosity, use 16 to adjust color, check viscosity and
                          color, filtrate and packing.
   Coating Process
5            1)              Bolts are dipped into coating formulation.
            2)               Excess coating is removed.
            3)               Coated bolts are cured in an oven at elevated temperatures for 5-20 mins.

  I: \txb\Intrwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TXB\15988795_l.docx-I0 /t12017
                                                               -9
            4)              The process (i.e., steps 1) - 3)) is repeated a further time.
            5)              The bolts are dipped into a finishing coat formulation which is a slightly modified
                            version of the coating formulation of 1).
            6)              Excess coating is removed.
5           7)              Coated bolts are cured in an oven at elevated temperatures for 5-20 mins.
            8)              The total thickness of the combined polymer coats (i.e., resultant polymer coating)
                            is between about 25-30 microns.

H:\txb\Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCC\TXB\15958458_ .docx - 10/11/17 35275155
                                                                       - 10
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.             A fastening or other steel component for use in building construction, the
component being coated with a base layer of zinc by hot-dip galvanising, and the
component having at least one polymer coating applied over the base layer to provide the
component with a resistance to corrosion from copper based preservative in treated timber,
wherein the polymer coating is a thermosetting polymer in the form of an epoxy resin.
2.             A component according to claim 1 wherein the epoxy resin comprises crosslinking
components selected from amines or other nucleophilic nitrogen based compounds.
3.             A component according to claim 2 wherein the crosslinking components are
selected from triethylenetetraamine, hexamethylene, tetramine, methoxymethyl melamine
and mixtures thereof.
4.             A component according to claim 3 wherein the ratio of epoxy resin crosslinker
components is about 3:1 to 4:1, preferably about 3.5:1 to about 4:1.
5.             A component according to claim 1 wherein the polymer coating comprises one or
more of pigments or opacifers; modifiers to control floating, flooding and silking, or to
enhance and improve flow and levelling, or to provide scratch and mar resistance;
defoamers; and solvents.
6.             A component according to claim 1 wherein the thickness of the polymer coating is
15-20 microns.
7.             A component according to claim 1, wherein the polymer coating is applied directly
onto the base layer.
8.             A fastening or other steel component as claimed in claim 1, wherein the component
has at least one primer layer applied over the base layer.

