ABSTRACT
                A prosthetic femoral component comprising: (a) a femoral shaft; (b) a
femoral neck operatively coupled to the femoral shaft; and, (c) a femoral ball operatively
coupled to the femoral shaft, where a neck axis extending longitudinally through the
femoral neck is angled at no greater than thirty-five degrees with respect to a femoral
shaft axis extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft.

WO 20131169881                 PCT/US2013/040107
                    15131
                 ...
               ... ......   ..
                          ...

                                               -1
                     OPTIMAL CONTACT MECHANICS FOR A THA
                                        RELATED ART
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]          The present disclosure is directed to components that may be implanted as
part of .a prosthetic joint such as a hip joint.
BRIEF DISCUSSION OF RELATED ART
[0002]          It has been stated in numerous publications that the human hip is a ball
and socket joint, whereas all three sequential rotations are present, even though the actual
shapes of the acetabulum and femoral head of the femur are not pure spheres. The normal
hip can experience flexion/extension, internal/external rotation and abduction/adduction
rotation, comprising three sequential rotations to perform an activity. Due to the
ligamentous constraints, most notably the Iliofemoral ligaments and the femoral head
ligament, the femoral head is not allowed to experience significant translation with
respect to the acetabulum.
[0003]          Present day total hip arthroplasty (THA) implants designed so that the
femoral neck is either: (1) aligned along a horizontal axis parallel with the ground; or, (2)
aligned along an axis that is oriented between thirty to forty-five degrees with respect to a
horizontal axis (see FIG. 1, where 0 represents the angle of the femoral neck with respect
to a horizontal axis or plane). Full systems of femoral stems have been designed with this
guiding principle, desiring for the implanted femoral neck to follow the orientation of the
anatomical neck (see FIG. 2). Although these implanted stems attempt to maintain the
angle of the anatomical neck, one must understand that the anatomical neck is much
thicker and patient specific (see FIG. 3).
[0004]          Among the concerns with present day THA implants are: (1) dislocation
of the femoral head from the acetabular cup; and, (2) sliding of the femoral head within
the acetabular cup. Dislocation is a major concern with present day THA implants and

                                               -2
this phenomenon very rarely occurs with anatomical hips. When dislocation occurs with
respect to THA implants, the femoral head fully disengages from the acetabular cup (see
FIG. 4). Femoral head separation, also very rarely seen in anatomical hips, routinely
occurs with THA implants as the femoral head slides on the superolateral aspect of the
acetabular cup in the lateral direction (see FIGS. 5 and 6). This phenomenon of femoral
head separation occurs during both weight-bearing and non weight-bearing activities and
is a major concern with present day THA. This phenomenon occurs in over 95% of all
patients having THA. The present inventor hypothesizes that these phenomena
(dislocation and femoral head separation) likely occur because the femoral neck axis is
not aligned with the weight-bearing axis of the leg (i.e., femur).
 [0005]          In the natural femur, the weight-bearing axis 6 is presumed to be the
mechanical axis (see FIG. 7). The mechanical axis is defined by a first point 2 located at
the center of the femoral head sphere and a second point 4 located at the center of the
ankle joint. It is therefore, assumed that this axis 6, in a normal, healthy leg, also passes
either through the center of the knee or medial of the knee center, possibly even through
the medial condyle. The mechanical axis 6 is therefore assumed to bear the weight of the
upper body as this axis is aligned with the direction of the weight-bearing force applied at
the hip joint.
 [00061          In the normal hip, the large size of the femoral head allows for the hip
joint force to be dispersed over a large area, leading to minimized contact stresses on the
femoral head (see FIG. 8). Also, the normal hip has a supporting ligament structure that
maintains femoral head contact within the acetabulum during all activities (see FIG. 9).
Therefore, the large contact area is maintained in the anatomical hip joint, allowing for
the bearing surface force to be displaced over this large contact area, leading to contact
stresses that are well below destructive levels.
 [00071          After a THA surgery, the ligamentous support structure has been
compromised. Therefore, after implantation of a hip prosthesis, the natural anatomical
structure is no longer in place and cannot resist out of plane forces and moments that may
unseat the femoral head from the acetabular cup. As was stated previously, all present

                                              -3
day THA implants attempt to maintain a femoral neck angle similar to the anatomical
neck (see FIGS. 1 and 2).
 [00081          Referring to FIG. 10, superimposing a THA implant on the anatomical hip
joint in FIG. 8, it can be seen that the femoral head contact area has been significantly
reduced and when the orientation of the implant components are aligned, the hip joint is
in a compromising state, so that both dislocation and femoral head separation are both not
only possible, but possibly influenced to occur. The pull-out direction of the hip is
aligned with the neck angle, which in present day implants is either perpendicular to the
mechanical axis or close to perpendicular. This significant reduction of bearing surface
contact area is a chief concern in present day THA, as the femoral head may also slide in
the lateral direction, leading to an even more decreased bearing surface contact area, and
polyethylene wear in the superolateral aspect (see FIG. 12). Therefore, in this orientation
as the bearing force of the upper body is applied onto an implanted femoral head, which
is aligned along the anatomical neck axis as in FIG. 10, this applied force may contribute
to the femoral head either dislocating or separating from the acetabular cup. This
phenomenon may be caused the inducement of a moment or introduction of a shear force
along the femoral neck axis, pushing the femoral head out of the acetabular cup.
 [0009]          Referring to FIG. 13, another ongoing concern with THA is the failure
associated with the trunnion and wear exhibited between the trunnion and a releasable
femoral ball. Many, if not all, femoral implants used with THA include a femoral stem
received within the intercondylar channel of a patient's femur, an integrated femoral neck,
and a femoral head that is removable from an end (i.e., trunnion) of the femoral neck and
is adapted to engage an acetabular cup.
 [0010]          Current femoral implants have been designed so that the femoral neck
angle is aligned with the anatomical femoral neck angle. By doing so, the applied force of
a patient's upper body (via the pelvis) onto the femoral implant head is at a significant
angle with respect to the femoral neck angle. This applied upper body vertical force (F)
acts at the hip joint as applied to a Newtonian reference frame along the NI> axis. This
vertical force (F) is then broken into component forces in the trunnion reference frame

                                                 -4
(TI>, T2>, T3>). The relative transformation from the Newtonian reference frame to the
trunnion reference frame is related to three sequential rotations, but the main rotation is
denoted as O1. Using this rotation, the component forces are then defined as FT1 *T1>
and FT2*T2>. The primary force of concern is FT1, which is applied in the TI> direction
and throughout motion this force is actually attempting to unseat the ball from the
trunnion.
[0011]           During hip motion, the primary force FT1 is applied in the vertical
direction, this can cause the femoral head to induce a micro-rocking motion between the
trunnion of the femoral neck. This micro-rocking motion may also be induced by
moments applied by this upper body force on the femoral head, with respect to the
trunnion. The result of this micro motion is friction between the outer surface of the
trunnion and the inner surface of the femoral head, causing wear between the bearing
surfaces of the trunnion and the femoral head. In addition, this wear may cause
particulate debris from the bearing surfaces that is distributed throughout a patient's body.
INTRODUCTION TO THE INVENTION
[0012]           The present invention is directed to components that may be implanted as
part of a prosthetic joint such as a hip joint.
[00131           It is a first aspect of the present invention to provide a prosthetic femoral
component comprising: (a) a femoral shaft; (b) a femoral neck operatively coupled to the
femoral shaft; and, (c) a femoral ball operatively coupled to the femoral shaft, where a
neck axis extending longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled at no greater than
thirty-five degrees with respect to a femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through
the femoral shaft.
[0014]           In a more detailed embodiment of the first aspect, the neck axis extending
longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled between thirty-five and twenty degrees

                                              -5
with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft.
In yet another more detailed embodiment, the neck axis extending longitudinally through
the femoral neck is angled between twenty and fifteen degrees with respect to the femoral
shaft axis extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft. In a further detailed
embodiment, the neck axis extending longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled
between fifteen and ten degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending
longitudinally through the femoral shaft. In still a further detailed embodiment, the neck
axis extending longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled between ten and five
degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the
femoral shaft. In a more detailed embodiment, the neck axis extending longitudinally
through the femoral neck is angled between zero and five degrees with respect to the
femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft. In a more detailed
embodiment, the femoral neck includes a trunnion, and the trunnion is offset from the
femoral shaft axis between 5 and 160 millimeters. In another more detailed embodiment,
the prosthetic femoral component further includes a retention bracket adapted to couple
to the femoral shaft using a fastener. In yet another more detailed embodiment, the
retention bracket is adapted to be positioned on an external surface of a femur.
 [0015]         It is a second aspect of the present invention to provide a prosthetic hip
joint comprising: (a) a femoral component including a femoral stem operatively coupled
to a femoral ball, the femoral ball including a substantially uniform convex bearing
surface but for a projection extending outward from the bearing surface; and, (b) an
acetabular component that includes an acetabular cup operatively coupled to an
acetabular cup insert, the acetabular cup insert including a substantially uniform concave
bearing surface but for a recess extending into the bearing surface, the recess sized to
accommodate at least partial insertion of the projection therein and delineates a range of
motion for the projection, where an interaction between the projection and recess is
operative to retard motion in at least one of the adduction direction and the abduction
direction.

                                              -6
[00161           In a more detailed embodiment of the second aspect, the projection
includes a semispherical convex segment, and the recess includes a semispherical
concave segment. In yet another more detailed embodiment, the semispherical concave
segment is less than an order of magnitude greater than the semispherical convex
segment. In a further detailed embodiment, the semispherical concave segment is greater
than an order of magnitude greater than the semispherical convex segment. In still a
further detailed embodiment, the semispherical convex segment is positioned within a
load bearing region of the convex bearing surface of the femoral ball. In a more detailed
embodiment, the semispherical convex segment is positioned outside of a load bearing
region of the convex bearing surface of the femoral ball. In a more detailed embodiment,
the semispherical concave segment is positioned within a load bearing region of the
concave bearing surface of the acetabular cup insert. In another more detailed
embodiment, the semispherical concave segment is positioned outside of a load bearing
region of the concave bearing surface of the acetabular cup insert. In yet another more
detailed embodiment, a dimension of the recess is an order of magnitude greater than a
dimension of the projection. In still another more detailed embodiment, a dimension of
the recess is less than an order of magnitude greater than a dimension of the projection.
[00171           In yet another more detailed embodiment of the second aspect, the
projection is positioned within a load bearing region of the convex bearing surface of the
femoral ball. In still another more detailed embodiment, the projection is positioned
outside of a load bearing region of the convex bearing surface of the femoral ball. In a
further detailed embodiment, the recess is positioned within a load bearing region of the
concave bearing surface of the acetabular cup insert. In still a further detailed
embodiment, the recess is positioned outside of a load bearing region of the concave
bearing surface of the acetabular cup insert. In a more detailed embodiment, the
projection includes, at least one of a spherical convex segment, a square convex segment,
a rectangular convex segment, a triangular convex segment, and an irregular convex
segment, and the recess includes at least one of a spherical concave segment, a square

                                                 -7
concave segment, a rectangular concave segment, a triangular concave segment, and an
irregular concave segment.
[0018]           It is a third aspect of the present invention to provide a prosthetic hip joint
comprising: (a) a femoral component including a femoral stem operatively coupled to a
femoral ball, the femoral ball including a substantially uniform convex bearing surface
but for a recess extending into the bearing surface; and, (b) an acetabular component that
includes an acetabular cup operatively coupled to an acetabular cup insert, the acetabular
cup insert including a substantially uniform concave bearing surface but for a projection
at least one of extending through and from the bearing surface, the projection sized to be
at least partially inserted into the recess, the recess delineating a range of motion for the
projection, where an interaction between the projection and recess is operative to retard
motion in at least one of the adduction direction and the abduction direction.
[0019]           In a more detailed embodiment of the third aspect, the projection includes
a semispherical convex segment, and the recess includes a semispherical concave
segment. In yet another more detailed embodiment, the semispherical concave segment is
less than an order of magnitude greater than the semispherical convex segment. In a
further detailed embodiment, the semispherical concave segment is greater than an order
of magnitude greater than the semispherical convex segment. In still a further detailed
embodiment, the semispherical concave segment is positioned within a load bearing
region of the convex bearing surface of the femoral ball. In a more detailed embodiment,
the semispherical concave segment is positioned outside of a load bearing region of the
convex bearing surface of the femoral ball. In a more detailed embodiment, the
semispherical convex segment is positioned within a load bearing region of the concave
bearing surface of the acetabular cup insert. In another more detailed embodiment, the
semispherical convex segment is positioned outside of a load bearing region of the
concave bearing surface of the acetabular cup insert. In yet another more detailed
embodiment, a dimension of the recess is an order of magnitude greater than a dimension
of the projection. In still another more detailed embodiment, a dimension of the recess is
less than an order of magnitude greater than a dimension of the projection.

                                               -8
[00201          In yet another more detailed embodiment of the-third aspect, the
projection is positioned within a load bearing region of the concave bearing surface of the
acetabular cup insert. In still another more detailed embodiment, the projection is
positioned outside of a load bearing region of the concave bearing surface of the
acetabular cup insert. In a further detailed embodiment, the recess is positioned within a
load bearing region of the convex bearing surface of the femoral ball. In still a further
detailed embodiment, the recess is positioned outside of a load bearing region of the
convex bearing surface of the femoral ball. In a more detailed embodiment, the projection
includes at least one of a spherical convex segment, a square convex segment, a
rectangular convex segment, a triangular convex segment, and an irregular convex
segment, and the recess includes at least one of a spherical concave segment, a square
concave segment, a rectangular concave segment, a triangular concave segment, and an
irregular concave segment.
[0021]          It is a fourth aspect of the present invention to provide a prosthetic femoral
component comprising: (a) a femoral stem that includes a femoral shaft and an upper
plate; and, (b) a femoral neck mounted to and extending from the upper plate, where a
neck axis extending longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled at no greater than
thirty-five degrees with respect to a femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through
the femoral shaft.
[0022]          In a more detailed embodiment of the fourth aspect, the neck axis
extending longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled between thirty-five and
twenty degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the
femoral shaft. In yet another more detailed embodiment, the neck axis extending
longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled between twenty and fifteen degrees
with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft.
In a further detailed embodiment, the neck axis extending longitudinally through the
femoral neck is angled between fifteen and ten degrees with respect to the femoral shaft
axis extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft. In still a further detailed
embodiment, the neck axis extending longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled

                                                 -9
between ten and five degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending
longitudinally through the femoral shaft. In a more detailed embodiment, the neck axis
extending longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled between zero and five
degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the
femoral shaft. In a more detailed embodiment, the femoral neck includes a trunnion, and
the trunnion is offset from the femoral shaft axis between 5 and 160 millimeters. In
another more detailed embodiment, a proximal portion of the femoral shaft includes at
least one cavity to receive a fastener, and the upper plate includes at least one through
hole allowing the fastener to extend therethrough. In yet another more detailed
embodiment, the prosthetic femoral component further comprises a femoral ball, wherein
the femoral neck includes a trunnion and wherein the femoral ball is releasably mounted
to the trunnion. In still another more detailed embodiment, the prosthetic femoral
component further comprises a femoral ball, wherein the femoral neck and the femoral
ball are integrally formed as a single structure.
[00231           In yet another more detailed embodiment of the fourth aspect, the
prosthetic femoral component further comprises a femoral ball, where the femoral neck
includes a trunnion, the femoral ball is releasably mounted to the trunnion, and a
longitudinal axis of the trunnion is angled between zero and seventy degrees with respect
to the neck axis. In still another more detailed embodiment, the longitudinal axis of the
trunnion is angled between zero and twenty-five degrees with respect to the neck axis.
Ina further detailed embodiment, the longitudinal axis of the trunnion is angled between
twenty-five and fifty degrees with respect to the neck axis. In still a further detailed
embodiment, the longitudinal axis of the trunnion is angled between fifty and seventy
degrees with respect to the neck axis.
[0024]           It is a fifth aspect of the present invention to provide a prosthetic femoral
component comprising: (a) a femoral stem including a first cavity; (b) a femoral neck
including a trunnion; and, (c) a femoral ball adapted to be mounted to the trunnion, where
the first cavity is sized to receive at least a portion of the femoral neck.

                                              -10
[00251           In a more detailed embodiment of the fifth aspect, the trunnion includes a
projection that is received within a first cavity of the femoral ball, and the femoral ball
includes a second cavity to receive a fastener, the second cavity in communication with
the first cavity. In yet another more detailed embodiment, the projection is threaded. In a
further detailed embodiment, the trunnion includes a longitudinal axis that is angled less
than thirty degrees with respect to a longitudinal axis extending through a remainder of
the neck. In still a further detailed embodiment, the femoral ball includes a projection that
is received within a first cavity of the trunnion, and the trunnion includes a second cavity
to receive a fastener, the second cavity in communication with the first cavity. In a more
detailed embodiment, the trunnion includes a longitudinal axis that is angled less than
thirty degrees with respect to a longitudinal axis extending through a remainder of the
neck. In a more detailed embodiment, the femoral neck and the femoral ball are integrally
formed as a single structure, and the femoral neck extending from the femoral ball
includes a length of between one hundred eighty and twenty millimeters. In another more
detailed embodiment, the femoral neck extending from the femoral ball includes a length
of between seventy and twenty millimeters. In yet another more detailed embodiment, the
femoral neck extending from the femoral ball includes a length of between one hundred
twenty and seventy millimeters. In still another more detailed embodiment, the femoral
neck extending from the femoral ball includes a length of between one hundred eighty
and one hundred twenty millimeters.
[00261           In yet another more detailed embodiment of the fifth aspect, the femoral
neck and the femoral ball are integrally formed as a single structure, the femoral neck
includes a projection that is received within the first cavity of the femoral stem, and the
femoral neck includes a second cavity to receive a fastener, the second cavity in
communication with the first cavity. In still another more detailed embodiment, the
femoral neck and the femoral ball separable from one another, the femoral neck includes
a projection that is received within the first cavity of the femoral stem, and the femoral
neck includes, a second cavity to receive a fastener, the second cavity in communication
with the first cavity. In a further detailed embodiment, the first cavity includes a first

                                                -11
cavity longitudinal axis, the femoral stem includes a stem longitudinal axis, and the first
cavity longitudinal axis is angled between forty-five and eighty-five degrees with respect
to the stem longitudinal axis. In still a further detailed embodiment, the femoral ball
includes a bearing surface cover.
[00271           It is a sixth aspect of the present invention to provide a mobile bearing
prosthetic femoral component comprising: (a) a femoral stem; (b) a femoral neck
including a trunnion; and, (c) a femoral ball adapted to be mounted to the trunnion, where
the exterior of the trunnion includes a first bearing surface, where the interior of the
femoral ball includes a second bearing surface, and where the second bearing surface is
adapted to slide and circumscribe the second bearing surface.
[0028]           It is a seventh aspect of the present invention to provide a mobile bearing
prosthetic femoral component comprising: (a) a femoral stem; (b) a femoral neck
including a trunnion; and, (c) a femoral ball adapted to be mounted to the trunnion, where
the interior of the trunnion includes a first bearing surface, where the femoral ball
includes a second bearing surface, and where the first bearing surface is adapted to slide
and circumscribe the second bearing surface.
[0029]           It is an eighth aspect of the present invention to provide an acetabular
component comprising an acetabular cup having a cavity to receive an acetabular insert,
the acetabular cup comprising at least one segment that extends greater than one hundred
eighty-five degrees.
[0030]           In a more detailed embodiment of the eighth aspect, the acetabular cup
comprises at least two segments that are mounted to one another to collectively extend
greater than two hundred fifteen degrees. In yet another more detailed embodiment, the
acetabular liner extends no more than the degrees of the acetabular cup. In a further
detailed embodiment, the acetabular liner extends between one hundred eighty degrees
and two hundred thirty five degrees.
[0031]           It is a ninth aspect of the present invention to provide a prosthetic femoral
component comprising: (a) a femoral stem; (b) a femoral neck; and, (c) a femoral ball

                                              -12
adapted to be mounted to the femoral neck, where the femoral ball is at least one of not
spherical and includes variable radii.
[0032]          In a more detailed embodiment of the ninth aspect, the femoral neck
includes a trunnion, and the femoral ball is adapted to be mounted to the trunnion. In yet
another more detailed embodiment, the trunnion includes a projection that is received
within a first cavity of the femoral ball, and the femoral ball includes a second cavity to
receive a fastener, the second cavity in communication with the first cavity. In a further
detailed embodiment, the projection is threaded. In still a further detailed embodiment,
the trunnion includes a. longitudinal axis that is angled less than thirty degrees with
respect to a longitudinal axis extending through a remainder of the neck. In a more
detailed embodiment, the femoral ball includes a projection that is received within a first
cavity of the trunnion, and the trunnion includes a second cavity to receive a fastener, the
second cavity in communication with the first cavity. In a more detailed embodiment, the
trunnion includes a longitudinal axis that is angled less than thirty degrees with respect to
a longitudinal axis extending through a remainder of the neck. In another more detailed
embodiment, the femoral neck and the femoral ball are integrally formed as a single
structure, and the femoral neck extending from the femoral ball includes a length of
between one hundred eighty and twenty millimeters. In yet another more detailed
embodiment, the femoral neck extending from the femoral ball includes a length of
between seventy and twenty millimeters. In still another more detailed embodiment, the
femoral neck extending from the femoral ball includes a length of between one hundred
twenty and seventy millimeters.
[00331          In yet another more detailed embodiment of the ninth aspect, the femoral
neck extending from the femoral ball includes a length of between one hundred eighty
and one hundred twenty millimeters. In still another more detailed embodiment, the
femoral neck and the femoral ball are integrally formed as a single structure, the femoral
neck includes a projection that is received within a first cavity of the femoral stem, and
the femoral neck includes a second cavity to receive a fastener, the second cavity in
communication with the first cavity. In a further detailed embodiment, the femoral neck

                                                -13
and the femoral ball separable from one another, the femoral neck includes a projection
that is received within a first cavity of the femoral stem, and the femoral neck includes a
second cavity to receive a fastener, the second cavity in communication with the first
cavity. In still a further detailed embodiment, the femoral stem includes a first cavity
having a first cavity longitudinal axis, the femoral stem includes a stem longitudinal axis,
and the first cavity longitudinal axis is angled between forty-five and eighty-five degrees
with respect to the stem longitudinal axis. In a more detailed embodiment, the femoral
ball includes a bearing surface cover.
[0034]           It is a tenth aspect of the present invention to provide a prosthetic femoral
component comprising: (a) a femoral shaft; and, (b) a femoral neck adapted to be coupled
to the femoral shaft, where a neck axis extending longitudinally through the femoral neck
is angled at no greater than twenty-five degrees with respect to a femoral shaft axis
extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft.
[00351           In a more detailed embodiment of the tenth aspect, the neck axis extending
longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled between twenty-five and twenty
degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the
femoral shaft. In yet another more detailed embodiment, the neck axis extending
longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled between twenty and fifteen degrees
with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft.
In a further detailed embodiment, the neck axis extending longitudinally through the
femoral neck is angled between fifteen and ten degrees with respect to the femoral shaft
axis extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft. In still a further detailed
embodiment, the neck axis extending longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled
between ten and five degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending
longitudinally through the femoral shaft. In a more detailed embodiment, the neck axis
extending longitudinally through the femoral neck is angled between zero and five
degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the
femoral shaft. In a more detailed embodiment, the femoral neck includes a trunnion, and
the trunnion is offset from the femoral shaft axis between 5 and 160 millimeters. In

                                              -14
another more detailed embodiment, the prosthetic femoral component further comprises a
retention bracket adapted to couple to the femoral shaft using a fastener. In yet another
more detailed embodiment, the retention bracket is adapted to be positioned on an
external surface of a femur.
[00361          It is an eleventh aspect of the present invention to provide a prosthetic
femoral component comprising: (a) a femoral shaft; (b) a femoral neck adapted to be
coupled to the femoral shaft, the femoral neck including a trunnion, where a trunnion axis
extending longitudinally through the trunnion is angled at no greater than thirty-five
degrees with respect to a femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the femoral
shaft.
[00371          In a more detailed embodiment of the eleventh aspect, the trunnion axis
extending longitudinally through the trunnion is angled between thirty-five and twenty
degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the
femoral shaft. In yet another more detailed embodiment, the trunnion axis extending
longitudinally through the trunnion is angled between twenty and fifteen degrees with
respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft. In a
further detailed embodiment, the trunnion axis extending longitudinally through the
trunnion is angled between fifteen and ten degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis
extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft. In still a further detailed embodiment,
the trunnion axis extending longitudinally through the trunnion is angled between ten and
five degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the
femoral shaft. In a more detailed embodiment, the trunnion axis extending longitudinally
through the trunnion is angled between zero and five degrees with respect to the femoral
shaft axis extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft. In a more detailed
embodiment, the trunnion is offset from the femoral shaft axis between 5 and 160
millimeters. In another more detailed embodiment, the prosthetic femoral component
further comprises a retention bracket adapted to couple to the femoral shaft using a
fastener.

                                               -15
[00381          In yet another more detailed embodiment of the eleventh aspect, the
retention bracket is adapted to be positioned on an external surface of a femur. In still
another more detailed embodiment, the femoral neck is integrally formed with the
femoral shaft to comprise a single component. In a further detailed embodiment, the
femoral neck is separately formed with respect to the femoral shaft to comprise a multiple
components.
[00391          It is a twelfth aspect of the present invention to provide a prosthetic
femoral component comprising: (a) a femoral shaft; (b) a femoral neck adapted to be
coupled to the femoral shaft, the femoral neck being curved to include multiple
longitudinal axes, where at least two of the longitudinal axes of the femoral neck are
angled at no greater than twenty-five degrees with respect to a femoral shaft axis
extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft.
[0040]          In a more detailed embodiment of the twelfth aspect, the neck axes
extending longitudinally through the femoral neck are angled between twenty-five and
twenty degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the
femoral shaft. In yet another more detailed embodiment, the neck axes extending
longitudinally through the femoral neck are angled between twenty and fifteen degrees
with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft.
In a further detailed embodiment, the neck axes extending longitudinally through the
femoral neck are angled between fifteen and ten degrees with respect to the femoral shaft
axis extending longitudinally through the femoral shaft. In still a further detailed
embodiment, the neck axes extending longitudinally through the femoral neck are angled
between ten and five degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending
longitudinally through the femoral shaft. In a more detailed embodiment, the neck axes
extending longitudinally through the femoral neck are angled between zero and five
degrees with respect to the femoral shaft axis extending longitudinally through the
femoral shaft.
[0041]          In yet another more detailed embodiment of the twelfth aspect, the femoral
neck includes a trunnion, and the trunnion is offset from the femoral shaft axis between 5

                                               -16
and 160 millimeters. In still another more detailed embodiment, the prosthetic femoral
component further comprises a retention bracket adapted to couple to the femoral shaft
using a fastener. In a further detailed embodiment, the retention bracket is adapted to be
positioned on an external surface of a femur.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0042]           FIG. 1 is a pair of profile views showing prior art femoral components,
with the left side image showing a neck design that is angled between 30-45 degrees with
respect to a horizontal axis, while the right side image shows a neck design that is parallel
to the same horizontal axis.
[00431           FIG. 2 is a profile view of a plurality of femoral components, without a
femoral ball, to show the various orientations between 30-45 degrees of the femoral neck
with respect to a horizontal axis.
[0044]           FIG. 3 is a pair of profile views of a human proximal femur showing the
native femoral ball.
[0045]           FIG. 4 is a series of X-ray images showing femoral head dislocation from
an acetabular cup.
[00461           FIG. 5 is a pair of fluoroscopic images of a THA implant, where the left
side image shows the femoral head fully seated within the acetabular cup, while the right
side image shows the femoral head separated or pulled away from the acetabular cup.
[00471           FIG. 6 is a pair of fluoroscopic images of a THA implant, where the left
side image shows the femoral head fully seated within the acetabular cup, while the right
side image shows the femoral head after it has slid out of the acetabular cup.
[00481           FIG. 7 is a human skeletal model showing the mechanical axis extending
between the femoral head and the ankle joint, and passing through the knee joint.

                                              -17
[00491          FIG. 8 is a magnetic resonance image of a normal hip joint depicting the
large contact area between the femoral head and the acetabulum.
[0050]          FIG. 9 is a drawing showing the ligamentous supporting structure of a
human hip joint.
[0051]          FIG. 10 is a pair of images superimposing THA implants upon a natural,
human hip joint to showing the decrease in bearing surface between the two.
[0052]          FIG. 11 is a drawing of a THA implant showing the orientation of the
components with respect to a native femur and native pelvis.
[0053]          FIG. 12 is a pair of pictures showing two acetabular components taken
from patients, where the components both show wear in the superior-lateral aspect.
[0054]          FIG. 13 is a schematic of an exemplary femoral component depicting the
applied forces on the trunnion.
[0055]          FIG. 14 is a profile view of a human proximal femur showing a
superimposed sphere depicting the anatomical center of the femoral head.
[0056]          FIG. 15 is a profile view of a human proximal femur showing a
superimposed sphere depicting the anatomical center of the femoral head and a
superimposed, smaller sphere depicting the prosthetic center of the femoral ball
component of a THA implant.
[00571          FIG. 16 is an X-ray image depicting the neck angle   P (with respect to the
mechanical axis) of a present day femoral components used in a THA, which is typically
between 40-90 degrees.
[0058]          FIG. 17 is a profile view of a natural femur having an exemplary
embodiment of the present disclosure superimposed thereon, where the neck angle       p
(with respect to the mechanical axis) is zero degrees.
[0059]          FIG. 18 is a profile view of a plurality of exemplary femoral components
in accordance with the instance disclosure, showing variations in neck thickness, neck
curvature, and overall neck shape.

                                              -18
[00601          FIG. 19 is a profile view of natural femurs each having an exemplary
embodiment of the present disclosure superimposed thereon, where variations in the neck
shape are shown, such as where the neck is perpendicular to the femoral stem (A), or
where the neck is concave on the medial or lateral side (B), or where the neck is concave
on both the medial and lateral sides (C), or where the neck is curved.
[00611          FIG. 20 is a profile view of natural femurs each having an exemplary
embodiment of the present disclosure superimposed thereon, where the femoral
component is modular to allow for various neck angles (A), and to allow for various neck
positions with respect to the femoral stem (B).
[0062]          FIG. 21 is an exemplary multi component neck and femoral ball inhibited
from rotating with one another via a set screw.
[00631          FIG. 22 is another exemplary multi component neck and femoral ball
inhibited from rotating with one another via a set screw.
[0064]          FIG. 23 is a series of integrated femoral necks and balls, where the angle
of the trunnion axis differs with respect to that of the femoral neck axis.
[00651          FIG. 24 is a series of exemplary femoral stems having inserted therein
integrated femoral neck and ball components, where the necks have varying lengths.
[00661          FIG. 25 is an exemplary femoral components shown with a stem having a
pair of openings, at least one of which receives a set screw to inhibit rotation of an
integrated femoral neck and ball with respect to the femoral stem.
[00671          FIG. 26 is a series of exemplary femoral stems having cavities at various
angles depending upon the angle desired between the femoral stem and an integrated
femoral neck and ball component.
[00681          FIG. 27 is an exemplary integrated femoral neck and ball that includes a
bearing surface cover.
[00691          FIG. 28 is a mobile bearing femoral neck coupled to a ball component that
allows the ball to rotate with respect to the neck.

                                              -19
[00701          FIG. 29 is a pair of present day femoral components shown with
longitudinal axes for the stem and neck.
[00711          FIG. 30 is an X-ray superimposed with an exemplary acetabular
component and femoral component in accordance with the instant disclosure, as well as a
separate depiction of the relevant axes involved in the X-ray.
[0072]          FIG. 31 is an X-ray showing on the left side a present day THA implant
and on the right side a superimposed exemplary THA implant in accordance with the
instant disclosure.
[0073]          FIG. 32 is a cross-sectional view, from the side, of an exemplary femoral
component having a reinforcement plate mounted at two different, exemplary locations.
[0074]          FIG. 33 is an exemplary femoral component in accordance with the instant
disclosure.
[00751          FIG. 34 is a first series of exemplary acetabular cups in accordance with
the instant disclosure.
[0076]          FIG. 35 is a second series of exemplary acetabular cups in accordance
with the instant disclosure.
[00771          FIG. 36 is a first series of exemplary modular acetabular cups in
accordance with the instant disclosure.
[0078]          FIG. 37 is a series of profile cross-sections showing how exemplary
acetabular liners would be oriented with respect to exemplary acetabular cups fabricated
in accordance with the instant disclosure.
[00791          FIG. 38 is a depiction representing a spherical present day femoral head.
[0080]          FIG. 39 is a pair of depictions representing, non-spherical exemplary
femoral heads in accordance with the instant disclosure.
[0081]          FIG. 40 is an exemplary femoral component incorporating a non-spherical
femoral head in accordance with the instant disclosure.

                                               -20
 [00821         FIG. 41 is a pair of cross-sectional views showing an exemplary THA
implant that incorporates a head projection and a liner recess.
 [0083]         FIG. 42 is an overhead view of the liner of FIG. 41, showing the outline
the projection would occupy if present.
 [0084]         FIG. 43 is a pair of cross-sectional views showing an exemplary THA
implant that incorporates a head recess and a liner projection.
 [0085]         FIG. 44 is an overhead view of the liner of FIG. 43, showing the outline
the recess would occupy if present.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [0086]         The exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are described and
illustrated below to encompass components that may be implanted as part of a prosthetic
joint, such as a hip joint. Of course, it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art
that the embodiments discussed below are exemplary in nature and may be reconfigured
without departing from the scope and spirit. of the present disclosure. However, for
clarity and precision, the exemplary embodiments as discussed below may include
optional steps, methods, and features that one of ordinary skill should recognize as not
being a requisite to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.
 [00871         This present disclosure allows for the bearing surface force of the hip
joint, along the mechanical axis of the leg, to pass through the implanted femoral
component, which may lead to one or more of the following: (1) an increased bearing
surface contact area; (2) a significant reduction in bearing surface contact stress; (3) a
significant reduction in femoral head separation; and, (4) a reduction of the out-of-plane
forces and bending moments applied to the trunnion. At the same time, the implanted
femoral component may attempt to maintain the concentricity of the anatomical hip joint.

                                              -21
[00881           Ideally, an implanted femoral component and acetabular component
should be the same size, shape, and in the same orientation as the native joint components
that each prosthetic component replaces. Unfortunately, no hip implant is designed with
all three of these features for various reasons. One of the primary reasons is that the
anatomical shape of each patient's femoral head and acetabulum are quite different (i.e.,
unique). Also, it is difficult to design an acetabular cup and femoral head that are
anatomical in shape because fixation of the acetabular cup may be more difficult and
proper preparation of the acetabulum even more difficult. Recent attempts at developing
resurfacing prostheses that maintain the size of the femoral head have been designed, but
later post-operative follow-up results have not been acceptable and many of these
prostheses have been recalled from the market. Therefore, present day hip joint implants
(including femoral and acetabular components) have been designed to maintain the
anatomical orientation of the femoral neck, without realizing that a reduced femoral head
size will lead to a decreased contact area and increased contact stress.
[00891           The present disclosure is made in the context of considerations relevant to
maintaining or very closely approximating the native anatomical spheres of the femoral
head and acetabular cup (see FIG. 14). By maintaining the anatomical concentric spheres
when designing and positioning THA implants, as shown in FIG. 15, the mechanical axis
passes through the femoral head of the implant. Therefore, even though the implanted
femoral head size may be reduced, compared to the anatomical femoral head, it is ideal
for the spherical center of the implanted femoral head to be in the same location as the
anatomical spherical center.
[0090]           Some of the exemplary femoral implants of the present disclosure include
a femoral neck longitudinal axis that is parallel or near parallel to the mechanical axis of
the human leg. Present day femoral implants have attempted to align the femoral neck
with the anatomical neck, creating an increased angle, (p, with respect to the mechanical
axis of the human leg (see FIG. 16). When the implanted cup is oriented at ninety degrees
with respect to the femoral neck angle P, this allows for femoral head separation and
dislocation to occur. Also, the weight-bearing force is not applied through the neck of the

                                              -22
femoral implant, leading to transverse forces being applied through the femoral head into
the trunnion of the femoral implant and leading to induced moments that cause failure
and/or loosening between the trunnion and femoral head.
[0091]          Referring to FIG. 17, in an exemplary femoral implant 100, the femoral
neck axis is either parallel with respect to the mechanical axis 102 or is angled, P, less
than twenty-five degrees with respect to the mechanical axis. Having the angle       P be less
than twenty-five degrees with respect to the mechanical axis is operative to resist
dislocation of the femoral head 104 from the acetabular cup. In present day THA
implants, the bearing surface force is applied through the hip joint along the mechanical
axis tending to move joint has been sacrificed, there are not any forces resisting the
femoral head from sliding out of the acetabular cup. In this exemplary femoral implant
100, however, the bearing surface force is applied through and along the mechanical axis
102 to drive the femoral head 106 toward the femoral cup. Therefore, during weight
bearing activity, the femoral head 106 may only separate from the acetabular cup through
the neck axis. In an instance where a load is applied to the hip joint, it is virtually
impossible for the femoral head 106 to pull away from the acetabular cup along the
femoral neck axis.
[0092]          Referring to FIG. 18, alternate exemplary femoral implants 110, 112, 114,
116 each include a one-piece femoral stem 118 and neck 120 that includes a trunnion 122
to which is mounted a separable femoral head (not shown). In this exemplary
embodiment, the femoral stem 118 includes a longitudinal axis that is either parallel with
or angled within twenty degrees of a longitudinal axis of the neck 120. As discussed
above, an ideal orientation is for the longitudinal axes of the neck 120 and stem 118 to be
in parallel. The greater the angle between the longitudinal axes, the greater the chance of
rotation between the trunnion 122 and the separable femoral head. By reducing the angle
between the axes, the femoral head is secured to the trunnion 122 predominantly in the
direction of the applied bearing surface force vector on or near the mechanical axis. In
this manner, under loaded conditions, the femoral head is compressed along the
longitudinal axis without applying out-of-plane forces to the trunnion 122 or inducing

                                              -23
significant moments that cause micro-motion between the femoral head and trunnion. No
matter what shape and contour differences exist, the common orientation between the
exemplary femoral implants depicted in FIG. 18 is a twenty degree or less deviation
between longitudinal axes of the femoral stem 118 and neck 120 (specifically, the
trunnion 122).
[00931          Referring to FIG. 19, still further exemplary femoral implants 130, 132,
134, 136 include a perpendicular shelf 138 from which the femoral neck 140 extends.
The exemplary femoral implants 130, 132, 134, 136 may have a perpendicular shelf on
the inferior side of the stem, whereas the superior femoral stem is angled between zero
and thirty degrees with respect to the mechanical axis. The medial, lateral, anterior or
posterior aspect of the femoral stem 130, 132 may be of irregular shape, such as concave
allowing for greater defined rotation or rotations to occur. All aspects of the femoral
implant 134 may be irregular in shape, such as concave similar to an hour glass, or the
femoral implant 136 may be curved and the thickness of the stem may vary across a
horizontal plane.
[0094]          Referencing FIG. 20, an exemplary femoral implant 150, 152 may be
modular so that upper and lower portions of the femoral stem 156 are mounted to one
another allow for variable neck lengths, angles, and shapes, as well as femoral heads that
are angled and offset from the femoral neck, For example, the first exemplary femoral
implant 150 includes an upper femoral stem having a neck 154 significantly spaced apart
from the femoral stem 156, where the angle of the femoral stem and the femoral neck are
substantially parallel. The second exemplary femoral implant 152 also includes a two
piece femoral stem, but this time the upper portion of the stem 156 includes a neck 154
that is spaced apart from the lower portion of the femoral stem less than the first
exemplary femoral implant 150, but the neck is angled approximately fifteen degrees
with respect to the lower femoral stem. Accordingly, it should be understood that by
using modular femoral implants, one can easily provide for interchangeable upper
femoral stem portions that change the position and orientation of the femoral neck (an

                                              -24
ultimately the femoral ball 158) with respect to the lower femoral stem portion where the
longitudinal axis is established.
[0095]           Referring back to FIG. 13, an ideal angle for O1 is zero. When O1 is zero,
the applied force vector F is coaxial with the longitudinal axis of the trunnion and
femoral head. In other words, when O1 is zero, there are no rotational force introduced
from the applied force vector F that would tend to rotate the femoral head (or leave
stationary if rotation of the trunnion occurs) in a first direction and rotate the trunnion (or
leave stationary if rotation of the femoral head occurs) in a second direction. As
discussed previously, it is the presence of rotational force(s) that causes micro motion
between the trunnion and the femoral head.
[00961           FIG. 21 depicts an instance where O1 is not zero. Even if one were to use
such an angle between the longitudinal axis of the femoral stem and femoral neck, the
present disclosure provides a number of exemplary solutions to retard micro motion
between a trunnion 160 and femoral head 162. In exemplary form, a femoral implant
includes a femoral stem (not shown) and a femoral neck 164 angled roughly forty-five
degrees with respect to the longitudinal axis of the femoral stem. At the end of the
femoral neck is a trunnion 160 having a threaded end 166 that is adapted to be received
within a primary threaded cavity of a femoral head 162. The femoral head 162 also
includes a second threaded cavity that intersects the primary threaded cavity. A threaded
connector 168 (e.g., a screw) is adapted to be received within the second threaded cavity
and advanced within the second threaded cavity until coming into contact with a portion
of the threaded end 166 of the trunnion 160. More specifically, the threaded connector
168 is tightened to inhibit rotation of the threaded end 166 with respect to the femoral
head 162. It should be noted, however, that a threaded trunnion need not be utilized. For
instance, the trunnion may have a non-circular shape (such as triangular or rectangular)
that by itself retards rotation of the femoral head 162 with respect to the trunnion 160.
[00971           Referring to FIG. 22, another exemplary femoral implant includes a
femoral stem (not shown) and a femoral neck 170 angled roughly forty-five degrees with
respect to the longitudinal axis of the femoral stem. At the end of the femoral neck is a

                                              -25
trunnion 172 having a threaded cavity that is adapted to receive a threaded end 174
extending from a femoral head 176. The neck 170 of the femoral implant also includes a
second threaded cavity that intersects the primary threaded cavity. A threaded connector
178 (e.g., a screw) is adapted to be received within the second threaded cavity and
advanced within the second threaded cavity until coming into contact with a portion of
the threaded end 174 of the femoral head 176. More specifically, the threaded connector
178 is tightened to inhibit rotation of the threaded end 174 with respect to the femoral
neck 170. It should be noted, however, that a threaded femoral ball 176 need not be
utilized. For instance, the end 174 of the femoral ball 176 may have a non-circular shape
(such as triangular or rectangular) to fit within a corresponding shaped cavity of the
femoral neck 170 so that the interaction between the end 174 and the femoral neck 170
by itself retards rotation of the femoral head 176 with respect to the trunnion 172.
[00981           Referring to FIGS. 23-25, yet another exemplary femoral implant includes
a femoral stem 180 that is removably coupled to a one-piece femoral neck and femoral
head implant 182. The femoral neck 184 of this one-piece implant 182 may take on any
number of shapes and sizes (i.e., may vary thickness, orientation, cross-section, etc.). By
creating a one-piece device and seamless connection between the femoral neck 184 and
femoral head 186, rotation between these two elements is inhibited. And the one-piece
implant 182 is adapted to be inserted in a cavity of a corresponding femoral stem 180 to
comprise a complete femoral implant.
[0099]           In exemplary form, referring again to FIG. 25, the femoral stem 180
includes a threaded cavity that is adapted to receive a threaded end 188 extending from
an integrated femoral neck and ball 182. The stem 180 of the femoral implant also
includes a second threaded cavity that intersects the primary threaded cavity. A threaded
connector 190 (e.g., a screw) is adapted to be received within the second threaded cavity
and advanced within the second threaded cavity until coming into contact with a portion
of the threaded end 188 of the integrated femoral neck and ball 182. More specifically,
the threaded connector 190 is tightened to inhibit rotation of the integrated femoral neck
and ball 182 with respect to the femoral stem 180. It should be noted, however, that a

                                             -26
threaded end 188 need not be utilized. For instance, the end 188 of the femoral neck and
ball 182 may have a non-circular shape (such as triangular or rectangular) to fit within a
corresponding shaped cavity of the femoral stem 180 so that the interaction between the
end 188 and the femoral stem 180 by itself retards rotation of the femoral neck and ball
182 with respect to the femoral stem 180.
[00100]         As shown in FIG. 23, exemplary one-piece femoral neck and head
implants 182 may provide femoral head 186 offset from or aligned with the femoral neck
184. In exemplary form, a first one-piece femoral neck and femoral head implant 182A
provides the neck 184 and center of the head 186 aligned along a longitudinal axis. But
the second and third one-piece femoral neck and femoral head implants 182B, 182C
include head 186 centers that are offset from a longitudinal axis extending through the
femoral neck 184. In addition to being offset from the longitudinal axis, the second and
third one-piece femoral neck and femoral head implants 182B, 182C include femoral
heads 186 that are angled differently with respect to the femoral neck 184. In particular,
the second one-piece femoral neck and femoral head implant 182B includes a trunnion
192 angled approximately fifty degrees with respect to the longitudinal axis extending
through the femoral neck 184, while the second one-piece femoral neck and femoral head
implant 182C includes a trunnion 192 angled approximately seventy degrees with respect
to the longitudinal axis of the femoral neck 184. In this manner, the one-piece femoral
neck and femoral head implants 182A, 182B, 182C may include trunnions 192 that
operate to angle the femoral head 186 with respect to the femoral neck 184 anywhere
between zero and ninety degrees and offset the femoral head with respect to the femoral
neck anywhere between 1 to 40 millimeters.
[00101]         As shown in FIG. 24, exemplary one-piece femoral neck and femoral head
implants 182 may also include necks 184 having different lengths. In exemplary form, a
first one-piece implant 182D includes a femoral neck 184D having a shaft with a
generally cylindrical shape (i.e., longitudinal circular cross-section) that is adapted to be
received within a corresponding cavity of a femoral stem 180. In this exemplary
embodiment, the corresponding cavity is also cylindrical. But those skilled in the art will

                                              -27
understand that the femoral neck shaft may take on any number of cross-sections such as,
without limitation, cross-sections having three or more sides. Likewise, the
corresponding cavity within the femoral stem will be sized to mate with and
accommodate whatever cross-section the femoral neck 184 embodies. By providing
necks with differing lengths, the surgeon is able to choose the appropriate one-piece
implant based upon the patient's preferred anatomical spacing between the acetabular cup
and femoral stem. In this exemplary embodiment, the first one-piece implant 182D
includes a femoral neck 184D having a length of 5 to 10 mm, the second one-piece
implant 182E includes a femoral neck 184E having a length of 11 to 30 mm, and the third
one-piece implant 182F includes a femoral neck 184F having a length of 31 to 80 mm.
[00102]         Referring to FIG. 26, it is also within the scope of the disclosure to
provide femoral stems/shafts 200A, 200B, 200C that are adapted to orient the one-piece
implants 182 at different angles. For example, as shown, a first exemplary femoral stem
200A includes a cavity that receives a one-piece neck and ball implant 182. In this
discussion, for purposes of explanation only, the one-piece neck and ball implant 182 is
the same as discussed previously. But those skilled in the art will understand that various
one-piece neck and ball implants may be used with the exemplary femoral stems 200A,
200B, 200C, such as any one of those discussed previously or hereafter.
[00103]         The first exemplary femoral stem 200A includes a cavity 202A having a
longitudinal axis angled approximately forty-five degrees with respect to a longitudinal
axis of the femoral stem. In contrast, the second exemplary femoral stem 200B includes a
cavity 202B having a longitudinal axis angled approximately fifty-five degrees with
respect to a longitudinal axis of the femoral stem. Finally, a third exemplary femoral stem
200C includes a cavity 202C having a longitudinal axis angled approximately sixty-five
degrees with respect to a longitudinal axis of the femoral stem. Those skilled in the art
will realize that cavities may be formed into the femoral stem at various angles to orient
the one-piece neck and head implant 182 at any angle between twenty and ninety degrees
with respect to the longitudinal axis of the femoral stem.

                                             -28
[001041         Referencing FIG. 27, it is also within the scope of the disclosure to attach
a low bearing surface 210 to the exterior of the femoral head 186. By way of example,
the one-piece neck and head implant 182 may be fabricated from metals, polymers,
ceramics, and composites. Because fabrication of the one-piece neck and head implant
182 provides an integrated structure, it may be advantageous to change the bearing
surface by attaching a material 210 to the exterior of the femoral head 186. In this
exemplary embodiment, the one-piece neck and head 182 are fabricated from a metal or
metal alloy. But end implant is to include a femoral head bearing surface 210 that
comprises another material, such as high density polyethylene. In order to mount the new
bearing surface 210 to the femoral head 186, one may utilize compression molding,
hydro-dynamically attachment, or other surface fixation technology. One of the
advantages or this approach is that the interface surfaces (i.e., interior of new bearing
surface 210 and exterior of femoral head 186) have much more surface area (in
comparison to the typical surface area between the trunnion and the inside of the femoral
head) available in order to attach the new bearing surface 210 to the femoral head 186.
[00105]         Using a one-piece femoral head and neck implant 182 addresses the
potential for micro-rocking motion between the femoral head 186 and femoral neck 184.
But the one-piece femoral head and neck implant 182 also potentially addresses other
issues. As part of THA, those skilled in the art are familiar with a surgeon reaming a
pelvis to prepare the pelvis to receive an implanted acetabular cup. If the surgeon
reams/removes too much bone or reams at an incorrect angle, the one-piece head and
neck implant allows the surgeon to correct for surgical preparation errors of this type and
ensure that the femoral head is positioned in the anatomically correct position. Reference
is had to U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 13/330,259, the disclosure of which is
incorporated herein by reference, for a more detailed discussion of anatomically correct
positioning of a femoral head using concentric centers of the femoral head and native
acetabulum.
[001061         Referring to FIG. 28, an exemplary mobile bearing femoral implant
includes a femoral stem (not shown) and a femoral neck 220, for example angled roughly

                                              -29
forty-five degrees with respect to the longitudinal axis of the femoral stem, but this angle
of orientation could be greater or lesser than forty-five degrees so that the femoral
spherical center could be aligned with the anatomical spherical center. At the end of the
femoral neck 220 is a trunnion 222 having a rounded, cylindrical end that is adapted to be
received within a primary, smooth cavity of a femoral head 224. In this exemplary
embodiment, the outer bearing surface of the rounded, cylindrical end of the trunnion 222
and the interior surface(s) delineating the smoother cavity of the femoral head 224 are
highly polished to reduce friction therebetween. In particular, the outer bearing surface of
the trunnion 222 is sized allow rotation of the trunnion with respect to the femoral head
224. Moreover, the trunnion 222 may be slightly tapered to allow the femoral head 224 to
translate up and down with respect to the trunnion.
[001071          Referring to FIG. 29, although the ideal design of a femoral implant is to
have the femoral neck axis 230 to be parallel with the mechanical axis of the leg, the next
optimal orientation would be to minimize the angle (denoted as "y") between the
longitudinal axis 232 of the femoral stem 234 and the longitudinal axis 230 of the
femoral neck 236. In present day THA, this angle y, is quite large. When a force in the
direction of gravity is applied to the femoral head 238, then an increased moment is
applied, leading to greater forces in the muscle structures to balance the hip joint, leading
an increased bearing surface force.
[00108]          Referencing FIGS. 30 and 31, the instant disclosure proposes that the
angle difference between these two axes 230, 232 be as small as possible. Having a small
angular difference allows for a more optimal dispersion of forces through these structures
and a reduction in moments at the hip joint with respect to the main bearing surface force
that is applied along the mechanical axis.
[00109]          As stated previously, a hip stem and neck with an optimal angle, y, and
optimal angles between the femoral neck axis with respect to the mechanical axis (y/2)
and the femoral stem axis and the mechanical axis (y/2) will allow for optimal contact
area between the femoral head and the acetabular cup (see FIG. 31). As shown in FIG.
31, the left side view is of a present day THA implant oriented with a rather large angle y

                                            -30
and a relatively small contact area between the femoral head and acetabular cup insert,
while the right side view is an overlay of an exemplary embodiment of the instant
disclosure showing an optimal angle y and how this helps to increase the contact area
between the femoral ball and acetabular cup.
[00110]         Referring to FIG. 32, although loosening the femoral stem with respect to
the native femur has been reduced to a lower incidence rate, it still remains a concern in
implant longevity. Therefore, an exemplary femoral implant 240 may make use of a
reinforcement plate 242 (and corresponding nail or screw) concurrently mounted to the
femur 244 and femoral stem 246. This reinforcement plate 242 may be inserted at
variable locations along the femoral stem 246 and operates to ensure that the femoral
stem remains fixated to the femur 244, even during more dynamic, challenging activities.
[00111]         Referencing FIG. 33, in order to resist out of plane forces and bending
moments, an exemplary femoral component 250 includes an upper aspect 252 of a
femoral stem that comprises a flat, rounded or anatomically shaped plate mounted to the
contoured top of the femur 254. This plate 252 may be modular in nature and connected
to the upper portion of the femoral stem 256 and include an integrated neck 258 and
possibly an integrated femoral ball 260.
[00112]         Referring to FIGS. 34 and .35, placement of the femoral neck along the
mechanical axis allows the femoral head to maximize contact area and resist the femoral
head from separating from the acetabular cup (see FIG. 31). But the shape of the
acetabular cup may also be modified to assist in capturing the femoral head therein. For
example, an exemplary femoral cup 270 includes an extended surface area to increase the
potential contact area between the femoral head and acetabular cup insert across the
range of motion of the femoral head. In particular, the intent is to maximize the contact
area (between femoral head and acetabular cup (i.e., insert)) throughout the range of
motion of the femoral head. Extending the surface area of the acetabular cup leads to
maximal femoral head contact area and greater contact between the acetabular cup and
residual bone surface. FIGS. 24 and 25 provide exemplary acetabular cup 270 shapes that
increase the surface area beyond present day one hundred and eighty degree coverage.

                                              -31
[001131          It should also be noted that the exemplary acetabular cups 274 may
include separable extensions 272 so that the final cup comprises multiple pieces, such as
the exemplary cups shown in FIG. 36. In these exemplary cups 274, the extensions 272
provide up to forty-five degrees of additional surface area coverage.
[00114]          Also, as shown in FIG. 37, the positioning of the acetabular cup 270, 274
and its liner cup 276 within acetabular cup could also be modular, depending on the
placement of the acetabular cup within the acetabulum. Since the extension cup 270, 274
covers more than 180 degrees of surface area, it is possible to place the liner cup 276
either in a more vertical or horizontal orientation within the acetabular cup. The
acetabular cup liner 276 could be 180 degrees and be positioned with the acetabular cup
270, 274 implanted having a surface area greater than 180 degrees. Therefore, depending
on the position of the acetabular cup 270, 274 to maximum bone fixation area, the
polyethylene liner 276 could be positioned and/or oriented in multiple ways within the
acetabular cup, allowing for correlating the implant spherical center with the anatomical
spherical center. The polyethylene liner 276 may also be of the exact same shape as the
acetabular cup component 270, 274, having a surface area greater than 180 degrees.
[00115]          One of the optional objectives of the previous mentioned implant designs
is to orient the hip components to maximize the in vivo contact area, which in-turn will
decrease the in vivo contact stresses. A more vertical positioned femoral neck also leads
to resistance of dislocation and femoral head separation. If it is desirable to having a more
traditional femoral implant with a femoral neck orientation similar to the anatomical
neck, the femoral head shape may be altered to maximize contact area and in-turn
decrease the potential for dislocation and femoral head separation.
[00116]          Referring to FIGS. 38-40, present-day femoral head implants 280 are
spherical in shape, comprising a round solid object having a circumferential surface with
every point equidistant from its center. Unfortunately, this type of design, as explained
previously in this patent, may induce hip dislocation and femoral head separation. One
improved embodiment that may increase the femoral head 284 bearing surface contact
area includes a bearing surface where not every surface point is equidistant from the

                                             -32
femoral head center (see FIGS. 39 and 40). The variable radii 282 shown in FIGS. 39 and
40 may be incorporated throughout the femoral head 284 or in a covering on the femoral
head comprising a bearing surface. The acetabular cup and the liner would also have an
irregular shape that will accept the design change to maximize hip mechanics by
increasing the contact area. Therefore, this re-designed shaped acetabular cup will be
altered based on the mating femoral head. A more elongated femoral head will result in a
more elongated acetabular cup and/or liner. The increased bearing surface contact area
disperses the applied hip force through the increased area, thereby leading to lesser shear
forces applied on the femoral head 284, consequently allowing the femoral head to
increasingly resist dislocation and femoral head separation.
[001171        The exemplary femoral head 284 may also have a flatter variable radii 282
mating with the medial, inner aspect of the acetabular cup or the opposite may be
incorporated in the design, so that the outer shape of the femoral head 284, mating with
the inner aspect of the acetabular cup is more elliptical in shape.
[001181        Referring to FIGS. 41 and 42, in a further exemplary embodiment 288, a
femoral head 290 includes a projection 292 that is received within a dedicated recess 294
of an acetabular cup liner 296. The projection 292 has a range of motion with respect to
the dedicated recess 294 that allows for limited abduction and adduction of the patient's
femur with respect to the pelvis. More specifically, as the femoral head 290 is rotated in a
direction of abduction, the projection 292 moves closer to its range of motion boundary
established by the dimension of the dedicated recess 294. When the femoral head 290
continues to be rotated in a direction of abduction, eventually the projection 292 will
contact the edge (i.e., boundary) of the dedicated .recess 294 so that continued abduction
of the femoral head is retarded. Conversely, as the femoral head 290 is rotated in a
direction of adduction, the projection 292 moves closer to its adduction range of motion
boundary so that continued rotation of the femoral head in the direction of adduction
eventually causes the projection to contact another edge of the dedicated recess 294 so
that continued adduction of the femoral head is retarded. Exemplary purposes of the
projection 292 and recess 294 include, without limitation: (1) to replicate the constraint

                                               -33
provided to the hip joint by the femoral head ligament; and, (2) to constrain the femoral
head to attempt to maintain the femoral head 290 in the anatomical hip center.
[00119]          In exemplary form, the femoral head 290 comprises a ball having a
bearing surface with an arcuate curvature that mimics a sphere. This bearing surface is
intended to contact a corresponding bearing surface on the interior of the acetabular cup
liner 296, which is itself arcuate and mimics the curvature of a sphere (in this case
slightly larger than the femoral head sphere), but in a convex orientation to allow the
femoral ball to rotate and pivot within the femoral cup liner. Consequently, the bearing
surface of the femoral ball 290 rides against the bearing surface of the acetabular cup
liner 296. But, unlike preexisting acetabular cup liners and femoral balls, both
components 290, 296 include a corresponding projection 292 and recess 294 to retard the
range of motion of the femur with respect to the pelvis in the abduction and adduction
directions.
[00120]          In exemplary form, the femoral head 290 includes the projection 292. It
should be noted that the projection 292 may be of any size and shape such as, without
limitation, spherical, square, rectangular, triangular, and irregular. In this exemplary
embodiment, the projection 292 is provided on the femoral head 290 proximate the radial
direction where the femoral head ligament was previously located on the femoral head.
However, this is only one exemplary location for the projection 292. Other locations will
likewise be acceptable that allow for positioning of the projection in locations that are or
are not weight bearing. FIGS. 41 shows two exemplary positions the projection 292 may
occupy on the femoral ball 290 with respect to the weight bearing portion of the femoral
ball.
[00121]          In counterpart fashion, the acetabular cup liner 296 includes the recess 294
that at least partially receives the projection 292 of the femoral ball 290. It should be
noted that the recess 294 may be of any concave shape such as, without limitation,
spherical, square, rectangular, triangular, and irregular. In this exemplary embodiment,
the recess 294 is provided on the acetabular cup liner 296 proximate the radial direction
where the femoral head ligament was previously coupled to the pelvis. Depending upon

                                               -34
exemplary considerations such as patient age and weight, the recess 294 may be
approximately the same size as the projection 292 or may be greater than an order of
magnitude than the projection. As will be understood by those skilled in the art, the
greater the ratio between the size of the recess 294 and the size of the projection 292
(presuming a semispherical projection and recess) the greater the range of motion will be
available to the patient in at least one of the abduction and adduction directions (i.e., both
rotation and translation of the femoral ball with respect to the acetabular cup insert may
occur). In other words, translation is limited to the amount of clearance between the
projection 292 and the recess 294. Conversely, when the projection 292 and the recess
294 are approximately the same size, significant motion will be retarded in both the
abduction and adduction directions (i.e., only significant rotation, but not translation, of
the femoral ball with respect to the acetabular cup insert may occur).
[00122]         Referencing FIGS. 43 and 44, in a further exemplary embodiment 300, a
projection 302 is located on an acetabular cup liner 304 and a recess 306 is located on a
femoral head 308. Just as with the prior exemplary embodiment 288, this exemplary
embodiment 300 uses the interaction of a projection 302 and a recess 306 to retard the
motion of the femoral ball 308 in at least one of the adduction and abduction directions.
This projection on the acetabular cup could also be located on the acetabular shell and
protruded through the acetabular liner. The projection could be of the same material as
the acetabular cup and/or liner or could be of a different material.
[001231         The femoral ball 308 includes a recess 306 the recess that at least partially
receives the projection 302 of the acetabular cup liner 304. It should be noted that the
recess 306 may be of any concave shape such as, without limitation, spherical, square,
rectangular, triangular, and irregular. In this exemplary embodiment, the recess 306 is
provided on the femoral ball 308 proximate the radial direction where the femoral head
ligament was previously located on the femoral head. Depending upon exemplary
considerations such as patient age and weight, the recess 306 may be approximately the
same size as the projection or may be greater than an order of magnitude than the
projection. As will be understood by those skilled in the art, the greater the ratio between

                                               -35
the size of the recess 306 and the size of the projection 302 (presuming a semispherical
projection and recess) the greater the range of motion will be available to the patient in at
least one of the abduction and adduction directions (i.e., both rotation and translation of
the femoral ball 308 with respect to the acetabular cup insert may occur). In other words,
translation is limited to the amount of clearance between the projection 302 and the
recess 306. Conversely, when the projection 302 and the recess 306 are approximately
the same size, significant motion will be retarded in both the abduction and adduction
directions (i.e., only significant rotation, but not translation, of the femoral ball 308 with
respect to the acetabular cup liner 304 may occur).
[00124]          Conversely, the acetabular cup liner 304 includes the projection 302. It
should be noted that the projection 302 may be of any shape such as, without limitation,
spherical, square, rectangular, triangular, and irregular. In this exemplary embodiment,
the projection 302 is provided on the femoral head proximate the radial direction where
the femoral head ligament was previously coupled to the pelvis. However, this is only
one exemplary location for the projection 302. Other locations will likewise be
acceptable that allow for positioning of the projection 302 in locations that are or are not
weight bearing. FIG. 43 shows two exemplary positions the projection 302 may occupy
on the acetabular cup liner 304 with respect to the weight bearing portion of the femoral
ball 308.
[00125]          Following from the above description and invention summaries, it should
be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that, while the methods and apparatuses
herein described constitute exemplary embodiments of the present invention, the
invention is not limited to the foregoing and changes may be made to such embodiments
without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the claims. Additionally,
it is to be understood that the invention is defined by the claims and it is not intended that
any limitations or elements describing the exemplary embodiments set forth herein are to
be incorporated into the interpretation of any claim element unless such limitation or
element is explicitly stated. Likewise, it is to be understood that it is not necessary to
meet any or all of the identified advantages or objects of the invention disclosed herein in

                                              -36
order to fall within the scope of any claims, since the invention is defined by the claims
and since inherent and/or unforeseen advantages of the present invention may exist even
though they may not have been explicitly discussed herein.
[001261         In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or
similar terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system, method
or apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those elements solely, but
may well include other elements not listed.
[001271         The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of
the common general knowledge.
[001281         What is claimed is:

                                            -37
        1.     A prosthetic femoral component comprising:
       a femoral stem;
       a femoral neck; and,
       a femoral ball adapted to be mounted to the femoral neck;
       wherein the femoral ball is at least one of not spherical and includes variable
       radii
       2.      The prosthetic femoral component of claim 1, wherein:
       the femoral neck includes a trunnion; and,
       the femoral ball is adapted to be mounted to the trunnion.
       3.      The prosthetic femoral component of claim 2, wherein:
       the trunnion includes a projection that is received within a first cavity of the
femoral ball; and,
       the femoral ball includes a second cavity to receive a fastener, the second cavity
in communication with the first cavity.
       4.      The prosthetic femoral component of claim 3, wherein the projection is
threaded.
       5.      The prosthetic femoral component of either claim 3 or 4, where the
trunnion
       includes a longitudinal axis that is angled less than thirty degrees with respect to a
longitudinal axis extending through a remainder of the neck.
       6.      The prosthetic femoral component of claim 2, wherein:
       the femoral ball includes a projection that is received within a first cavity of the
trunnion; and,

                                             -38
        the trunnion includes a second cavity to receive a fastener, the second cavity in
communication with the first cavity.
        7.      The prosthetic femoral component of claim 6, wherein the projection is
threaded.
        8.      The prosthetic femoral component of either claim 6 or 7, where the
trunnion
        includes a longitudinal axis that is angled less than thirty degrees with respect to a
longitudinal axis extending through a remainder of the neck.
        9.      The prosthetic femoral component of claim 2, wherein:
        the femoral neck and the femoral ball are integrally formed as a single structure;
and,
        the femoral neck extending from the femoral ball includes a length of between
one hundred eighty and twenty millimeters.
        10.     The prosthetic femoral component of claim 9, wherein the femoral neck
extending from the femoral ball includes a length of between seventy and twenty
millimeters.
        11.     The prosthetic femoral component of claim 9, wherein the femoral neck
extending from the femoral ball includes a length of between one hundred twenty and
seventy millimeters.
        12.     The prosthetic femoral component of claim 9, wherein the femoral neck
extending from the femoral ball includes a length of between one hundred eighty and one
hundred twenty millimeters.

                                             -39
        13.     The prosthetic femoral component of claim 1, wherein:
        the femoral neck and the femoral ball are integrally formed as a single structure;
        the femoral neck includes a projection that is received within a first cavity of the
femoral stem; and,
        the femoral neck includes a second cavity to receive a fastener, the second cavity
in communication with the first cavity.
        14.     The prosthetic femoral component of claim 1, wherein:
        the femoral neck and the femoral ball separable from one another;
        the femoral neck includes a projection that is received within a first cavity of the
femoral stem; and,
        the femoral neck includes a second cavity to receive a fastener, the second cavity
in communication with the first cavity.
        15.     The prosthetic femoral component of either claim 13 or 14, wherein the
projection is threaded.
        16.     The prosthetic femoral component of claim 1, wherein:
        the femoral stem includes a first cavity having a first cavity longitudinal axis;
        the femoral stem includes a stem longitudinal axis; and,
        the first cavity longitudinal axis is angled between forty-five and eighty-five
degrees with respect to the stem longitudinal axis.
        17.     The prosthetic femoral component of claim 1, wherein the femoral ball
includes a bearing surface cover.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
