                                     ABSTRACT
Systems for the detection and measurement, including range-resolved measurement of
the quantities of specific substances using monochromatic light. System for absolute
and relative laser frequency or wavelength stabilization. System for the simultaneous
stabilization of two or more wavelengths. Systems for the calibrations of quantities of
specific substances. Measurements of specific substances employing specified
frequency ranges or wavelength bands.

WO 2016/094941                                                         PCT/AU2015/050789
       LASER FREQUENCY CONTROL AND SENSING SYSTEM
                          FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]    The present invention relates to the stabilization of two or more laser wave
lengths. Furthermore, the present invention relates to the sensing of material species
over specific ranges of optical frequencies (or wavelengths), and the simultaneous
measurement of two or more species over a specific range of optical frequencies.
[0002]    The present invention relates to sensing, remote sensing, laser cooling, con
fining and manipulating matter at the atomic scale and Terahertz frequency stabi
lization.
[0003]    This invention presents an improved technique for stabilizing a first laser to
a single atomic resonance.
The invention provides one or more of the following features:
An improved technique of beat-frequency stabilization of a second laser to the first
laser with arbitrarily high beat frequencies that can themselves be stabilized to atomic
resonances.
A novel method for control-system synchronization and pulse formation.
A novel method for Application and calibration of this system to Differential Absorp
tion Lidar.
A novel method of species detection by time-resolved scattering
A novel method for humidity calibration
                                            1

WO 2016/094941                                                        PCT/AU2015/050789
                    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0004]    Laser frequency stabilization and the interaction of accurately and precisely
controlled laser light with matter are important and rapidly emerging fields of science
and technology. These have applications to in-situ sensing, remote sensing, laser
cooling and heating, as well as the manipulation, separation and confinement of
atoms in a laser beam.
                        OBJECTS OF THE INVENTION
[0005]    It is an object of this invention to provide at least one of the following
advantages:
   1. Stabilization of the wavelength of one single frequency laser to one atomic
      resonance line.
   2. Offset stabilization of a second laser to the first laser.
   3. Dither and pulse generation and synchronization with the wavelength stabiliza
      tion systems.
   4. Operation of a remote sensing lidar at spectral bands which were previously
      not considered feasible for remote sensing of specific molecular species.
   5. A technique for the calibration of a DIAL system.
   6. A novel method for remote sensing of water vapor and methane gas.
                                           2

WO 2016/094941                                                          PCT/AU2015/050789
   7. A novel technique for time-resolved in-situ detection and measurement of spe
       cific materials.
   8. A novel method for low-cost in-situ absolute humidity measurement and cali
       bration.
                        SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]      Various techniques for stabilizing the wavelength of a single frequency laser
are well known. This technology is important for sensing as well as for laser cooling
and for manipulating matter at the atomic scale. However, the stabilization of a
laser frequency requires the modulation of the said optical frequency. This frequency
modulation also inevitably also produces some intensity modulation that results in a
optical frequency error. The preferred embodiment of the present invention presents
an improved ratiometric technique for the laser frequency stabilization that utilizes
signal division instead of the signal normalization and subtraction as used in prior
art.
[0007]      Some applications of laser wavelength stabilization, including certain em
bodiment of LIght Detection And Ranging (LIDAR) such as DIfferential Absorption
LIDAR (DIAL), as well as laser trapping and cooling, require a stabilized optical
frequency with a precise offset from the molecular resonance frequency. The present
invention provides an offset stabilization system does not require any dither mod
ulation of the off-line lasers, and allows for the stabilization of an arbitrarily small
optical offset between the on-line and off-line wavelengths. This is especially relevant
to Differential Absorption Lidar (DIAL) where it is often desirable to use a side-line
                                             3

WO 2016/094941                                                       PCT/AU2015/050789
optical frequency that is stabilized close to, but not at the center of molecular res
onance. The capability to produce an optical frequency that is continuous, stable,
and precise is particularly interesting for nadir viewing DIAL systems.
[0008]    The preferred embodiment of the present invention implements a novel offset
wavelength stabilization scheme where two laser wavelengths are stabilized relative
to each other without utilizing a local oscillator and RF mixer to measure the beat
frequency, as described in prior art. This offset locking technique utilizes passive
bandpass or bandstop electromagnetic filter elements instead of a local oscillator
and mixer.    The passive nature of the electromagnetic frequency reference means
that gaseous vapors, liquids and metamaterials may be utilized as a beat reference.
This technique is also applicable to beat frequency stabilization across a very wide
frequency range, to produce stabilized frequency sources well into the Terahertz band
of the electromagnetic spectrum.
[0009]     Some applications of laser wavelength stabilization, including certain em
bodiments of LIght Detection And Ranging (LIDAR) such as DIfferential Absorption
LIDAR (DIAL), also require the stabilized laser radiation to be transmitted in pulsed
form, as well as the transmission of two or more stabilized wavelengths. The preferred
embodiment of the present invention presents a method for stabilizing two or more
single-frequency lasers that includes a synchronous and combined stabilization and
optical switching method that produces fixed optical frequency pulses while maximiz
ing the available optical power from a given system and minimizing any perturbation
of the wavelength control systems.
[0010]     The use of lasers for the remote sensing of atmospheric gases by differen
tial absorption LIght Detection And Ranging (LIDAR) (DIAL) techniques is already
known. All DIAL techniques involve the transmission of two or more wavelengths
                                            4

WO 2016/094941                                                        PCT/AU2015/050789
and measuring the different return signals. In a DIAL system, different magnitudes
of scattering are caused by molecular resonant interactions with the propagating
electromagnetic radiation, such that a closer match between the propagating electro
magnetic (online) frequency and the natural frequency or frequencies of the molecule,
result in a greater degree of scattering and attenuation, compared to a another electro
magnetic (offline) frequency with a poorer match to the molecule's natural resonance
frequency. Each molecular species has tens of thousands of distinct spectral features,
where the typical width of each spectral line is of the order of several GHz at sea
level. There are different types of DIAL that utilize the spectral features in different
ways. One example utilizes multimode lasers with a broad linewidths of the order of
1 nm that interact with numerous natural resonances of the targeted molecule and an
offline wavelength that is more than 1 nm away from the online wavelength. However,
the preferred embodiment of the present invention utilizes a single frequency laser
with a narrow linewidth that interacts with only a single natural resonance feature of
the targeted molecule, and an offline wavelength that is less than 100 pm away from
the online wavelength. One critical difference in performance between various DIAL
systems can be attributed to the design frequency at which they operate because the
resonance frequency is a critical aspect of the design of this type of DIAL system.
[0011]     The absolute accuracy of a DIAL system depends on the knowledge of the
precise spectroscopic parameters of the selected resonance line, as well as the spectral
purity of the transmitted laser radiation. The present invention also overcomes a
problem that the accuracy of the known and documented spectral parameters are
poorly defined, and the spectral purity can be difficult to measure as a convolution
with the spectral line shape. The present invention also presents a novel calibration
technique that provides measurements that are traceable to absolute standards.
                                            5

WO 2016/094941                                                         PCT/AU2015/050789
 [0012]    The present invention is generally directed to a type of LIght Detection
And Ranging (LIDAR), however, since the present invention has as its primary ob
ject the provision of a method for the stabilization and transmission of specific laser
wavelengths, it may also be directed towards the applications where two or more con
tinuous laser wavelengths are stabilized. The present invention may also be directed
towards the stabilization of optical beat frequencies where two or more continuous
mode single frequency laser signals are linearly mixed or combined, and the resulting
stabilized beat frequency is measured, utilized or transmitted in the form of electro
magnetic waves.
 [0013]    For the specific detection and calibration of water vapor in the atmosphere,
prior art includes optical devices for the measurement of the dew-point temperature
 (eg: US4629333).    The present invention is directed to a non-optical realization of
dew-point measurement where detection of dew formation is performed without free
space electromagnetic propagation of radiation, such as from a laser.
 [0014]   The technique of time-resolved Raman spectrometry is well covered in prior
art. The present invention is generally directed at a novel realization of this technique
utilizing modern and future photonic components and materials.
 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
 [0015]    Figure la illustrates one embodiment of the present invention illustrating
stabilization of 3 or more wavelengths.      In another embodiment of this invention,
only two wavelengths are stabilized, as illustrated in Figure 1b, where figure lb is
a simplified embodiment of Figure la. Furthermore, the light may be guided by
waveguides, it may propagate freely through space, or there may be combination of
                                            6

WO 2016/094941                                                         PCT/AU2015/050789
guided and free space alignments as illustrated in Figures 1.
[0016]    The output of lasers 1x (Laser la, Laser ib, etc) may pass through additional
optical components to improve spectral and geometric qualities of the beam. The
output of lasers 1x may also modified by any optical frequency conversion device
such as optical frequency doublers or optical parametric oscillators so as to multiply,
divide, add or subtract optical frequency of the originating laser.
[0017]     Some of the light from the On-line laser enters the light bandstop system
after passing through the optical splitter 2. In one embodiment of the present in
vention, the light passes through the optical switch 31 before passing through the
beamsplitter . In another embodiment of the present invention, the light passes
through the beamsplitter 2 before passing through the optical switch 31.
[0018]     Some or all of the optical energy 21a is split into two paths by an optical
splitter 2 with some of the output 2a entering a light bandstop sensor described in
Figure 2. Some of the on-line laser light 21a is switched by an optical switch 31 into
two possible paths, 21b or 21c. In another embodiment of the present invention, the
laser light frequency is sampled before entering the optical switching elements.
[0019]     The optical signal 2a goes into the light bandstop sensor and is converted
into an electrical signal 9, that may be obtained by any combinations of sensors
and/or detectors 6x (6a, 6b, etc) as illustrated in Figure 2. These sensors and/or
detectors may also include analog to digital converters, in which case devices 11a,
1lb and 12 may be implemented as digital software code. Figure 2 illustrates prior
art, as well as other embodiments of the light bandstop sensor.
[0020]     The light bandstop system consists of a light bandstop filter 5 and detec
tion electronics with various options described in Figure 2. The light bandstop filter
                                           7

WO 2016/094941                                                          PCT/AU2015/050789
serves as an absolute wavelength calibration device because it absorbs light at wave
lengths that correspond to transitions between energy levels of the material inside
the light bandstop filter 5. In one embodiment of the present invention one or more
reference cells are utilized as a light bandstop filter 5. In the preferred embodiment
of the present invention, the free space aligned light ray interacts with a beamsplitter
4 before entering the light bandstop filter 5. Detectors 6a and 6b sample the ampli
tude of the optical energy before and after the light bandstop filter respectively. The
detectors 6a and 6b may also include analogue to digital converters, in which case
devices 7, 8, 11a, 1lb and 12 may be implemented as digital software code. The light
bandstop filter 5 may introduce a time delay   T due to the finite speed of light. In an
other embodiment of the present invention, a time delay 7 is added to the measured
signal at 6a to compensate for the time delay at 6b. In the preferred embodiment of
the present invention, the optical signals are instantaneously divided by each other
8. The signal at 6a may be the numerator and 6b may be the denominator. Alter
natively, the signal at 6b may be the numerator and 6a the denominator. The result
of the division produces the signal 9.
[0021]     The resulting signal 9 is mixed with a dither signal 10 using a multiplier
11a to produce an error signal that is used to control the laser wavelength using
a control system 1lb. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention, the
dither signal 10 is also added to the control signal by a device 12. However, the laser
wavelength may be controlled and modulated by various means of injection present
and/or temperature and/or cavity length and/or any other means that can be used
to control and/or modulate a laser wavelength. The dither signal and the control
signals are two separate signals. They may be electrically combined as illustrated in
the figure 1, or they may be utilized separately to alter the optical wavelength by
                                            8

WO 2016/094941                                                         PCT/AU2015/050789
different means. For example, in another embodiment of the present invention, the
control signal from 11b goes to the temperature modulation input of the laser 1, and
the dither signal 10 goes to the present modulation input of laser 1.
[0022]     The dither signal is generated by 16 from a timing signal 41 that is generated
by the timing distribution device 40.       The timing distribution device 40 sources
a master clock signal from device 20.       The timing distribution device 40 may be
constructed using digital circuitry or it may be implemented as digital software code.
In addition to providing the reference clock for the dither signal generator 16, this
device controls the optical switches 3x (3a, 3b, etc), the optical amplifier 60, as well
as any external equipment such as data acquisition and receiving system 99. The
dither signal 10 therefore originates from and is synchronous with the master clock
oscillator 20, and is also synchronous with all the other timing functions performed by
40. In the preferred embodiment of the present invention, device 16 is a digital sine
wave generator, that feeds bytecodes to a digital adder 12, with the result converted
to an analogue signal by a D-A converter to provide a control present for laser 1.
In another embodiment of the present invention, device 16 is an analogue double
integrator that converts a square wave signal 41 to a sinusoidal signal 10 that is shifted
by approximately 1800 with respect to 41. In another embodiment of the present
invention, the dither signal may undergo additional modification at 16 including
filtering, integration, spectral shaping phase delay, etc.
[0023]     In the preferred embodiment of the present invention, the optical switching
occurs at a constant phase angle of the dither signal, as determined by the timing
device 40.     The phase angle at which switching occurs may be described by the
equation   #  = 180.n + k where n is an integer and k is any constant. In the preferred
embodiment of the present invention, k=0 and n=1, which means that a pulse is
                                            9

WO 2016/094941                                                         PCT/AU2015/050789
formed near the zero crossings of the dither signal voltage or current.
[0024]     The preferred embodiment of the present invention includes one or more
offline laser stabilization systems as illustrated in Figure la. Each additional offline
stabilization timing and control system includes all the elements of the first offline
laser stabilization system that is described in this invention.
[0025]     Some of the light from the on-line laser is linearly mixed with light from one
or more off-line lasers to produce beat signals. In the preferred embodiment of the
present invention, the optical outputs 3x carry all the beat frequencies of all the lasers
present in the said system. The second optical output 2b from the optical splitter 2,
goes to an optical splitter or mixer 3 with any number of inputs and outputs. This
can be any optical device, or combination of optical devices that linearly mixes all the
optical input signals 2xb (21b, 22b, etc) and 2b together and then splits the resulting
optical energy into any number of outputs 3x, as illustrated in Figure 1.
[0026]     Detectors 13x (13a, 13b, etc) convert the optical signal containing the beat
frequencies into an electrical signal. In the preferred embodiment of the present
invention, a specific beat frequency is selected by a passive bandpass filter 14x (14a,
14b, etc) and rectified by detector 15x (15a, 15b, etc). In the preferred embodiment
of the present invention, the detectors 15x may also include an analogue to digital
converter, in which case devices 16x (16a, 16b, etc) and 17x (17a, 17b, etc) may also
be implemented as digital software code.
[0027]     The offline laser wavelength is stabilized by measuring a beat frequency
available from one of the optical outputs of device 3 against a bandpass filters 14x.
The envelope of the signal from the bandpass filter 14x produced by detector 15x is
multiplied by the dither signal using device 16x. The resulting error signal goes to
                                            10

WO 2016/094941                                                         PCT/AU2015/050789
a control system 17x that is used to control the laser wavelength. In the preferred
embodiment of the present invention, no dither signal is added to the off-line lasers
1x, which means that these lasers are continuously stabilized without modulation,
and their optical frequencies are held constant.
[0028]    The optical output pulses 2xc (21c, 22c, etc) may be used directly for vari
ous applications where pulsed stabilized single frequency laser radiation is required.
Alternatively, the optical outputs 2xc may be either combined or multiplexed by de
vice 50. This may either consist of beamsplitters or mixers that combine the light
from the outputs of all the switches. Alternatively, device 50 may be an active optical
switching device that is controlled by device 40, that multiplexes one of the optical
signals 2xc into the input of the optical amplifier 60. The output 61 from device 60
may be used to seed a higher power optical amplifier, or be used directly for some
sensing application such as transmission through the atmosphere.
[0029]     Where the present invention is applied to Differential Absorption Lidar
(DIAL), the results may be calibrated using the optical bandstop sensor containing
a known quantity of the measured gas. In the preferred embodiment of the present
invention, the DIAL system described in Figures 1 is re-arranged so that the laser
pulses 61 pass through the optical bandstop sensor. The laser wavelength is scanned
across the molecular resonance peak of the spectral feature that is being utilized
for the DIAL measurement, using the laser light 61 that is otherwise transmitted
through the atmosphere.      As the laser wavelength is scanned across the spectral
feature, the peak attenuation is measured and a calibration factor is calculated from
this measurement and the delay   T of the optical bandstop filter. The DIAL instrument
is then rearranged so that the pulses 61 are now transmitted through the atmosphere
as illustrated in Figures 1. The online and offline Lidar return data is substituted
                                           11

WO 2016/094941                                                         PCT/AU2015/050789
into the DIAL equation and the calibration factor is used in the DIAL equation to
provide a quantitative measurement of the absolute number density of the targeted
species in the atmosphere. For example, in the preferred embodiment of the present
invention, the optical bandstop filter consists of a optical delay line that is open to
the ambient air containing water vapor. The water molecule number density in the
air is measured using a traceable calibrated relative humidity sensor and a traceable
calibrated thermometer placed near the optical bandstop filter. From the relative
humidity and temperature measurements, the water molecule number density in the
optical bandstop sensor is calculated. The system is rearranged so that pulses 61 are
transmitted through the optical bandstop sensor. The peak attenuation measurement
and the length of the optical delay line is used to calculate a calibration factor. The
instrument is then rearranged so that the pulses 61 are now transmitted through
the atmosphere. The Lidar return data at two wavelengths is acquired. The DIAL
equation used to calculate the water molecule number density in the atmosphere can
now be calibrated using the calculated calibration factor.
[0030]     The measurement of dew point is a well established technique for absolute
humidity measurement and calibration. Prior art for this technique utilizes a laser or
another optical source to detect dew formation by the scattering of electromagnetic
radiation. The inventive step in the present invention is the realization that the mea
surement of electromagnetic radiation scattered by condensed water, is a type of a
non-linear relative humidity transducer. The present invention is directed towards a
novel dew-point thermometer where the non-linear relative humidity sensor consists
of an electrical or electronic transducer, rather than optical transducer. Figure 4
illustrates a heat pump attached to the said nonlinear electrical humidity transducer,
the output of which is measured using a control system such that the temperature of
                                           12

WO 2016/094941                                                       PCT/AU2015/050789
the nonlinear humidity transducer is held constant near the dew point. A separate
temperature measurement system transducer is mounted near the humidity trans
ducer such that it is in good thermal contact with the humidity transducer.         The
signal from the temperature transducer is used to measure the temperature of the
said humidity transducer. Two drawings in figure 4 illustrate different embodiments
of the present invention where the temperature transducer and humidity transducer
are held in good thermal contact with each other.
[0031]    Time-resolved Raman spectrometry or spectroscopy involves illuminating a
substance with a very short laser pulse and observing the inelastic scattering spec
trum during a very short time interval following the illumination. Figure 5 illustrates
a novel invention for the acquisition of the said spectrum. A timing pulse generator
triggers a laser pulse that illuminates the substance in question. The light scattered
from the substance is split into multiple channels using an optical splitter.      Each
channel consists of an optical bandpass filter that samples a unique and/or consecu
tive interval of the optical spectrum. In another embodiment of the said invention,
the optical splitter and each optical bandpass filter is implemented using a single
optical or photonic device such as a prism or grating. The optical energy in each
channel is converted to an electrical signal using a high-speed optical detector or op
tical transducer such as an avalanche photodiode. A short time after the laser pulse
is generated, all the sample-and-hold amplifiers are set to a Hold state, and the data
acquisition is initiated to measure the optical energy in each channel. The spectrum
is then calculated from the acquired data, and can be utilized for the identification of
particular substances and their respective quantities. Figure 5 illustrates 4 or more
optical frequency channels and the present invention applies to a similar embodiment
utilizing any number of optical frequency channels.
                                           13

WO 2016/094941                                                        PCT/AU2015/050789
                                 AMENDED CLAIMS
 received by the International Bureau on 08 June 2016 (08.06.2016)
What is claimed:
  1. A method of spectroscopic laser radar by stabilizing any number of optical
     wavelengths, where the first wavelength is stabilized to an optical frequency
     reference, and any number of additional wavelengths are stabilized relative to
     the first wavelength using a passive beat frequency reference for every additional
     laser wavelength.
  2. A method of claim 1 for stabilizing more than two wavelengths simultaneously
     using one optical frequency reference, and another passive or active beat fre
     quency reference, where the first (online) wavelength is stabilized to an optical
     frequency reference, and another (offline) wavelength is stabilized relative to
     the first wavelength using a passive or active beat frequency reference.
  3. A method of claim 1 employing a timing system synchronous with phase
     sensitive detection, such that the pulse is formed at a constant phase of the
     dither signal.
  4. A method of claim 2 employing a timing system synchronous with phase
     sensitive detection, such that the pulse is formed at a constant phase of the
     dither signal.
  5. The method of claim 3, wherein an optical pulse is formed over a time interval
     that includes a zero phase (ie: zero crossing of the voltage waveform) of the
     dither signal, as a method of synchronous dither signal generation and opti
     cal switching that minimizes perturbation of the stabilized wavelength control
     system.
  6. The method of claim 4, wherein an optical pulse is formed over a time inter
     val that includes a zero phase (ie: zero crossing of the voltage waveform) of
                                          17

WO 2016/094941                                                       PCT/AU2015/050789
     the dither signal as method of synchronous dither signal generation and opti
     cal switching that minimizes perturbation of the stabilized wavelength control
     system.
  7. A method of claim 1 using a passive beat frequency reference that consists of
     any type of bandpass or bandstop filter device in the electromagnetic frequency
     range from 100 MHz to 10 THz that couples into the circuit by transmission
     and/or reflection, in a waveguide and/or unguided free space configuration.
  8. A method of claim 2 using a passive beat frequency reference that consists of
     any type of bandpass or bandstop filter device in the electromagnetic frequency
     range from 100 MHz to 10 THz that couples into the circuit by transmission
     and/or reflection, in a waveguide and/or unguided free space configuration.
  9. A method of claim 1 for improving the accuracy of an optical frequency ref
     erence in a system by utilizing a separate measurement of the instantaneous
     amplitude of the optical signal before and after the said reference, and dividing
     the instantaneous amplitudes of the two said signals.
 10. A method of claim 2 for improving the accuracy of an optical frequency ref
     erence in a system by utilizing a separate measurement of the instantaneous
     amplitude of the optical signal before and after the said reference, and dividing
     the instantaneous amplitudes of the two said signals.
 11. A method of claim 9 where there is a timing delay between the two signals.
 12. A method of claim 10 where there is a timing delay between the two signals.
 13. A method of claim 9, wherein the optical reference is a vacuum, a gas, a liquid, a
     solid, a plasma, or combinations thereof, in a single pass, multipath or a cavity,
     in a guided (eg: waveguide) and/or unguided (eg:free space) configuration.
                                         18

WO 2016/094941                                                        PCT/AU2015/050789
 14. A method of claim 10, wherein the optical reference is a vacuum, a gas, a liquid,
     a solid, a plasma, or combinations thereof, in a single pass, multipath or a cavity,
     in a guided (eg: waveguide) and/or unguided (eg:free space) configuration.
 15. A method of claim 1 for the optical frequency stabilization for the master laser
     in a MOPA (Master Laser Power Amplifier) Differential Absorption LIDAR
     transmitter.
 16. A method of claim 2 for the optical frequency stabilization for the master laser
     in a MOPA (Master Laser Power Amplifier) Differential Absorption LIDAR
     transmitter.
 17. A method of claim 1 utilizing specific laser wavelengths for the detection or
     remote sensing of water vapor and other species by utilizing individual natural
     resonances within a wavelength band spanning 585 nm to 595 nm in air.
 18. A method of claim 2 utilizing specific laser wavelengths for the detection or
     remote sensing of water vapor and other species by utilizing individual natural
     resonances within a wavelength band spanning 585 nm to 595 nm in air.
 19. A method of claim 1 independant of any spectroscopic laser radar for the mea
     surement of the dew-point temperature, employing a nonlinear electronic or
     electrical humidity transducer in thermal contact with a temperature trans
     ducer and a heat pump.
 20. A method of claim 2 independant of any spectroscopic laser radar for the mea
     surement of the dew-point temperature, employing a nonlinear electronic or
     electrical humidity transducer in thermal contact with a temperature trans
     ducer and a heat pump.
                                          19

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>   4<U+0395><U+039A><U+0399>
                     4<U+0395><U+039A><U+0399>
<removed-apn>   <removed-date>

<removed-apn>            4<U+0395><U+039A><U+0399>
             <removed-date>

