  Abstract
  An energy platform for generating electricity, the energy platform comprising a
  plurality of interconnected units forming a structure adapted to float on water and
5 including a buoyancy tank for ballasting the platform, and one or more of the units
  supporting a device for generating electricity from wave energy.

I/I0
         000
 Ii'         L0
     Arq

                                     ENERGY PLATFORM
   Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No. 2009222637,
 5 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
   Technical Field
   The present invention relates to an energy platform, also described as an 'energy
   recovery island' used to generate electricity from wave energy.
10
   Background of Invention
   A need for the recovery of energy from oscillating fluid movement has been defined for
   some time. Traditional focus has been on the development of individual units or
   structures, with single umbilical connection formats for any produced energy or water.
15
   Major problems have been found with regard to the ability to leverage Oil and gas
   Technology in the construction of a suitable energy capturing device, and specifically
   with regard to the mooring (fixing) of the same into an operating location.
20 The present "Energy Recovery Island" seeks to resolve many of the industrial issues to
   date.
   Summary
   In accordance with the present invention there is provided an energy platform for
25 generating electricity, the energy platform comprising a plurality of interconnected
   units forming a structure adapted to float on water and including a buoyancy tank for
   ballasting the platform, and one or more of the units supporting a device for generating
   electricity from wave energy.
30 In accordance with the present invention there is further provided an energy platform
   for generating electricity, the energy platform comprising a plurality of interconnected
   devices forming a structure adapted to float on water, wherein the devices generate
   electricity from wave energy and are spaced from one another in an annular
   arrangement.
35
   In accordance with the present invention there is still further provided a method of
   assembling and installing an energy platform offshore, including:
                                                 1

                  interconnecting a plurality of units to form a structure adapted to float on
   water, wherein one or more of the units supports a device for generating electricity from
   wave energy;
                  floating the energy platform offshore; and
 5                ballasting the energy platform by selectively filling a buoyancy chamber
   with ballast.
   Advantages and embodiments described herein include:
10     0   A unique design encompassing the benefits of both wind and wave generated
          power into a single "island" allowing for a far better use of a large structure to
          be able to generate a consistent stream of electrical power (or desalinated
          water).
       " A hexagon overall model, using individual hexagon modularised chambers
15        which will capture energy on the basis of an Oscillating Water Column concept.
          Variations on the hexagon shape may also be used, since data has shown that
          shape can determine power output.
       *  The use of natural settling of the structures (gravity based) into the sea bed, so
          that no further mooring or location pinning devices are required. The ballasting
20        of the buoyancy tanks may also assist in the overall installation process and cost.
       *  The integration of various forms of energy recovery into the single "island",
          hence avoiding the problems of multiple coupling.
       *  The overall "bee-hive" construction of the system so that the overall stresses
          caused by waves and storms can be transferred and borne by the overall
25        structure. This feature will also add substantially to the overall stability of the
          structure.
       *  Modular standard construction, within the requirements of the certification
          organizations, such that the complete system can be fully insured for marine
          applications. The modularisation will also ensure that the island lends itself to
30        bulk manufacturing techniques.
       *  Integrated energy recovery technologies, such that the overall P50 and P75
          power profiles are the most suitable to the energy grid.
       *  Balance chambers can be individually flooded at various times during the
          manufacturing and installation periods, so as to facilitate in the overall cost of
35        all processes. In effect, the units can have "infinite positioning" during the
          fabrication and installation process.
       *  The replication of the same modular design will allow for the use of standard
                                                 2

           steel sheet sizes, conventional flat plate, as well as manufacturing technologies
           well defined in the marine industry. Given that all of the components are made
           from flat sheet steel, all of the items can be pre-cut, and then "packaged" into
           standard containers, and shipped to the eventual assembly site for erection. On
 5         effect, lower cost of labour can be used for the preparation of the components,
           and hence reduce the overall cost of the structure.
   An embodiment, incorporating all aspects of the invention, will now be described by
   way of example only with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
10
   Figure 1 is a plan view of an energy platform in accordance with an embodiment of the
         present invention;
   Figure 2 is a side sectional view of the energy platform of Figure 1;
15
   Figure 3 is an enlarged view of area "A" shown in Figure 2;
   Figure 4 is a front side view of the energy platform;
20 Figure 5 illustrates schematically a number of energy platforms interconnected by
         electrical umbilical connections; and
   Figure 6 illustrates units of the energy platform in an assembly jig.
25 The following notes refer to the attached diagram (referred to as the "Energy Island").
       1. Individual modular constructed chambers, from standard size steel plates, and
           with conventional welding procedures.
      2. Specific design openings within each of the modules, such that the water can
30         ingress into the chamber during the operating period to ensure uninterrupted
           flow into each of the hexagonal OWC systems. Pre-constructed "locking arms"
           so that the individual modules can be interconnected, and build the optimal
           strength "honeycomb" hexagonal structure such that the stresses can be evenly
           balanced over the entire "island" during operation.
35    3. Use the central column as a means to avoid any possible turning moment on the
           overall structure, and also ensure that the weight is evenly spread across the
           individual modules.
                                                   3

       4. Given the nature of the modules, all of the same can be fully tested prior to load
           out, such that installation time/cost can be substantially reduced, and the margin
           of error with regard to load out properly planned.
       5. The modules, and the overall integrating arms and supports, can all be mass
 5         produced, and shipped in high density formats in order to optimise the overall
           cost structure.
       6. With the modular construction, and the pre-defined connections of the hexagons,
           it will be possible to have a fully assembled electrical umbilical cable ready for
           the systems as well as for connection to the sea bed based main power
10         connection cable. The electrical umbilical connections are one of the main
           installation issues for the offshore power sector, and the ability to pre-fabricate
           and install is a major benefit.
       7. Given the overall modular nature of the components, there will be increased pre
           commissioning of the various operating systems prior to the actual "float out"
15         and hence reducing the time needed at the site. The normal cost of installation is
           of the order of ten times higher when done in the ocean versus the near land. As
           such, the importance of the design is geared to having absolute maximum "on
           shore" (or near shore) work completed, such that the units need only to be
           mechanically connected (with minimal amount of on-site welding and structural
20         inter-connection).
       8. On the basis of this design, the hexagon energy island system can effectively
           compete and tested before the tow out, hence reducing the need for expensive
           installation and certification equipment in the ocean. This will be even more
           important in the event that the unit has to be re-floated and towed back in for
25         maintenance.
   Future improvements/adaptations
   There are several additional components or market applications which could be
   available to this invention, with the main items (at present) being as follows:
30
       * Application of prior know-how in a unique and simple manner
       * Optimisation of manufacturing processes, whilst at the same time leveraging
           artful application of engineering knowledge
       * Simplification of the overall structure from a manufacturing as well as
35         installation process, whilst retaining the substantial benefit of load distribution
           and stress reduction
       " Variations of the hexagon model
                                                  4

        *    Overall improvements during the engineering phases.
   All of the above will mean that the unit will be able to produce substantial energy, over
   a wide operating window, and be one of the lowest forms of renewable energy available
 5 to date.
   Given that the operating components are all proven and commonly available products,
   the current invention is an artful and unique design to leverage cost and overall
   efficiency.
10
   Commercial modelling of the cost base, as well as the operating output (also attached)
   are clearly leading edge with regard to the energy sector.
   In summary, described herein is a method of constructing an energy recovery island
15 which encompasses the benefits of both wind and wave generated power into a single
   "island" allowing for a far better use of a large structure to be able to generate a
   consistent stream of electrical power (or desalinated water). The method comprising
   forming a hexagon overall model using individual hexagon modularised chambers
   which will capture energy on the basis of an Oscillating Water Column concept, using
20 natural settling of the structures (gravity based) into the sea bed, so that no further
   mooring or location pinning devices are required. The ballasting of the buoyancy tanks
   may also assist in the overall installation process and cost, integrating of various forms
   of energy recovery including wind turbine into the single island.
25 In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention, except
   where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication,
   the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an
   inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the
   presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
30
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
   reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the
   common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
                                                   5

    Claims:
   1.      An energy platform for generating electricity, the energy platform comprising a
   plurality of interconnected units forming a structure adapted to float on water and
 5 including a buoyancy tank for ballasting the platform, and one or more of the units
   supporting a device for generating electricity from wave energy.
   2.       The energy platform claimed in claim 1, wherein the buoyancy tank is provided
   at a base of the platform structure.
10
   3.       The energy platform claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, comprising multiple
   buoyancy tanks that are provided at a base of multiple units.
   4.       The energy platform claimed in any one of the preceding claims, including
15 balance chambers adapted to be flooded with water to balance the energy platform
   during manufacture and/or installation.
   5.       The energy platform claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   device for generating electricity from wave energy is an oscillating water column
20 (OWC).
   6.       The energy platform claimed in claim 5, comprising multiple OWCs.
   7.       The energy platform claimed in claim 6, wherein the OWCs are spaced from one
25 another in an annular arrangement.
   8.       The energy platform claimed in claim 7, comprising six OWCs equally spaced
   in a hexagon arrangement.
30 9.       The energy platform claimed in claim 5, wherein the OWC includes a hexagon
   shaped OWC chamber.
   10.      The energy platform claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   structure supports a wind turbine for generating electricity that is integrated with the
35 electricity generated from wave energy.
                                                6

   11.      The energy platform claimed in claim 10, wherein the wind turbine is located
   centrally of the structure.
   12.      The energy platform claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
 5 structure is hexagon-shaped.
   13.      The energy platform claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   units are dimensionally the same and modularly connected.
10 14.      The energy platform claimed in claim 13, wherein the units are constructed from
   flat sheet steel.
   15.      The energy platform claimed in any one of the preceding claims, comprising an
   electrical umbilical cable through which electricity generated by the energy platform
15 can be used.
   16.      The energy platform claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
   units are interconnected through integrating arms and supports.
20 17.      An energy platform for generating electricity, the energy platform comprising a
   plurality of interconnected devices forming a structure adapted to float on water,
   wherein the devices generate electricity from wave energy and are spaced from one
   another in an annular arrangement.
25 18.      A method of assembling and installing an energy platform offshore, including:
                     interconnecting a plurality of units to form a structure adapted to float on
   water, wherein one or more of the units supports a device for generating electricity from
   wave energy;
                     floating the energy platform offshore; and
30                   ballasting the energy platform by selectively filling a buoyancy tank with
   ballast.
   19.      The method claimed in claim 18, including towing the energy platform offshore.
35 20.      Use of an energy platform assembled and installed offshore according to the
   method of claim 18 or 19 to power a desalination plant.
                                                   7

                         <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                                6
                                FIGURE 4
    19
                            4
          3                             1
                   3
                                             10
8
                18                        14      9
                   11
                                                      8
                    17 1    1              7
                              FIGURE 5
       FIGURE 3   18
 16

