                    MULTILAYERED LAMINATE AND PROCESS FOR
                                    PREPARING THE SAME
This disclosure is directed to a multilayered laminate, comprising (a) a support substrate
having at least one releasable major surface; (b) a transparent overcoat formed of a first
coating composition on the releasable major surface of the support substrate, wherein the
first coating composition comprises an aqueous polymer dispersion having a particle size
in the range of 30 to 400 nm; (c) a stone-like topcoat system on the transparent overcoat,
wherein the stone-like topcoat system comprises a multicolored spot layer and a
background color layer; (d) an adhesive primer coat formed of a second coating
composition on the stone-like topcoat system, wherein the second coating composition
comprises an aqueous polymer dispersion selected from aqueous acrylic dispersions,
aqueous organic silicone dispersions and aqueous vinyl acetate dispersions, wherein the
transparent overcoat in the multilayered laminate, when released from the support
substrate, a gloss of at least 60% at 600.

                                                                                             Patent
                                                                     Docket No. 160P2309WO01
                       MULTILAYERED LAMINATE AND PROCESS FOR
 5                                      PREPARING THE SAME
                                        TECHNICAL FIELD
   [0001]      The present disclosure relates to a multilayered laminate and process for the
10 preparation thereof, and in particular to a multilayered laminate capable of providing high
   gloss and also a stone-like effect (viz., a stone-like appearance) to a target substrate,
   especially architectural materials and wood-based substrates.
                                          BACKGROUND
15 [0002]      In order to provide a target substrate e.g., architectural materials with various
   characteristics, such as stain resistance, weatherability, resistance to heat and cold,
   resistance to water and oil, resistance to chemical, color effect (including stone-like effect),
   high gloss or other visual effect, a multilayer structure consisting of two or more layers
   may be applied. For example, to provide a target substrate with a stone-like effect, a
20 flexible stone-like layer is applied to the surface of the target substrate and a transparent
   rigid layer having a comparatively high modulus of elasticity is applied over the flexible
   stone-like layer. In such a multilayer structure, an outer layer functions as an overcoat for
   shielding external force and an inner layer maintains its stone-like effect.
   [0003]      A topcoat finish of high gloss is usually applied in order to further improve the
25 aesthetic property of the target substrate. The final gloss of a coating, however, depends on
   many parameters that can be difficult to control. For example, the properties of the coating
   solution itself, such as the resin binders used in the formulation, the formulation viscosity
   and the flatting pigment loading, can have an impact on the topcoat's final gloss level. In
   addition, cure conditions such as curing speed, temperature, oxygen inhibition and the like,
30 have an impact on the gloss in the final coating product.

                                             SUMMARY
   [0004]      In view of the demands for the appearance and gloss of a target substrate such
   as architectural materials, there is a strong need for a convenient and yet efficient process
   for providing the target substrate with a high gloss and as well stone-like effect.
 5 10005]      To meet the demands as mentioned above, the present disclosure in one aspect
   provides a multilayered laminate, which is capable of providing a target substrate with a
   high gloss and as well a stone-like effect, the laminate comprising
           (a) a support substrate having at least one releasable major surface;
           (b) a transparent overcoat formed of a first coating composition on the releasable
10             major surface of the support substrate, wherein the first coating composition
               comprises an aqueous polymer dispersion having a particle size in the range of
               30 to 400 nm;
           (c) a stone-like topcoat system on the transparent overcoat, wherein the stone-like
               topcoat system comprises a multicolored spot layer and a background color
15             layer;
           (d) an adhesive primer coat formed of a second coating composition on the stone
               like topcoat system, wherein the second coating composition comprises an
               aqueous polymer dispersion selected from aqueous acrylic dispersions, aqueous
               organic silicone dispersions and aqueous vinyl acetate dispersions,
20 wherein the transparent overcoat in the multilayered laminate, when released from the
   support substrate, has a gloss of at least 60% at 60.
   [0006]      In an embodiment, the multicolored spot layer is formed from a third coating
   composition comprising color concentrate particles protected by a hydrophilic clay colloid
   and having one or more hues. In a specific embodiment., the color concentrate particles
25 protected by a hydrophilic clay colloid are formed by mixing a protective hydrophilic clay
   into deionized water to form a hydrophilic clay colloid and mixing and granulating the
   hydrophilic clay colloid with a colored latex paint, in which the protective hydrophilic
   clay, deionized water and the colored latex paint are present in a mass ratio of 1: 5-15:5-15.
   In an embodiment, the background color layer is formed from a fourth coating
30 composition comprising mineral powders in the form of discrete particles.
   10007]      In another aspect the present disclosure provides a process for the preparation
   of the multilayered laminate, comprising
                                                   2

           (i) providing a support substrate having at least one releasable major surface;
           (ii) applying a first coating composition on the releasable major surface of the
                support substrate, to form a transparent overcoat, wherein the first coating
                composition comprises an aqueous polymer dispersion having a particle size in
 5              the range of 30 to 400 nm;
           (iii)by wet on dry application process, forming a multicolored spot layer and a
                background color layer in turn on the transparent overcoat, thereby forming a
                stone-like topcoat system;
           (iv) by wet on dry application process, applying a second coating composition on
10              the stone-like topcoat system, to form an adhesive primer coat, wherein the
                second coating composition comprises an aqueous polymer dispersion selected
                from aqueous acrylics dispersion, aqueous organic silicones dispersion and
                aqueous vinyl acetates dispersion, thereby obtaining the multilayered laminate,
   wherein the transparent overcoat in the multilayered laminate, when released from the
15 support substrate, has a gloss of at least 60% at 60.
   [0008]       In still another aspect the present disclosure provides a process for coating a
   target substrate, comprising
           (i) adhering the above-mentioned adhesive primer coat in the multilayered
                laminate according to the present invention or obtained by the inventive
20              process to the surface of the target substrate;
           (ii) releasing the above-mentioned support substrate from the multilayered
                laminate, thereby obtaining a coated substrate having a stone-like effect and a
                gloss of at least 60% at 60'.
   [0009]       In a particular embodiment, the target substrate may be an architectural
25 material, which may comprise concrete mass, plaster board, lime-sand brick, aerated
   concrete, lightweight multilayer plate, fiber cement board or any combination thereof, or a
   wood substrate, which may comprise a natural wood substrate, a synthetic or engineered
   wood-based substrate, or any combination thereof.
   [0010]       It has been surprisingly found by the inventors that a coating system can be
30 obtained with a stone-like effect and also a high gloss by adhering the adhesive primer
   coat from the multilayered laminate as disclosed herein to the surface of the target
   substrate, and thereafter peeling off the support substrate from the laminate.
                                                    3

   [0011]      It is believed that the final gloss of a coating depends on many parameters that
   can be difficult to control. As a result, it is always difficult to achieve a high-gloss coating
   surface by the conventional application processes. Surprisingly, it has been found that the
   transparent overcoat from which the support substrate has been released can achieve a
 5 desirable gloss, e.g., a gloss of at least 60% at 600, by copying the surface property of the
   releasable major surface(s) of the support substrate which is preferably smooth in a
   repeatable and convenient manner.
   [0012]      It has also been found by the inventors that the multilayered laminate as
   disclosed herein may be provided as a separate product in the form of a solid sheet, so it is
10 easier to handle and store than a conventional wet coating. Furthermore, the multilayered
   laminate as disclosed herein can be easily applied onto a target substrate by adhering it to
   the surface of the target substrate and then releasing the support substrate, so it is possible
   to realize better in-situ quality control than a conventional wet coating, thus leading to an
   improved product quality.
15
                                  DESCRIPTION OF DRAWING
   [0013]      Fig. 1 is a photograph showing the surface of the coating system obtained by
   adhering a multilayered laminate according to the present disclosure to the surface of a
   fiber cement board, followed by releasing the support substrate.
20
                                    SELECTED DEFINITIONS
   [0014]      As used herein, "a", "an", "the", "at least one", and "one or more" are used
   interchangeably. Thus, for example, a coating composition that comprises "an" additive
   can be interpreted to mean that the coating composition includes "one or more" additives.
25 [0015]      Throughout the present disclosure, where compositions are described as having,
   including, or comprising specific components or fractions, or where processes are
   described as having, including, or comprising specific process steps, it is contemplated
   that the compositions or processes as disclosed herein may further comprise other
   components or fractions or steps, whether or not specifically mentioned in this disclosure,
30 as along as such components or steps do not affect the basic and novel characteristics of
   the invention, but it is also contemplated that the compositions or processes may consist
   essentially of, or consist of, the recited components or steps.
                                                     4

   [0016]       For the sake of brevity, only certain ranges are explicitly disclosed herein.
   However, ranges from any lower limit may be combined with any upper limit to recite a
   range not explicitly recited, ranges from any lower limit may be combined with any other
   lower limit to recite a range not explicitly recited, and in the same way, ranges from any
 5 upper limit may be combined with any other upper limit to recite a range not explicitly
   recited. Additionally, within a range includes every point or individual value between its
   end points even though not explicitly recited. Thus, every point or individual value may
   serve as its own lower or upper limit combined with any other point or individual value or
   any other lower or upper limit, to recite a range not explicitly recited.
10 [0017]       The phrase, "wet on dry application process", as used in the context of
   "applying a coating composition", means that an overlying coating composition is applied
   on an underlying coating layer which is at least surface dry (dry-to-touch).
   [00181       The phrase "substantially free" of volatile organic chemicals (VOCs), as used
   in the context of a releasable paper., means that the releasable paper contains less than
15  1,000 parts per million (ppm) of the VOCs. The phrase "essentially free" of VOCs means
   that the releasable paper contains less than 100 parts per million (ppm) of the VOCs. The
   phrase "essentially completely free" of VOCs means that the releasable paper contains less
   than 5 parts per million (ppm) of the VOCs. The phrase "completely free" of phrase means
   that the releasable paper contains less than 20 parts per billion (ppb) of the VOCs.
20 10019]       The prefixes, such as first, second, third and fourth, as used in the context of a
   coating composition, are intended to distinguish a designated coating composition from
   other coating compositions, and without any other limiting purpose.
   [0020]       The terms "preferred" and "preferably" refer to embodiments of the invention
   that may afford certain benefits, under certain circumstances. However, other
25 embodiments may also be preferred, under the same or other circumstances. Furthermore,
   the recitation of one or more preferred embodiments does not imply that other
   embodiments are not useful, and is not intended to exclude other embodiments from the
   scope of the invention.
30                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   10021]       In one aspect the present disclosure is directed to a multilayered laminate,
   comprising
                                                   5

           (a) a support substrate having at least one releasable major surface;
           (b) a transparent overcoat formed of a first coating composition on the releasable
               major surface of the support substrate, wherein the first coating composition
               comprises an aqueous polymer dispersion having a particle size in the range of
 5             30 to 400 nn;
           (c) a stone-like topcoat system on the transparent overcoat, wherein the stone-like
               topcoat system comprises a multicolored spot layer and a background color
               layer;
           (d) an adhesive primer coat formed of a second coating composition on the stone
10             like topcoat system, wherein the second coating composition comprises an
               aqueous polymer dispersion selected from aqueous acrylic dispersions, aqueous
               organic silicone dispersions and aqueous vinyl acetate dispersions,
   wherein the transparent overcoat in the multilayered laminate, when released from the
   support substrate, has a gloss of at least 60% at 600.
15 [0022]      In preferred embodiments, the transparent overcoat in the multilayered
   laminate, when released from the support substrate, has a gloss of at least 65%, at least
   70%, at least 80%, at least 85% or even at least 90% at 60'.
   [0023]      In another preferred embodiment, the adhesive primer in the multilayered
   laminate has an adhesive strength when measured by the adhesive strength measurement
20 method of GB/T 9779-2005 of 0.7 MPa or more.
                                         Support Substrate
   [0024]      The support substrate may be a film or sheet of any suitable material having a
   thickness sufficient to perform the function of supporting the remainder of the multilayer
25 laminate. For a particular type of material used for a support substrate, a person skilled in
   the art can easily determine a suitable support substrate thickness. The length or width of
   the support substrate is not particularly limited, and may be suitably selected as practically
   desired. In an embodiment, the support substrate can be provided in a form of coil with a
   fixed width and any desired length.
30 [0025]      In the multilayered laminate as disclosed herein, the support substrate has at
   least one releasable major surface, preferably two oppositely-disposed releasable major
   surfaces. The term "major surface" as used herein means a surface that is defined by the
                                                   6

   major dimensions, i.e., the lengthwise and widthwise dimensions of the substrate. The
   term "releasable" as used herein means that when the transparent overcoat in the
   multilayered laminate is released from the support substrate, such releasing can be readily
   performed manually without any occurrence of blocking or other disadvantageous
 5 interactions. Measures known in the art can be employed to provide a support substrate
   with a releasable surface. In particular, the releasable surface can be obtained by applying
   a release agent to a major surface of the support substrate. Additionally or alternatively,
   depending on the nature of the materials used for a support substrate, the major surface of
   the substrate as such is a releasable surface, making it optional or unnecessary to apply
10 any release agent.
   [00261       Preferably, the releasable major surface of the support substrate is smooth. The
   term "smooth" as used herein means that the releasable major surface has minimal or low
   roughness.      In particular, the releasable major surface of the support substrate is smooth
   such that the transparent overcoat in the multilayered laminate, having been released from
15 the releasable major surface of the support substrate, can achieve a gloss of at least 60% or
   even more at 600. Thus the support substrate as disclosed herein can perform not only the
   function of support, but also can provide an adjacent layer, such as the transparent
   overcoat applied on the support substrate, with desirable surface properties (for example,
   high gloss) after the support substrate has been removed from the multilayered laminate.
20 Without wishing to be bound by theory, we believe that the adjacent layer, such as the
   transparent overcoat applied on the releasable major surface of the support substrate, can
   achieve the desirable high gloss after release from the releasable major surface by copying
   surface properties such as the smoothness of the releasable major surface.
   [0027]       In an embodiment, the support substrate comprises a film of a polymeric
25 material, such as polyester film, polyethylene film, polypropylene film, polyethylene
   terephthalate (PET) film, or polyvinyl chloride (PVC) film, or a film of any other suitable
   material known in the art. In another embodiment., the support substrate comprises
   releasable paper. Suitable examples of the releasable paper will be known to a person
   skilled in the art, and are commercially available. Preferably, the releasable paper is
30 substantially free of volatile organic chemicals (VOCs), more preferably essentially free of
   VOCs, even more preferably essentially completely free of VOCs, and most preferably
   completely free of VOCs. As a particular example of the support substrate may be used
                                                   7

   the PET film commercially available from Dahua Company. Hanzhou or the releasable
   paper commercially available from Pengwei Company, Shanghai.
 5                                     Transparent Overcoat
   [0028]      In the multilayered laminate as disclosed herein, the transparent overcoat is
   applied on the releasable major surface of the support substrate, and is formed of a first
   coating composition comprising an aqueous latex having a particle size in the range of 30
   to 400 nm. According to the present disclosure, the transparent overcoat, having been
10 released from the support substrate, achieves a gloss of at least 85%, preferably 90% or
   even more at 600.
   [0029]      As used herein, the term "an aqueous latex" refers to a stable suspension of
   polymeric particles in an aqueous liquid medium with the aid of, if necessary, an
   emulsifier or a dispersion stabilizer. Unless expressly indicated otherwise, the terms
15 "aqueous latex" and "aqueous dispersion", as used herein in the context of a polymer, can
   be interchangeably used. The aqueous dispersion or latex of polymer may be produced, for
   example, through an emulsion polymerization process. Suitable emulsion polymerization
   processes are well known to a person skilled in the art, and generally comprise the steps of
   dispersing and emulsifying polymerizable monomers into water with the aid of, as
20 appropriate, an emulsifier or a dispersion stabilizer under agitation; and initiating
   polymerization of the monomers, e.g., by adding an initiator. According to the present
   disclosure, the polymeric particles can be modified by, for example, incorporating therein
   some organic functionalities including, but not limited thereto, one or more carboxyl,
   hydroxyl, amino, isocyanate, sulphonic groups or the like, whereby the aqueous latex can
25 be obtained with desirable properties such as dispersibility. Therefore, the term "aqueous
   latex" or "aqueous dispersion" as used herein encompasses a dispersion or latex of
   unmodified polymeric particles in an aqueous medium and also a dispersion or latex of
   organo-functional modified polymeric particles in an aqueous medium.
   [0030]      The size of the polymeric particles of the aqueous dispersion or latex may be
30 measured in terms of the z-average particle size which is well known in the art. The z
   average particle size can be determined according to the dynamic light scattering method
   by using, for example, a Malvern ZETASIZER TM 3000HS microscopic particle-size
                                                 8

   analyzer from Malvern Instruments, Ltd. The polymeric particles of the aqueous latex
   used for the first coating composition as disclosed herein have a z-average particle size of
   at most 400 nm, preferably less than 300 nn, more preferably less than 200 nn, and even
   more preferably less than 150 nm. However, the z-average particle size of the polymeric
 5 particles is preferably at least 30 nm, more preferably at least 50 rn or more, and even
   more preferably at least 100 nm or more. In a preferred embodiment, the particle size of
   the polymeric particles is in the range of 30 to 400 un, more preferably 100 to 150 nm. A
   transparent overcoat can be formed from the aqueous dispersion or latex having a suitable
   particle size falling within the range specified above.
10 [0031]       The aqueous dispersion or latex suitably used herein may comprise any of a
   variety of aqueous dispersions of, for example, organic silicones, styrene-acrylates,
   acrylates, organic silicone-modified aciylates, vinyl acetate, vinyl acetate-acrylates, vinyl
   acetate-ethylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, vinyl acetate-acrylate-esters of versatic acid (e.g.,
   that available under the trademark VEOVATM 10 from Momentive) or any combination
15 thereof. For the transparent overcoat, aqueous dispersions or latexes that have excellent
   water resistance and weatherability are preferably used as the film forming resin.
   [0032]       As described above, the aqueous dispersion or latex used for the first coating
   composition may be prepared by any suitable emulsion polymerization processes which
   are well known to a person skilled in the art. Alternatively, as a particular example of the
20 aqueous latex, a variety of suitable commercially available products can be used, such as
   aqueous lattices of styrene-acrylates available from BATF Industry Co., Ltd. under the
   trademarks RS 998A., RS 968 or RS 936W.
   [0033]       As will be readily appreciated by a person skilled in the art, the first coating
   composition comprises the aqueous latex in a film-forming amount. Preferably, the
25 amount of the aqueous latex comprised by the first coating composition is about 75 to
   99.5 % by weight relative to the total weight of the first coating composition. More
   preferably, the amount of the aqueous latex comprised by the first coating composition is
   at least about 80%, yet more preferably at least about 85%, and even more preferably
   about 90 % by weight relative to the total weight of the first coating composition.
30 Preferably, the amount of the aqueous latex comprised by the first coating composition is
   up to about 99%, more preferably about 98%, and even more preferably about 95 % by
   weight relative to the total weight of the first coating composition. If additional water is
                                                   9

   added in formulating the first coating composition, then the amount of additional water
   together with the water previously present in the aqueous latex may be taken into account
   when determining the total weight of the aqueous latex.
   [0034]      If desired, the first coating composition may optionally include additional
 5 additives that do not adversely affect the coating composition or a resultant coating
   obtained therefrom. Suitable additives include, for example, those that improve the
   processability or manufacturability of the composition, enhance composition aesthetics, or
   improve a particular functional property or characteristic of the coating composition or the
   cured composition resulting therefrom, such as adhesion to a substrate. Additives that may
10 be included are, for example, carriers, emulsifiers, pigments, fillers, anti-migration aids,
   anti-microbials, extenders, curing agents, lubricants, coalescent agents, wetting agents,
   biocides, plasticizers, crosslinking agents, antifoaming agents, colorants, waxes, anti
   oxidants, anticorrosion agents, flow control agents, thixotropic agents, dispersants,
   adhesion promoters, UV stabilizers, scavenger agents, a thickener, a defoamer, a pH
15 adjuster, an organic solvent, or combinations thereof. Each optional ingredient can be
   included in a sufficient amount to serve its intended purpose, but preferably not in such an
   amount to adversely affect a coating composition or a cured coating resulting therefrom.
   In a preferred embodiment, the first coating composition may comprise a thickener, a
   dispersing agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster, an organic solvent, a coalescent agent, a
20 bactericide, a fungicide, or any combination thereof.
   [0035]      The total amount of additives used may be about 0.1 to 25 %, preferably about
   0.5 to about 20% by weight relative to the total weight of the first coating composition.
   Preferably, the total amount of additives used may be at least about 0.5 %, more preferably
   at least about 1.0 %, even more preferably at least about 2.0%, and most preferably at least
25 about 2.5% by weight relative to the total weight of the first coating composition.
   Preferably, the total amount of additives used may be at most about 18 %, more preferably
   at most about 15%, even more preferably at most about 10%, and most preferably at most
   about 8.0% by weight relative to the total weight of the first coating composition.
   [0036]      In an embodiment, the first coating composition may comprise, based on the
30 total weight of the first coating composition, 75 to 99.9 % by weight of the aqueous
   polymer dispersion; and 0.1 to 25 % by weight of additional additives comprising a
                                                  10

   thickener, a dispersing agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster, an organic solvent, a coalescent
   agent, a bactericide, a fungicide, or any combination thereof.
   [0037]      In a specific embodiment, the first coating composition may comprise, based
   on the total weight of the first coating composition, 75 to 99.9 % by weight of the aqueous
 5 styrene-acrylates polymer dispersion; and 0.1 to 25 % by weight of additional additives
   comprising a thickener, a dispersing agent, a wetting agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster, an
   organic solvent, a coalescent agent, a bactericide, a fungicide, or any combination thereof.
   [0038]      In another specific embodiment, the first coating composition may comprise,
   based on the total weight of the first coating composition, 85 to 95 % by weight of the
10 aqueous styrene-acrylates polymer dispersion, 1.5 to 6.5 % by weight of the thickener, 0.2
   to 0.6 % by weight of the dispersing agent, 0.2 to 0.6 % by weight of the defoamer, 0.1 to
   0.3 % by weight of the pH adjuster, 1.5 to 4.5 % by weight of the coalescent agent, 1.5 to
   4.5 % by weight of an organic solvent such as an alcohol, 0.1 to 0.3 % by weight of the
   bactericide, and 0.1 to 0.5 % by weight of the fungicide.
15 [0039]      To form the transparent overcoat in the multilayered laminate as disclosed
   herein, the first coating composition may be applied in a certain wet-film thickness which
   may suitably vary over a broad range and may be readily determined by a person skilled in
   the art. For example, the wet-film thickness of the transparent overcoat formed from the
   first coating composition may be about 30 to 150 pm.
20
                                     Stone-like Topcoat System
   [0040]      In the multilayered laminate as disclosed herein, the stone-like topcoat system
   is applied on the transparent overcoat, and the stone-like topcoat system comprises a
   multicolored spot layer and a background color layer. The term, "a stone-like topcoat
25 system", as used herein means a coating system that is capable of imparting to a target
   substrate a color or texture like that of a naturally occurring stone such as marble in a
   visual sense. In the stone-like topcoat system as disclosed herein, the background color
   layer shows a certain color in a continuous form, thus providing the background color,
   while the multicolored spot layer provides such a color effect that colored spots or mottles
30 are shown in a discontinuous form of dots, islands. clouds, floc or the like in contrast to
   the background color. The stone-like topcoat system preferably does not depict text, bar
   codes or other information. The stone-like topcoat system comprising such a combination
                                                   11

   of a multicolored spot layer and a background color layer can provide a target substrate
   with a vivid stone-like effect.
 5                                   Multicolored Spot Layer
   [0041]      According to the present disclosure, the multicolored spot layer preferably is
   formed from a third coating composition comprising color concentrate particles protected
   by a hydrophilic clay colloid and having one or more hues.
   [0042]      The term "color concentrate particles protected by a hydrophilic clay colloid"
10 as used herein, means a color concentrate that achieves the color effect of the multicolored
   spot layer and includes a form of particles. The surface of such a color concentrate particle
   is covered by a hydrophilic clay colloid, and can be stably dispersed instead of dissolved
   in the third coating composition. In the third coating composition according to the present
   disclosure, color concentrate particles having one hue or a mixture of color concentrate
15 particles with two or more different hues may be employed as desired. In particular, color
   concentrate particles having a white, black, gray, red, yellow, blue, or green hue, or
   combination thereof may be included. In one embodiment, the amount of the color
   concentrate particles protected by a hydrophilic clay colloid in the third coating
   composition is in a range from about 14.5 to about 45 wt%, preferably from about 20 to
20 about 30 wt%, based on the total weight of the third coating composition.
   [0043]      The color concentrate particles protected by a hydrophilic clay colloid suitably
   used in the present disclosure can be prepared by a variety of processes for mixing and
   granulating that will be familiar to a person skilled in the art. In particular, the process for
   the preparation of the color concentrate particles may comprise the steps of fully mixing a
25 protective hydrophilic clay with deionized water to form a hydrophilic clay colloid, adding
   to the hydrophilic clay colloid a colored latex paint and mixing the mixture until
   homogeneous, allowing the thus-formed mixture to pass through a perforated plate
   selected according to the particle size as desired, thereby forming the color concentrate
   particles protected by a hydrophilic clay colloid with the desired particle size, in which the
30 protective hydrophilic clay, deionized water and the colored latex paint are present in a
   mass ratio of 1: 5-15:5-15.
                                                  12

   [0044]      The protective hydrophilic clays particularly useful in the preparation of said
   color concentrate particles can be swelled instead of completely dissolved by water, so as
   to form a colloid. The term "protective hydrophilic clay" as used herein refers to those
   hydrous silicate minerals that are characterized by the tendency to swell by absorbing
 5 water between adjacent crystal layers, and to split into charged fragments capable of
   forming colloidal sols. These clays may for example comprise montmorillonites,
   montmorillonoids, or smectites.
   [0045]      In an embodiment, the hydrophilic clay comprises a synthetic smectite, such as
   a hydrous sodium lithium magnesium silicate having a layered structure mainly
10 comprising SiO2, MgO, Li20, and Na20. The crystal structure units of the clay are
   platelets with a thickness in nanometers, and can form a stable colloid when mixing with
   and absorbing water. As an example of such a hydrous sodium lithium magnesium silicate
   having a layered structure, LAPONITETM RD available from Rockwood Specialties, Inc.
   may be used. In another embodiment, the organically modified clays are used to reduce
15 the re-aggregation of clays in the colloid. Preferably, an organically modified bentonite is
   used, for example, GTSTM available from Wangge Company, Shanghai.
   [0046]      Colored latex paints useful for the preparation of the color concentrate particles
   provide the color concentrate particles with a desired color. The colored latex paint is
   wrapped or enveloped by the colloid formed from the protective hydrophilic clay, thereby
20 forming color concentrate particles that can be stably dispersed. In an embodiment, the
   colored latex paint comprises a base latex paint, a colorant, and optionally hydrophilic clay.
   Preferably, the colored latex paint comprises, relative to the total weight of the colored
   latex paint, 90 to 99 % by weight of a base latex paint, 0.4 to 5 % by weight of hydrophilic
   clay; and 0.01 to 8 % by weight of a colorant for the multicolored spot layer.
25 [0047]      As the base latex paint, any suitable latex paint known to a person skilled in the
   art may be used. As an example of the base latex paint, a number of commercially
   available paints from suppliers including Valspar Corporation, Benjamin Moore & Co.,
   Sherwin-Williams Co., Behr Process Corp., Akzo Nobel, E.I. DuPont de Nemours & Co.,
   PPG Industries, Nippon Paint Co. Ltd., Choaku Marine Paints, Guangdong Carpoly
30 Chemical Industry Co. Ltd., Guangzhou Pearl River Chemical Industry Group Ltd.,
   Hempel-Hai Hong (China) Ltd., Huarun Paints Holdings Co. Ltd., and Kansai Paint Co.,
   Ltd. may be used.
                                                  13

   [0048]      In an embodiment, the base latex paint may be prepared from an aqueous latex
   and additional additives by any suitable process known to a person skilled in the art. The
   aqueous latex used therein may be the same or similar as, or may be different from, the
   aqueous latex for the first coating composition as described above. The aqueous latex may
 5 comprise any of a variety of aqueous dispersions, for example organic silicones, styrene
   acrylates, acrylates, organic silicone-modified acrylates, vinyl acetate, vinyl acetate
   acrylates, vinyl acetate-ethylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, vinyl acetate-acrylate-esters of
   versatic acid (e.g., the above-mentioned VEOVA 10 product), or any combination thereof.
   In an embodiment, the base latex paint comprises, relative to the total weight of the base
10 latex paint, 60 to 95 % by weight of the aqueous latex. Preferably, the amount of the
   aqueous latex in the base latex paint is at least about 65 % by weight, more preferably at
   least about 70 % by weight, even more preferably at least about 75 % by weight relative to
   the total weight of the base latex paint. Preferably, the amount of the aqueous latex in the
   base latex paint is at most about 95 % by weight, more preferably at most about 92 % by
15 weight, even more preferably at most about 90 % by weight relative to the total weight of
   the base latex paint. Also, if additional water is added in formulating the base latex paint,
   then the amount of the additional water together with the water previously present in the
   aqueous latex may be taken into account when determining the total weight of the base
   latex paint. Optionally, additional additives are added to the aqueous latex to provide
20 desired properties. The effects of the additional additives in the latex paint will be familiar
   to a person skilled in the art. In an embodiment, the base latex paint comprises, as the
   additional additives, a filler, a thickener, a dispersing aid, a defoamer, a pH adjuster, an
   organic solvent (such as an alcohol), a coalescent agent, a bactericide, a fungicide, or any
   combination thereof. The suitable amount of each of the additives can be readily
25 determined by a person skilled in the art. Preferably, the total amount of additives used
   may be about 5 to 40 % by weight relative to the total weight of the base latex paint.
   [0049]      As usual in the field of latex paint, a pigment or dye may be used to color the
   base latex paint, so as to form the colored latex paint. The pigment or dye is often
   incorporated in the form of color concentrate (also referred to as "colorant"). The term
30 "color concentrate" or "colorant" as used herein means the color concentrate obtained by
   adding one or more pigments or dyes into a vehicle or medium. In an embodiment of the
   invention, the colorant is water-based, and preferably has a low level of VOCs. The
                                                    14

   colorant may comprise one or more pigments or dyes, and more preferably one or more
   pigments.
   [0050]       The compositions of 10 kinds of color concentrate (colorant) commonly used
   are given in the table below.
     Color concentrate (Colorant)
     Hue of Colorant                  Pigment                     Pigment Wt.%
     White                            PW6                         53.1
     Black                            PBK7                        9.8
     Green                            PG7                         20.5
     Blue                             PB15:2                      13.1
     Red                              PR254                       18
     Magenta                          PR122                       11.9
     Yellow                           PY74                        16.5
     Medium Yellow                    PY74 + PY65                 36.1
     Yellow Oxide                     PY42                        57.9
     Red Oxide                        PRI01                       59.8
 5
   [0051]       As a specific example of the color concentrate, any suitable product
   commercially available can be used, such as the color concentrates available under the
   1900, 8000 and 8800 Series from Color Corporation of America.
   [0052]       In the colored latex paint according to the present disclosure, the kind and
10 amount of the color concentrate used may be adjusted according to the desired hue and
   color. In an embodiment, the amount of the color concentrate used in the colored latex
   paint is in the range of from 0.01 to 10 %by weight relative to the total weight of the
   colored latex paint.
   [0053]       Additionally, if desired, the hydrophilic clay may be optionally added to the
15 base latex paint. In an embodiment, the amount of the hydrophilic clay used in the colored
   latex paint is in the range of from 0.5 to 4 % by weight relative to the total weight of the
   colored latex paint.
   [0054]       According to the present disclosure, the colored latex paint may be prepared by
   a variety of processes that will be familiar to a person skilled in the art. For example, the
                                                   15

   colored latex paint may be prepared by charging the base latex paint, the colorant for the
   multicolored spot layer and optionally, the hydrophilic clay into a vessel, and mixing the
   mixture well until homogeneous.
   [0055]      In addition to the color concentrate particles, the third coating composition
 5 further comprises an aqueous latex. The aqueous latex used therein may be the same or
   similar as, or may be different from, the aqueous latex for the first coating composition as
   described above. Preferably, the aqueous latex for the third coating composition is the
   same or similar as the aqueous latex for the first coating composition, in order to obtain
   good adhesion between the coating layers.
10 [0056]      In an embodiment, the aqueous latex for the third coating composition
   comprises any of a variety of aqueous dispersions of organic silicones, styrene-acrylates,
   acrylates, organic silicone-modified aciylates, vinyl acetate, vinyl acetate-acrylates, vinyl
   acetate-ethylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, vinyl acetate-acrylate-esters of versatic acid (e.g.,
   the above-mentioned VEOVA 10 product), or any combination thereof.
15 [0057]      As stated above for the transparent overcoat, the aqueous latex for the third
   coating composition may be produced through a variety of suitable emulsion
   polymerization processes that will be familiar to a person skilled in the art. Alternatively,
   as a specific example of the aqueous latex, any of the suitable products commercially
   available may be used, such as an aqueous latex of acrylates e.g., 2709 from BATF
20 Industry Co., Ltd.
   [0058]      As will be readily appreciated by a person skilled in the art, the third coating
   composition comprises the aqueous latex in a film-forming amount. Preferably, the
   amount of the aqueous latex used in the third coating composition is about 45 to 85 %,
   preferably about 50 to 65% by weight relative to the total weight of the third coating
25 composition. Also, if additional water is added in formulating the third coating
   composition, then the amount of additional water together with the water previously
   present in the aqueous latex may be taken into account when determining the total amount
   of the aqueous latex.
   [0059]      The third coating composition may optionally include additional additives for
30 similar reasons as in the first coating composition. In a preferred embodiment, the third
   coating composition may comprise a thickener, a dispersing agent, a defoamer, a pH
   adjuster, an organic solvent such as an alcohol, a coalescent agent, a bactericide, a
                                                  16

   fungicide, or any combination thereof Suitable amounts of each of the additives can be
   readily determined by a person skilled in the art. Preferably, the total amount of additives
   used may be about 0.1 to 10 %, preferably about 4.5 to about 10% by weight relative to
   the total weight of the third coating composition.
 5 10060]      In an embodiment, the third coating composition may comprise, based on the
   total weight of the third coating composition, 45 to 85 % by weight of the aqueous
   polymer dispersion; 14.5 to 45 % by weight of the color concentrate particles protected by
   hydrophilic clay colloid; and 0.1 to 10 % by weight of additional additives comprising a
   thickener, a dispersing agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster, an organic solvent, a coalescent
10 agent, a bactericide, a fungicide, or any combination thereof.
   [00611      In a specific embodiment, the third coating composition may comprise, based
   on the total weight of the third coating composition, 45 to 85 % by weight of the aqueous
   dispersion of acrylates; 14.5 to 45 % by weight of the color concentrate particles protected
   by a hydrophilic clay colloid; and 0.1 to 10 % by weight of additional additives
15 comprising a thickener. a dispersing agent, a defoarmer, a pH adjuster, an organic solvent,
   a coalescent agent, a bactericide, a fungicide, or any combination thereof.
   [0062]      In another specific embodiment, the third coating composition may comprise,
   based on the total weight of the third coating composition, 50 to 65 % by weight of the
   aqueous dispersion of acrylates; 20 to 30 % by weight of the color concentrate particles
20 protected by a hydrophilic clay colloid; 0.8 to 3 % by weight of the thickener, 0.2 to 1 %
   by weight of the dispersing agent, 0.2 to 0.6 % by weight of the defoamer, 0.1 to 0.3 % by
   weight of the pH adjuster, 2 to 3 % by weight of the coalescent agent, 1 to 2 % by weight
   of the organic solvent such as an alcohol, 0.1 to 0.3 % by weight of the bactericide, and
   0.1 to 0.5 % by weight of the fungicide.
25 [0063]      In order to form the multicolored spot layer of the stone-like topcoat system,
   the third coating composition is applied at an adequate wet film thickness, which can vary
   in a wide range and can be readily selected by a person skilled in the art. For example, the
   wet film thickness of the multicolored spot layer formed of the third coating composition
   may range from about 30 to about 150 tm.
30
                                                 17

                                      Background Color Layer
   [0064]       According to the present disclosure, the background color layer is formed from
   a fourth coating composition comprising mineral powders in the form of discrete particles.
   [0065]       As used herein, the term "mineral powders in the form of discrete particles"
 5 means the powders of naturally occurring or synthetic stones or minerals having a desired
   particle size, which can be produced by using any conventional process, such as
   comminuting, grinding, or the like. As an example of such mineral powders, any
   commercially available powders of naturally occurring stone such as marble, quartzite,
   dolomite and so on, for example marble powders from Yunfu, Guangdong, China, or any
10 suitable filler in the form of powders which are commonly used in coating compositions,
   such as powders of rutile titanium dioxide, heavy calcium carbonate, calcined kaolin, or
   the like can be used. According to the present disclosure, the mineral powders in the form
   of discrete particles are present in an amount of about 10 to about 85 % by weight related
   to the total weight of the fourth coating composition.
15 [0066]       In an embodiment, the powders of naturally occurring stone, such as marble,
   are used as the mineral powders in the form of discrete particles in an amount of about 60
   to 75 % by weight relative to the total weight of the fourth coating composition.
   Incorporation of a relatively large amount of naturally occurring stone powders in the
   fourth coating composition as pigment enables the fourth coating composition to achieve a
20 vivid stone-like effect, and as well significantly reducing the cost of the product. As an
   example of naturally occurring stone powders, the marble powders available from Yunfu,
   Guangdong can be used.
   [0067]       In another embodiment, a conventional powder filler is used as the mineral
   powder in the form of discrete particles in an amount of about 35 to 70 by % by weight
25 relative to the total weight of the fourth coating composition. In view of the fact that the
   conventional powder fillers tend to result in a lower strength as compared with the
   naturally occurring stone powders, preferably an adequate amount of silane coupling agent
   is incorporated into the fourth coating composition comprising such conventional powder
   fillers as an additional additive in order to improve the strength of the coating. Exemplary
30 conventional powder fillers include the rutile titanium dioxide powder available from E. I.
   du Pont de Nemours and Company under the trademark TYZORTM R-706, the heavy
   calcium carbonate powder available from Jiaoling Guangfu under the trademark Gf- 117TM
                                                   18

   the calcined kaolin powder available from Jinyang Shanxi under the trademark Br-95TM,
   or any combination thereof.
   [0068]      Furthermore, in order to impart a desired color to the background color layer,
   optionally a color concentrate or colorant may be incorporated in the fourth coating
 5 composition. The colorant used herein may have the same or similar composition as that
   of the colorant mentioned with respect to the aforesaid colored latex paint, which is also
   obtainable by loading a pigment or dye known in the art in a suitable vehicle or medium.
   Depending on the practical demand, the colorant used in the background color layer may
   have the same or different color, preferably the different color, as compared with the
10 colorant used in the multicolored spot layer. In an embodiment, the colorant is present in
   the fourth coating composition in an amount of 0.01 to 10 % by weight relative to the total
   weight of the fourth coating composition. As a specific example of the colorant, any
   suitable commercially available product can be used, such as colorant numbers 8800N,
   8813N, 8814N and 8821N from Color Corporation of America.
15 [0069]      The fourth coating composition according to the present disclosure further
   comprises an aqueous latex. The aqueous latex used therein may be the same or similar as,
   or may be different from. the aqueous latex for the first coating composition as described
   above. In an embodiment of the invention, the aqueous latex for the fourth coating
   composition comprises any of a variety of aqueous dispersions of organic silicones,
20 styrene-acrylates, acrylates, organic silicone-modified acrylates, vinyl acetate, vinyl
   acetate-acrylates, vinyl acetate-ethylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, vinyl acetate-acrylate
   esters of versatic acid (e.g., the above-mentioned VEOVA 10 product), or any
   combination thereof.
   [0070]      As stated above for the transparent overcoat, the aqueous latex for the fourth
25 coating composition may be produced through a variety of emulsion polymerization
   processes that will be familiar to a person skilled in the art. Alternatively, as a specific
   example of the aqueous latex, any of a number of suitable commercially available
   products may be used, such as an aqueous latex of acrylates e.g., 706T from BATF
   Industry Co., Ltd., or an aqueous latex of vinyl acetate-ethylene e.g., CELVOLITTM 1602
30 from Celanese Corporation, USA.
   10071]      As will be readily appreciated by a person skilled in the art. the fourth coating
   composition comprises the aqueous latex in a film-forming amount. Preferably, the
                                                  19

   amount of the aqueous latex used in the fourth coating composition may be suitably
   selected as desired. According to the present disclosure, the amount of the aqueous latex
   used in the fourth coating composition is in a range of from about 14.5 to 80 % by weight
   relative to the total weight of the fourth coating composition. In an embodiment of the
 5 invention, the amount of the aqueous latex used in the fourth coating composition is in a
   range of from about 14.5 to 40 %, preferably from about 22 to 35 % by weight relative to
   the total weight of the fourth coating composition. In another embodiment of the invention,
   the amount of the aqueous latex used in the fourth coating composition is in a range of
   from about 40 to 80 %, preferably from about 50 to 70 % by weight relative to the total
10 weight of the fourth coating composition. Also, if additional water is added in formulating
   the fourth coating composition, then the amount of additional water together with the
   water previously present in the aqueous latex may be taken into account when determining
   the total amount of the aqueous latex.
   [0072]       The fourth coating composition may optionally include additional additives for
15 reasons like those for the first coating composition. In a preferred embodiment, the fourth
   coating composition may comprise a thickener, a dispersing agent, a defoamer, a pH
   adjuster, an organic solvent such as an alcohol, a coalescent agent, a bactericide, a
   fungicide, or any combination thereof. The suitable amount of each of the additives can be
   readily determined by a person skilled in the art. Preferably, the total amount of additives
20 used may be about 0.1 to 10 %, preferably about 4.5 to about 10% by weight relative to
   the total weight of the fourth coating composition.
   [0073]       According to the present disclosure, the fourth coating composition, based on
   the total weight of the fourth coating composition, comprises 14.5 to 80 % by weight of
   the aqueous polymer dispersion; 10 to 85 % by weight of the mineral powders in the form
25 of discrete particles; 0 to 10 % by weight of the colorant for the background color layer;
   and 0.1 to 10 % by weight of additional additives comprising a thickener, a dispersing
   agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster, an organic solvent, a coalescent agent, an optional silane
   coupling agent, a bactericide, a fungicide, or any combination thereof.
   [0074]       According to an embodiment of the invention, the fourth coating composition,
30 based on the total weight of the fourth coating composition, comprises 14.5 to 40 % by
   weight of the aqueous polymer dispersion; 50 to 85 % by weight of the mineral powders in
   the form of discrete particles; and 0.1 to 10 % by weight of additional additives
                                                  20

   comprising a thickener, a dispersing agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster, an organic solvent,
   a coalescent agent, a bactericide, a fungicide, or any combination thereof.
   [0075]      According to a specific embodiment of the invention, the fourth coating
   composition, based on the total weight of the fourth coating composition, comprises 14.5
 5 to 40 % by weight of an aqueous dispersion of acrylates; 50 to 85 % by weight of
   naturally occurring stone powders in the form of discrete particles; and 0.1 to 10 % by
   weight of additional additives comprising a thickener, a dispersing agent, a defoamer, a
   pH adjuster, an organic solvent, a coalescent agent, a bactericide, a fungicide, or any
   combination thereof.
10 [0076]      According to another specific embodiment of the invention, the fourth coating
   composition, based on the total weight of the fourth coating composition, comprises 22 to
   35 % by weight of the aqueous dispersion of acrylates; 60 to 75 % by weight of the
   naturally occurring stone powders in the form of discrete particles; 0.8 to 3 % by weight of
   the thickener; 0.2 to 1 % by weight of the dispersing agent; 0.2 to 0.6 % by weight of the
15 defoamer; 0.1 to 0.3 % by weight of the pH adjuster; 2 to 3 % by weight of the coalescent;
   I to 2 % by weight of the organic solvent; 0.1 to 0.3 % by weight of the bactericide; and
   0.1 to 0.5 % by weight of the fungicide.
   [0077]      According to another embodiment, the fourth coating composition, based on
   the total weight of the fourth coating composition, comprises 14.5 to 80 % by weight of
20 the aqueous polymer dispersion; 10 to 85 % by weight of the mineral powders in the form
   of discrete particles; 0.01 to 10 % by weight of the colorant for the background color layer;
   and 0.1 to 10 % by weight of additional additives comprising a thickener, a dispersing
   agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster, an organic solvent, a coalescent agent. a silane coupling
   agent, a bactericide, a fungicide, or any combination thereof.
25 [0078]      According to another embodiment, the fourth coating composition, based on
   the total weight of the fourth coating composition, comprises 14.5 to 80 % by weight of
   the aqueous dispersion of vinyl acetate-ethylene copolymer; 10 to 70 % by weight of the
   conventional filler in the form of discrete particles; 0.01 to 10 % by weight of the colorant
   for the background color layer; and 0.1 to 10 % by weight of additional additives
30 comprising a thickener, a dispersing agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster, an organic solvent,
   a coalescent agent, a silane coupling agent, a bactericide, a fungicide, or any combination
   thereof.
                                                 21

   [0079]       According to a particularly specific embodiment, the fourth coating
   composition, based on the total weight of the fourth coating composition, comprises 50 to
   70 % by weight of the aqueous dispersion of vinyl acetate- ethylene copolymer; 35 to
   70 % by weight of the filler; 0.1 to 2 % by weight of the colorant for the background color
 5 layer; 0.5 to 2.5 % by weight of the silane coupling agent; 0.4 to 1 % by weight of the
   thickener; 0.2 to 0.6 % by weight of the dispersing agent; 0.2 to 0.6 % by weight of the
   defoamer; 0.1 to 0.3 %by weight of the pH adjuster; 0 to I % by weight of the coalescent;
   0 to 1 % by weight of the organic solvent; 0.1 to 0.3 % by weight of the bactericide; and
   0.1 to 0.3 % by weight of the fungicide.
10 [0080]       In order to form the background color layer of the stone-like topcoat system,
   the fourth coating composition is applied at an adequate wet film thickness, which can
   vary in a wide range and can be readily selected by a person skilled in the art. For example,
   the wet film thickness of the background color layer formed of the fourth coating
   composition may range from about 30 to about 120 tm.
15
                                       Adhesive Primer Coat
   [0081]       In the multilayered laminate as disclosed herein, the adhesive primer coat is
   applied on the stone-like topcoat system and is formed of a second coating composition
   comprising an aqueous polymer dispersion selected from the aqueous dispersions of
20 acrylics, organic silicones, and vinyl acetates. The adhesive primer coat in the
   multilayered laminate preferably has an adhesive strength of 0.7 MPa or more as measured
   by adhesive strength measurement method of GB/T 9779-2005.
   [0082]       In the adhesive primer coat, the aqueous polymer dispersion serves as a binder
   to provide adhesion to a target substrate such as an architectural material. The aqueous
25 polymer dispersion may be selected from aqueous dispersions of acrylics, organic
   silicones, vinyl acetates or the like or other suitable aqueous dispersions having adequate
   adhesion to the chosen substrate. Preferably, an aqueous dispersion of vinyl acetate
   ethylene copolymer can be used. That is, the adhesive primer coat comprises the aqueous
   dispersion of vinyl acetate-ethylene copolymer as a binder to provide adhesion to a target
30 substrate such as an architectural material. As described above, the aqueous dispersion of
   vinyl acetate-ethylene copolymer used may be a dispersion of vinyl acetate-ethylene
   copolymer particles in an aqueous medium with aid of, if necessary, an emulsifier or a
                                                   22

   dispersion stabilizer. Additional co-monomers can be also used, if appropriate, in
   preparing the aqueous dispersion of vinyl acetate-ethylene copolymer.
   [0083]       Preferably, the amount of the aqueous polymer dispersion comprised by the
   second coating composition is about 40 to 85 %, preferably about 60 to 80% by weight
 5 relative to the total amount of the second coating composition. Also, if additional water is
   added in formulating the second coating composition, then the amount of additional water
   together with the water previously present in the aqueous polymer dispersion may be taken
   into account when determining the total amount of the aqueous polymer dispersion.
   [0084]       As described above, the aqueous dispersion of vinyl acetate-ethylene
10 copolymer used for the second coating composition may be prepared by any suitable
   emulsion polymerization process known to a person skilled in the art. Alternatively, as a
   particular example of the aqueous polymer dispersion, any of a variety of suitable
   commercially available products can be used, such as the aqueous dispersion of vinyl
   acetate-ethylene copolymer available under the trademark VINNAPASTM 402 from
15 Wacker Chemie AG, Germany or CELVOLITTM 1602 or 1608 from Celanese Corporation,
   USA.
   [0085]       The second coating composition may further comprise one or more fillers. As
   used herein, the term "filler" is intended to refer to any coating volume extender, either
   organic or inorganic, in the form of e.g., particles or powders. There is no particular
20 limitation on the shape of particles, and thus they may have any suitable shape. The
   particle size of the filler may vary over a broad range, e.g., from about 10 nanometers to
   about 50 micrometers. In addition to function as a coating volume extender, some fillers
   may impart one or more desired properties to the composition or coating resulting from
   the composition. For example, some fillers may impart desired color to the composition
25 and hence the coating resulting from the composition, and in this case such fillers may be
   also referred to as "pigment". Some fillers may improve chemical or physical properties,
   in particular mechanical properties of the coating resulting from the composition., and in
   this case they may also be referred to as a "reinforcing additive".
   [0086]       Suitable illustrative additional fillers include kaolin, titanium oxide, calcium
30 carbonate, talc, barium sulfate, magnesium aluminum silicate, silica, or any combination
   thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the additional filler may include titanium oxide,
   kaolin, calcium carbonate, or any combination thereof. The total amount of filler used may
                                                    23

   vary over a broad range, for example. from about 10 to about 58, preferably about 33 to
   about 58 % by weight relative to the total weight of the second coating composition.
   [0087]      The second coating composition may further comprise a silane coupling agent
   to enhance the mechanical strength of the coating. An example of the silane coupling
 5 agent is WD60 commercially available from Wuda Organosilicon, Hubei. A suitable
   amount of the silane coupling agent can be easily determined by a person skilled in the art.
   Conventionally, the amount of the silane coupling agent may be from about 0.5 to 2.5 %
   by weight relative to the total weight of the second coating composition.
   [0088]      The second coating composition may optionally include additional additives
10 for reasons like those for the first coating composition. In a preferred embodiment, the
   second coating composition may comprise a thickener, a dispersing agent, a defoamer, a
   pH adjuster, an organic solvent such as an alcohol, a coalescent agent, a bactericide, a
   fungicide, or any combination thereof. A suitable amount of each of the additives can be
   readily determined by a person skilled in the art. Preferably, the total amount of additives
15 used may be about 0.1 to 10 %, preferably about 4.5 to about 10% by weight relative to
   the total weight of the second coating composition.
   [0089]      In an embodiment, the second coating composition may comprise, based on the
   total weight of the second coating composition, 45 to 85 % by weight of the aqueous
   polymer dispersion; 10 to 58 % by weight of the filler; 0.5 to 2.5 % by weight of the silane
20 coupling agent; and 0.1 to 10 % by weight of additional additives comprising a thickener,
   a dispersing agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster. an organic solvent, a coalescent agent, a
   bactericide, a fungicide, or any combination thereof.
   [0090]      In a specific embodiment, the second coating composition may comprise,
   based on the total weight of the second coating composition, 45 to 85 % by weight of the
25 aqueous dispersion of vinyl acetate-ethylene copolymer; 10 to 58 % by weight of the filler;
   0.5 to 2.5 % by weight of the silane coupling agent; and 0.1 to 10 % by weight of
   additional additives comprising a thickener, a dispersing agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster,
   an organic solvent, a coalescent agent, a bactericide, a fungicide, or any combination
   thereof.
30 [0091]      In another specific embodiment, the second coating composition may comprise,
   based on the total weight of the second coating composition. 60 to 80 % by weight of the
   aqueous dispersion of vinyl acetate-ethylene copolymer, 33 to 58 % by weight of the filler,
                                                  24

   0.5 to 2.5 % by weight of the silane coupling agent, 0.4 to 1 % by weight of the thickener,
   0.2 to 0.6 % by weight of the dispersing agent, 0.2 to 0.6 % by weight of the defoamer, 0.1
   to 0.3 % by weight of the pH adjuster, 0 to 1 % by weight of the coalescent, 0 to I % by
   weight of the organic solvent, 0.1 to 0.3 % by weight of the bactericide, and 0.1 to 0.3 %
 5 by weight of the fungicide.
   [0092]       Each of the coating compositions as disclosed herein can be prepared by any
   suitable compounding process known to a person skilled in the art. For example, the
   coating compositions can be prepared by feeding all the ingredients into a vessel, then
   agitating the mixture until homogeneous. Alternatively, the coating compositions can be
10 prepared by feeding and mixing a part of the ingredients, then feeding the other
   ingredients and agitating until homogeneous.
   [0093]       In a second aspect, the present disclosure provides a process for the preparation
   of multilayered laminate, comprising
           (i) providing a support substrate having at least one releasable major surface;
15         (ii) applying a first coating composition on the releasable major surface of the
                support substrate to form a transparent overcoat, wherein the first coating
                composition comprises an aqueous polymer dispersion having a particle size in
                the range of 30 to 400 nm;
           (iii)by wet on dry application process, forming a multicolored spot layer and a
20              background color layer in turn on the transparent overcoat, thereby forming a
                stone-like topcoat system;
           (iv)by wet on dry application process, applying a second coating composition on
                the stone-like topcoat system to form an adhesive primer coat, wherein the
                second coating composition comprises an aqueous polymer dispersion selected
25              from aqueous dispersions of acrylics, organic silicones, and vinyl acetates,
                thereby obtaining the multilayered laminate,
   wherein the transparent overcoat in the multilayered laminate, when released from the
   support substrate, has a gloss of at least 60% at 600.
   [0094]       In the process as disclosed herein, each of the coating compositions can be
30 applied by any conventional application process known to a person skilled in the art. The
   application process may comprise dip application, spin application, spray application,
   curtain application, brush application, roller application, or any other suitable application
                                                  25

   process. In steps (iii) and (iv) above, a wet on dry application process is used.
   Conveniently, the aqueous liquid medium including water and any co-solvent can be
   removed by drying in ambient conditions or with (for example, under) heat, whereby the
   coating or coating system is forced.
 5 10095]       In a third aspect, the present disclosure provides a process for coating a target
   substrate, comprising
           (i) attaching a multilayered laminate according to the present invention via the
                adhesive primer coat to the surface of the target substrate;
           (ii) releasing the support substrate from the multilayered laminate, thereby
10              obtaining a coated substrate having a stone-like effect and a gloss of at least
                60% at 600.
   [0096]       In an embodiment, the target substrate comprises architectural materials or
   wood-based substrates. In particular, the architectural materials may comprise concrete
   mass, plaster board, lime-sand brick, aerated concrete, lightweight multilayer plate, fiber
15 cement board or any combination thereof. The wood-based substrates may comprise a
   natural wood substrate, synthetic or engineered wood-based substrate, or any combination
   thereof.
   [0097]       According to the process for coating a target substrate as disclosed herein, the
   multilayered laminate can be attached to the target substrate by any suitable method. In an
20 embodiment, the multilayered laminate is attached to the target substrate by mechanically
   laminating. The multilayered laminate, which may be in the form of a coil, can be
   laminated to the target substrate by an in-line laminating process. In order to promote
   adhesion of the multilayered laminate to the target substrate, one can take any suitable
   measure known in the art to treat the surface of the target substrate, such as cleaning,
25 sanding, or the like. In order to further promote adhesion of the multilayered laminate to
   the target substrate, one can also apply any chemical adhesive known in the art to adhere
   the multilayered laminate to the target substrate. In a specific embodiment, the adhesive
   primer coat of the multilayered laminate itself can provide the sufficient adhesive strength
   to securely adhere the multilayered laminate to the target substrate. In order to protect the
30 adhesive primer coat from being contaminated, a protective film can be applied on the
   primer coat. The strength of adhesion of the protective film to the primer coat preferably is
   such that the premature release of the protective film from the primer coat during
                                                   26

     transportation and storage can be prevented, but not render the release strength of the
     protective film from the primer coat too high.
     [0098]      The present disclosure is further described in the following examples that are
     intended as illustrations only. Unless otherwise noted, all parts, percentages, and ratios
 5   reported in the following examples are on a weight basis.
                                             EXAMPLES
                                        Measurement Method
     [0099]      The adhesive strength is measured according to GB/T 9779-2005.
10   [0100]      The gloss is measured according to GB/T 1743-1989.
                                               Example 1
                                        Transparent Overcoat
     [0101]      The ingredients and amounts thereof used for formulating the first coating
15   composition to form the transparent overcoat are shown in Table 1 below.
                                                  Table 1
   Ingredients                   Supplier/Manufacturer      Description                     Amount
                                                                                            (in parts)
                                                            Aqueous styrene-acrylate latex,
   RS-936W                       BATF Industry Co., Ltd.    particle size 100 to 150 nm     50-60
   Thickener     HEC 250HBR      Aqualon Company            Cellulose ether thickener       2-6
                 TT1-935         Dow Chemical Co.           Alkali swelling thickener
   P30                           Coatex Group               Polyacrylate dispersing agent   0.2-0.6
   L1513                         Aqualon Company            Defoamer                        0.2-0.6
   AMP-95 TM                     Dow Chemical Co.           pH adjuster                     0.1-0.3
   CMIT/MIT;BIT                  Dow Chemical Co.           Bactericide                     0.1-0.3
   DCOIT                         Dow Chemical Co.           Fungicide                       0.1-0.5
   Lauryl alcohol ester          Eastman Chemical Co.       Coalescent agent                2-4
   Propylene glycol              general industrial product Organic solvent                 2-4
   Deionized water                                                                          35-40
                                                     27

    [0102]     The first coating composition to be used for forming the transparent overcoat
    was prepared as follows. The ingredients including RS-936W, HEC 250HBR, TT-935,
    P30, L1513, Amp-95, CMIT/MIT;BIT, DCOIT, lauryl alcohol ester, propylene glycol,
    and deionized water were fed into a mixing vessel equipped with an agitator in order in
 5  amounts as respectively specified in Table 1, and agitated until homogeneous.
                                    Stone-like Topcoat System
                                             Example 2
                                     Multicolored Spot Layer
10  [0103]     The ingredients and amounts thereof used for formulating the third coating
    composition to form the multicolored spot layer are shown in Table 2 below.
                                                Table 2
   Ingredients                  Supplier/Manufacturer Description                      Amount
                                                                                       (in
                                                                                       parts)
   2709                         BATF Industry Co., Ltd.  Aqueous acrylate latex        35-45
   Color concentrate particles  Produced as described     Color concentrate particles
                                Ced                      protected by hydrophilic clay 20-3
                                                          colloid
   Thickener    HEC 250HBR      Aqualon Company           Cellulose ether thickener    0.8-3
                TT-935          Dow Chemical Co.         Alkali swelling thickener
   P30                          Coatex Group             Polyacrylate dispersing agent 0.2-1
   L1513                        Aqualon Company          Defoamer                      0.2-0.6
   AMP-95                       Dow Chemical Co.         pH adjuster                   0.1-0.3
   CMIT/MIT;BIT                 Dow Chemical Co.         Bactericide                   0.1-0.3
   DCOIT                        Dow Chemical Co.         Fungicide                     0.1-0.5
   Lauryl alcohol ester         Eastman Chemical Co.      Coalescent agent             2-3
                                general industrial
   Propylene glycol             product                   Organic solvent               1-2
   Deionized water                                                                      15-20
15  [0104]     The third coating composition to be used for forming the multicolored spot
    layer was prepared as follows. The ingredients including the aqueous latex 2709, the color
                                                   28

    concentrate particles, HEC 250HBR, TT-935, P30, L1513, Amp-95, CMIT/MIT;BIT,
   DCOIT, lauryl alcohol ester, propylene glycol, and deionized water were fed into a mixing
   vessel equipped with an agitator in order in amounts as respectively specified in Table 2,
    and agitated until homogeneous.
 5
                            Production of Color Concentrate Particles
                              Protected by Hydrophilic Clay Colloid
    [0105]     4 to 8 parts by mass of the protective hydrophilic clay GTS available from
    Wangge Company, Shanghai were mixed into 45 to 58 parts by mass of deionized water to
10  form a colloid. The ingredients as specified in Table 3 below were mixed in a separate
   vessel to form the colored latex paint. Then 45 to 58 parts by mass of the colored latex
   paint were mixed into the thus-formed colloid. The thus-formed mixture was passed
   through a perforated plate, thereby forming the color concentrate particles protected by
   hydrophilic clay colloid.
15                                              Table 3
   Ingredients                   Supplier/Manufacturer      Description               Amount
                                                                                      (in parts)
   2709                          BATF Industry Co., Ltd.    Aqueous acrylate latex    18-35
   P30                           Coatex Group               Polyacrylate
                                                            agent          dispersing 0.2-1
   Thickener    HEC 250HBR       Aqualon Company            Cellulose ether thickener 0.8-3
                Bentonite        Wangge Company             Thickener
   399                           Wangge Company             Dispersing agent          0.3-1.0
                                 E. I. du Pont de Nemours
   R-706                         and Co.                    Rutile titania            1-8
   Kaolin                        Jingyang, Shanxi           filler                    3-10
   L1513                         Aqualon Company            Defoamer                  0.2-0.6
   AMP-95                        Dow Chemical Co.           pH adjuster               0.1-0.3
   CMIT/MIT;BIT                  Dow Chemical Co.           Bactericide               0.1-0.3
   DCOIT                         Dow Chemical Co.           Fungicide                 0.1-0.5
   Lauryl alcohol ester          Eastman Chemical Co.       Coalescent agent          2-3
   Propylene glycol              general industrial product Organic solvent           1-2
                                                   29

    Ingredients                   Supplier/Manufacturer     Description                 Amount
                                                                                        (in parts)
    Deionized water                                                                     15-20
    GTS                           Wangge Company            Optional hydrophilic        0.7-1.5
                                                            clay
    Color concentrate             CCA Company               Colorant                    As desired
                                              Example 3
                                    Background Color Layer 1
     [0106]     The ingredients and amounts thereof used for formulating the fourth coating
 5   composition to form the background color layer 1 are shown in Table 4 below.
                                                 Table 4
   Ingredients                   Supplier/Manufacturer    Description                      Amount
                                                                                           (in parts)
   706T                          BATF Industry Co., Ltd.  Aqueous acrylate latex           12-16
                                                          Mineral powder as discrete
   Marble powder                 Yunfu, Guangdong         particles                        60-75
   Thickener     HEC 250HBR      Aqualon Company          Cellulose ether thickener        0.8-3
                 TT-935          Dow Chemical Co.         Alkali swelling thickener
   P30                           Coatex Group             Polyacrylate dispersing agent    0.2-1
   L1513                         Aqualon Company          Defoamer                         0.2-0.6
   AMP-95                        Dow Chemical Co.         pH adjuster                      0.1-0.3
   CMIT/MIT;BIT                  Dow Chemical Co.         Bactericide                      0.1-0.3
   DCOIT                         Dow Chemical Co.         Fungicide                        0.1-0.5
   Lauryl alcohol ester          Eastman Chemical Co.     Coalescent agent                 2-3
                                 general industrial
   Propylene glycol              product                  Organic solvent                  1-2
   Deionized water                                                                         10-15
     [0107]     The fourth coating composition to be used for forming the background color
10   layer 1 was prepared as follows. The ingredients including 706T, Marble powder, HEC
     250HBR, TT-935, P30, L1513, Amp-95, CMIT/MIT;BIT, DCOIT, Lauryl alcohol ester,
                                                    30

    Propylene glycol, and Deionized water were fed into an agitated vessel in order in
    amounts as respectively specified in Table 4, and agitated until homogeneous.
                                              Example 4
 5                                  Background Color Layer 2
    [0108]     The ingredients and amounts thereof used for formulating the fourth coating
    composition to form the background color layer 2 are shown in Table 5 below.
                                             Table 5
   Ingredients                 Supplier/Manufacturer    Description                    Amount
                                                                                        (in parts)
   CELVOLIT 1608               Celanese Corporation     VAE latex                      20-30
   Thickener   HEC 250HBR      Aqualon Company          Cellulose ether thickener      0.4-1
               TT-935          Dow Chemical Co.         Alkali swelling thickener
   R-706                       E. I. du Pont de Nemours Rutile titania, mineral powder 10-30
                               and Co.                  as discrete particles
                               Jiaoling Guangfu         Heavy calcium carbonate,
   Gf- 117                                              Mineral powder as discrete     15-25
                                                        particles
                               Jinyang Shanxi           Calcined kaolin, mineral
   Br-95                                                powder as discrete particles   10-15
   WD60                        Hubei Organosilicon,
                               Wuda                     Silane coupling agent
   P30                         Coatex Group             Polyacrylate dispersing agent  0.2-0.6
   L1513                       Aqualon Company          Defoamer                       0.2-0.6
   AMP-95                      Dow Chemical Co.         pH adjuster                    0.1-0.3
   CMIT/MIT;BIT                Dow Chemical Co.         Bactericide
                                                                                       0.1-0.3
   DCOIT                       Dow Chemical Co.         Fungicide                      0.1-0.5
   Lauryl alcohol ester        Eastman Chemical Co.     Coalescent agent               01
   Propylene glycol            general industrial       Organic solvent
                               product                                                 01
   Color concentrate           CCA Company              Colorant
                                                                                       As desired
   Deionized water                                                                     30-40
10
    [0109]     The fourth coating composition to be used for forming the background color
    layer 2 was prepared as follows. The ingredients including CELVOLIT 1608, R-706, Gf
                                                  31

   117, Br-95, WD60, HEC 250HBR, TT-935, P30, L1513, Amp-95, CMIT/MIT;BIT,
   DCOIT, lauryl alcohol ester, propylene glycol, color concentrate, and deionized water
   were fed into a mixing vessel equipped with an agitator in order in amounts as respectively
   specified in Table 5, and agitated until homogeneous.
 5
                                              Example 5
                                      Adhesive Primer Coat
   [0110]      The ingredients and amounts thereof used for formulating the second coating
   composition to form the adhesive primer coat are shown in Table 6 below.
10
                                             Table 6
    Ingredients             Supplier/Manufacturer       Description                   Amount
                                                                                      (in parts)
    CELVOLIT 1608           Celanese Corporation        VAE latex                     30-40
    HEC 250HBR             Aqualon Company              Cellulose ether thickener     0.4-1
    TT-935                  Dow Chemical Co.            Alkali swelling thickener
                            E. I. du Pont de Nemours
                R-706       and Co.                     Rutile titania                10-20
    filler      Gf- 117     Jiaoling Guangfu            Heavy calcium carbonate       15-25
                Br-95       Jinyang Shanxi              Calcined kaolin               8-13
    WD60                    Wuda
                            Hubei Organosilicon,        Silane coupling agent         0.5-2.5
    P30                     Coatex Group                Polyacrylate dispersing agent 0.2-0.6
    L1513                  Aqualon Company              Defoamer                      0.2-0.6
    AMP-95                  Dow Chemical Co.            pH adjuster                   0.1-0.3
    CMIT/MIT;BIT            Dow Chemical Co.            Bactericide                   0.1-0.3
    DCOIT                   Dow Chemical Co.            Fungicide                     0.1-0.5
    Lauryl alcohol ester    Eastman Chemical Co.        Coalescent agent              0-1
    Propylene glycol        general industrial product  Alcohols solvent              0-1
    Deionized water                                                                   30-40
   [0111]      The second coating composition to be used for forming the adhesive primer
   coat was prepared as follows. The ingredients including CELVOLIT 1608, R-706, Gf- 117,
                                                   32

   Br-95, WD60, HEC 250HBR, TT-935, P30, L15 13, Amp-95, CMIT/MIT;BIT, DCOIT,
   lauryl alcohol ester, propylene glycol, and deionized water were fed into a mixing vessel
   equipped with an agitator in order in an amount as respectively specified in Table 6, and
   agitated until homogeneous.
 5
                                              Example 6
                                       Multilayered Laminate
   [0112]       The first coating composition as prepared in Example 1 was sprayed onto a
   piece of PET film (about 60 to 120 cm X about 60 to 120 cm) with a wet film thickness in
10 the range of 30 to 150 pum in order to form the transparent overcoat. After drying for 2
   hours in ambient conditions to surface dry the transparent overcoat, the third coating
   composition as prepared in Example 2 was sprayed onto the transparent overcoat with a
   wet film thickness in the range of 30 to 150 pm in order to form the multicolored spot
   layer. Then after drying in ambient conditions to surface dry the multicolored spot layer,
15 the fourth coating composition as prepared in Example 3 or 4 was sprayed onto the
   multicolored spot layer with a wet film thickness in the range of 30 to 120 pm in order to
   form the background color layer. After drying in ambient conditions to surface dry the
   background color layer, the second coating composition as prepared in Example 5 was
   sprayed onto the background color layer with a wet film thickness in the range of 30 to
20 120 pm in order to form the adhesive primer coat. The multilayered laminate was obtained
   after drying in ambient conditions for a further 24 hours.
   [0113]       In the thus obtained multilayered laminate, the adhesive primer coat had an
   adhesive strength of 0.8 MPa as measured by adhesive strength measurement method of
   GB/T 9779-2005 by using an article formed by mixing silicate cement, sand, and water in
25 a ratio of 1: 1: 0.5 in weight as a test substrate. Moreover, the transparent overcoat having
   been released from the PET film substrate, showed a gloss of at least 86% at 600 as
   measured according to GB/T 1743-1989.
   10114]       Additionally, the multilayered laminate as obtained above with the background
   color layer 2 was attached to the target substrate made of a fiber cement board, and it was
30 visually observed that the coating system obtained after removing the PET film from the
   multilayered laminate exhibited a realistic marble-like effect, as shown in Fig. 1.
                                                   33

  [0115]       Thus, the multilayered laminate according to the present disclosure achieved a
  realistic stone-like effect and also high gloss.
  [0116]       While the invention has been described with respect to a number of
5 embodiments and examples, those skilled in the art, having benefit of this disclosure, will
  appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope and
  spirit of the invention as disclosed herein.
                                                 34

   CLAIMS
   1.      A multilayered laminate, comprising
           (a) a support substrate having at least one releasable major surface;
           (b) a transparent overcoat fonned of a first coating composition on the releasable
 5 major surface of the support substrate,
           wherein the overcoat has a wet film thickness of 30 to 150 and wherein the first
   coating composition comprises an aqueous polymer dispersion having a particle size in the
   range of 30 to 400 nm;
           (c) a stone-like topcoat system on the transparent overcoat, wherein the stone-like
10 topcoat system comprises a multicolored spot layer and a background color layer;
           (d) an adhesive primer coat formed of a second coating composition on the
   stonelike topcoat system. wherein the second coating composition comprises an aqueous
   polymer dispersion selected from aqueous acrylic dispersions, aqueous organic silicone
   dispersions and aqueous vinyl acetate dispersions,
15         wherein the transparent overcoat in the multilayered laminate, when released from
   the support substrate, has a gloss of at least 60% at 600.
   2.      The multilayered laminate according to claim 1, wherein the transparent overcoat
   in the multilayered laminate, when released from the support substrate, has a gloss of 90%
20 or more at 60'.
   3.      The multilayered laminate according to claim 1, wherein the adhesive primer coat
   in the multilayered laminate has an adhesive strength when measured by adhesive strength
   measurement method GB/T 9779-2005 of 0.7 MPa or more.
25
   4.      The multilayered laminate according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
   releasable major surface of the support substrate is smooth.
   5.      The multilayered laminate according to claim 4, wherein the support substrate
30 comprises a polyester film, polyethylene film, polypropylene film, PET film, or PVC film.
                                                  35

   6.      The multilayered laminate according to claim 4, wherein the support substrate
   comprises a release paper that is substantially free of volatile organic compounds.
   7.      The multilayered laminate according to claim 1, wherein the first coating
 5 composition, based on the total weight of the first coating composition, comprises:
           75 to 99.9 % by weight of the aqueous polymer dispersion; and
           0.1 to 25 % by weight of additional additives comprising a thickener, a dispersing
   agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster, an organic solvent, a coalescent agent. a bactericide, a
   fungicide, or any combination thereof.
10
   8.      The multilayered laminate according to claim 7, wherein the aqueous polymer
   dispersion has a particle size in the range of 100 to 150 nrn.
   9.      The multilayered laminate according to claim 7, wherein the aqueous polymer
15 dispersion comprises an aqueous dispersion of organic silicone, styrene-acrylate, acrylate,
   organic silicone-modified acrylate, vinyl acetate, vinyl acetate-acrylate, vinyl
   acetateethylene, ethylene-vinyl acetate, vinyl acetate-acrylate-esters of versatic acid or any
   combination thereof.
20 10.     The multilayered laminate according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
   multicolored spot layer is formed from a third coating composition comprising color
   concentrate particles protected by a hydrophilic clay colloid and having one or more hues.
   11.     The multilayered laminate according to claim 10, wherein the third coating
25 composition., based on the total weight of the third coating composition, comprises:
           45 to 85 % by weight of an aqueous polymer dispersion;
           14.5 to 45 % by weight of the color concentrate particles protected by hydrophilic
   clay colloid; and
           0.1 to 10 % by weight of additional additives comprising a thickener, a dispersing
30 agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster, an organic solvent, a coalescent agent, a bactericide, a
   fungicide, or any combination thereof.
                                                 36

   12.      The multilayered laminate according to claim 11, wherein the color concentrate
   particles protected by a hydrophilic clay colloid are formed by mixing a protective
   hydrophilic clay into deionized water to form a hydrophilic clay colloid and mixing and
   pelletizing the hydrophilic clay colloid with a colored latex paint, in which the protective
 5 hydrophilic clay, deionized water and the colored latex paint are present in a mass ratio of
   1: 5-15:5-15.
   13.      The multilayered laminate according to claim 12, wherein the colored latex paint.,
   based on the total weight of the colored latex paint, comprises
10          90 to 99 % by weight of a base latex paint,
            10 0.5 to 4 % by weight of an optional hydrophilic clay; and
            0.01 to 8 % by weight of a colorant for the multicolored spot layer.
   14.      The multilayered laminate according to claim 1, wherein the second coating
15 composition, relative to the total weight of the second coating composition, comprises
            40 to 85 % by weight of an aqueous polymer dispersion selected from aqueous
   acrylic dispersions, aqueous organic silicone dispersions and aqueous vinyl acetate
   ethylene dispersions;
             10 to 58 % by weight of filler;
20          0.5 to 2.5% by weight of silane coupling agent; and
            0.1 to 10 % by weight of additional additives comprising a thickener, a dispersing
   agent, a defoamer, a pH adjuster, an organic solvent, a coalescent agent, a bactericide, a
   fungicide, or any combination thereof.
25 15.      A process for the preparation of multilayered laminate according to claim 1,
   comprising
            (i) providing a support substrate having at least one releasable major surface;
            (ii) applying a first coating composition on the releasable major surface of the
   support substrate to form a transparent overcoat, wherein the first coating composition
30 comprises an aqueous polymer dispersion having a particle size in the range of 30 to 400
   nm;
                                                   37

           (iii) by wet on dry application process, forming a multicolored spot layer and a
   background color layer in turn on the transparent overcoat, thereby forming a stone-like
   topcoat system;
           (iv) by wet on dry application process, applying a second coating composition on
 5 the stone-like topcoat system to form an adhesive primer coat, wherein the second coating
   composition comprises an aqueous polymer dispersion selected from aqueous acrylic
   dispersions, aqueous organic silicone dispersions, and aqueous vinyl acetate dispersions.,
   thereby obtaining the multilayered laminate,
           wherein the transparent overcoat in the multilayered laminate, when released from
10 the support substrate, has a gloss of at least 60% at 600.
                                                  38

             <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701>
    <U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>

