CORDLESS HAND-HELD ULTRASONIC CAUTERY CUTTING DEVICE
ABSTRACT
        An ultrasonic surgical assembly, comprising: a waveguide (2504); a cordless ultrasonic
movement-generation assembly (2000) including a driving-wave generation circuit having a
generator output, a shell housing the driving-wave generation circuit and including a securing
connector, and a transducer electrically coupled to the generator output and having an output
couple configured to connect the waveguide thereto; a removable battery (2002) electrically
coupled to the cordless ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly (2000); and a surgical handle
(2300), including: a first handle body portion (2302) defining an aseptically salable battery
holding compartment configured to aseptically hold the removable battery (2002) and configured
to electrically connect the removable battery (2002) to the ultrasonic-movement-generation
assembly (2000); and a second handle body portion (2310) connected to the first handle body
portion (2302) and including: a waveguide attachment dock (2104) operable to connect the
waveguide (2504) thereto; an ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly dock (4202) configured to
removably secure the second handle body portion (2310) to the securing connector and connect
the waveguide (2504) in the waveguide attachment dock (2104) to the output couple through the
second handle body portion (2310).

                                                   1
CORDLESS HAND-HELD ULTRASONIC CAUTERY CUTTING DEVICE
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>, filed on 3 November 2016, the entire contents of which are incorporated
herein by reference.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002] The present invention relates generally to an ultrasonic cutting device and, more
particularly, relates to a cordless, hand-held, fully electrically powered and controlled, surgical
ultrasonic cutting device.
BACKGROUND
[0003] Ultrasonic instruments are effectively used in the treatment of many medical conditions,
such as removal of tissue and cauterization of vessels. Cutting instruments that utilize ultrasonic
waves generate vibrations with an ultrasonic transducer along a longitudinal axis of a cutting
blade. By placing a resonant wave along the length of the blade, high-speed longitudinal
mechanical movement is produced at the end of the blade. These instruments are advantageous
because the mechanical vibrations transmitted to the end of the blade are very effective at
cutting organic tissue and, simultaneously, coagulate the tissue using the heat energy produced
by the ultrasonic frequencies. Such instruments are particularly well suited for use in minimally
invasive procedures, such as endoscopic or laparoscopic procedures, where the blade is passed
through a trocar to reach the surgical site.
[0004] For each kind of cutting blade (e.g., length, material, size), there are one or more
(periodic) driving signals that produce a resonance along the length of the blade. Resonance
results in optimal movement of the blade tip and, therefore, optimal performance during surgical
procedures. However, producing an effective cutting-blade driving signal is not a trivial task.
For instance, the frequency, current, and voltage applied to the cutting tool must all be
controlled dynamically, as these parameters change with the varying load placed on the blade
and with temperature differentials that result from use of the tool.
[0005] FIG. 1 shows a block schematic diagram of a prior-art circuit used for applying
ultrasonic mechanical movements to an end effector. The circuit includes a power source 102, a

                                                   2
control circuit 104, a drive circuit 106, a matching circuit 108, a transducer 110, and also
includes a handpiece 112, and a waveguide 114 secured to the handpiece 112 (diagrammatically
illustrated by a dashed line) and supported by a cannula 120. The waveguide 114 terminates to
a blade 116 at a distal end. A clamping mechanism, referred to as an "end effector" 118,
exposes and enables the blade portion 116 of the waveguide 114 to make contact with tissue and
other substances. Commonly, the end effector 118 is a pivoting arm that acts to grasp or clamp
onto tissue between the arm and the blade 116. However, in some devices, the end effector 118
is not present.
[0006] The drive circuit 104 produces a high-voltage self-oscillating signal. The high-voltage
output of the drive circuit 104 is fed to the matching circuit 108, which contains signal
smoothing components that, in turn, produce a driving signal (wave) that is fed to the transducer
110. The oscillating input to the transducer 110 causes the mechanical portion of the transducer
110 to move back and forth at a magnitude and frequency that sets up a resonance along the
waveguide 114. For optimal resonance and longevity of the resonating instrument and its
components, the driving signal applied to the transducer 110 should be as smooth a sine wave as
can practically be achieved. For this reason, the matching circuit 108, the transducer 110, and
the waveguide 114 are selected to work in conjunction with one another and are all frequency
sensitive with and to each other.
[0007] Because a relatively high-voltage (e.g., 100 V or more) is required to drive a typical
piezoelectric transducer 110, the power source that is available and is used in all prior-art
ultrasonic cutting devices is an electric mains (e.g., a wall outlet) of, typically, up to 15A,
120VAC. Therefore, all known ultrasonic cutting devices resemble that shown in FIGs. 1 and 2
and utilize a countertop box 202 with an electrical cord 204 to be plugged into the electrical
mains 206 for supply of power. Resonance is maintained by a phase locked loop (PLL), which
creates a closed loop between the output of the matching circuit 108 and the drive circuit 106.
For this reason, in prior art devices, the countertop box 202 always has contained all of the drive
and control electronics 104, 106 and the matching circuit(s) 108. A typical retail price for such
boxes is in the tens of thousands of dollars.
[0008] A supply cord 208 delivers a sinusoidal waveform from the box 202 to the transducer
110 within the handpiece 112 and, thereby, to the waveguide 114. The prior art devices present
a great disadvantage because the cord 208 has a length, size, and weight that restricts the

                                                 3
mobility of the operator. The cord 208 creates a tether for the operator and presents an obstacle
for the operator and those around him/her during any surgical procedure using the handpiece
112. In addition, the cord must be shielded and durable and is very expensive.
[0009] Another disadvantage exists in the prior art due to the frequency sensitivity of the
matching circuit 108, the transducer 110, and the waveguide 114. By having a phase-locked
loop feedback circuit between the output of the matching circuit 108 and the drive circuit 104,
the matching circuit 108 is required always to be located in the box 202, near the drive circuit
108, and separated from the transducer 110 by the length of the supply cord 208. This
architecture introduces transmission losses and electrical parasitics, which are common products
of ultrasonic-frequency transmissions.
[0010] In addition, prior-art devices attempt to maintain resonance at varying waveguide 114
load conditions by monitoring and maintaining a constant current applied to the transducer.
However, the only predictable relationship between current applied to the transducer 110 and
amplitude is at resonance. Therefore, with constant current, the amplitude of the wave along the
waveguide 114 is not constant across all frequencies. When prior art devices are under load,
therefore, operation of the waveguide 114 is not guaranteed to be at resonance and, because only
the current is being monitored and held constant, the amount of movement on the waveguide
114 can vary greatly. For this reason, maintaining constant current is not an effective way of
maintaining a constant movement of the waveguide 114.
[0011] Furthermore, in the prior art, handpieces 112 and transducers 110 are replaced after a
finite number of uses, but the box 202, which is vastly more expensive than the handpiece 112,
is not replaced. As such, introduction of new, replacement handpieces 112 and transducers 110
frequently causes a mismatch between the frequency-sensitive components (108, 110, and 112),
thereby disadvantageously altering the frequency introduced to the waveguide 114. The only
way to avoid such mismatches is for the prior-art circuits to restrict themselves to precise
frequencies. This precision brings with it a significant increase in cost.
[0012] Some devices claim to be able to contain all necessary components for ultrasonic
procedures within a single handle. These devices, however, do not currently appear in the
marketplace and the written descriptions of each disclose virtually no details of how their
circuitry is enabled. At least one such device is described as being completely sealed and all of

                                                  4
the device's electronic components, such as the power supply and the transducer, are non
replaceable. This design is self-evident, because the tool, used in surgery, must be sterilizable.
However, in some surgeries, a cutting tool reaches its maximum lifespan within very few
surgeries or, in some cases, even before the surgery is finished. With a sealed device design, the
entire device must be disposed, including its expensive internal components.
[0013] In addition, this device is described as using inductive charging. It was not designed or
envisioned to use modem, long-lasting, high-power batteries, such as lithium-ion (Li) batteries.
As is known in the art, Lithium batteries cannot be charged in a series configuration of multiple
cells. This is because, as the voltage increases in a particular cell, it begins to accept charging
energy faster than the other lower-voltage cells. Therefore, each cell must be monitored so that
a charge to that cell can be controlled individually. When a Lithium battery is formed from a
group of cells, a multitude of wires extending from the exterior of the device to the battery is
needed. Sakurai cannot provide this necessary feature because, by design, the sealed
autoclavable Sakurai device does not and cannot have a plurality of external exposed contacts to
be coupled to a charging device. In fact, the inductive charging feature for the sealed device is
entirely at odds with exposed contacts.
OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
[0014] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least ameliorate
one or more of the disadvantages of the prior art, or at least provide a useful alternative.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0015] In accordance with the present invention, there is provided an ultrasonic surgical
assembly, comprising:
        a waveguide;
        a cordless ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly including a driving-wave
generation circuit having a generator output, a shell housing the driving-wave generation
circuit and including a securing connector, and a transducer electrically coupled to the
generator output and having an output couple configured to connect the waveguide thereto;
        a removable battery electrically coupled to the cordless ultrasonic-movement-generation
assembly; and
        a surgical handle, including:

                                                  5
                a first handle body portion defining an aseptically salable battery-holding
compartment configured to aseptically hold the removable battery and configured to
electrically connect the removable battery to the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly;
and
                a second handle body portion connected to the first handle body portion and
    including:
                         a waveguide attachment dock operable to connect the waveguide thereto;
                         an ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly dock configured to
removably secure the second handle body portion to the securing connector and connect the
waveguide in the waveguide attachment dock to the output couple through the second handle
body portion.
[0016] There is also disclosed herein an ultrasonic surgical assembly, comprising:
        a surgical handle including a first handle body portion defining an aseptically salable
battery-holding compartment and a second handle body portion connected to the first handle
body portion;
        a waveguide supported by and extending distally from the second handle body portion;
        a cordless ultrasonic generator supported by the second handle body portion, the cordless
ultrasonic generator including a driving-wave generation circuit;
        a cordless ultrasonic transducer supported by the second handle body portion, the
cordless ultrasonic transducer coupled to the driving-wave generation circuit and having an
output couple connected to the waveguide, the cordless ultrasonic transducer configured to
dynamically produce a resonant wave along the waveguide; and
        a battery, wherein the first handle body portion is configured to removably hold the
battery within the aseptically salable battery-holding compartment, and wherein the surgical
handle is configured to electrically connect the battery with the cordless ultrasonic generator
when the battery is disposed within the battery-holding compartment.
[0017] There is further disclosed herein an ultrasonic surgical assembly, comprising:
        a waveguide;
        a cordless ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly including a driving-wave
generation circuit having a generator output, a shell housing the driving-wave generation circuit
and including a securing connector, and a transducer electrically coupled to the generator output
and having an output couple configured to connect the waveguide thereto;

                                                   6
        a removable battery electrically coupled to the cordless ultrasonic-movement-generation
assembly; and
        a surgical handle, including:
                 a first handle body portion defining an aseptically salable battery-holding
compartment configured to aseptically hold the removable battery therein, and configured to
electrically connect the removable battery to the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly; and
                 a second handle body portion connected to the first handle body portion and
including:
                          a waveguide attachment dock operable to connect the waveguide thereto;
and
                          an ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly dock configured to
removably secure the second handle body portion to the securing connector and connect the
waveguide in the waveguide attachment dock to the output couple through the second handle
body portion.
[0018] Briefly, in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention, a cordless
handheld apparatus that is capable of performing continuous ultrasonic cutting and cauterizing is
disclosed. The invention includes a power supply, a control circuit, a drive circuit, and a
matching circuit -- all located within a handpiece of the ultrasonic cutting device and all
operating and generating waveforms at battery voltages. The invention at least allows
components to be replaced or moved between different devices.
[0019] The present invention, according to several embodiments, at least allows components of
the device to be removed, replaced, serviced, and/or interchanged. Some components are
"disposable," which, as used herein, means that the component is used for only one procedure
and is then discarded. Still other components are "reusable," which, as used herein, means that
the component can be aseptically cleaned and then used for at least a second time. As will be
explained, other components are provided with intelligence that allows them to recognize the
device to which they are attached and to alter their function or performance depending on
several factors.
[0020] The invention provides a cordless hand-held ultrasonic cautery cutting device that
overcomes the hereinafore-mentioned disadvantages of the heretofore-known devices and

                                                  7
methods of this general type and that require disposal of and prevent advantageous reuse of
costly components.
[0021] There is also disclosed herein an ultrasonic assembly removably connectable to an
ultrasonic waveguide of an ultrasonic surgical handle, the assembly including a cordless
ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly having an ultrasonic generator and an ultrasonic
transducer electrically coupled to the generator and having an output couple, and a shell housing
therein the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly and having a securing connection shaped
to removably connect to the ultrasonic surgical handle. The output couple is operable to impart
ultrasonic movement to the ultrasonic waveguide when the securing connection is connected to
the ultrasonic surgical handle and the waveguide is connected to the output couple.
[0022] There is also disclosed herein an ultrasonic assembly removably connectable to an
ultrasonic waveguide of an ultrasonic surgical handle, the assembly including a cordless
ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly having an ultrasonic generator and an ultrasonic
transducer electrically coupled to the generator and having an output couple, and a shell housing
therein at least one of the generator and the transducer and having a securing connection shaped
to removably connect to the ultrasonic surgical handle. The output couple is operable to impart
ultrasonic movement to the ultrasonic waveguide when the securing connection is connected to
the ultrasonic surgical handle and the waveguide is connected to the output couple.
[0023] There is also disclosed herein an ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly to be
removably connected to an ultrasonic waveguide of an ultrasonic surgical handle, the assembly
including a cordless ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly having an ultrasonic generator
and an ultrasonic transducer electrically coupled to the generator and having an output couple, a
shell: housing therein at least one of the generator and the transducer, and having a securing
connection shaped to removably connect to the ultrasonic surgical handle, and the output couple
operable to impart ultrasonic movement to the ultrasonic waveguide when the securing
connection is connected to the ultrasonic surgical handle and the waveguide is connected to the
output couple.
[0024] There is also disclosed herein an ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly to be
removably connected to an ultrasonic waveguide of an ultrasonic surgical handle, the assembly
including a cordless ultrasonic transducer having an external output couple operable to impart

                                                   8
ultrasonic movement to the ultrasonic waveguide when the waveguide is connected to the output
couple, a tank circuit electrically connected to the transducer and tuned to match the transducer,
and an aseptically sealed assembly shell having disposed therein the transducer and the tank
circuit and an external securing connection shaped to removably connect the shell to the
ultrasonic surgical handle.
[0025] In accordance with another feature of the invention, the shell is aseptically sealed.
[0026] In accordance with another feature of the invention, the securing connection is a rail or
an undercut slot.
[0027] In accordance with a further feature of the invention, there is provided a sterizable filter
permitting venting after sterilization.
[0028] In accordance with an added feature of the invention, the shell has an outer surface and
further comprises electrically communicating contacts on the outer surface and conductively
connected to the generator for supplying power thereto.
[0029] In accordance with an additional feature of the invention, the tank circuit includes an
internal driving-wave generation circuit having a generator output; and the transducer is
communicatively coupled to the generator output.
[0030] In accordance with yet another feature of the invention, the driving-wave generation
circuit comprises a control circuit, a drive circuit, and/or a matching circuit.
[0031] In accordance with yet a further feature of the invention, the transducer is rotatable with
respect to the driving-wave generation circuit.
[0032] In accordance with yet an added feature of the invention, the transducer and the tank
circuit are powered only by the surgical handle.
[0033] In accordance with yet an additional feature of the invention, the surgical handle has an
internal battery and the transducer and the tank circuit are powered only by the battery.

                                                   9
[0034] In accordance with a concomitant feature of the invention, the waveguide has an
identification type and the tank circuit is operable to vary at least one of a driving-wave output
frequency and a driving-wave output power based on the identification type.
[0035] Although the invention is illustrated and described herein as embodied in a cordless
hand-held ultrasonic cautery cutting device, it is, nevertheless, not intended to be limited to the
details shown because various modifications and structural changes may be made therein
without departing from the spirit of the invention and within the scope and range of equivalents
of the claims. Additionally, well-known elements of exemplary embodiments of the invention
will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the
invention.
[0036] While the specification concludes with claims defining the features of the invention that
are regarded as novel, it is believed that the invention will be better understood from a
consideration of the following description in conjunction with the drawing figures, in which like
reference numerals are carried forward. Accordingly, the apparatus components and method
steps have been represented where appropriate by conventional symbols in the drawings,
showing only those specific details that are pertinent to understanding the embodiments of the
present invention so as not to obscure the disclosure with details that will be readily apparent to
those of ordinary skill in the art having the benefit of the description herein.
[0037] Other features that are considered as characteristic for the invention are set forth in the
appended claims. As required, detailed embodiments of the present invention are disclosed
herein; however, it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of
the invention, which can be embodied in various forms. Therefore, specific structural and
functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting, but merely as a basis for
the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one of ordinary skill in the art to variously
employ the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further, the terms
and phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting; but rather, to provide an understandable
description of the invention. While the specification concludes with claims defining the features
of the invention that are regarded as novel, it is believed that the invention will be better
understood from a consideration of the following description in conjunction with the drawing
figures, in which like reference numerals are carried forward. The figures of the drawings are
not drawn to scale.

                                                 10
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0038] The accompanying figures, where like reference numerals refer to identical or
functionally similar elements throughout the separate views and which together with the detailed
description below are incorporated in and form part of the specification, serve to further
illustrate various embodiments and to explain various principles and advantages all in
accordance with the present invention.
[0039] FIG. 1 is a diagrammatic illustration of components of a prior-art ultrasonic cutting
device with separate power, control, drive and matching components in block diagram form.
[0040] FIG. 2 is a diagram illustrating the prior-art ultrasonic cutting device of FIG. 1.
[0041] FIG. 3 is a block circuit diagram of an ultrasonic cutting device in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0042] FIG. 4 is graph illustrating a square waveform input to the matching circuit in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0043] FIG. 5 is graph illustrating a sinusoidal waveform output from the matching circuit in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0044] FIG. 6 is a diagrammatic illustration of the effect that a resonant sine wave input to a
transducer has on a waveguide of the ultrasonic cutting device in accordance with an exemplary
embodiment of the present invention with the sinusoidal pattern shown representing the
amplitude of axial motion along the length of the waveguide.
[0045] FIG. 7 is a fragmentary, schematic circuit diagram of an elemental series circuit model
for a transducer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0046] FIG. 8 is a fragmentary, schematic circuit diagram of an inventive circuit with the circuit
of FIG. 7 and is useful for monitoring a motional current of a transducer in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

                                                 11
[0047] FIG. 9 is a fragmentary, schematic circuit diagram of an elemental parallel circuit model
of a transducer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0048] FIG. 10 is fragmentary, schematic circuit diagram of an inventive circuit with the circuit
of FIG. 9 and is useful for monitoring the motional current of a transducer in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0049] FIG. 11 is a fragmentary, schematic circuit diagram of an inventive circuit with the
circuit of FIG. 7 and is useful for monitoring the motional current of a transducer in accordance
with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0050] FIG. 12 is a fragmentary, schematic circuit diagram of an inventive circuit with the
circuit of FIG. 9 and is useful for monitoring the motional current of a transducer in accordance
with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0051] FIG. 13 is a side elevational view of a left side of an ultrasonic cutting device handle
with fully integrated control, drive and matching components and removable transducer and
power supply in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0052] FIG. 14 is a side elevational view of the exemplary handle of FIG. 13 with the left-side
shell removed and with the upper slide cover removed to show the integrated control, drive and
matching components and removable power supply therein in accordance with an exemplary
embodiment of the present invention.
[0053] FIG. 15 is a perspective view of a transducer assembly removed from the exemplary
handle of FIG. 14 in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0054] FIG. 16 is a perspective and partially hidden view of the transducer assembly of FIG. 15
in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0055] FIG. 17 is a perspective and partially hidden view of the pack shown in the handle of
FIG. 14 in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

                                                   12
[0056] FIG. 18 is a side elevational view of a left side of an ultrasonic cutting device capable of
holding in a top area a reusable pack that includes the battery, circuitry, and the transducer in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0057] FIG. 19 is a side elevational view of a left side of the ultrasonic cutting device of FIG. 18
showing the access door in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0058] FIG. 20 is the removable, reusable pack used in the device shown in FIG 18 and includes
a battery, control circuit, drive circuit, matching circuit, and transducer.
[0059] FIG. 21 is a side elevational view of a left side of an ultrasonic cutting device handle
with fully integrated control, drive and matching components and removable power supply in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0060] FIG. 22 is a side elevational view of the exemplary handle of FIG. 21 with the left-side
shell removed and with the upper slide cover removed to show the integrated control, drive and
matching components and removable power supply therein.
[0061] FIG. 23 is a side elevational view of a left side of an ultrasonic cutting device handle
with fully integrated control, drive and matching components, and transducer in a removable
module and also a removable battery pack in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present invention.
[0062] FIG. 24 is a side elevational view of the exemplary handle of FIG. 23 with the left-side
shell removed and with the upper slide cover removed to show the integrated control, drive and
matching components and removable power supply therein.
[0063] FIG. 25 is a side elevational view of an exemplary handle with the left-side shell
removed to show a TAG, a removable power supply, and a blade and waveguide attached to the
spindle in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0064] FIG. 26 is a side elevational view of an exemplary handle with the left-side shell
removed to show electronic coupling between the generator and transducer assembly of the
TAG in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.

                                                    13
[0065] FIG. 27 is an enlarged side elevational view of the exemplary handle of FIG. 23 from the
left side thereof with the left-side shell, the slide cover, and the battery pack removed, and with
the trigger in an intermediate actuated position.
[0066] FIG. 28 is an enlarged side elevational view of the exemplary handle of FIG. 23 from the
right side thereof with the right-side shell, the slide cover, and the battery pack removed, and
with the trigger in a fully actuated position.
[0067] FIG. 29 is an enlarged side elevational view of the exemplary handle of FIG. 23 from the
left side thereof with the shell and left-side slide cover removed.
[0068] FIG. 30 is an enlarged side elevational view of the exemplary handle of FIG. 29 from the
right side thereof also with internal trigger components removed.
[0069] FIG. 31 is a perspective view from the front left side of a hand-held ultrasonic cutting
pen device with fully integrated control, drive and matching components and removable power
supply in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0070] FIG. 32 is a side elevational view of the hand-held ultrasonic cutting pen device of FIG.
21 from the left side.
[0071] FIG. 33 is a side elevational view of the hand-held ultrasonic cutting pen device of FIG.
32 with the left-side shell removed.
[0072] FIG. 34 is a diagrammatic illustration of a hand-held ultrasonic cutting pen device to be
connected to a man-portable, control and power supply assembly in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0073] FIG. 35 is a perspective view of a hand-held ultrasonic cutting pen device to be
connected to a man-portable, control and power supply assembly in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0074] FIG. 36 is a perspective view of the hand-held ultrasonic cutting pen device of FIG. 35
with a left-half shell removed.

                                                 14
[0075] FIG. 37 is a perspective view of a man-portable, control and power supply assembly to
be connected to a hand-held ultrasonic cutting pen device in accordance with an exemplary
embodiment of the present invention.
[0076] FIG. 38 is a different perspective view of the man-portable, control and power supply
assembly of FIG. 37.
[0077] FIG. 39 is a side elevational view of an exemplary handle with the left-side and upper
shell removed to show a waveguide-movement-generation assembly and a smart battery in
accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0078] FIG. 40 is a perspective view of a left side of an ultrasonic cutting device handle with
fully integrated control, drive and matching components, and transducer in a removable module,
a removable battery pack, control buttons, and a display screen in accordance with an exemplary
embodiment of the present invention.
[0079] FIG. 41 is a perspective rear view of view of the exemplary handle of FIG. 13 with the
transducer removed in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0080] FIG. 42 is a perspective view of the exemplary handle of FIG. 23 with the waveguide
movement-generation assembly removed in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the
present invention.
[0081] FIG. 43 is a perspective cutaway view of the exemplary removed waveguide-movement
generation assembly of FIG. 43 in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
invention.
[0082] FIG. 44 is a side elevational cutaway view of the exemplary handle of FIG. 25 with the
left-side shell removed to show connection details between the waveguide and waveguide
movement-generation assembly in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present
invention.
[0083] FIG. 45 is a rear perspective view of the SCUD of FIG. 22 with a display included on the
waveguide-movement-generation assembly and a see-through window on the waveguide-

                                                 15
movement-generation assembly access door allowing viewing of the display and in accordance
with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
[0084] FIG. 46 is a side elevational view of an exemplary handle with the right-side shell
removed to show an ultrasonic waveguide driving assembly having integrated power source,
power source control circuit, and ultrasonic waveform-generating circuit in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
Best Mode for Carrying Out the Invention
[0085] It is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are merely exemplary of the
invention, which can be embodied in various forms. Therefore, specific structural and
functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting, but merely as a basis for
the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ
the present invention in virtually any appropriately detailed structure. Further, the terms and
phrases used herein are not intended to be limiting; but rather, to provide an understandable
description of the invention.
[0086] Before the present invention is disclosed and described, it is to be understood that the
terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not
intended to be limiting. In this document, the terms "a" or "an", as used herein, are defined as
one or more than one. The term "plurality," as used herein, is defined as two or more than two.
The term "another," as used herein, is defined as at least a second or more. The terms
"including" and/or "having," as used herein, are defined as comprising (i.e., open language).
The term "coupled," as used herein, is defined as connected, although not necessarily directly,
and not necessarily mechanically. Relational terms such as first and second, top and bottom,
and the like may be used solely to distinguish one entity or action from another entity or action
without necessarily requiring or implying any actual such relationship or order between such
entities or actions. The terms "comprises," "comprising," or any other variation thereof are
intended to cover a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a process, method, article, or apparatus
that comprises a list of elements does not include only those elements but may include other
elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process, method, article, or apparatus. An
element proceeded by "comprises ... a" does not, without more constraints, preclude the

                                                  16
existence of additional identical elements in the process, method, article, or apparatus that
comprises the element.
[0087] As used herein, the term "about" or "approximately" applies to all numeric values,
whether or not explicitly indicated. These terms generally refer to a range of numbers that one
of skill in the art would consider equivalent to the recited values (i.e., having the same function
or result). In many instances these terms may include numbers that are rounded to the nearest
significant figure. In this document, the term "longitudinal" should be understood to mean in a
direction corresponding to an elongated direction of the object being described.
[0088] It will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention described herein may be
comprised of one or more conventional processors and unique stored program instructions that
control the one or more processors to implement, in conjunction with certain non-processor
circuits and other elements, some, most, or all of the functions of ultrasonic cutting devices
described herein. The non-processor circuits may include, but are not limited to, signal drivers,
clock circuits, power source circuits, and user input and output elements. Alternatively, some or
all functions could be implemented by a state machine that has no stored program instructions,
or in one or more application specific integrated circuits (ASICs), in which each function or
some combinations of certain of the functions are implemented as custom logic. Of course, a
combination of the two approaches could also be used. Thus, methods and means for these
functions have been described herein.
[0089] The terms "program," "software application," and the like as used herein, are defined as
a sequence of instructions designed for execution on a computer system. A "program,"
"computer program," or "software application" may include a subroutine, a function, a
procedure, an object method, an object implementation, an executable application, an applet, a
servlet, a source code, an object code, a shared library/dynamic load library and/or other
sequence of instructions designed for execution on a computer system.
[0090] The present invention, according to one embodiment, overcomes problems with the prior
art by providing a lightweight, hand-holdable, ultrasonic cutting device that is powered by and
controlled with components that fit entirely within a handle of the device. The hand-held device
allows a surgeon to perform ultrasonic cutting and/or cauterizing in any surgical procedure
without the need for external power and, particularly, without the presence of cords tethering the

                                                  17
surgeon to a stationary object and constricting the ability of the surgeon while performing the
surgical procedure.
ULTRASONIC SURGICAL DEVICE
[0091] Described now is an exemplary apparatus according to one embodiment of the present
invention. Referring to FIG. 3, a block circuit diagram shows the invention 300, which includes
a microprocessor 302, a clock 330, a memory 326, a power supply 304 (e.g., a battery), a switch
306 (e.g., a MOSFET power switch), a drive circuit 308 (PLL), a transformer 310, a signal
smoothing circuit 312 (also referred to as a matching circuit and can be, e.g., a tank circuit), a
sensing circuit 314, a transducer 316, and a waveguide, which terminates into an ultrasonic
cutting blade 318, referred to herein simply as the waveguide 318. The invention also includes a
cannula 320 for covering and supporting the waveguide 318. As used herein, the "waveguide
movement-generation assembly" is a sub-assembly including at least the transducer 316, but can
also include other components, such as the drive circuit 308 (PLL), transformer 310, signal
smoothing circuit 312, and/or the sensing circuit 314.
[0092] Ultrasonic cutting blades and waveguides are known in the art. The present invention's
ability to provide all of the necessary components of an ultrasonic cutting tool in a hand-held
package provides a great advantage over prior-art devices, which house a majority of the device
components within a very expensive and heavy desktop box 202, as shown in FIG. 2, and create
an expensive and bulky tether 208 between the device's handpiece 112 and the box 202.
[0093] One feature of the present invention that severs the dependency on high voltage
(120VAC) input power (a characteristic of all prior-art ultrasonic cutting devices) is the
utilization of low-voltage switching throughout the wave-forming process and amplification of
the driving signal only directly before the transformer stage. For this reason, in one exemplary
embodiment of the present invention, power is derived from only a battery, or a group of
batteries, small enough to fit either within the handpiece 112 or within a small box that attaches
to the user, for example, at a waistband. State-of-the-art battery technology provides powerful
batteries of a few centimeters in height and width and a few millimeters in depth. By combining
the features of the present invention to provide an entirely self-contained and self-powered
ultrasonic device, the capital outlay of the countertop box 202 is eliminated - resulting in almost
a ten-fold reduction of manufacturing cost.

                                                   18
[0094] The output of the battery 304 is fed to and powers the processor 302. The processor 302
receives and outputs signals and, as will be described below, functions according to custom
logic or in accordance with computer programs that are executed by the processor 302. The
device 300 can also include a main memory 326, preferably, random access memory (RAM),
that stores computer-readable instructions and data.
[0095] The output of the battery 304 also goes to a switch 306 that has a duty cycle controlled
by the processor 302. By controlling the on-time for the switch 306, the processor 302 is able to
dictate the total amount of power that is ultimately delivered to the transducer 316. In one
embodiment, the switch 306 is an electrically controlled metal-oxide-semiconductor field-effect
transistor (MOSFET), although other switches and switching configurations are adaptable as
well. The output of the switch 306 is fed to a drive circuit 308 that contains, for example, a
phase detecting PLL and/or a low-pass filter and/or a voltage-controlled oscillator. The output
of the switch 306 is sampled by the processor 302 to determine the voltage and current of the
output signal (referred to in FIG. 3 respectively as AD2 V In and AD3 I In). These values are
used in a feedback architecture to adjust the pulse width modulation of the switch 306. For
instance, the duty cycle of the switch 306 can vary from about 20% to about 80%, depending on
the desired and actual output from the switch 306.
[0096] The drive circuit 308, which receives the signal from the switch 306, includes an
oscillatory circuit that turns the output of the switch 306 into an electrical signal having a single
ultrasonic frequency, e.g., 55 kHz (referred to as VCO in FIG. 3). As will be explained below, a
smoothed-out version of this ultrasonic waveform is ultimately fed to the transducer 316 to
produce a resonant sine wave along the waveguide 318. Resonance is achieved when current
and voltage are substantially in phase at the input of the transducer 316. For this reason, the
drive circuit 308 uses a PLL to sense the current and voltage input to the transducer 316 and to
synchronize the current and voltage with one another. This sensing is performed over line 328.
However, unlike prior-art devices that simply match the phase of the input current to the phase
of the input voltage, the present invention utilizes the inventive concept of matching the current
phase with a phase of the "motional" voltage and/or matches the input voltage phase with a
phase of the "motional" current. The concept and technique of measuring motional voltage will
be explained in detail below and in conjunction with the figures.

                                                   19
[0097] At the output of the drive circuit 308 is a transformer 310 able to step up the low voltage
signal(s) to a higher voltage. It is noted that all upstream switching, prior to the transformer
310, has been performed at low (i.e., battery driven) voltages, something that, to date, has not
been possible for ultrasonic cutting and cautery devices. This is at least partially due to the fact
that the drive circuit 308 advantageously uses low on-resistance MOSFET switching devices.
Low on-resistance MOSFET switches are advantageous, as they produce less heat than
traditional MOSFET device and allow higher current to pass through. Therefore, the switching
stage (pre transformer) can be characterized as low voltage/high current.
[0098] In one embodiment of the present invention, the transformer 310 steps up the battery
voltage to 120V RMS. Transformers are known in the art and are, therefore, not explained here
in detail. The output of the transformer 310 resembles a square wave 400, an example of which
is shown in FIG. 4, which waveform is undesirable because it is injurious to certain components,
in particular, to the transducer 316. The square wave also generates interference between
components. The matching circuit 312 of the present invention substantially reduces or
eliminates these problems.
[0099] The wave shaping or matching circuit 312, sometimes referred to as a "tank circuit,"
smoothes the square wave 400 output from the transformer 310 and turns it into a driving wave
500 (e.g., a sine wave) an approximation of which is shown in FIG. 5. The matching circuit
312, in one embodiment of the present invention, is a series L-C circuit and is controlled by the
well-known principles of Kirchhoffs circuit laws. However, any matching circuit can be used
here. The smooth sine wave 500 output from the matching circuit 312 is, then, fed to the
transducer 316. Of course, other driving signals can be output from the matching circuit 312
that are not smooth sine waves.
[0100] A transducer 316 is an electro-mechanical device that converts electrical signals to
physical movement. In a broader sense, a transducer is sometimes defined as any device that
converts a signal from one form to another. An analogous transducer device is an audio
speaker, which converts electrical voltage variations representing music or speech to mechanical
cone vibration. The speaker cone, in turn, vibrates air molecules to create acoustical energy. In
the present invention, the driving wave 500 is input to the transducer 316, which then imparts
physical movements to the waveguide 318. As will be shown, this movement sets up a
resonating wave on the waveguide 318, resulting in motion at the end of the waveguide 318.

                                                  20
[0101] FIG. 6 provides a diagrammatic illustration of the effect that a resonant sine wave input
to a transducer has on a waveguide of the ultrasonic cutting device in accordance with an
exemplary embodiment of the present invention with the sinusoidal pattern shown representing
the amplitude of axial motion along the length of the waveguide. As can be seen in FIG. 6, the
transducer 316 is coupled to the waveguide 318. Responding to a positive portion 502 of the
driving sine wave 500, the transducer 316 moves a portion 604 of the transducer 316, which is
physically attached to a portion 606 of the attached waveguide 318, in a first direction 608.
Likewise, the transducer 316 responds to a negative portion 504 of the driving wave 500 and
moves the portion 604 of the transducer 316 in a second direction 612. A smooth sine wave
500, in contrast to the square wave 400, allows the transducer 316 and waveguide 318 to slow
before changing directions. The smoother movement is less injurious to the device's
components. One exemplary embodiment of the portion 604 is a stack of piezo-electric crystals.
[0102] The alternating movement 608, 612 of the transducer portion 604 places a sinusoidal
wave 614 along the length of the waveguide 318. The wave 614 alternatively pulls the end 620
of the waveguide 318 toward the transducer 316 and pushes it away from the transducer 316,
thereby longitudinally moving the tip 620 of the waveguide 318 along distance 618. The tip is
considered an "anti-node," as it is a moving point of the sine wave 614. The resulting
movement of the waveguide 318 produces a "sawing" movement along distance 618 at the end
of the waveguide 318. (The wave 614 and linear movement along distance 618 are greatly
exaggerated in FIG. 6 for ease of discussion.) This high-speed movement along distance 618, as
is known in the art, provides a cutting waveguide that is able to slice easily through many
materials, such as tissue and bone. The waveguide 318 also generates a great deal of frictional
heat when so stimulated, which heat is conducted within the tissue that the waveguide 318 is
cutting. This heat is sufficient to cauterize instantly blood vessels within the tissue being cut.
[0103] If the driving wave 614 traveling along the waveguide 318 is not a resonant wave, the
last anti-node of the wave 614 will not appear at the tip 620 of the waveguide 318. In such a
case, the tip 620 of the waveguide 318 may move transverse to the longitudinal axis of the
waveguide 318, creating an incorrect mode, e.g. the tip 620 not moving, a slapping motion with
the tip 620, or several others. This incorrect mode is not ideal and is not reliable for providing
adequate cutting and surgical cautery. The invention, however, utilizes the PLL in the drive
circuit 308 to ensure that the movement 608, 612 of the waveguide 318 remains resonant along
the waveguide 318 by monitoring the phase between the motional current and motional voltage

                                                   21
waveforms fed to the transducer 316 and sending a correction signal back to the drive circuit
308. As an added feature, the present invention can be provided with piezo-electric crystal
stacks 604 that are cut in a different plane, thereby creating a torsional, or twisting motion of the
blade rather than only a sawing motion. The present invention can easily be adapted to a full set
of uses using requiring a drilling-type motion instead of or with the sawing motion just
described.
TRANSDUCER CIRCUIT MODEL
[0104] FIG. 7 is a schematic circuit diagram of a model transducer 700, such as transducer 316,
which contains piezo-electric material. Piezo-electric transducers are well known in the art.
The mass and stiffness of the piezo-electric material creates a mechanically resonant structure
within the transducer. Due to the piezo-electric affect, these mechanical properties manifest
themselves as electrically equivalent properties. In other words, the electrical resonant
frequency seen at the electrical terminals is equal to the mechanical resonant frequency. As
shown in FIG. 7, the mechanical mass, stiffness, and damping of the transducer 316 may be
represented by a series configuration of an inductor/coil L, a capacitor C2, and a resistor R, all in
parallel with another capacitor Ci. The electrical equivalent transducer model 700 is quite
similar to the well-known model for a crystal.
[0105] Flowing into an input 710 of the electrical equivalent transducer model 700 is a
transducer current   iT. A portion ic of iT flows across the parallel capacitor CI, which is of a
selected type and value that, for the majority of the expected frequency range, retains a
substantially static capacitive value. The remainder of iT, which is defined as iM,is simply      iT
ic and is the actual working current. This remainder current im is referred to herein as the
"motional" current. That is, the motional current is that current actually performing the work to
move the waveguide 318.
[0106] Known prior-art designs regulate and synchronize with the total current       iT, which
includes ic and is not an indicator of the actual amount of current actually causing the motion of
the waveguide 318 of the transducer 316. For instance, when the blade of a prior-art device
moves from soft tissue, to more dense material, such as other tissue or bone, the resistance R
increases greatly. This increase in resistance R causes less current im to flow through the series
configuration R-L-C 2, and more current ic to flow across capacitive element CI. In such a case,

                                                    22
the waveguide 318 slows down, degrading its performance. It may be understood by those
skilled in the art that regulating the overall current is not an effective way to maintain a constant
waveguide speed. As such, one novel embodiment of the present invention advantageously
monitors and regulates the motional current iM flowing through the transducer 316. By
regulating the motional current iM,the movement distance of the waveguide 318 can be
regulated easily.
SURGICAL DEVICE CIRCUIT MODEL
[01071 FIG. 8 is a schematic circuit diagram of an inventive circuit 800 useful for understanding
how to obtain the motional current iM of a transducer 700. The circuit 800 has all of the circuit
elements of the transducer 700 plus an additional bridging capacitive element CB in parallel with
the transducer 700 of FIG. 7. However, the value of CB is selected so that C1 /CB is equal to a
given ratio r. For efficiency, the chosen value for CB should be relatively low. This limits the
current that is diverted from iM. A variable power source VT is applied across the terminals 802
and 804 of the circuit 800, creating a current   iB through the capacitive element CB, a current    iT
flowing into the transducer 700, a current ic flowing through capacitor C1, and, finally, the
motional current iM. It then follows that iM = iT - r iB. This is because:
               iE=C.V       C1 JV           c      l aVT
[01081                a,     r a,      and             at
[0109] Therefore, ic = r - iB and, substituting for ic in the equation iM= iT -  iC, leads to: iM = iT
r - iB.
[0110] Now, by knowing only the total current and measuring the current through the bridge
capacitor  iB, variations of the transducer's motional current iM can be identified and regulated.
The driver circuit 308, then, acts as a current controller and regulates the motional current iM by
varying an output of the transformer 310 based on the product of the current flowing through the
bridge capacitance CB multiplied by the ratio r subtracted from a total current     iT flowing  into the
transducer 700. This regulation maintains a substantially constant rate of movement of the
cutting blade portion of the waveguide 318 across a variety of cutting loads - something that has
not been possible to date. In one embodiment, the sensing circuits 314 measure the motional
voltage and/or motional current. Current and voltage measuring devices and circuit
configurations for creating voltage meters and current meters are well known in the art. Values

                                                  23
of current and voltage can be determined by the present invention in any way now known or
later developed, without limitation.
[0111] Regulation of the motional current im is a true way to maintain the integrity of the
instrument and ensure that it will operate at its peak performance under substantially all
conditions expected in an operating environment. In addition, such regulation provides these
advantages within a package small enough and light enough to be easily held in one hand - a
configuration that has never occurred in the field.
TRANSDUCER CIRCUIT MODEL
[0112] FIG. 9 shows another embodiment of the present invention, where the transducer 316 is
schematically represented as a parallel configuration of a resistive element R, an inductive
element L, and a capacitive element C 4 . An additional capacitive element C3 is in a series
configuration between an input 802 and the parallel configuration of the resistive element R, the
inductive element L, and the capacitive element C 4 . This parallel representation models the
action of the transducer in the "antiresonant" mode of operation, which occurs at a slightly
different frequency. A transducer voltage VT is applied between the input terminals 802, 804 of
the transducer 316. The transducer voltage VT is split between a voltage Vc across capacitive
element C3 and a motional voltage VM across the parallel configuration of the resistive element
R, the inductive element L, and the capacitive element C4 . It is the motional voltage VM that
performs the work and causes the waveguide 318 to move. Therefore, in this exemplary
embodiment, it is the motional voltage that should be carefully regulated.
SURGICAL DEVICE CIRCUIT MODEL
[0113] FIG. 10 shows an exemplary embodiment of an inventive circuit configuration 1000,
according to the present invention. The circuit configuration 1000 includes the transducer 900
of FIG. 9 and adds to it three additional capacitive elements C5 , C6 , and C7 . Capacitive element
C5 is in series with the transducer circuit 900 of FIG. 9 while the capacitive elements C6 and C7
are in series with one another and, together, are in parallel with the series combination of the
capacitive element C5 and the transducer circuit 900.
[0114] This circuit is analogous to a Wheatstone bridge measuring instrument. Wheatstone
bridge circuits are used to measure an unknown electrical resistance by balancing two legs of a

                                                   24
bridge circuit, one leg of which includes the unknown component. In the instant circuit
configuration shown in FIG. 10, a motional voltage VM, which equals VT - Vc, is the unknown.
By determining and regulating the motional voltage VM, the inventive configuration allows a
consistent waveguide movement to be maintained as set forth below.
[0115] Advantageously, the capacitive element C 7 is selected so that its value is a ratio A of
capacitive element C3, with A being less than one. Likewise, the capacitive element C6 is
selected so that its value is the same ratio A of the capacitive element C5 . The ratio of Cs/C3 is
also the ratio A.
[0116] Because the ratio of C3/C 7 is A and the ratio of C5 /C6 is also A, the bridge is balanced. It
then follows that the feedback voltage Vfb, divided by the motional voltage VM, is also the ratio
A. Therefore, Vm can be represented as simply A - Vt.
[0117] If the voltage across the transducer 900 is still VT, an input voltage Vi" equals   VT plus
the voltage VB across the capacitive element C5 . The feedback voltage VFB is measured from a
first point located between capacitive elements C6 and C7 and a second point located between
the transducer and the capacitive element C5 . Now, the upstream components of the circuit 300
act as a voltage controller and vary the power Vi, to maintain a constant feedback voltage Vfb,
resulting in a substantially constant motional voltage and maintaining a substantially constant
rate of movement of the cutting blade portion of the waveguide 318 across a variety of cutting
loads. Again, unlike the prior art, the present invention is not simply regulating the input
voltage Vi, it is varying the input voltage Vin for the purpose of regulating the motional voltage
VM -- which is novel in the art.
[0118] FIG. 11 shows another embodiment of the present invention where the transducer 700 is
of the circuit configuration shown in FIG. 7. The configuration of FIG. 11 works similarly to
that shown in FIG. 8 and as described above in connection with FIG. 8. However, in this circuit
configuration 1100, a pair of transformers 1104 and 1108 is used to determine and monitor the
motional voltage VM. In this embodiment, a primary winding 1102 of the first transformer 1104
is in a series configuration with a bridge capacitor CB. Similarly, a primary winding 1106 of the
second transformer 1108 is in a series configuration with the transducer 700. The leads 1110
and 1112 of the secondary winding 1114 of the first transformer 1104 are coupled through a
resistor R 2 . The leads 1116 and 1118 of the secondary winding 1120 of the second transformer

                                                   25
1108 are coupled through a resistor R1. In addition, the first lead 1110 of the secondary winding
1114 of the first transformer 1104 is directly connected to the first lead 1116 of the secondary
winding 1120 of the second transformer 1108.
[0119] Current   iB passing through the primary winding 1102 of the first transformer 1104
induces a current in the secondary winding 1114 of the first transformer 1104. Similarly, the
currents including ic passing through the capacitive element CI of the transducer 700 and the
motional current im of the transducer 700 combine and go through the primary winding 1106 of
the second transformer 1108 to find ground 1122. The current in the primary winding 1106
induces a current on the secondary winding 1120. As noted by the dots ("-") on the
transformers 1104, 1108, the secondary windings 1114 and 1120 are in opposite directions from
one another, with reference to the primary windings 1102, 1106, respectively, and induce a
voltage Vfb across resistors R1 and R 2 . By selecting values for R 1 and R 2 so that a ratio of Ri/R 2
is equal to the ratio of the values CB/C I, the feedback voltage Vfb will always be proportional to
the motional current iM. Now, the upstream components of the circuit 300 (see FIG. 3) act as a
voltage controller and vary the input power (Vi, and IT) to maintain a constant feedback voltage
Vfb, resulting in a substantially constant motional current iM and maintaining a substantially
constant rate of movement of the cutting blade portion of the waveguide 318 across a variety of
cutting loads. Again, unlike the prior art, the present invention is not simply regulating the input
voltage Vi, it is varying the input current IT for the purpose of regulating the motional current im
-- which is novel in the art.
[0120] FIG. 12 shows another embodiment of the present invention where the transducer 900 is
modeled by the circuit configuration shown in FIG. 9. The configuration of FIG. 12 works
similarly to that shown in FIG. 10 and as described above in connection with FIG. 10.
However, in this circuit configuration 1200, a transformer 1210 is used to determine and
monitor the motional voltage VM of the transducer 900. In this embodiment, a primary winding
1206 of the transformer 1210 is in a series circuit configuration with an inductive element L2
and a capacitive element C1 . A voltage Vi, is applied across input leads 1202 and 1204 of the
circuit formed by the primary winding 1206 of the transformer 1210, the inductive element L2 ,
and the capacitive element C1 . A current through the primary winding 1206 induces a
corresponding current in the secondary winding 1208 of the transformer 1210. The secondary
winding 1208 of the transformer 1210 is in a parallel configuration with a combination of the

                                                  26
transducer 900 and a bridge capacitor CB. The two components forming the combination are in
a series configuration.
[0121] In this embodiment, the secondary winding 1208 is tapped at a point 1212. By tapping
the secondary winding 1208 at a point where a first portion of the secondary winding 1208 has
m turns and a second portion of the secondary winding 1208 has n turns (where n is less than m),
a selectable percentage of the induced voltage on the secondary winding 1208 appears from
point 1212 to ground 1214.
[0122] Again, this circuit is analogous to a Wheatstone bridge measuring instrument. One leg is
the first secondary winding m, the second leg is the second secondary winding n, the third leg is
the transducer 900, and the fourth leg is the capacitor CB. In the instant circuit configuration
shown in FIG. 12, the voltage VM is the unknown. By determining and regulating the motional
voltage VM, a consistent waveguide movement is maintained.
[0123] By selecting a value of the bridge capacitor CB to be less than the transducer capacitance
C3 by the same percentage that the number of turns n is less than the number of turns m (i.e., m/n
=  C3/CB), the value of a feedback voltage Vtb will reflect the motional voltage VM. The
invention can determine whether the motional voltage VM is changing by monitoring the
feedback voltage Vfb for changes.
[0124] By using the equivalent-circuit transducer model 900, which models a parallel-resonant
(or "anti-resonant") transducer, the transducer may be driven in the parallel resonant mode of
operation, where motion is proportional to voltage. The advantage of this mode of operation is
that the required constant-voltage-mode power supply is simpler to design and safer to operate
than a constant-current-mode power supply. Also, because the transducer has a higher
impedance when unloaded (rather than a lower impedance when unloaded in the series-resonant
mode of operation), it naturally tends to draw less power when unloaded. The parallel-resonant
mode of operation, however, is more difficult to maintain because the resonant bandwidth is
narrower than that of the series-resonant mode and it has a slightly different natural resonant
frequency; hence, the mechanical components of the device must be specifically configured to
operate at either the series resonant or parallel-resonant mode of operation.
[0125] Now, the upstream components of the circuit 300 act as a voltage controller and vary the
power Vi, to maintain a constant feedback voltage Vfb, resulting in a substantially constant

                                                 27
motional voltage VM and maintaining a substantially constant rate of movement of the cutting
blade portion of the waveguide 318 across a variety of cutting loads. Again, unlike the prior art,
the present invention is not simply regulating the input voltage Vi, it is varying the input
voltage Vin for the purpose of regulating the motional voltage VM -- which is novel in the art.
[0126] In each of the circuit configurations described and shown in FIGs. 7-12, circuit
component degradation can impact negatively the entire circuit's performance. One factor that
directly affects component performance is heat. Known circuits generally monitor switching
temperatures (e.g., MOSFET temperatures) However, because of the technological
advancements in MOSFET designs, and the corresponding reduction in size, MOSFET
temperatures are no longer a valid indicator of circuit loads and heat. For this reason, the
present invention senses with the sensing circuit 314 the temperature of the transformer 310
according to an exemplary embodiment. This temperature sensing is very advantageous as
transformer 310 is run at or very close to its maximum temperature during use of the device.
Additional temperature will cause the core material, e.g., the ferrite, to break down and
permanent damage can occur. The present invention can respond to a maximum temperature of
the transformer 310 by, for example, reducing the driving power in the transformer 310,
signaling the user, turning the power off completely, pulsing the power, or other appropriate
responses.
[0127] Referring back to FIG. 1, in one embodiment, the processor 302 is communicatively
coupled to the clamping mechanism 118, which is used to place material in physical contact
with the blade portion of the waveguide 318. The clamping mechanism 118 has a range of
clamping force values and the processor 302 varies the motional voltage VM based upon the
received clamping force value. Because high force values combined with a set motional rate
can result in high blade temperatures, a temperature sensor 322 can be communicatively coupled
to the processor 302, where the processor 302 is operable to receive and interpret a signal
indicating a current temperature of the blade from the temperature sensor 322 and determine a
target frequency of blade movement based upon the received temperature.
[0128] According to an embodiment of the present invention, the PLL 308, which is coupled to
the processor 302, is able to determine a frequency of waveguide (318) movement and
communicate the frequency to the processor 302. The processor 302 stores this frequency value
in the memory 326 when the device is turned off. By reading the clock 330, the processor 302 is

                                                   28
able to determine an elapsed time after the device is shut off and retrieve the last frequency of
waveguide movement if the elapsed time is less than a predetermined value. The device can
then start up at the last frequency, which, presumably, is the optimum frequency for the current
load.
TRANSDUCER
[0129] FIGs. 13 to 30 show various exemplary embodiments of a "gun" type device 1300, 1800,
2300 suitable to hold and/or contain the entire inventive device illustrated in the diagram of FIG.
3. More specifically, as shown in the cutaway view of FIG. 14, the ultrasonic surgical device
1300 includes a disposable ultrasonic cutting tool handle 1408 that has a water-tight salable
battery-holding compartment 1422, a driving-wave generation circuit 1420 in electrical contact
with the battery-holding compartment 1422, a transducer attachment dock 1404 accessible from
an exterior of the handle and operable to releasably physically couple the transducer 1302 to a
waveguide 1310 (represented as a dotted line in FIG. 13) coupled to the handle 1408 through a
waveguide attachment dock 1406 that is disposed to accept and physically couple the ultrasonic
waveguide 1310 to the transducer 1302.
[0130] The ultrasonic surgical device 1300 includes a disposable handle body 1308 defining a
battery-holding compartment 1422 shaped to receive a battery 1700 therein and operable to
couple a proximal end of the ultrasonic waveguide 1310 to the ultrasonic transducer 1302
therethrough. The handle body 1308 has a transducer dock 4102 (shown best in FIG. 41)
exposed to the environment and shaped to interchangeably house at least a portion of the
transducer 1302 thereat. The handle body 1308 further includes a waveguide attachment dock
1428 shaped to align and attach the proximal end of the waveguide 1310 to the transducer 1302
and thereby hold the waveguide 1310 and the transducer 1302 at least partially within the body
when the transducer 1302 is docked in the transducer dock 4102 and the waveguide 1310 is
docked in the waveguide attachment dock 1428.
[0131] An upper portion of the handle body 1308 houses a disposable driving-wave generation
circuit 1420 that is in electrical contact with the battery 1700 and the transducer 1302 when the
battery 1700 and transducer are disposed, respectively, in the battery-holding compartment 1422
and the transducer dock 4102. The generation circuit 1420 is operable to generate an output

                                                  29
waveform sufficient to generate ultrasonic movement along the waveguide by exciting the
transducer when the transducer is coupled to the waveguide 1310.
[0132] The transducer 1302 is generally secured by screwing the transducer 1302 onto a
waveguide 1310, both being at least partially within the transducer port 1404. The physical
couple between the handle 1408 and the transducer 1302, once attached, can be water-tight and,
in some embodiments, can be aseptic. As explained above, the transducer 1302 imparts the
physical forces to the waveguide 318 at the proper frequency and force and receives power from
the battery 1700 through conductive power leads 1426. The transducer assembly 1302 is shown
in greater detail in FIGs. 15 and 16.
[0133] Referring to FIG. 15, the reusable cordless transducer assembly 1402 is shown separate
from the device 1300. The inventive transducer assembly 1402 includes a shaft 1504 with an
ultrasonic waveguide couple 1508 that is able to attach to a waveguide and, upon activation of
the transducer shaft 1504, excite the attached waveguide, i.e., impart ultrasonic waves along the
length of the waveguide. The transducer assembly 1402 also has a housing 1506 that protects
and seals the internal working components (shown in FIG. 16) from the environment. It is
advantageous for the transducer assembly 1402 to be selectively removable from the device
1300. As a separate component, the transducer assembly 1402 can be medically disinfected or
sterilized, e.g., put in an autoclave, and used for multiple surgeries, while the less-expensive gun
itself may be disposable. In addition, the transducer assembly 1402 can be used in multiple
guns or in the same gun up to a desired maximum number of times before it is required to be
disposed.
[0134] FIG. 16 shows one exemplary embodiment of the transducer assembly 1302. Within the
housing 1506 is the movable shaft 1504. When an electric field is created in the piezoelectric
crystal stack 1604 at one end 1606 of the shaft 1504, the shaft 1504 moves laterally within and
relative to the housing 1506. In this embodiment, the waveguide couple 1508 is male and
includes threads 1610, which are used to secure the transducer assembly 1302 to the non
illustrated waveguide 318 by screwing the waveguide 318 onto the threads 1610 with an
appropriate amount of torque. In contrast, in FIG. 15, the waveguide couple 1508 was female
allowing the waveguide to be screwed into the waveguide couple 1508.

                                                   30
[0135] A novel feature of the transducer 1402 is its ability to mechanically and electrically
connect at the same time. FIG. 15 shows an exemplary embodiment of electrical connector rings
1510 of the transducer 1402. As the transducer 1402 is being coupled by the waveguide couple
1508 to a waveguide attached to the handle 1408, the connector rings 1510 are brought into
contact with, for example, a set of power contacts 4104, shown in FIG. 41. The power contacts
4104 places the piezoelectric crystal stack 1604 in contact with the power source 1700 of the
handle 1408. This substantially simultaneous coupling can be configured to occur in all
embodiments of the present invention.
[0136] The transducer assembly 1302 and the transducer assembly housing 1404 can be sealed
so that, in the rare event of surgical fluids contacting the transducer assembly 1302, they will not
introduce themselves into the interior of the housing 1506.
[0137] The gun 1300, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention, has,
within its handle 1408, a power assembly 1700 (including power source 1702 and a generator
1704), referred to herein as a battery-and-generator assembly or "BAG" 1700, shown in detail in
FIG. 17. The battery 1702 within the BAG 1700 can be a single battery or a plurality of battery
cells operating as a unit. Both battery configurations (single or multiple cells) will be referred to
herein as the "battery" 1702 herein.
[0138] The battery 1702 powers the generator 1704, which can include some or all of the
components shown in FIG. 3 and described in detail above. Specifically, the generator 1704
powers the transducer and includes the processor 302, the switch 306 (e.g., a MOSFET power
switch), the drive circuit 308 (PLL), the transformer 310, the signal smoothing/matching circuit
312, and the sensing circuit 314. The present invention's ability to provide all of the necessary
reusable generator components of the ultrasonic cutting tool within the disposable handle 1408
of the gun-type device 1300 provides a great advantage over prior-art devices, which house a
majority of the device components within the very expensive and heavy desktop box 202 shown
in FIG. 2 and which also creates an expensive and bulky tether 208 between the device (FIGs. 1
and 2) and the box 202. The inventive circuit techniques of the present invention sever the
dependency on high voltage (120VAC) input power, a characteristic of all prior-art ultrasonic
cutting devices, and utilizes only low-voltage switching throughout the wave-forming process.

                                                       31
[0139] In addition to the advantages of reduced cost, reduced size, elimination of a tethering
cord for supplying power and carrying signals, and a constant motional voltage, the instant
invention provides unique advantages for maintaining a sterile environment in an operating or
other environment. More specifically, in exemplary embodiments of the present invention, the
handle includes an aseptic seal. An "aseptic" seal, as used herein, means a seal that sufficiently
isolates a compartment (e.g., inside the handle) and components disposed therein from a sterile
field of an operating environment into which the handle has been introduced so that no
contaminants from one side of the seal are able to transfer to the other side of the seal.
[0140] As shown in FIG. 14, for example, the handle 1408 is also provided with a closable door
1412, for instance, at its bottom 1401. This provides a variety of possible assemblies. In one
assembly, the gun body 1414, which includes the transducer coupling port 1404 and the
triggering mechanisms 1418, is disposable and never used more than for a single surgery. This
sub-assembly is generally the least expensive of all of the components of the device; in some
cases, it is 1/ 10 0 th of the total cost of the device. The transducer 1302, which is much more
expensive and is autoclavable, can be reused multiple times.
[0141] An exemplary procedure for use of the device with the BAG 1700 is explained with
regard to FIGs. 13 and 14. To start, a person in the sterile field opens a sealed package
containing the new sterile gun body 1408 and removes it for use during the operation. The gun
body 1408 can either already include the cannula 320 and waveguide 1310 (indicated with a
dashed line) or can be coupled to a cannula 320 and waveguide 1310 after the package is
opened. Next, the sterile (autoclaved) transducer assembly 1302 is inserted into the gun body
1408 and appropriately attached to the waveguide 1310. The surgeon then presents the
underside of the gun body 1408 (with the door 1412 open) to the circulating nurse, who drops
the BAG 1700 into the grip portion 1424 of the gun handle 1408 without contacting the exterior
of the gun body 1408. Someone in the operating field (e.g., the surgeon) then closes the door
1412, thereby securing the non-sterile BAG 1700 within the gun 1300 through a sterile seal
1401 and preventing it from contaminating the sterile field. Because the removable BAG 1700
is sealed within the handle 1408, it is "outside" the sterile field during surgery.
Self-Contained Ultrasonic Device (SCUD)

                                                  32
[0142] FIGs. 18 and 19 show yet another embodiment of the present invention in which the
gun-shaped exterior body 1800 has a different shape than exterior body 1300 of FIGs. 13 and
14. The exterior body 1800 is shaped with a larger upper portion 1802. In this case, the
generator, battery, and transducer are able to be inserted, either together as an assembly (referred
to herein as an "ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly") or as separate components into a
water-tight salable cordless ultrasonic-movement-generation-assembly-holding compartment
1904 within the upper portion 1802 of the exterior body 1800. The interior of the compartment
1904 remains outside the sterile field during surgery with the aid of a sterile seal 1801. This
insertion is performed through use of, as shown in FIG. 19, a door 1806, 1906 that can be
opened and closed. When closed, the door 1806, 1906 seals the interior of the gun 1800 from
the exterior environment of the gun 1800 and vice versa.
[0143] FIG. 20 shows an embodiment of the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2000
that includes a battery 2002 (in this embodiment, similar to the embodiment of FIG. 17, the
battery is a pack of batteries), a driving-wave generation circuit 2004 (i.e., generator), and a
transducer 2006. The entire device 1900, shown in FIGs. 19, 21, and 22, is referred to herein as
a Self-Contained Ultrasonic Device or "SCUD." The ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly
2000 can be easily inserted within the compartment 1904 of the disposable handle body 1800
and then sealed from the environment by the door 1806, 1906. Advantageously, in this
exemplary embodiment, the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2000, similar to the
power source 1700, shown in FIG. 17, can be sterilized, but does not necessarily need to be
sterile because it is shielded from the operating environment. This provides a tremendous
advantage over prior art devices because the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2000
and BAG 1700 do not have to be watertight or autoclavable. Without the requirements of being
watertight and sterilizable, the electrical connectivity of the components can be easily and
inexpensively obtained. For instance, when electrically connected components must be
hermetically, or simply waterproof-sealed, the contacts need to be securely protected from
moisture and from separation during the high temperature solutions to which they are exposed.
For instance, leads would need to be soldered together or otherwise securely affixed to one
another and wrapped with a protective coating to prevent rust/tarnishing and/or separation. This
protective requirement is not present or at least not as stringent if the components can simply be
slipped inside of an outer protective chamber, such as the handle of the ultrasonic gun 1300,
1800 of the present invention. These advantageous features reduce costs and failures, make
troubleshooting much easier, and allow replacing or switching parts to be relatively simple. For

                                                 33
instance, from time-to-time, a battery will "go bad" or not function properly. When a unit is
fully sealed, opening it to replace the battery with another renders the device no longer
hermetically sealed or, at a minimum, no longer reliably sealed. In contrast to such hermetically
sealed devices, when the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2000 (e.g., shown in FIG.
20) is made to be inserted into a sealed chamber, it can be configured to open easily and allow
any component therein to be removed and exchanged as desired. Including all of the expensive
components of the system in the reusable ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2000
allows for a simple and inexpensive design for the disposable ultrasonic gun portion of the
system.
[0144] FIGs. 21 and 22 show the disposable handle body 1800 with the ultrasonic-movement
generation assembly 2000 inserted in the upper chamber 1904. The disposable handle body
1800 has a waveguide attachment dock 2104 disposed on an exterior of the body 1800, which is
exposed to the environment and has a first couple 2108 operable to releasably physically couple
a waveguide to the handle body 1800. The upper chamber 1904 is a water-tight, aseptically
salable, waveguide-movement-generation-assembly-holding compartment and has within its
interior a waveguide-movement-generation assembly attachment dock 2106 that is operable to
releasably physically couple the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2000 to the handle
2101 and place the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2000 in direct physical contact
with an ultrasonic waveguide. The ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2000 is held in
place by a door 1906 having an open position (shown in FIG. 22) that allows entry of the
ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2000 into the chamber 1904 and removal of
ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2000 from the chamber 1904. The door 1906 also
has a closed position (shown in FIG. 21) that aseptically seals the interior from the exterior of
the handle. In one exemplary embodiment, the chamber 1904 has a motion-generator-assembly
ejector 2110 extending at least partially within the holding compartment 1904 and operable to
activate (e.g., by movement of the door 1906 from the closed position to the open position) and
at least partially eject the assembly 2000 from the holding compartment 1904.
[0145]           Once inserted, the gun 1800 is fully functional and ready to use with a waveguide
(see, e.g., FIG. 25). The exemplary embodiment shown in FIGs. 18-22 allows the costliest
portions of the gun to be reused as many times as desired and, advantageously, the portion of the
device that is subject to fluids and other contaminates, i.e., the gun 1800, to be of low cost and
disposed after the surgery.

                                                  34
[0146] Another advantage of a removable ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2000 or
the BAG 1700 is realized when lithium-ion (Li) batteries are used. As previously stated herein,
lithium batteries should not be charged in a parallel configuration of multiple cells. This is
because, as the voltage increases in a particular cell, it begins to accept more charge faster than
the other lower-voltage cells. Therefore, each cell must be monitored so that a charge to that
cell can be controlled individually. When a lithium battery is formed from a group of cells, a
multitude of wires extending from the exterior of the device to the battery 1702 is needed, at
least one additional wire for each battery cell beyond the first. By having a removable
ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2000 or BAG 1700, each battery cell can have its
own exposed set of contacts and, when not present inside the device, each set of contacts can
coupled to a corresponding set of contacts in an external, non-sterile battery-charging device.
Transducer-and-Generator Assembly (TAG)
[0147] FIGs. 23-30 and 42-45 show yet another exemplary embodiment 2300 of the present
invention, which includes a disposable ultrasonic cutting tool handle 2301, a waveguide 2504,
2508, a waveguide-movement-generation assembly 2303, which includes the transducer and
driving-wave generation circuit (generator shown in FIG. 24), and a battery 304. This
embodiment, for ease of reference, is referred to herein as a Transducer-and-Generator
assembly, or "TAG" 2300, which acronym refers to the contents of the removable waveguide
movement-generation assembly 2303.
[0148] The handle 2301 of the TAG 2300 includes a first handle body portion 2302 defining
therein an aseptically salable battery-holding compartment 2410 shaped to receive a removable
battery 304 therein. The handle 2301 further includes a second handle body portion 2310 that is
connected to, or integral with, the first handle body portion 2302. The second handle body
portion 2310 has a waveguide attachment dock 2416 exposed to the environment and having a
first couple 2418 operable to connect an ultrasonic waveguide 2504, 2508 thereto, as shown in
FIG. 25. The handle 2301 also includes an ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly dock
4202 (shown in FIG. 42) exposed to the environment and shaped to connect the ultrasonic
waveguide 2508 in the waveguide attachment dock 2418 to an ultrasonic-movement-generation
assembly 2303 through the second handle body portion 2310. An electrical couple (such as
couple 4106, shown in FIG. 41), connects the battery 304 within the battery-holding
compartment 2410 to the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2303 when the ultrasonic-

                                                  35
movement-generation assembly 2303 is docked at the ultrasonic-movement-generation
assembly dock 4202. As an alternative to this exemplary embodiment, the battery 304 can
include part or all of the driving-wave generation circuit.
[0149] The removable ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2303 is a cordless (i.e.,
battery powered) assembly and has a selectively removable securing connector 4204 and an
output couple 4206 operable to impart ultrasonic movement to the ultrasonic waveguide 2508
when the waveguide 2508 is connected thereto. The assembly 2303 includes a shell 2304,
shown in FIG. 23, housing an ultrasonic generator 2404 and an ultrasonic transducer 2406, both
shown in FIG. 24. The shell 2304 has a securing connection 4204 shaped to selectively
removably connect to a first connector part 4208 of the ultrasonic surgical handle 2300, shown
in FIG. 42. The connection 4204 can be a "dove-tail," as shown in the exemplary embodiment
of the figures or any other coupling method that allows the ultrasonic-movement-generation
assembly 2303 to be removably attached to the handle 2301. The transducer 2406 has an output
couple 4206 operable to impart ultrasonic movement to an ultrasonic waveguide 2508 when the
waveguide 2508 is connected thereto. In one embodiment, the output couple 4206 is a threaded
connection that can be screwed onto or into a waveguide 2508. In addition, the ultrasonic
movement-generation assembly 2303 can be a sealed watertight and/or autoclavable assembly
that can be used in a surgical procedure, sterilized, and then simply be coupled to a brand new
handle 2300 to perform a second surgical procedure. As will be described, the TAG 2303 can
take several different embodiments.
[0150] FIG. 24 is a cutaway view showing the interior of the TAG 2300 with the near-side (left
side) cover of the handle 2301 and the shell 2304 of the ultrasonic-movement-generation
assembly 2303 removed. Here, the power supply 304 (e.g., a battery) fits entirely within the
first portion 2302 of the handle 2301. The cylindrical device 2406 shown in FIG. 24 is the
transducer assembly, such as the transducer assembly 316 of FIG. 3. Located above the
transducer assembly 2406 is the generator 2404. The two ultrasonic-movement-generation
assembly components 2404, 2406, when placed inside the covering shell 2304, advantageously
can be easily detached from the handle 2301 and sterilized or replaced as a complete unit. In
one embodiment, the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly components 2404, 2406 are
hermetically sealed inside the cover 2304, rendering the ultrasonic-movement-generation
assembly 2303 autoclavable so that it can be attached to and used with several different devices.
The ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2303 is coupled to the second portion 2310 of

                                                   36
the handle 2302 through a port 2408. The port 2408, when the ultrasonic-movement-generation
assembly 2303 is removed, is visible and accessible from an exterior of the handle 2301.
However, once the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2303 is snapped onto the handle
2301, the handle 2301 and ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2303 could be shaped to
create a water-tight seal with one another and prevent moisture on the exterior of either one of
the handle 2302 and ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2303 from entering the junction
between the handle 2301 and ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2303.
[0151] FIG. 24 also shows a battery door 2412 that, when opened, allows a battery 304 to be
inserted into the battery-holding compartment 2410 and, when closed, as shown in FIG. 24,
creates a water-tight seal (e.g., aseptic seal) between the interior of the handle 2302, shown in
the cutaway view of FIG. 24, and the exterior of the handle 2302, shown in the elevational view
of FIG. 23.
[0152] Once the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2303 is coupled to the handle 2301,
the driving-wave generation circuit, or "generator" 2404, is placed in electrical contact with the
battery-holding compartment 2410 so that a battery 304, when inserted, can supply power to the
ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2303. Additionally, referring now to FIG. 25, when
an ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2502 is coupled to a handle 2514, the transducer
2516 is caused to be realeasably physically coupled to a waveguide 2504, 2508 through the
transducer attachment port 2518 and waveguide attachment port 2520. It is envisioned that the
transducer assembly 2516 can be temporarily locked into a fixed rotational position so that the
waveguide 2504 can be attached to the threads 1610 (see, e.g., FIG. 16) with sufficient force.
This physical coupling between the waveguide 2504 and the transducer assembly 2516 allows
the transducer assembly 2516 to impart movement to the waveguide 2504 when power is
applied to the transducer assembly 2516.
[0153] The gun 2500 has a spindle 2506 that attaches to the waveguide 2508. The spindle 2506
has indentions that allow a surgeon to easily rotate the spindle 2506 and, therefore, the attached
waveguide 2508 and transducer assembly 2516 that is attached to the waveguide 2508. Such a
configuration is useful for obtaining the proper cutting-blade angle during surgery. To provide
for this rotation, in one exemplary embodiment, the transducer assembly 2516 is able to rotate
freely within the transducer housing 2510.

                                                  37
[0154] During initial coupling of the transducer assembly 2516 and waveguide 2504, all that is
needed is that one of the transducer assembly 2516 and the waveguide 2504 remains relatively
stationary with respect to the other. According to one exemplary embodiment of the present
invention, when the transducer assembly 2516 is located inside the housing 2510 -      where it
cannot be readily secured by the operator, for example, by holding it steady by hand when the
waveguide 2508 is being secured -      the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 2502 is
provided with a button (not shown) that slides into a recess in the housing 2510 or, alternatively,
by fixing the rotation of the transducer assembly 2516 at a maximum rotational angle so that,
once the maximum rotation is reached, for example, 360 degrees of rotation, no additional
rotation is possible and the waveguide 2504 can be screwed thereon. Of course, a maximum
rotation in the opposite direction will allow the waveguide 2504 to be removed as well.
[0155] FIG. 26 shows one example of how the generator assembly 2512 and transducer
assembly 2516 are electrically coupled so that a physical rotation of the transducer assembly
2516 with respect to the generator assembly 2512 is possible. In this example, the generator
assembly 2512 has a pair of contacts 2602 protruding from its underside, adjacent the transducer
assembly 2516. Proximity of the transducer assembly 2516 to the generator assembly 2512
places one of the pair of contacts 2602 (circled) in physical communication with a pair of
contact rings 2604 at the transducer body 2610 so that a driving signal can be steadily applied to
the transducer assembly 2516 when needed. Advantageously, the pair of contacts 2602
maintains electrical contact regardless of an angle of rotation of the transducer assembly 2516.
Therefore, the transducer assembly 2516 can rotate without any limitations as to the maximum
angle or number of rotations. In one embodiment of the present invention, the waveguide
movement-generation assembly 2303 can include a battery 304. This embodiment is
advantageous, as it allows the handle portion 2302 to be made smaller or cheaper, as battery
contacts are not necessary in the handle portion 2302.
TRANSDUCER
[0156] In another non-illustrated embodiment, the cover 2304 is not present and the transducer
assembly 2516 and generator assembly 2512 assemblies are individually covered, i.e., sealed
and autoclavable, with each cover being exposed and accessible to a user's fingers. With the
main cover 2304 not present, an operator attaching the transducer assembly 2516 to the
waveguide 2508 has direct access to the transducer assembly 2516 and is able to hold both the

                                                     38
transducer assembly 2516 and the waveguide 2508 and turn either one relative to the other
during coupling.
[0157] FIGs. 27-30 show more detailed views of exemplary embodiments of the device and the
trigger mechanisms. It is noted that there is a difference between the activation trigger of the
device shown in FIGs. 19-22 and the trigger shown in FIGs. 23-30. Specifically, in the device
1800 of FIGs. 19-22, and shown more particularly in FIG. 21, the upper handle portion 1802 is
hollow. Because it is hollow, the trigger 2102 can be a thick object that, when squeezed, is able
to retract at least partially into the interior of the handle 2101. The thick trigger 2102 has the
advantage of preventing a user's fingers from getting pinched when the trigger 2102 is
squeezed. In contrast to this embodiment, the embodiment of FIG. 24 includes a battery 304
within the interior of the hand grip 2302. Because the interior of the hand grip 2302 is filled
with the battery 304, the trigger 2308 cannot retreat inside the hand grip 2302 when actuated, as
does the trigger 2102 of FIG. 21. For this reason, the trigger 2308 is thinner than the trigger
2102 of FIG. 21 in the trigger actuation direction and simply moves toward the hand grip 2302
during actuation (it does not enter the interior of the hand grip 2302, or enters it only
minimally).
[0158] Advantageously, to prevent a user's finger from getting caught between the trigger 1318,
1418, 2308 and the hand grip 1308, 1408, 2302, the trigger includes a protrusion 1306, 2306
extending from the hand grip 1308, 2302 and preventing the user's finger from moving up and
under the trigger 1318, 2308. Not only does the protrusion 1306, 2306 prevent the user's finger
from getting pinched and causing possible discomfort, the protrusion 1306, 2306 also prevents
the user's finger from interfering with functioning of the trigger 1318, 2308.
[0159] In an alternative exemplary embodiment to the gun device, FIGs. 31 to 34 illustrate an
entirely hand-held and fully self-contained cautery and cutting device 3300. This cutting device
3300 reduces the size of the power supply 3302 considerably. Here, in comparison to the
previous embodiments, the waveguide 3304 is reduced in length. All of the power modification
components (the control, drive, and matching circuits 304, 306, 308) and the power supply 3302
reside at the handpiece 3310. As in the other embodiments described above, the pen shaped
device shown in FIGs. 31 to 34 could have, in accordance with one embodiment, a sealed body
3302, where the body 3302 housing the power modification components (the control, drive, and
matching circuits 304, 306, 308) and the power supply 3302 is autoclavable and the waveguide

                                                   39
3304 is simply replaced for each procedure. Alternatively, the body 3102 could open up and
receive the power modification components (the control, drive, and matching circuits 304, 306,
308) and the power supply 3302 in an aseptic transfer, similar to the device shown in FIG. 21
and described above.
[0160] In further exemplary embodiments of the present invention, the power supply can be
separated from the handpiece and can, for example, be worn on a physician's belt. An example
of such embodiments can be seen in FIGS. 34 to 38. In these embodiments, the base 3700,
shown in FIG. 37, has a body 3706 that houses a self-contained power source (i.e., a battery)
and a generator circuit operable to generate an output waveform and is sized to be handheld.
The base 3700 is connected through a communications and power tether cord 3702, illustrated
diagrammatically in the figures with a dashed line, to the pen-shaped ultrasonic waveguide
handle 3600, shown in FIGs. 34-36. When in operation, the transducer 3602 within the handle
3600 is driven by a plurality of driving waves output from the waveform generator within the
body 3706.
[0161] The base 3700 has a user interface 3704 that can be used to communicate data and carry
out functions of the device, such as testing and operation. Through the user interface 3704, the
device can be tested in the sealed package without even opening the package. For instance, in
one embodiment, a user can press one or more non-illustrated buttons (physical or electronic) in
a given sequence (e.g., 5 times in a row) and, thereby, cause the user interface 3704 to display a
status of the battery and/or a status of the logic circuitry, all without having to remove it from
the sealed package. This is helpful in case of a defect, such as a bad battery, as the purchaser
would be able to return the device to the manufacturer before use and, thereby, prove non-use of
the device to receive credit. In this embodiment, all of the power modification components (the
power supply 304, the processor 302, the drive circuit 308, and the matching circuit 312) reside
in the base 3700.
[0162] The base 3700 is also provided with a non-illustrated clothing attachment mechanism
that can be a simple belt clip, or any other way of attaching a device to a wearer. The clothing
attachment mechanism allows a surgeon or nurse to wear the base 3700 during a surgery so that
the cord 3702 will always be of sufficient length, i.e., as long as his arm can reach, no matter
where the surgeon is standing.

                                                 40
[0163] For ease of use, the cautery/cutting device 3400 is shaped to fit into a surgeon's hand.
The shape illustrated in FIG. 34 is, therefore, only exemplary. Another exemplary shape for the
pen device 3600 is shown in FIGS. 35 and 36 and is similar to a writing pen so that the surgery
can be carried out with the device 3600 to approximate writing - a process that is comfortable to
most physicians. The pen 3400, 3600 includes all of the transducer components -- the
transducer 3402, 3602, the protective cannula 3404, 3604, and the waveguide 3406, 3606.
[0164] In various other embodiments of the present invention, one or more of the components,
together or separate, can be removed from or exchanged between the handpiece 2300, 3300,
3400, 3600 and the base 3700 for service, replacement, storage, inspection, or other purposes as
desired.
[0165] The component(s) of the devices described herein (whether separately, as a unit, or a
frame to which they are connected to one another) can implement a confirmation process for
ensuring that the various component(s) can or should be used in or with the device. For
instance, the components can perform a check (possibly with encryption) to see whether they
match the particular handpiece 2300, 3300, 3400, 3600 or base 3700, i.e., to see if they have the
correct manufacturer/model number to work with the part in which or to which it is connected.
[0166] In an exemplary safety embodiment for any of the configurations of the invention, the
system can have a safety mechanism where the surgeon using the device is grounded to the
circuit 300. In the event the waveguide 318, 3306, 3406, 3606 accidentally makes contact with
the surgeon, the device senses this grounding and immediately ceases movement of the
waveguide 318, 3306, 3406, 3606, thereby instantly preventing the surgeon from cutting
him/herself. Because the hand-held instrument 2300, 3300, 3400, 3600, 3700 is not connected
to earth ground, it will be possible to provide a safety circuit that can sense contact with the
surgeon and interrupt ultrasonic power delivery. For example, a capacitive contact patch located
on the hand grip 2302, 3310, 3400, 3600, 3700 is connected to a capacitive-touch sensing circuit
(such as is used for capacitive switching and known to those in the art) and disposed to detect
contact of the working tip with the surgeon. When such contact is detected, the drive circuit of
the instrument will be shut down to avoid applying cutting energy to the surgeon. Such a
sensing circuit would be impractical in systems of the prior art, where the handpiece is
connected to a large piece of earth-grounded electrical equipment.

                                                 41
[0167] FIG. 39 shows another exemplary embodiment of the present invention, which includes
a "smart" or "intelligent" battery 3902. The smart battery 3902 is used to power a surgical or
other device, such as the gun 3900. However, the smart battery 3902 is not limited to the gun
3900 and, as will be explained, can be used in a variety of devices, which may or may not have
power (i.e., current and voltage) requirements that vary from each other. The smart battery 3902
is advantageously able to identify the particular device to which it is electrically coupled. It
does this through encrypted or unencrypted identification methods. For instance, the battery
3902 can have a connection portion, such as portion 3904 shown in FIG. 39. The gun's handle
3901 can also be provided with a device identifier 3906 communicatively coupled to the battery
holding compartment 3908 and operable to communicate at least one piece of information about
the handle 3901. This information can pertain to the number of times the handle 3901 has been
used, the number of times a TAG unit 3910 has been used, the number of times a waveguide
(not shown) has been used, the type of waveguide connected to the handle 3901, the type or
identity of TAG 3910 connected to the handle 3901, or many other characteristics. When the
battery 3902 is inserted in the handle 3901, the connection portion 3904 makes communicating
contact with the device identifier 3906. The handle 3910, through hardware, software, or a
combination thereof, is able to transmit information to the smart battery assembly 3902. This
communicated identifier is received by the connection portion 3904 of the smart battery
assembly 3902.
[0168] In one embodiment, once the smart battery assembly 3902 receives the information, the
communication portion 3904 is operable to control the output of the battery assembly 3902 to
comply with the device's specific power requirements. By integrating a microcontroller 3916 in
the communication portion 3904 of the battery assembly 3902, it is no longer required that a
programmable device be placed in the disposable handle portion 3901. As a result, the handle
may be sterilized by gamma radiation, which is more economical than other sterilization
measures.
[0169] In accordance with another embodiment, the battery-holding compartment 3908 has a
battery ejector device 3912 that extends at least partially within the battery-holding
compartment 3908 and is able to cause at least a portion of the battery 3902 to be ejected from
the battery-holding compartment 3908. This prevents an operator from having to reach his or
her potentially soiled or otherwise non-sterile fingers inside the device in order to remove the
battery assembly 3902. In one embodiment, the battery-holding compartment 3908 is activated

                                                  42
by a movement of the door from the closed position to the open position. In other words, once
the door is opened, the batter 3902 partially ejects out of the compartment 3908.
[0170] In some exemplary embodiments of the present invention, the transducer assembly 1302,
shown in FIG. 15, contains additional circuit components, such as the tank circuit 312 shown in
FIG. 3. In practice, the tank circuit 312 is tuned to match the transducer to which it feeds.
Therefore, transducers and tank circuits are best matched if they remain as a pair and are not
placed in combination with other device. In addition, if each transducer assembly 1302 had its
own tank circuit, the smart battery 3902 could feed different frequencies to the different
transducer assemblies 1302, the frequencies being respectively matched to a particular blade and
waveguide assembly. Two popular frequencies for ultrasonic surgery devices are 55kHz and
40kHz.
[0171] In one exemplary embodiment, the communication portion 3904 includes a processor,
such as processor 302, and a memory, such as memory 326, which may be separate or a single
component. The processor 302, in combination with the memory 326, is able to provide
intelligent power management for the gun device 3900. This embodiment is particularly
advantageous because an ultrasonic device, such as device 300, has a power requirement
(frequency, current, and voltage) that may be unique to the device 300. In fact, device 300 may
have a particular power requirement or limitation for one dimension or type of waveguide 318
and a second different power requirement for a second type of waveguide having a different
dimension, shape, and/or configuration.
[0172] If a set of different devices having different waveguides exists, then each of the
waveguides would have a respective maximum allowable power limit. Exceeding the power
limit overstresses the waveguide and eventually causes it to fracture. One waveguide from the
set of waveguides will naturally have the smallest maximum power tolerance. Because the
prior-art batteries lack intelligent battery power management, the output of prior-art batteries
must be limited by a value of the smallest maximum allowable power input for the
smallest/thinnest/most frail waveguide in the set that is envisioned to be used with the
device/battery. This would be true even though larger, thicker waveguides could later be
attached to that handle and, by definition, allow a greater force to be applied.

                                                43
[0173] This limitation is also true for maximum battery power. If one battery is designed to be
used in multiple devices, its maximum output power will be limited to the lowest maximum
power rating of any of the devices in which it is to be used. With such a configuration, one or
more devices or device configurations would not be able to maximize use of the battery because
the battery does not know the device's limits.
[0174] In contrast thereto, exemplary embodiments of the present invention utilizing the smart
battery 3902 are able to intelligently circumvent any previous limitation of ultrasonic devices.
The smart battery 3902 can produce one output for one device or a particular device
configuration and the same battery 3902 can later produce a different output for a second device
or device configuration. This universal smart battery surgical system lends itself well to the
modern operating room where space and time are at a premium. By having a single battery pack
that operates many different devices, the nurses can easily manage the storage and retrieval of
the packs. Advantageously, the smart battery system requires only one type of charging station,
thus increasing ease and efficiency of use and decreasing cost.
[0175] In addition, other devices, such as an electric stapler, may have a completely different
power requirement than that of the ultrasonic device 300. With the present invention, a single
smart battery 3902 can be used with any one of an entire series of devices and is able to tailor its
own power output to the particular device in which it is installed. In one embodiment, this
power tailoring is performed by controlling the duty cycle of a switched mode power supply,
such as buck, buck-boost, boost, or other configuration, integral with or otherwise coupled to
and controlled by the smart battery 3902.
[0176] In other exemplary embodiments, the smart battery 3902 can dynamically change its
power output during device operation. For instance, in vessel sealing devices, power
management is very important. In these devices, large constant current values are needed. The
total power output needs to be adjusted dynamically because, as the tissue is sealed, its
impedance changes. Embodiments of the present invention provide the smart battery 3902 with
a variable maximum current limit. The current limit can vary from one application (or device)
to another, based on the requirements of the application or device.
[0177] More specifically, referring to FIG. 44, an ultrasonic surgical device 4400 has an
ultrasonic waveguide 4402 with one of a set of different waveguide types. An ultrasonic

                                                  44
transducer 4404 is physically coupled to the waveguide 4402 and is operable to impart
ultrasonic movement to the ultrasonic waveguide 4402. A cordless ultrasonic-movement
generation assembly 4406 is connected to either the waveguide or the transducer and is operable
to generate and deliver a driving-wave frequency and a driving-wave power to the transducer
4404. Because the device 4400 is able to accept and drive waveguides 4402 of varying
dimensions, the device 4400 is provided with a waveguide detector 4408 coupled to the
ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly 4406 and operable to detect the type (e.g., the
dimensions) of the waveguide 4402 attached to the transducer 4404 and to cause the ultrasonic
movement-generation 4406 assembly to vary the driving-wave frequency and/or the driving
wave power based upon the detected waveguide type. The waveguide detector 4408 can be any
device, set of components, software, electrical connections, or other that is/are able to identify at
least one property of a waveguide 4402 connected to the device 4400.
[0178] In a further exemplary embodiment, the smart battery 3902 stores in its memory 326 a
record of each time a particular device is used. This record can be useful for assessing the end
of a device's useful or permitted life. For instance, once a device is used 20 times, all such
batteries 3902 connected to the device will refuse to supply power thereto -- because the device
is defined as a "no longer reliable" surgical instrument. Reliability is determined based on a
number of factors. One factor can be wear; after a certain number of uses, the parts of the
device can become worn and tolerances between parts exceeded. This wear can lead to an
unacceptable failure during a procedure. In some exemplary embodiments, the smart battery
3902 can recognize which parts are combined and even how many uses each part has
experienced. For instance, looking at FIG. 14, if the battery 1700 is a smart battery, it can
identify both the gun 1300, as well as the particular transducer assembly 1302. A memory
within the smart battery 3902 can record each time the transducer assembly 1302 is operated. If
each transducer assembly 1302 has an individual identifier, the smart battery 3902 can keep
track of each transducer assembly's use and refuse to supply power to that transducer assembly
1302 once the gun 1300 or the transducer assembly 1302 exceeds its maximum number of uses.
The TAG, stapler, vessel sealer, etc. circuitry can include a memory chip which records this
information also. This way, any number of smart batteries can be used with any number of
TAGs, staplers, vessel sealers, etc. and still be able to determine the total number of uses, or the
total time of use (through use of clock 330), or the total number of actuations etc. of each TAG,
stapler, vessel sealer etc.

                                                  45
[0179] Referring now to FIG. 40, another embodiment of the present invention is shown. In the
embodiment of FIG. 40, the device 4000 is provided with a plurality of buttons 4002a-n,
although not all can be seen in the left-side view of FIG. 40. These buttons can have various
functions that pertain to operation of the device 4000. As explained above, previous devices
were tethered by a cord 208 to a desktop box 202. If a prior-art device wished to add an
additional function, associated with a button, then an additional communication wire would
need to be added to the non-changeable strand of wires in the tether 208. The addition of wires
renders the tether even less desirous, as the surgeon must work with and support the ever
increasing bundle of wires. The present invention is impervious to this disadvantage because all
communication is contained within the handle itself and no external wires are needed. The
device 4000 will generally operate the same and weigh the same, no matter how many buttons
are added.
[0180] In accordance with yet another embodiment, the present invention is provided with a
display screen 4004 that conveys visual information to an operator. The visual information can
be, for instance, the number of uses a particular waveguide has been subjected to, the battery
voltage, the status of the device, such as indicating a non-engaged condition of the device
components, button states, warnings, and many others.
[0181] The present invention, according to an embodiment, as shown in FIG. 45, has a window
4502 on the compartment door 4504 that allows a user to view a display screen 4506 on a
movement-generation assembly within the compartment. 4508.
[0182] In one embodiment of the present invention, as shown in FIG. 46, the ultrasonic surgical
device 4600 includes a cordless unitary housing 4602 sized to fit within a surgical instrument
handle 4604. The housing 4602 houses a self-contained power source 4606 and a power source
control circuit 4608 that is electrically coupled to the power source 4606 and is operable to
control distribution of power from the power source 4606. The housing 4602 also holds an
ultrasonic waveform-generating circuit 4610 electrically coupled to the control circuit 4708 and
operable to output a waveform sufficient to drive an ultrasonic transducer of the ultrasonic
surgical instrument 4600. In this embodiment, the ultrasonic waveguide driving assembly 4601
can be inserted into the inexpensive handle 4604, used for a single surgery, the handle 4604
disposed of, and the assembly can then be inserted and used in multiple other handles to perform
additional surgeries. In this embodiment, all of the expensive components are reused and do not

                                                  46
need to be aseptically sealed since they are contained within a battery-holding compartment
4612 of the handle 4604 and are never exposed to the operating environment.
[0183] As has been described, the present invention provides a small and efficient hand-held
ultrasonic cutting device that is self-powered and, therefore, cordless. Alternatively, and/or
additionally, the invention has a separate body-worn pack that houses any combination of the
control electronics and the self-contained power supply. In either embodiment, the expensive
set-top box is eliminated entirely. The invention provides low-voltage or battery-voltage
switching or wave-forming stages prior to the transducer. Advantageously, the device allows a
user to operate completely free of cords or other tethering devices. The present invention, by
"marrying" all of the frequency sensitive components within one place (e.g., the handle), also
eliminates any inductive losses that occur between prior art set-top boxes and handpieces - a
disadvantage suffered by all prior-art ultrasonic cautery/cutting devices. Because of the close
coupling between the drive circuit 308 and the matching network 312, the overall power
modification circuit is tolerant of higher Q factors and larger frequency ranges.
[0184] The present invention provides additional advantages in the way the device is kept
sterile. Because the inventive device is a fraction of a size of the prior art devices, the driving
circuit can be placed within the handle. The handle, transducer, waveguide, and blade are
sterilized and the handle has a door that opens, allowing the battery and driving circuits, which
are outside the sterile field, to be dropped inside the handle. When the door is closed, the non
sterile portions are sealed within the handle.

                                                   47
CLAIMS
1.       An ultrasonic surgical assembly, comprising:
         a waveguide;
         a cordless ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly including a driving-wave
generation circuit having a generator output, a shell housing the driving-wave generation circuit
and including a securing connector, and a transducer electrically coupled to the generator output
and having an output couple configured to connect the waveguide thereto;
         a removable battery electrically coupled to the cordless ultrasonic-movement-generation
assembly; and
         a surgical handle, including:
                 a first handle body portion defining an aseptically salable battery-holding
compartment configured to aseptically hold the removable battery and configured to
electrically connect the removable battery to the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly;
and
                 a second handle body portion connected to the first handle body portion and
    including:
                          a waveguide attachment dock operable to connect the waveguide thereto;
                          an ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly dock configured to
removably secure the second handle body portion to the securing connector and connect the
waveguide in the waveguide attachment dock to the output couple through the second handle
body portion.
2.       The ultrasonic surgical assembly according to claim 1, wherein the transducer is
configured to dynamically produce a resonant wave along the waveguide.
3.       The ultrasonic surgical assembly according to claim 1, wherein the driving-wave
generation circuit comprises at least one of a control circuit, a drive circuit, or a matching
circuit.
4.        The ultrasonic surgical assembly according to claim 1, further comprising conductive
power leads in the battery-holding compartment configured to electrically connect the
removable battery to the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly when the removable
battery is aseptically sealed in the battery-holding compartment.

                                                     48
5.        The ultrasonic surgical assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a movable
compartment door connected to the first handle body portion and having:
          an open position permitting entry and removal of the removable battery respectively
into and from the battery-holding compartment; and
          a closed position aseptically sealing the battery-holding compartment from the
environment.
6.        The ultrasonic surgical assembly according to claim 1, wherein the first handle body
portion forms a handgrip of the surgical handle.
7.        The ultrasonic surgical assembly according to claim 1, wherein the removable battery
includes a power source and a power-source controller, the power-source controller operable to
maintain one of a power source output voltage, a power source output current, or a power
source output power.
8.        The ultrasonic surgical assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a memory
electrically connected to the ultrasonic-movement-generation assembly and operable to store a
device use history.
9.        The ultrasonic surgical assembly according to claim 1, further comprising a device
identifier communicatively coupled to the battery-holding compartment and operable to
communicate information about the surgical handle to the removable battery.
10.      The ultrasonic surgical assembly according to claim 9, wherein the information includes
at least one of a handle identifier, a list of previous use, or a waveguide identifier.
                                               Covidien AG
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                       SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
