                                                       ABSTRACT
   Electronic          devices       may be provided                  that     contain     flexible       displays
   and     internal         components.          An     internal           component       may be      positioned
   under        the     flexible         display.          The       internal         component        may    be    an
 5 output        device       such   as     a   speaker         that       transmits       sound      through      the
   flexible          display or        an actuator            that       deforms       the display in          a way
   that      is     sensed       by  a    user.       The     internal          component       may     also    be    a
   microphone           or     pressure         sensor        that         receives       sound      or   pressure
   information            through        the     flexible          display.          Structural        components
10 may      be    used      to    permanently            or      temporarily           deform       the   flexible
   display          to    provide       tactile          feedback           to   a    user    of     the    device.
   Electronic devices may be provided with concave displays or convex
   displays           formed      from       one     or     more         flexible        layers      including        a
   flexible          display       layer.       Portions          of      the   flexible       display       may    be
15 used as speaker membranes for display-based speaker structures.

             Electronic Devices With Flexible Displays
              This application claims priority to United
   States patent application No. 13/171,295,    filed June 28,
   2011, United States patent application No.    13/108,256,
   filed May 16,  2011, United States patent application No.
   13/184,303, filed July 15,    2011, United States patent
   application No.   13/422,724, filed March 16, 2012,
   provisional patent application No.    61/454,894, filed March
   21, 2011, provisional patent application No. 61/454,936,
   filed, March 21, 2011,   and provisional patent application
   No. 61/454,950, filed March 21,    2011 which are hereby
   incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
   Background
              This relates generally to flexible displays, and
   more particularly, to electronic devices with flexible
   displays.
              Electronic devices such as portable computers
 5 and cellular telephones are often provided with rigid
   displays made from rigid display structures.     For example,
   a liquid crystal display    (LCD) may be formed from a stack
   of rigid display structures such as a thin-film transistor
   layer with display pixels for providing visual feedback to
10 a user, a color filter layer for providing the display
                                   1

   pixels with color, a touch screen panel for gathering
   touch input from a user, and a cover glass layer for
   protecting the display and internal components.
             Conventional devices may also have input-output
 5 components such as buttons, microphones, speakers, and
   other components.  Openings are commonly formed in the
   housing of a conventional device to accommodate operation
   of these input-output components.   For example, openings
   may be formed in a device housing to accommodate speaker
10 and microphone ports and openings may be formed in a
   display cover glass layer to accommodate a speaker port
   and menu button.
             The inclusion of these openings to accommodate
   input-output components may not be desirable.   For
15 example, the presence of openings may be aesthetically
   unappealing, may raise the risk of damage from
   environmental exposure, and may reduce the amount of
   active display area that is available to display images
   for a user.
20           There is often very little real estate available
   for mounting these input-output components.   For example,
   input-output components are often mounted under an
   inactive portion of a display or within the sidewalls of
   an electronic device housing.
25           The size and number of input-output components
   such as speakers may be limited by the amount of space
   available in these locations.   For example, a conventional
   device may have a single speaker mounted under an inactive
   portion of a display.   The size and quality of such a
30 speaker may be limited by a lack of space in the inactive
   portion of the display.   Additionally, mounting a speaker
   in the inactive portion of a display may add undesirable
   width to the inactive portion of the display.
        Devices with planar cover glass layers may be prone
                                 2

   to scratches and damage when dropped on a surface.    Users
   can minimize scratches and damage from drop events using a
   protective case.   Protective cases may not, however, be
   convenient or aesthetically appealing for many users.
 5           It is often desirable to produce portable
   devices of minimal size.   Users of portable electronic
   devices may find a thinner device more desirable than a
   thicker device.   Compact portable devices are sometimes
   provided with convex housing shapes. A convex housing
10 shape may increase the internal volume of a device while
   preserving a sleek, thin look that is aesthetically
   pleasing to a user.
             A portable compact device with a convex housing
   may have a display.   In conventional arrangements, the
15 display is flat, so only the portions of the device other
   than the display have a convex shape.    This may limit the
   internal volume of the device and may detract from its
   appearance.
             It would therefore be desirable to be able to
20 provide improved electronic devices.
   Summary
             Electronic devices may be provided with flexible
   displays.   The flexible displays may be composed of one or
25 more flexible layers and may be mounted on top of or under
   a cover layer.   For example, a flexible display may be
   mounted on top of a rigid support member or may be mounted
   on the underside of a rigid cover layer.
             Electronic devices may also be provided with
30 user interface components   (input-output components) such
   as buttons, microphones, speakers, piezoelectric actuators
   (for receiving electrical input from a user or tactile
   feedback to users),  or other actuators such as vibrators,
   pressure sensors, and other components.    These components
                                  3

   may be mounted under portions of a flexible display.
              During operation of the electronic device, the
   flexibility of the display may allow a user to interact
   with the component through the display.      For example,
 5 sound waves from a speaker or localized vibrations from an
   actuator in an electronic device may pass through the
   flexible display.      The flexible display may also allow an
   internal microphone, pressure sensor, or force sensor      (or
   other internal components) to receive external input.       For
10 example, a user may deflect a flexible display using a
   finger or other external object, barometric pressure may
   be monitored through the flexible display, or sound waves
   may be received through the flexible display.
              Components may receive input or may supply
15 output through a physically deformed portion of the
   flexible display    (e.g., a deformation that occurs when a
   user presses on the display to compress the component).
   In some configurations, a portion of the flexible display
   may serve as a membrane that forms part of a microphone,
20 speaker, pressure sensor, or other electronic component.
              The ability of a user to compress a component
   such as a button switch by deforming the flexible display
   may allow the area of a device available for visual
   display to be enlarged.      For example, the active area of a
25 flexible display may overlap a component such as a button
   or speaker.
              If desired, a flexible display may be deformed
   by an internal component to provide audio or tactile
   feedback to a user.      For example, structures inside an
30 electronic device may be pressed against portions of a
   flexible display to temporarily create an outline for a
   virtual on-screen button or to temporarily create a grid
   of ridges that serve to delineate the locations of keys in
   a keyboard   (keypad).
                                    4

              Electronic devices may be provided with concave
   displays.   Peripheral edge portions of a concave display
   may be raised relative to depressed central portions of
   the concave display.   This helps reduce scratches and
 5 other damage due to contact with the central portion of
   the display.
              Concave displays may include one or more
   flexible display layers and may be mounted on top of or
   under a cover layer.   For example, a flexible display
10 layer may be mounted on top of a rigid support member or
   may be mounted on the underside of a rigid cover layer
              Concave displays may also include touch
   sensitive capabilities by stacking a touch sensor array
   layer on top of or under flexible display layers.   Rigid
15 concave displays may be formed from a flexible display
   layer, a touch-sensitive layer, and a rigid cover layer or
   rigid support structure.
              Devices having concave displays formed from
   curved flexible display layers may help maximize the use
20 of the internal volume of an electronic device.
              Electronic devices may be provided with convex
   displays.   The convex displays may include one or more
   flexible display layers and may be mounted on top of or
   under a cover layer with a curved shape.   For example, a
25 flexible display layer may be mounted on top of a rigid
   support member having a convex surface or may be mounted
   on the concave underside of a rigid convex display cover
   layer.
              Convex displays may be provided with touch
30 sensitive capabilities by stacking a touch sensor array on
   top of or under flexible display layers.   Rigid convex
   displays may be formed from a flexible display layer, a
   touch-sensitive layer, and a rigid cover layer or support
   structure.
                                 5

              Devices having convex displays formed from
   curved flexible display layers may help maximize the use
   of the internal volume of an electronic device.
              A display cover such as a cover glass layer may
 5 be mounted over a flexible display.   The flexible display
   may be an organic light-emitting diode display having a
   flexible substrate formed from one or more sheets of
   polymer.   The flexible display may include a touch sensor
   layer having an array of capacitive touch sensor
10 electrodes.
              There may be one or more display-based speaker
   structures in the electronic device.   The display-based
   speaker structures may be mounted under the flexible
   display.   Portions of the flexible display may be used as
15 speaker membranes for the display-based speaker
   structures.
              The flexible display may have an active area
   that is configured to display images to a user.   Speaker
   membranes may be formed from the active portion of the
20 flexible display.   The display-based speaker structures
   may be driven by transducers that receive an electrical
   audio signal input from circuitry in the electronic
   device.   Piezoelectric transducers or transducers formed
   from coils and magnets may be used to drive the display
25 based speaker structures.
              A stiffening structure may be used to stiffen a
   portion of a flexible display that is used as a speaker
   membrane.   The stiffening structure may be formed from a
   layer of foam interposed between sheets of stiffening
30 material.   The stiffening structure may form a stiff and
   lightweight support structure that allows the speaker
   membrane to respond accurately to the transducer.
              A suspension structure may be used to attach a
   display-based speaker structure to surrounding housing
                                 6

   structures.   The suspension structure may form a pliant
   interface between the speaker structure and the
   surrounding housing structures.   The suspension structure
   may allow the speaker structure to vibrate during speaker
 5 operation while inhibiting lateral motion of the speaker
   structure.
              Speaker structures may be configured to achieve
   a desired frequency response.   The electronic device
   housing in which a speaker structure is mounted may be
10 provided with an acoustic port to tune speaker frequency
   response.   The type of transducer that is used in a
   speaker may be selected to tune speaker frequency
   response.   The size and placement of internal device
   components that affect speaker volume and speaker mass may
15 also be selected to tune speaker frequency response.
              An electronic device may be provided with an
   array of display-based speaker structures.   The speaker
   membrane for each speaker structure may be stiffened with
   an associated stiffening structure.   Each stiffened
20 speaker membrane may be surrounded by a ring of flexible
   display that is configured to absorb lateral vibrations
   and thus prevent interference between neighboring
   speakers.
              Further features of the invention, its nature
25 and various advantages will be more apparent from the
   accompanying drawings and the following detailed
   description of the preferred embodiments.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
30            FIG. 1 is a perspective view of an illustrative
   electronic device with a flexible display and internal
   components in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention.
              FIG. 2 is a diagram of an illustrative set of
                                 7

   display layers that may be used to form a flexible display
   in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
             FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device in the
 5 vicinity of an internal user interface component in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
             FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device in the
   vicinity of a button in accordance with an embodiment of
10 the present invention.
             FIG. 5 is a cross-sectional side view of another
   embodiment of a portion of an illustrative electronic
   device in the vicinity of a button in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention.
15           FIG. 6 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device in the
   vicinity of an audio component in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention.
             FIG. 7 is a cross-sectional side view of another
20 embodiment of a portion of an illustrative electronic
   device in the vicinity of an audio component in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention.
             FIG. 8 is a cross-sectional side view of yet
   another embodiment of a portion of an illustrative
25 electronic device in the vicinity of an audio component in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
             FIG. 9 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device in the
   vicinity of an actuator such as a piezoelectric actuator
30 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
             FIG. 10 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device in the
   vicinity of an internal structural component in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention.
                                8

              FIG. 11 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device in the
   vicinity of a combined internal interface component in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
 5            FIG. 12 is a perspective view of a portion of an
   illustrative electronic device with a flexible display and
   a combined internal interface component in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 13 is a perspective view of a portion of an
10 illustrative electronic device with a flexible display and
   a combined internal interface component mounted to
   actuator stage in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention.
              FIG. 14 is a cross-sectional side view of a
15 portion of an illustrative electronic device in the
   vicinity of an internal structural component mounted to an
   actuator stage in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention.
              FIG. 15 is a cross-sectional side view of a
20 portion of an illustrative electronic device with a cover
   and an internal structural component mounted to an
   actuator in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention.
              FIG. 16 is a cross-sectional side view of a
25 portion of an illustrative electronic device in the
   vicinity of a pressure sensor in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 17 is a perspective view of an illustrative
   electronic device with a concave display and a bezel in
30 accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 18 is a cross-sectional side view of an
   illustrative electronic device having a concave display
   with a flexible display layer that conforms to the concave
   shape of a support structure in accordance with an
                                 9

   embodiment of the present invention.
             FIG. 19 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device having a
   cover layer and a flexible display layer joined by an
 5 adhesive layer in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention.
             FIG. 20 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device having a
   flexible display layer, a flexible touch-sensitive layer,
10 and a cover layer joined by adhesive layers in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention.
             FIG. 21 is a cross-sectional side view of an
   illustrative electronic device having a concave display
   with a radius of curvature chosen to protect the device
15 from a drop surface in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present invention.
             FIG. 22 is a perspective view of an illustrative
   electronic device with a convex display and a bezel formed
   from a housing structure in accordance with an embodiment
20 of the present invention.
             FIG. 23 is a cross-sectional side view of an
   illustrative electronic device with a convex display and
   internal components in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present invention.
25           FIG. 24 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device having a
   convex display with a flexible display layer that conforms
   to a support structure in accordance with an embodiment of
   the present invention.
30           FIG. 25 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device having a
   convex cover layer and a flexible display layer joined by
   an adhesive layer in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention.
                                10

              FIG. 26 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device having a
   flexible display layer, a touch-sensitive layer and a
   convex cover layer joined by adhesive layers in accordance
 5 with an embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 27 is a cross-sectional perspective view of
   an illustrative electronic device having a convex display
   and a connector port arranged to use the internal volume
   of the device in accordance with an embodiment of the
10 present invention.
              FIG. 28 is a cross-sectional perspective view of
   an illustrative electronic device having a convex display
   and internal components in accordance with an embodiment
   of the present invention.
15            FIG. 29 is a cross-sectional side view of an
   illustrative electronic device substantially surrounded by
   a convex display in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention.
              FIG. 30 is a diagram of an illustrative
20 electronic device such as a portable computer having a
   display and one or more speaker structures in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 31 is a diagram of an illustrative
   electronic device such as a cellular telephone or other
25 handheld device having a display and one or more speaker
   structures in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention.
              FIG. 32 is a diagram of an illustrative
   electronic device such as a tablet computer having a
30 display and one or more speaker structures in accordance
   with an embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 33 is a diagram of an illustrative
   electronic device such as a computer monitor with a built
   in computer having a display and one or more speaker
                                 11

   structures in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention.
              FIG. 34 is a diagram of an illustrative set of
   display layers that may be used to form a flexible display
 5 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 35 is a diagram of an illustrative set of
   layers that may be used to form an organic light-emitting
   diode display in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention.
10            FIG. 36 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device in which a
   flexible display forms part of a speaker structure in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 37 is a cross-sectional side view of a
15 portion of an illustrative electronic device in which a
   flexible display forms part of a speaker structure in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 38 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device in which a
20 flexible display forms part of a speaker structure in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 39 is a perspective view of an illustrative
   electronic device of the type shown in FIG. 38 having a
   cover layer with speaker openings in accordance with an
25 embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 40 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device in which a
   flexible display is stiffened with a support structure in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
30            FIG. 41 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of an illustrative electronic device having a
   curved flexible display with a curved support structure in
   accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 42 is a cross-sectional side view of a
                                 12

   portion of an illustrative electronic device in which a
   flexible display forms part of a single speaker structure
   in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.
              FIG. 43 is a cross-sectional side view of a
 5 portion of an illustrative electronic device in which a
   flexible display forms part of an array of speaker
   structures in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention.
              FIG. 44 is a bottom view of an illustrative
10 electronic device of the type shown in FIG. 43 having a
   flexible display that forms part of an array of speaker
   structures in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention.
15 Detailed Description
              Electronic devices may be provided with flexible
   displays.   A flexible display may include one or more
   flexible layers.   If desired, the flexible display may
   include a display cover layer such as a flexible or rigid
20 display cover layer.
              In some configurations, an electronic device may
   be provided with a flexible display and user interface
   components that are positioned behind, abutted against or
   integrated into the flexible display.   FIGS. 1-16 show
25 examples of configurations in which user interface
   components may be positioned behind, abutted against or
   integrated into the flexible display.
              In some configurations, an electronic device may
   be provided with a concave display having one or more
30 flexible display layers.   FIGS. 1, 2, and 17-21 show
   examples of configurations in which an electronic device
   may be provided with a concave display having one or more
   flexible display layers.
              In some configurations, an electronic device may
                                 13

   be provided with a convex display having one or more
   flexible display layers.  FIGS. 1, 2, and 22-29 show
   examples of configurations in which an electronic device
   may be provided with a convex display having one or more
 5 flexible display layers.
             In some configurations, a portion of the
   flexible display may form a membrane structure of an
   electronic component such as a speaker, a microphone, a
   laser microphone or a pressure sensor.  FIGS. 30-44 show
10 examples of configurations in which a portion of the
   flexible display may form a membrane structure of an
   electronic component.
             As shown in the examples of FIGS. 1-16, an
   electronic device may be provided with a flexible display
15 and user interface components.  User interface components
   may include buttons, switches, microphones, actuators such
   as solenoids, motors, and piezoelectric actuators,
   connector ports, touch screens, proximity sensors and
   other components for accepting input from, or transmitting
20 information to, a user or the surrounding environment.
             Flexible displays may be formed from flexible
   layers such as a flexible display layer  (e.g., a flexible
   organic light-emitting diode array), a flexible touch
   sensitive layer (e.g., a sheet of polymer with an array of
25 transparent capacitor electrodes for a capacitive touch
   sensor), a flexible substrate layer, etc.   These flexible
   layers may, if desired, be covered by a flexible or rigid
   cover layer (sometimes referred to as a cover glass) or
   may be supported by a support structure  (e.g., a rigid
30 support structure on the underside of the flexible
   layers).  In electronic devices with flexible displays
   that are covered by rigid cover layers, the cover layers
   may be provided with openings that provide access to the
   flexible layers of the display in the vicinity of a user
                                14

   interface device.   For example, a cover glass layer may
   have an opening that allows a button member to move
   relative to the cover glass layer.    As the button member
   moves within the opening, underlying portions of the
 5 flexible display may be deformed   (e.g., to allow actuation
   of an associated switch).
              To maximize the area of the portion of the
   flexible display that is available for displaying visual
   information to the user, user interface components may be
10 positioned behind, abutted against or integrated into the
   flexible display.   The deformable nature of the flexible
   display may allow a user to interact with the user
   interface components   (input-output components) by moving
   the display into contact with the user interface
15 components or by otherwise allowing the display to locally
   flex  (e.g., to allow sound to pass through the flexible
   display or to allow a barometric pressure measurements of
   the exterior environment to be made by an internal
   pressure sensor).   If desired, a portion of the flexible
20 display may form a membrane portion of an electrical
   component.   Components that may be provided with a
   membrane that is formed from a portion of a flexible
   display include microphones, laser microphones, pressure
   sensors, speakers, etc.
25            An illustrative electronic device of the type
   that may be provided with a flexible display is shown in
   FIG. 1.
   Electronic device 10 may be a portable electronic device
   or other suitable electronic device.    For example,
30 electronic device 10 may be a laptop computer, a tablet
   computer, a somewhat smaller device such as a wrist-watch
   device, pendant device, or other wearable or miniature
   device, a cellular telephone, a media player, etc.
              Device 10 may include a housing such as housing
                                 15

   12.  Housing 12, which may sometimes be referred to as a
   case, may be formed of plastic, glass, ceramics, fiber
   composites, metal   (e.g., stainless steel, aluminum, etc.),
   other suitable materials, or a combination of these
 5 materials.   In some situations, parts of housing 12 may be
   formed from dielectric or other low-conductivity material.
   In other situations, housing 12 or at least some of the
   structures that make up housing 12 may be formed from
   metal elements.
10            Device 10 may have a flexible display such as
   flexible display 14.    Flexible display 14 may be formed
   from multiple layers of material.     These layers may
   include a touch sensor layer such as a layer on which a
   pattern of indium tin oxide    (ITO) electrodes or other
15 suitable transparent electrodes have been deposited to
   form a capacitive touch sensor array.     These layers may
   also include a layer that contains an array of display
   pixels.  The touch sensor layer and the display layer may
   be formed using flexible sheets of polymer or other
20 substrates having thicknesses of 10 microns to 0.5 mm or
   other suitable thicknesses    (as an example).
              The display pixel array may be, for example, an
   organic light-emitting diode    (OLED) array.   Other types of
   flexible display pixel arrays may also be formed      (e.g.,
25 electronic ink displays, etc.).     The use of OLED
   technology to form flexible display 14 is sometimes
   described herein as an example.     This is,  however, merely
   illustrative.   Flexible display 14 may be formed using any
   suitable flexible display technology.     The use of flexible
30 displays that are based on OLED technology is merely
   illustrative.
              In addition to these functional display layers
   (i.e., the OLED array and the optional touch sensor
   array), display 14 may include one or more structural
                                  16

   layers.   For example, display 14 may be covered with a
   flexible or rigid cover layer and/or may be mounted on a
   support structure   (e.g., a rigid support).   Layers of
   adhesive may be used in attaching flexible display layers
 5 to each other and may be used in mounting flexible display
   layers to rigid and flexible structural layers.
              In configurations for display 14 in which the
   cover layer for display 14 is flexible, input-output
   components that rely on the presence of flexible layers
10 may be mounted at any suitable location under the display
    (e.g., along peripheral portions of the display, in a
   central portion of the display, etc.).     In configurations
   for display 14 in which the flexible layers are covered by
   a rigid cover glass layer or other rigid cover layer, the
15 rigid layer may be provided with one or more openings and
   the electronic components may be mounted under the
   openings.   For example, a rigid cover layer may have
   openings such as a circular opening 16 for button 17 and a
   speaker port opening such as speaker port opening 18
20  (e.g., for an ear speaker for a user).    Device 10 may also
   have other openings   (e.g., openings in display 14 and/or
   housing 12 for accommodating volume buttons, ringer
   buttons, sleep buttons, and other buttons, openings for an
   audio jack, data port connectors, removable media slots,
25 etc.).
              In some embodiments, portions of flexible
   display 14 such as peripheral regions 201 may be inactive
   and portions of display 14 such as rectangular central
   portion 20A (bounded by dashed line 20) may correspond to
30 the active part of display 14.    In active display region
   20A, an array of image pixels may be used to present text
   and images to a user of device 10.    In active region 20A,
   display 14 may include touch sensitive components for
   input and interaction with a user of device 10.     If
                                  17

   desired, regions such as regions 201 and 20A in FIG. 1 may
   both be provided with display pixels    (i.e., all or
   substantially all of the entire front planar surface of a
   device such as device 10 may be covered with display
 5 pixels).
             Device 10 may, if desired, have internal user
   interface components such as buttons 17 or speaker
   component 19 that occupy openings such as openings 16 and
   18 respectively in an optional rigid cover layer of
10 flexible display 14.   Buttons 17 may be based on dome
   switches or other switch circuitry.    Buttons 17 may
   include button members that form push buttons     (e.g.,
   momentary buttons),  slider switches, rocker switches, etc.
   Device 10 may include internal structural components such
15 as structural component 22 that add a raised structure to
   a portion of flexible display 14.    Device 10 may include
   components such as interface components 24 and 26 that may
   be fully internal to device 10, but that receive input
   from the user or from the surrounding environment through
20 physical interaction with flexible display 14.      Interface
   components 22, 24,  and 26 may be positioned in active
   region 20A or inactive region 201 of flexible display 14.
   Interface components 22,  24,  and 26 may be positioned
   separately from one another or may be commonly located to
25 form a combined component with structural and internal
   features.  Interface components 24 and 26 may be
   positioned underneath flexible display 14 so that flexible
   display 14 must be deformed in order to contact components
   24 or 26 or, if desired may be positioned to remain in
30 constant contact with flexible display 14.
             An exploded perspective view of an illustrative
   display is shown in FIG. 2.    As shown in FIG. 2, flexible
   display 14 may be formed by stacking multiple layers
   including flexible display layer 14A, touch-sensitive
                                 18

   layer 14B, and cover layer 14C.    Flexible display 14 may
   also include other layers of material such as adhesive
   layers, optical films, or other suitable layers.     Flexible
   display layer 14 may include image pixels formed form
 5 light-emitting diodes  (LEDs), organic LEDs   (OLEDs), plasma
   cells, electronic ink elements,   liquid crystal display
   (LCD) components, or other suitable image pixel structures
   compatible with flexible displays.
             Touch-sensitive layer 14B may incorporate
10 capacitive touch electrodes such as horizontal transparent
   electrodes 32 and vertical transparent electrodes 34.
   Touch-sensitive layer 14B may, in general, be configured
   to detect the location of one or more touches or near
   touches on touch-sensitive layer 14B based on capacitive,
15 resistive, optical, acoustic, inductive, or mechanical
   measurements, or any phenomena that can be measured with
   respect to the occurrences of the one or more touches or
   near touches in proximity to touch sensitive layer 14B.
             Software and/or hardware may be used to process
20 the measurements of the detected touches to identify and
   track one or more gestures.    A gesture may correspond to
   stationary or non-stationary, single or multiple, touches
   or near touches on touch-sensitive layer 14B.     A gesture
   may be performed by moving one or more fingers or other
25 objects in a particular manner on touch-sensitive layer
   14B such as tapping, pressing, rocking, scrubbing,
   twisting, changing orientation, pressing with varying
   pressure and the like at essentially the same time,
   contiguously, or consecutively.    A gesture may be
30 characterized by, but is not limited to a pinching,
   sliding, swiping, rotating, flexing, dragging, or tapping
   motion between or with any other finger or fingers.     A
   single gesture may be performed with one or more hands, by
   one or more users, or any combination thereof.
                                 19

               Cover layer 14C may be formed from plastic or
   glass   (sometimes referred to as display cover glass) and
   may be flexible or rigid.    If desired, the interior
   surface of peripheral inactive portions 201 of cover layer
 5 14C may be provided with an opaque masking layer on such
   as black ink.
               Touch-sensitive flexible display section 14AB
   may be formed from display pixel array layer 14A and
   optional touch sensor layer 14B.
10             FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of flexible display 14 in the vicinity of internal
   user interface component 24.     Flexible display 14 may be
   deformed away from its natural shape under pressure.     For
   example, flexible display 14 may be deflected by pressure
15 exerted by a user or by other external forces in direction
   40.   As shown in FIG. 3, pressure in direction 40 may
   cause flexible display 40 to deform as indicated by dashed
   lines 44.    Internal component 24 may be configured to
   receive input due to deformation of flexible display 14.
20 Internal component 24 may also provide a temporary return
   (restoring) pressure in direction 42.
               Pressure in direction 42 may cause flexible
   display 14 to temporarily deform outward of device 10 as
   indicated by dashed lines 46.     Pressure in direction 42
25 may, if desired, be formed by an internal actuator that
   deforms display 14 to provide a desired tactile sensation
   on the surface of display 14 to a user of device 10.
   Flexible display 14 may have a natural resiliency that,
   following deformation as indicated by dashed lines 44,
30 causes flexible display to temporarily deform outward of
   device   10 as indicated by dashed lines 46 before returning
   to its natural shape.    Internal component 24 may be a
   button, an actuator such as a motor, solenoid, vibrator,
   or piezoelectric actuator, a pressure sensor, an audio
                                  20

   component such as a microphone or speaker, or other
   component.   Because display 14 is flexible, these
   components may operate effectively, even when covered by
   display 14.   For example, audio components such as
 5 microphones and speakers may receive and transmit sound
   through flexible display 14.     A barometric pressure sensor
   or a force sensor may also receive input through flexible
   display 14.   Components such as actuators may be used to
   temporarily create raised ridges or other external
10 features on the surface of the flexible display (e.g., to
   indicate to a user where an on-screen button or group of
   buttons is located).    The portion of display 14 under
   which components 24 are mounted may be active     (i.e., a
   portion of the display that contains OLED pixels or other
15 display pixels) or inactive    (i.e., a peripheral portion of
   the display outside of the active region).
              FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of device 10 in the vicinity of button 17 of
   device 10.   As shown in FIG. 4, button 17 may have a
20 button member such as button member 52 that reciprocates
   within opening 16 of cover layer 14C.     When a user presses
   the exterior of button member 52 in direction 58, button
   member 52 may press against touch-sensitive flexible
   display section   (layer) 14AB.   Touch-sensitive flexible
25 display section 14AB may be deformed to depress a dome
   switch such as dome switch 56 or other switch mechanism,
   thereby activating the switch (e.g.,    shorting internal
   switch terminals together to close the switch).      Dome
   switches such as dome switch 56 may, if desired, be
30 mounted to printed circuits such as printed circuit 54.
   Dome switch 56 may have a dome-shaped biasing member that
   pushes touch-sensitive flexible display section 14AB
   outward in direction 60 when the user releases pressure
   from button member 52.    Dome switch 54 and printed circuit
                                  21

   54 may be recessed in a support structure such as support
   structure 50 behind flexible display 14.    Other types of
   switches may used if desired, such as switches with
   spring-based biasing members or other biasing structures
 5 that bias button members such as button member 52.    The
   use of a dome switch with a dome-shaped biasing structure
   is merely illustrative.
              FIG. 5 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of device 10 in the vicinity of button 17 of
10 device 10.   The illustrative embodiment of FIG. 5 differs
   from the illustrative embodiment of FIG. 4 in that cover
   layer 14C of flexible display 14   is not a rigid cover
   layer, but a flexible cover layer.    In an embodiment in
   which flexible display 14 contains a flexible cover layer
15 14C, button 17 includes dome switch 56 and printed circuit
   54.  In the embodiment of FIG. 5,   a user may press the
   exterior of flexible display 14 in direction 58.   Flexible
   display 14 may be deformed to depress dome switch 56 or
   other switch mechanism, thereby activating the switch.     As
20 in FIG. 4, dome switches such as dome switch 56 may, if
   desired, be mounted to printed circuits such as printed
   circuit 54.   Dome switch 56 may have a dome-shaped biasing
   member that pushes flexible display 14 outward in
   direction 60 when the user releases pressure from button
25 member 52.   Dome switch 54 and printed circuit 54 may be
   mounted in support structures 50 behind flexible display
   14.  Other types of switches may use spring-based biasing
   members or other biasing structures to bias button members
   such as button member 52.   The use of a dome switch with a
30 dome-shaped biasing structure is merely illustrative.
              Providing device 10 with flexible display 14
   without the need for an opening in flexible display 14 to
   access button 17 allows flexible display 14 to extend over
   button 17 without disruption.    In both the FIG. 4 and FIG.
                                 22

   5 configurations,  the portion of the flexible display that
   overlaps the button may be an active display portion or an
   inactive display portion.    When an active display portion
   is configured so as to overlap buttons and other
 5 components, there is generally more area available for the
   active display portion.    The presence of flexible display
   14 over button 17   (or other components) may also reduce
   the risk of moisture or dirt entering into the interior of
   device 10.
10            FIG. 6 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of device 10 in the vicinity of audio component
   19.  Audio component 19 may be recessed in a chassis 50
   behind flexible display 14.     Audio component 19 may be a
   speaker for providing sound to a user of device 10 or a
15 microphone for receiving input from a user or the external
   environment.   In the embodiment shown in FIG. 6, sound may
   be transmitted through flexible display 14 to a microphone
   or from a speaker.    The portion of flexible display 14
   that overlaps audio component 19 may be active or
20 inactive.   Arrangements in which component 19 is covered
   with part of the active area of display 14 may allow the
   size of active region 20A of flexible display 14 to be
   increased.   The presence of flexible display 14 over audio
   component 19 may also reduce the risk of moisture or dirt
25 entering into the interior of device 10.
              FIG. 7 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of device 10 in the vicinity of another embodiment
   of audio component 19.   In the illustrative embodiment of
   FIG. 7, audio component   19 may be a speaker or microphone
30 that contains a diaphragm such as diaphragm 70.     Diaphragm
   70 may be formed from a separate structure that is
   attached to the underside of flexible display 14 or may be
   formed from a part of flexible display 14.     As in the
   embodiment shown in FIG. 6, audio component 19 may be
                                  23

   mounted within support structures 50.    Audio component 19
   may include a magnet such as magnet 74 and a coil such as
   coil 72 in which current may flow.    If audio component 19
   is a speaker, current may be driven through coil 72 to
 5 induce motion in diaphragm 70 and thereby emit sound
   through flexible display 14.    If audio component 19 is a
   microphone, sound waves originating from the exterior of
   device 10 may induce vibrations in flexible display 14
   which are transmitted to diaphragm 70 and ultimately to
10 coil 72 in which current may be induced.    The current
   produced in coil 72 may be used to transmit sound
   information to device 10.    Diaphragm 70 may be a separate
   member in contact with flexible display 14 or may be an
   integral part of flexible display 14.
15           FIG. 8 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of device 10 in the vicinity of another possible
   embodiment of audio component 19.    As shown in FIG. 8,
   audio component 19 may be a laser microphone which uses
   vibrations in flexible display 14 induced by sound
20 originating external to device 10 to produce an signal to
   be transmitted to device 10.    As shown in FIG. 8, audio
   component 19 may be recessed in support structures 50.
   Audio component 19 may include a light emitting component
   such as laser component  80.   Laser component 80 may emit a
25 laser beam such as laser beam 84   in the direction of
   flexible display 14.   Laser beam 84 may reflect off of
   flexible display 14 and a reflected laser beam such as
   reflected laser beam 86 may be absorbed by a laser
   absorbing component  82.
30           Laser beam 84 and reflected laser beam 86 may be
   used in combination with laser 80 and photosensitive
   element 82 to monitor variations in distance 88 from
   flexible display 14 to component 80 and component 82.
   Sound waves originating external to device 10 may induce
                                 24

   vibrations in flexible display 14 causing distance 88 to
   oscillate.   The oscillations in distance 88 may be
   converted into sound-related information by device 10.
               FIG. 9 is a cross-sectional side view of a
 5 portion of device 10 in the vicinity of a component such
   as component 22 of FIG. 1.     In the embodiment shown in
   FIG. 9, component 22 may contain an actuator such as a
   piezoelectric   (actuator 90).   Piezoelectric actuators such
   as piezoelectric actuator 90 may vary in shape      (e.g.,
10 thickness) in response to applied control voltages and may
   produce an output voltage when compressed     (i.e., the
   piezoelectric element in actuator 90 may serve as a force
   sensor in addition to serving as a controllable actuator).
   A user of device 10 may exert force on flexible display 14
15 in direction 92.    Flexible display 14 may be deformed to
   exert a mechanical pressure on piezoelectric element 90 or
   other force sensor, inducing a voltage which may be
   transmitted to device 10.     Conversely, piezoelectric
   actuator 90 may be used to provide tactile feedback to a
20 user of device 10.    A voltage difference applied to the
   surfaces of piezoelectric actuator 90 may induce an
   expansion of piezoelectric actuator 90.     Piezoelectric
   actuator 90 may then deform flexible display 90 in
   direction 94 providing tactile feedback to a user of
25 device 10.
              FIG. 10 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of device 10 in the vicinity of structural
   component 22 of device 10.     Structural component 22 may
   cause a permanent deformation such as deformation 102 in
30 flexible display 14 to indicate the location of portion
   101 of touch-sensitive layer 14B in display 14 to the user
   of device 10.    Portion 101 may be, for example, a letter
   key or other button in a virtual keypad (keyboard)
   displayed on flexible display 14.     A touch sensor array
                                  25

   associated with display 14 may be used to gather user
   input  (i.e., the touch sensor array may be used to
   determine when a user has pressed the virtual key
   associated with portion 101).     The location of portion 101
 5 may also be indicated visually using associated display
   pixels in flexible display 14.     At times, a user may
   desire to be able to locate portion 101 without having to
   look at flexible display 14.     Deforming flexible display
   14 in the vicinity of portion 101 using structural
10 component 22 may allow a user to locate portion 101
   without visual aid.   Structural component 22 may be an
   isolated component indicating the location of a single
   portion 101 of touch-sensitive layer 14B or may be one of
   an array of components 22 indicating the locations of an
15 array of portions 101   (e.g., the array of letter, number,
   and symbol keys in a virtual keypad displayed on display
   14).   Structural component 10 may be a separate component
   mounted to support structures 50 or may be an integral
   part of support structures 50.
20            FIG. 11 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of device 10 in the vicinity of a hybrid component
   such as component 100.    Component 100 may include both an
   internal interface component such as internal component 24
   and a structural component such as structural component
25 22.   Structural component 22 may cause a permanent
   deformation such as deformation 102 in flexible display 14
   in the vicinity of internal component 24 to indicate the
   location of internal component 22 to the user of device
   10.   The presence of flexible display 14 between the user
30 of device 10 and internal component 24 may obscure the
   location of internal interface component 24.     The location
   of interface component 24 may be indicated visually using
   display pixels in flexible display 14.     The deformation of
   flexible display 14 in the vicinity of interface component
                                  26

   24 using structural component 22 may also allow the user
   to locate interface component 24 without visual aid.
   Component 100 may be an isolated component indicating the
   location of a single interface component 24 of touch
 5 sensitive layer 14B or may be one of an array of
   components 100 indicating the locations of an array of
   interface components 24.
             FIG. 12 is a perspective view of an embodiment
   of device 10 in which internal component 24 is a button
10 such as button 17.  In the embodiment of FIG. 12, as in
   FIG. 11, component 100 includes internal component 24 and
   structural component 22  (shown in FIG. 11).  As shown in
   FIG. 12, a ridge or other deformation such as deformation
   102 in flexible display 14 may be used to indicate the
15 location of button 17.
             FIG. 13 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of device 10 in the vicinity of another
   illustrative embodiment of a hybrid component such as
   component 100 which includes an internal interface
20 component such as internal component 24 and a structural
   component such as structural component 22 mounted to an
   actuator such as actuator stage 110.   Component 100 may be
   recessed in chassis 50.  Actuator stage 110 may be
   electrically or mechanically raised in direction 112 to
25 temporarily produce deformations such as deformations 102
   in flexible display 14.   Deformations 102 in flexible
   display 14 may indicate the location of internal interface
   device 24 to a user of device 10.   Actuator stage 110 may
   be electrically or mechanically lowered in direction 114
30 to remove deformations 102 in flexible display 14
   returning flexible display 14 to its original shape.
   Component 100 may be an isolated component indicating the
   location of a single interface component 24 of touch
   sensitive layer 14B or may be one of an array of
                                27

   components 100 indicating the locations of an array of
   respective interface components 24.
              FIG. 14 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of device 10 in the vicinity of another
 5 illustrative embodiment of a component such as structural
   component 22.   In the arrangement of FIG. 14,   structural
   component 22 is mounted an actuator such as actuator stage
   110.  Some modes of operating device 10 may require visual
   interaction with a user of device 10    (e.g., a mode
10 involving the display of images or video).     In these
   visual modes, the location of portion 101 of touch
   sensitive layer 14B of flexible display 14 may be
   indicated visually using display pixels in flexible
   display 14.
15            In other modes of operation of device 10,    a user
   of device 10 may wish to determine the location of portion
   101 without visual aid.    In the embodiment shown in FIG.
   14, component 22 may be recessed in support structures 50.
   Actuator stage 110 may be electrically or mechanically
20 raised in direction 112 to move structural component 22
   into contact with flexible display 14 to temporarily
   produce deformations such as deformations 102 in flexible
   display 14.   Deformations 102 may indicate the location of
   portion 101 to a user of device 10.    When no longer needed
25 for tactile interaction   (e.g., upon switching to a video
   display mode),  actuator 110 may be electrically or
   mechanically moved in direction 114 to lower structural
   component 22 and remove deformations 102 in flexible
   display 14.
30            FIG. 15 is a cross-sectional side view of an
   embodiment of device 10 in which device 10 includes
   housing 12 and cover member 122.    Cover member 122 may be
   formed of plastic, glass, ceramics, fiber composites,
   metal  (e.g., stainless steel, aluminum, etc.),   other
                                 28

   suitable materials, or a combination of these materials.
   Cover member 122 may be a single structure or may include
   multiple cover structures.     In order to facilitate lifting
   of cover 122 by a user of device 10,     structural component
 5 22 may be coupled to an actuator 130 which may be used to
   lift structural component 122 in direction 134.      When
   lifted, structural component 134 may cause a deformation
   such as deformation 102 in flexible display 14.      Flexible
   display 14 may exert a pressure on cover member 122,
10 lifting cover member 122 in direction 134 allowing the
   user to grip cover member 122 in order to lift cover
   member 122 to an open position such as open position 140.
   Actuator 130 may then be used to lower structural
   component 22 in direction 132 in order to allow flexible
15 display 14 to return to its original shape.      Actuator 130
   may be activated in response to a control signal produced
   by the user using actuator switch 124 or by a control
   signal from other suitable control circuitry.
              FIG. 16 is a cross-sectional side view of a
20 portion of device 10 in the vicinity of another
   illustrative embodiment of internal interface component
   24.  In the embodiment shown in FIG. 16,     interface
   component 24 may be a pressure sensor that includes a
   pressure sensing module 140.      Pressure sensing module 140
25 may be coupled between a contact member such as contact
   member 142   (which is in contact with flexible display 14)
   and electrical contacts 144.      Pressure may be exerted on
   flexible display 14    (e.g., by a user of device 10 or due
   to atmospheric pressure changes in the surrounding
30 environment of device 10).     Pressure exerted on flexible
   display 14 may be transmitted to pressure sensing module
   140 by contact member 142.     Pressure information may be
   transmitted to device 10 through electrical contacts 144.
   Pressure sensing module 140 may sense pressure changes
                                   29

   using piezoelectric, capacitive, inductive, resistive,
   optical or other mechanisms.   Providing device 10 with
   flexible display 14 allows flexible display 14 to extend
   over interface component 24,  increasing the area of active
 5 region 20A of flexible display 14.   The presence of
   flexible display 14 over interface component 24 may also
   reduce the risk of moisture or dirt entering into the
   interior of device 10.
             In accordance with an embodiment, an electronic
10 device is provided that includes a flexible display and an
   internal component, where the flexible display may be
   deformed by an action external to the device and
   deformation of the flexible display creates a response
   from the internal component.
15           In accordance with another embodiment, the
   flexible display includes a flexible display layer and a
   touch-sensitive layer.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   flexible display layer of the flexible display includes an
20 active display region and the internal component is
   covered with a portion of the active display region of the
   flexible display.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   internal component includes a button and deformation of
25 the flexible display compresses the button.
             In accordance with another embodiment,
    the flexible display further includes a rigid cover layer
   having at least one opening.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
30 opening includes a hole in the rigid cover layer, the
   button further includes a button member in the opening,
   the button member moves within the hole in the rigid cover
   layer, and the movement of the button member in the
   opening causes deformation of the flexible display.
                                30

             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   internal component includes a pressure sensor and
   deformation of the flexible display exerts a mechanical
   pressure on the pressure sensor.
 5           In accordance with another embodiment, the
   pressure sensor includes a piezoelectric actuator and the
   mechanical pressure induces a voltage on the piezoelectric
   actuator.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
10 internal component includes a laser microphone for
   detecting a sound originating external to the electronic
   device and detecting the sound includes, with a laser,
   detecting deformation of the flexible display.
             In accordance with an embodiment, an electronic
15 device is provided that includes a flexible display and an
   audio component that transmits or receives sound through
   the flexible display.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   flexible display includes an active display region and the
20 audio component is mounted behind the active display
   region of the flexible display.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   flexible display includes a flexible display layer and a
   touch-sensitive layer.
25           In accordance with another embodiment, the audio
   component includes a diaphragm and the diaphragm is
   mounted in contact with the flexible display.
             In accordance with another embodiment, an
   electronic device is provides that includes a housing, a
30 flexible display mounted on the housing, and a first
   internal component mounted under a portion of the flexible
   display, where the first internal component is configured
   to deform the portion of the flexible display.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the first
                                31

   internal component includes a piezoelectric actuator,
   where a voltage applied to the piezoelectric actuator
   causes an expansion of the piezoelectric actuator and the
   portion of the flexible display deforms in response to the
 5 expansion of the piezoelectric actuator.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the first
   internal component includes a structural component, where
   the portion of the flexible display deforms in response to
   physical contact with the structural component and
10 deformation of the portion of the flexible display causes
   the portion of the flexible display to conform to a
   surface of the structural component.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes a second internal
15 component mounted under the portion of the flexible
   display, where the portion of the flexible display that
   conforms to the surface of the structural component
   indicates the location of the second internal component.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
20 second internal component includes a button, where the
   portion of the flexible display is configured to be
   further deformed by an action external to the electronic
   device and further deformation of the portion of the
   flexible display compresses the button.
25           In accordance with another embodiment, the first
   internal component further includes an actuator, where the
   structural component is mounted on the actuator, where
   raising the actuator moves the structural component into
   contact with the portion of the flexible display, and
30 where lowering the actuator moves the structural component
   out of contact with the flexible display.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   flexible display includes a touch-sensitive layer, where
   deformation of the portion of the flexible display
                                32

   conforming to the surface of the structural component
   indicates the location of a portion of the touch-sensitive
   layer of the flexible display.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
 5 electronic device further includes a second internal
   component mounted on the actuator and deformation of the
   portion of the flexible display conforming to the surface
   of the structural component indicates the location of the
   second internal component.
10           In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes a cover member and an
   actuator switch coupled to the actuator, where deformation
   of the flexible display exerts a pressure on the cover
   member and the pressure on the cover member lifts the
15 cover member.
             The foregoing is merely illustrative of the
   principles of this invention and various modifications can
   be made by those skilled in the art without departing from
   the scope and spirit of the invention.
20           As shown in the examples of FIGS. 1, 2 and 17
   21, an electronic device may be provided with a concave
   display.  The concave display may include a flexible
   display layer that has been bent to curve the display.
             Concave displays may be formed from flexible
25 layers such as a flexible display layer  (e.g., a flexible
   organic light-emitting diode array), a flexible touch
   sensitive layer (e.g., a sheet of polymer with an array of
   transparent capacitor electrodes for a capacitive touch
   sensor), a flexible substrate layer, etc.   These flexible
30 layers may, if desired, be covered by a flexible or rigid
   cover layer (sometimes referred to as a cover glass) or
   may be supported by a support structure  (e.g., a rigid
   support structure on the underside of the flexible
   layers).  In electronic devices with concave displays that
                                33

   are   covered by rigid cover layers, the cover layers may
   be provided with openings that provide access to the
   flexible layers of the display.    For example, a cover
   glass layer may have an opening that allows a button
 5 member to move relative to the cover glass layer.     As the
   button member moves within the opening, underlying
   portions of the flexible display may be deformed (e.g., to
   allow actuation of an associated switch).
              Electronic devices may also be provided with
10 user interface components   (input-output components) such
   as buttons, microphones, speakers, piezoelectric actuators
   or  (for receiving electrical input from a user or tactile
   feedback to users),  other actuators such as vibrators,
   pressure sensors, and other components.     These components
15 may be mounted under portions of a flexible display.
              User interface components may be mounted under
   the flexible display or may be integrated into the
   flexible display.   The deformable nature of the flexible
   display may allow a user to interact with the user
20 interface components   (input-output components) by moving
   the display into contact with the user interface
   components or by otherwise allowing the display to locally
   flex  (e.g., to allow sound to pass through the flexible
   display or to allow barometric pressure measurements of
25 the exterior environment to be made by an internal
   pressure sensor).   If desired, a portion of the flexible
   display may form a membrane portion of an electrical
   component.   Components that may be provided with a
   membrane that is formed from a portion of a flexible
30 display include microphones, laser microphones, pressure
   sensors, speakers, etc.
              Concave displays formed from flexible and rigid
   layers that all have concave shapes    (i.e., displays formed
   from a collection of layers in which no layer of the
                                 34

   display is planar) may provide reduced vulnerability to
   damage during a drop event in which an electronic device
   strikes the ground or other external objects while
   maximizing the internal volume of the device that is
 5 available to hold electrical and mechanical device
   components.
              An illustrative electronic device of the type
   that may be provided with a concave display is shown in
   FIG. 1.  Electronic device 10 may be a portable electronic
10 device or other suitable electronic device.      For example,
   electronic device 10 may be a laptop computer, a tablet
   computer, a somewhat smaller device such as a wrist-watch
   device, pendant device, or other wearable or miniature
   device, a cellular telephone, a media player, etc.
15            Device 10 may include a housing such as housing
   12.  Housing 12, which may sometimes be referred to as a
   case, may be formed of plastic, glass, ceramics, fiber
   composites, metal   (e.g., stainless steel, aluminum, etc.),
   other suitable materials, or a combination of these
20 materials.   In some situations, parts of housing 12 may be
   formed from dielectric or other low-conductivity material.
   In other situations, housing 12 or at least some of the
   structures that make up housing 12 may be formed from
   metal elements.
25            Device 10 may have a concave display such as
   concave display 14.    Concave display 14 may be formed from
   multiple layers of material.     These layers may include a
   touch sensor layer such as a layer on which a pattern of
   indium tin oxide   (ITO) electrodes or other suitable
30 transparent electrodes have been deposited to form a
   capacitive touch sensor array or a touch sensor layer
   formed using other touch technologies     (e.g., resistive
   touch, acoustic touch, optical touch, etc.).      These layers
   may also include a layer that contains an array of display
                                  35

   pixels.  The touch sensor layer and the display layer may
   be formed using flexible sheets of polymer or other
   substrates having thicknesses of 10 microns to 0.5 mm or
   other suitable thicknesses  (as an example).
 5           The display pixel array may be, for example, an
   organic light-emitting diode   (OLED) array containing rows
   and columns of OLED display pixels.    Other types of
   flexible display pixel arrays may also be formed    (e.g.,
   electronic ink displays, etc.).    The use of OLED
10 technology to form flexible display 14 is sometimes
   described herein as an example.    This is, however, merely
   illustrative.  Flexible display 14 may be formed using any
   suitable flexible display technology.    The use of flexible
   displays that are based on OLED technology is merely
15 illustrative.
             In addition to these functional display layers
   (i.e., the OLED array and the optional touch sensor
   array), display 14 may include one or more structural
   layers.  For example, display 14 may be covered with a
20 flexible or rigid cover layer and/or may be mounted on a
   support structure  (e.g., a rigid support).   Layers of
   adhesive may be used in attaching flexible display layers
   to each other and may be used in mounting flexible display
   layers to rigid and flexible structural layers.
25           In configurations for display 14 in which the
   cover layer for display 14 is flexible, input-output
   components that rely on the presence of flexible layers
   may be mounted at any suitable location under the display
   (e.g., along peripheral portions of the display, in a
30 central portion of the display, etc.).    In configurations
   for display 14 in which the flexible layers are covered by
   a rigid cover glass layer or other rigid cover layer, the
   rigid layer may be provided with one or more openings and
   the electronic components may be mounted under the
                                 36

   openings.   For example, a rigid cover layer may have
   openings such as a circular opening 16 for button 17 and a
   speaker port opening such as speaker port opening 18
    (e.g., for an ear speaker for a user).    Device 10 may also
 5 have other openings   (e.g., openings in display 14 and/or
   housing 12 for accommodating volume buttons, ringer
   buttons, sleep buttons, and other buttons, openings for an
   audio jack, data port connectors, removable media slots,
   etc.).
10            In some embodiments, portions of concave display
   14 such as peripheral regions 201 may be inactive and
   portions of display 14 such as rectangular central portion
   20A (bounded by dashed line 20)   may correspond to the
   active part of display 14.    In active display region 20A,
15 an array of image pixels may be used to present text and
   images to a user of device 10.    In active region 20A,
   display 14 may include touch sensitive components for
   input and interaction with a user of device 10.      If
   desired, regions such as regions 201 and 20A in FIG. 1 may
20 both be provided with display pixels    (i.e., all or
   substantially all of the entire front planar surface of a
   device such as device 10 may be covered with display
   pixels).
              Device 10 may, if desired, have internal user
25 interface components such as buttons 17 or speaker
   component 19 that occupy openings such as openings 16 and
   18 respectively in an optional rigid cover layer of
   concave display 14.    Buttons 17 may be based on dome
   switches or other switch circuitry.    Buttons 17 may
30 include button members that form push buttons     (e.g.,
   momentary buttons),  slider switches, rocker switches, etc.
   Device 10 may include internal structural components such
   as structural component 22 that add a raised structure to
   a portion of concave display 14.    Device 10 may include
                                  37

   components such as interface components 24 and 26 that may
   be fully internal to device 10, but that receive input
   from the user or from the surrounding environment through
   physical interaction with concave display 14.      Interface
 5 components 22,  24,  and 26 may be positioned in active
   region 20A or inactive region 201 of concave display 14.
   Interface components 22,   24,  and 26 may be positioned
   separately from one another or may be commonly located to
   form a combined component with structural and internal
10 features.  Interface components 24 and 26 may be
   positioned underneath concave display 14 so that concave
   display 14 must be deformed in order to contact components
   24 or 26 or, if desired may be positioned to remain in
   constant contact with concave display 14.
15           An exploded perspective view of an illustrative
   display is shown in FIG. 2.     As shown in FIG. 2, concave
   display 14 may be formed by stacking multiple layers
   including flexible display layer 14A, touch-sensitive
   layer 14B, and cover layer 14C.     Display 14 may also
20 include other layers of material such as adhesive layers,
   optical films, or other suitable layers.      Flexible display
   layer 14 may include image pixels formed form light
   emitting diodes   (LEDs), organic LEDs   (OLEDs), plasma
   cells, electronic ink elements,    liquid crystal display
25 (LCD) components,   or other suitable image pixel structures
   compatible with flexible displays.
             Touch-sensitive layer 14B may incorporate
   capacitive touch electrodes such as horizontal transparent
   electrodes 32 and vertical transparent electrodes 34.
30 Touch-sensitive layer 14B may, in general, be configured
   to detect the location of one or more touches or near
   touches on touch-sensitive layer 14B based on capacitive
   sensors, resistive sensors, optical sensors, acoustic
   sensors, inductive sensors, or force sensors.
                                  38

              Software and/or hardware may be used to process
   the measurements of the detected touches to identify and
   track one or more gestures.    A gesture may correspond to
   stationary or non-stationary, single or multiple, touches
 5 or near touches on touch-sensitive layer 14B.     A gesture
   may be performed by moving one or more fingers or other
   objects in a particular manner on touch-sensitive layer
   14B such as tapping, pressing, rocking, scrubbing,
   twisting, changing orientation, pressing with varying
10 pressure and the like at essentially the same time,
   contiguously, or consecutively.    A gesture may be
   characterized by, but is not limited to a pinching,
   sliding, swiping, rotating, flexing, dragging, or tapping
   motion between or with any other finger or fingers.     A
15 single gesture may be performed with one or more hands, by
   one or more users, or any combination thereof.
              Cover layer 14C may be formed from plastic or
   glass  (sometimes referred to as display cover glass) and
   may be flexible or rigid.   If desired, the interior
20 surface of peripheral inactive portions 201 of cover layer
   14C may be provided with an opaque masking layer on such
   as black ink.
              Touch-sensitive flexible display section 14AB
   may be formed from display pixel array layer 14A and
25 optional touch sensor layer 14B.
              FIG. 17 is perspective view of an illustrative
   embodiment of device 10 with concave display 14 in which
   device  10 is provided with a bezel such as bezel 200
   surrounding the periphery of concave display 14.     In the
30 illustrative embodiment shown in FIG. 17, housing 12 of
   device  10 has an opening 204 that may provide access to a
   data port.   The surface of bezel 200 may be formed in
   plane with the surface of display 14    (i.e., so that bezel
   200 and display 14  form a single smooth surface) or may be
                                 39

   formed at a right angle to the walls of housing 12     (as
   examples).   Bezel 200 may be a separate bezel member or
   may be formed as a portion of housing 12.     As shown in
   FIG. 17,  top and bottom portions 202 of bezel 200 may have
 5 a concave  (curved) shape that matches the cross-sectional
   curved shape of concave display 14.
              FIG. 18 is a cross-sectional side view of an
   illustrative embodiment of device 10 in which concave
   display 14 is formed by mounting flexible display layer
10 14A to a concave support structure such as support
   structure 210   (e.g., a rigid support structure having at
   least a concave external surface such as a metal, glass,
   or plastic support structure) using a layer of adhesive
   material such as adhesive layer 212.    As shown in FIG. 18,
15 the internal volume of device 10,   defined by housing 12,
   bezel 202 and concave display 14 may include volume 216
   above a plane   (indicated by dashed line 214) defined by
   the deepest point in the curvature of display 14.     This is
   because the inner surface of support structure 210 is
20 convex  (in the FIG. 18 example).   Volume 216 provides
   space in addition to rectangular volume 218 in which
   internal components such as component 220    (e.g., printed
   circuit boards, antennas or other components) may be
   positioned.   The ability to bend flexible display 14 into
25 the concave shape of FIG. 18 may therefore help maximize
   the interior space that is available within device 10 to
   mount device components.
              FIG. 19 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of device 10.    In the illustrative embodiment of
30 FIG. 19,  concave display 14  is formed from flexible
   display layer 14A, adhesive layer 212, and rigid cover
   layer 14C  (e.g., a layer of rigid plastic or a layer of
   rigid cover glass having a concave external surface and a
   convex inner surface to which flexible display layer 14A
                                  40

   conforms).   Concave display 14 may be formed adjacent to
   bezel portion 200 of housing 12 or may be joined to
   housing 12 by an additional mounting member.      The concave
   shape of cover layer 14C of display 14 may provide reduced
 5 susceptibility to damage if device 10 is dropped.       Forming
   flexible display layer 14A in a shape that matches the
   concave shape of cover layer 14C    (i.e., so that layer 14A
   conforms to the convex inner surface of layer 14C) may
   provide additional internal volume 216 to device 10.
10            FIG. 20 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of another embodiment of device 10.      In the
   illustrative embodiment of FIG. 20,    concave display 14   is
   formed from flexible display layer 14A attached to
   optional touch-sensitive layer 14B by adhesive layer 212.
15 Touch-sensitive layer 14B may further be attached to rigid
   cover layer 14C   (e.g., a glass or plastic layer) using
   adhesive layer 230 such that all layers     (212, 14B, 230,
   and 14C) of display 14 conform to the concave shape of
   cover layer 14C.    Concave display 14 may be directly
20 adjacent to bezel portion 200 of housing 12 or may be
   joined to housing 212 by an additional mounting member.
   The concave shape of all layers    (14A, 212, 14B, 230, and
   14C) of display 14 may provide reduced susceptibility to
   damage in the event that device 10 is dropped and may
25 provide additional internal volume 216.
              FIG. 21 is a cross-sectional side view of device
   10 and a common drop surface such as drop surface 240
   (e.g., sidewalk concrete, asphalt, tile, or any other
   surface) on which device 10 may be dropped.      Drop surface
30 240 may have a surface roughness due to surface features
   such as surface features 242.     Surface features 242 may
   have a characteristic height such as height 244      (e.g., 1-2
   mm for a concrete surface).     As shown in FIG. 21,   device
   10 may be provided with concave display 14.      Concave
                                  41

   display 14 may be provided with a curvature defined by
   maximum depth 248 defined by the distance from the
   outermost surface of device 10,  indicated by dashed line
   246 and the deepest point in the curvature of display 14
 5 (indicated by dashed line 214).   The outermost surface of
   device 10 may be defined by bezel 200, or, in the absence
   of bezel 200, may be defined by juncture point 250 at
   which the peripheral edges of display 14 meet housing 12.
             Maximum depth 248 may be chosen to be larger
10 than characteristic size 244 of surface features 242 of
   common drop surface 240.   Providing device 10 with a
   concave display having curvature chosen to provide a
   maximum depth  (depth 248) that is larger than
   characteristic height 244 may significantly reduce the
15 risk of damage  (e.g., scratches or other damage) to device
   10 during a drop event.
             Providing concave display 14 with flexible
   display layer 14A capable of conforming to the shape of
   cover layer 14C allows all layers of display 14 to be
20 conformed to same concave shape.    Providing device 10
   with concave display 14 in which all layers of concave
   display 14 conform to the same concave shape may reduce
   the susceptibility of device 10 to damage when dropped on
   common drop surface 240 while providing additional
25 internal volume 216 in which internal components may be
   positioned.
             Electronic devices may be provided with concave
   displays that reduce the risk of damage in the event of a
   drop while maximizing the internal volume of the device.
30 Concave displays may be formed from one or more flexible
   layers including a flexible display layer.   The flexible
   display layer may be mounted to a rigid support structure
   or a rigid cover layer.   Flexible display layers that
   conform to the curved shape of a rigid cover structure
                                 42

   provide additional internal volume in which internal
   components of the device may be positioned.
              In accordance with an embodiment, an electronic
   device is provided that includes a housing and a concave
 5 display mounted in the housing, where the concave display
   has a rigid internal support structure having a concave
   surface and a flexible display layer attached to the rigid
   internal support structure that conforms to the concave
   surface of the rigid support structure.
10            In accordance with another embodiment, the
   concave display further includes a first adhesive layer
   and the first adhesive layer attaches the flexible display
   layer to the concave surface of the rigid internal support
   structure.
15            In accordance with another embodiment, the
   concave display further includes a touch-sensitive layer.
              In accordance with another embodiment, the
   concave display further includes first and second adhesive
   layers, where the first adhesive layer attaches the
20 flexible display layer to the touch-sensitive layer and
   where the second adhesive layer attaches the flexible
   display layer to the rigid internal support structure.
              In accordance with another embodiment, the
   housing includes a bezel and the bezel surrounds a
25 periphery of the concave display.
              In accordance with another embodiment, the rigid
   internal support structure has a convex inner surface and
   the electronic device further includes at least one
   internal component mounted adjacent to the convex inner
30 surface.
              In accordance with another embodiment, the rigid
   internal support structure has at least one opening.
              In accordance with another embodiment, the at
   least one opening includes a hole in the rigid internal
                                43

   support structure and the at least one internal component
   is mounted in the hole in the rigid internal support
   structure.
              In accordance with another embodiment, an
 5 electronic device is provided that includes a housing and
   a concave display mounted in the housing, where the
   concave display includes a rigid cover layer having at
   least one concave outer surface and at least one
   corresponding convex inner surface and includes a flexible
10 display layer, where the flexible display layer conforms
   to the convex inner surface of the rigid cover layer.
              In accordance with another embodiment, the
   flexible display layer includes image pixels formed from
   organic light-emitting diodes.
15            In accordance with another embodiment, the
   concave display further includes a first adhesive layer,
   where the first adhesive layer attaches the flexible
   display layer to the convex inner surface of the rigid
   cover layer.
20            In accordance with another embodiment, the rigid
   cover layer has at least one opening, where the electronic
   device further includes an internal component and where
   the internal component is mounted adjacent to the flexible
   display layer under the at least one opening in the rigid
25 cover layer.
              In accordance with another embodiment, the
   internal component includes a speaker and the speaker
   transmits sound through the flexible display layer.
              In accordance with another embodiment, the
30 internal component includes a button, where the electronic
   device further includes a button member in the at least
   one opening in the rigid cover layer, where the button
   member moves within the at least one opening in the rigid
   cover layer, and where the movement of the button member
                                44

   compresses the button.
             In accordance with another embodiment, an
   electronic device is provided that includes an electronic
   device housing and a concave display mounted in the
 5 electronic device housing, where the concave display
   includes a rigid cover layer having a concave outer
   surface and a convex inner surface, a flexible display
   layer, and a touch-sensitive layer, where the flexible
   display layer and the touch-sensitive layer each conform
10 to the convex inner surface of the rigid cover layer.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   concave display further includes first and second adhesive
   layers, where the flexible display layer is attached to
   the touch-sensitive layer with the first adhesive layer
15 and where the touch-sensitive layer is attached to the
   convex inner surface of the rigid cover layer with the
   second adhesive layer.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes at least one internal
20 component mounted adjacent to the flexible display layer
   of the concave display.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the rigid
   cover layer of the convex display has at least one
   opening, where the at least one internal component is an
25 audio component, and where the audio component is mounted
   under the at least one opening in the rigid cover layer.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   concave outer surface of the concave display has a
   curvature and peripheral edges, where the curvature has a
30 deepest point, where the deepest point and at least some
   of the peripheral edges define a maximum depth associated
   with the curvature of the concave display and where the
   maximum depth of the concave display is between 0.5
   millimeter and 20 millimeters.
                                45

             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes an internal component,
   where the internal component is mounted at a distance from
   the peripheral edges of the concave outer surface, and
 5 where the distance is smaller than the maximum depth.
             The foregoing is merely illustrative of the
   principles of this invention and various modifications can
   be made by those skilled in the art without departing from
   the scope and spirit of the invention.
10           As shown in the examples of FIGS. 1, 2 and 22
   29, an electronic device may be provided with a convex
   display.  The convex display may include a flexible
   display layer that has been bent to form a curved surface.
             Convex displays may be formed from flexible
15 layers such as a flexible display layer   (e.g., a flexible
   organic light-emitting diode array),  a flexible touch
   sensitive layer (e.g., a sheet of polymer with an array of
   transparent capacitor electrodes for a capacitive touch
   sensor), a flexible substrate layer, etc.    These flexible
20 layers may, if desired, be covered by a flexible or rigid
   cover layer (sometimes referred to as a cover glass) or
   may be supported by a support structure   (e.g., a rigid
   support structure on the underside of the flexible
   layers).  In electronic devices with convex displays
25 partially covered by rigid cover layers, the cover layers
   may be provided with openings that provide access to the
   flexible layers of the display.   For example, a cover
   glass layer may have an opening that allows a button
   member to move relative to the cover glass layer.    As the
30 button member moves within the opening, underlying
   portions of the flexible display may be deformed (e.g., to
   allow actuation of an associated switch).
             Electronic devices may also be provided with
   user interface components  (input-output components) such
                                46

   as buttons, microphones, speakers, piezoelectric actuators
   or  (for receiving electrical input from a user or tactile
   feedback to users),  other actuators such as vibrators,
   pressure sensors, and other components.    These components
 5 may be mounted under portions of a flexible display.
              User interface components may be mounted under
   the flexible display or may be integrated into the
   flexible display.   The deformable nature of the flexible
   display may allow a user to interact with the user
10 interface components   (input-output components) by moving
   the display into contact with the user interface
   components or by otherwise allowing the display to locally
   flex  (e.g., to allow sound to pass through the flexible
   display or to allow a barometric pressure measurements of
15 the exterior environment to be made by an internal
   pressure sensor).   If desired, a portion of the flexible
   display may form a membrane portion of an electrical
   component.   Components that may be provided with a
   membrane that is formed from a portion of a flexible
20 display include microphones, laser microphones, pressure
   sensors, speakers, etc.
              Convex displays formed from flexible and rigid
   layers that all have convex shapes i.e.,   displays formed
   from a collection of layers in which no layer of the
25 display is planar) may provide an aesthetically desirable
   external appearance while maximizing the internal volume
   of the device that is available to hold electrical and
   mechanical device components.
              An illustrative electronic device of the type
30 that may be provided with a convex display is shown in
   FIG. 1.
   Electronic device 10 may be a portable electronic device
   or other suitable electronic device.    For example,
   electronic device 10 may be a laptop computer, a tablet
                                 47

   computer, a somewhat smaller device such as a wrist-watch
   device, pendant device, or other wearable or miniature
   device, a cellular telephone, a media player, etc.
              Device 10 may include a housing such as housing
 5 12.  Housing 12, which may sometimes be referred to as a
   case, may be formed of plastic, glass, ceramics, fiber
   composites, metal   (e.g., stainless steel, aluminum, etc.),
   other suitable materials, or a combination of these
   materials.   In some situations, parts of housing 12 may be
10 formed from dielectric or other low-conductivity material.
   In other situations, housing 12 or at least some of the
   structures that make up housing 12 may be formed from
   metal elements.
              Device 10 may have a convex display such as
15 convex display 14.    Convex display 14 may be formed from
   multiple layers of material.     These layers may include a
   touch sensor layer such as a layer on which a pattern of
   indium tin oxide (ITO) electrodes or other suitable
   transparent electrodes have been deposited to form a
20 capacitive touch sensor array or a touch sensor layer
   formed using other touch technologies     (e.g., resistive
   touch, acoustic touch, optical touch, etc.).      These layers
   may also include layer that contains an array of display
   pixels.  The touch sensor layer and the display layer may
25 be formed using flexible sheets of polymer or other
   substrates having thicknesses of 10 microns to 0.5 mm or
   other suitable thicknesses   (as an example).
              The display pixel array may be, for example, an
   organic light-emitting diode    (OLED) array containing rows
30 and columns of OLED display pixels.     Other types of
   flexible display pixel arrays may also be formed (e.g.,
   electronic ink displays, etc.).     The use of OLED
   technology to form flexible display 14 is sometimes
   described herein as an example.     This is, however, merely
                                  48

   illustrative.   Flexible display 14 may be formed using any
   suitable flexible display technology.    The use of flexible
   displays that are based on OLED technology is merely
   illustrative.
 5            In addition to these functional display layers
    (i.e., the OLED array and the optional touch sensor
   array),  display 14 may include one or more structural
   layers.   For example, display 14 may be covered with a
   flexible or rigid cover layer and/or may be mounted on a
10 support structure   (e.g., a rigid support).   Layers of
   adhesive may be used in attaching flexible display layers
   to each other and may be used in mounting flexible display
   layers to rigid and flexible structural layers.
              In configurations for display 14 in which the
15 cover layer for display 14 is flexible, input-output
   components that rely on the presence of flexible layers
   may be mounted at any suitable location under the display
    (e.g., along peripheral portions of the display, in a
   central portion of the display, etc.).     In configurations
20 for display 14 in which the flexible layers are covered by
   a rigid cover glass layer or other rigid cover layer, the
   rigid layer may be provided with one or more openings and
   the electronic components may be mounted under the
   openings.   For example, a rigid cover layer may have
25 openings such as a circular opening 16 for button 17 and a
   speaker port opening such as speaker port opening 18
    (e.g., for an ear speaker for a user).    Device 10 may also
   have other openings   (e.g., openings in display 14 and/or
   housing 12 for accommodating volume buttons, ringer
30 buttons, sleep buttons, and other buttons, openings for an
   audio jack, data port connectors, removable media slots,
   etc.).
              In some embodiments, portions of convex display
   14 such as peripheral regions 201 may be inactive and
                                  49

   portions of display 14 such as rectangular central portion
   20A (bounded by dashed line 20)   may correspond to the
   active part of display 14.   In active display region 20A,
   an array of image pixels may be used to present text and
 5 images to a user of device 10.    In active region 20A,
   display 14 may include touch sensitive components for
   input and interaction with a user of device 10.     If
   desired, regions such as regions 201 and 20A in FIG. 1 may
   both be provided with display pixels    (i.e., all or
10 substantially all of the entire front planar surface of a
   device such as device 10 may be covered with display
   pixels).
              Device 10 may, if desired, have internal user
   interface components such as buttons 17 or speaker
15 component 19 that occupy openings such as openings 16 and
   18 respectively in an optional rigid cover layer of convex
   display 14.   Buttons 17 may be based on dome switches or
   other switch circuitry.   Buttons 17 may include button
   members that form push buttons   (e.g., momentary buttons),
20 slider switches, rocker switches, etc.     Device 10 may
   include internal structural components such as structural
   component 22 that add a raised structure to a portion of
   convex display 14.   Device 10 may include components such
   as interface components 24 and 26 that may be fully
25 internal to device 10, but that receive input from the
   user or from the surrounding environment through physical
   interaction with convex display 14.    Interface components
   22, 24,  and 26 may be positioned in active region 20A or
   inactive region 201 of convex display 14.     Interface
30 components 22,  24, and 26 may be positioned separately
   from one another or may be commonly located to form a
   combined component with structural and internal features.
   Interface components 24 and 26 may be positioned
   underneath convex display 14 so that convex display 14
                                 50

   must be deformed in order to contact components 24 or 26
   or, if desired may be positioned to remain in constant
   contact with convex display 14.
             An exploded perspective view of an illustrative
 5 display is shown in FIG. 2.    As shown in FIG. 2, convex
   display 14 may be formed by stacking multiple layers
   including flexible display layer 14A, touch-sensitive
   layer 14B, and cover layer 14C.    Display 14 may also
   include other layers of material such as adhesive layers,
10 optical films, or other suitable layers.     Flexible display
   layer 14 may include image pixels formed form light
   emitting diodes  (LEDs), organic LEDs   (OLEDs), plasma
   cells, electronic ink elements,   liquid crystal display
   (LCD) components,  or other suitable image pixel structures
15 compatible with flexible displays.
             Touch-sensitive layer 14B may incorporate
   capacitive touch electrodes such as horizontal transparent
   electrodes 32 and vertical transparent electrodes 34.
   Touch-sensitive layer 14B may, in general, be configured
20 to detect the location of one or more touches or near
   touches on touch-sensitive layer 14B based on capacitive
   sensors, resistive sensors, optical sensors, acoustic
   sensors, inductive sensors, or force sensors.
             Software and/or hardware may be used to process
25 the measurements of the detected touches to identify and
   track one or more gestures.    A gesture may correspond to
   stationary or non-stationary, single or multiple, touches
   or near touches on touch-sensitive layer 14B.     A gesture
   may be performed by moving one or more fingers or other
30 objects in a particular manner on touch-sensitive layer
   14B such as tapping, pressing, rocking, scrubbing,
   twisting, changing orientation, pressing with varying
   pressure and the like at essentially the same time,
   contiguously, or consecutively.    A gesture may be
                                 51

   characterized by, but is not limited to a pinching,
   sliding, swiping, rotating, flexing, dragging, or tapping
   motion between or with any other finger or fingers.    A
   single gesture may be performed with one or more hands, by
 5 one or more users, or any combination thereof.
              Cover layer 14C may be formed from plastic or
   glass  (sometimes referred to as display cover glass) and
   may be flexible or rigid.   If desired, the interior
   surface of peripheral inactive portions 201 of cover layer
10 14C may be provided with an opaque masking layer on such
   as black ink.
              Touch-sensitive flexible display section 14AB
   may be formed from display pixel array layer 14A and
   optional touch sensor layer 14B.
15            FIG. 22 is perspective view of an exemplary
   embodiment of device 10 with convex display 14 and convex
   housing 12 in which housing 12 has an opening 300 that may
   provide access to, e.g.,  an audio port.  A portion of
   housing 12 may form a bezel such as bezel 304.   Bezel 304
20 may be formed so that bezel 304 and display 14 form a
   common smooth surface or may be formed raised above or
   depressed below the outer surface of display 14.   Bezel
   304 may be a separate bezel member or may be formed as a
   portion of housing 12.   As shown in FIG. 22, top and
25 bottom portions 306 of bezel 200 may have a convex
   (curved) shape that matches the cross-sectional curved
   shape of convex display 14.
              FIG. 23 is a cross-sectional side view of an
   illustrative embodiment of device 10 taken along line 302
30 of FIG. 22 and viewed in direction 303.   As shown in FIG.
   23, device 10 has a convex shape formed by convex housing
   12 and convex display 14.   Device 10 may also include
   internal components such as battery 310 and components
   312.  The convex shape of housing 12 and display 14 of
                                 52

   device  10 may provide device 10 with a thin appearance
   while providing an interior space that is able to
   accommodate internal components such as battery 310.
              FIG. 24 is a cross-sectional side view of an
 5 illustrative embodiment of device 10 in which convex
   display 14 is formed by mounting flexible display layer
   14A to a convex support structure such as support
   structure 320   (e.g., a rigid support structure having at
   least a convex external surface such as a metal, glass, or
10 plastic support structure) using a layer of adhesive
   material such as adhesive layer 322.    As shown in FIG. 24,
   the internal volume of device 10,   defined by housing 12
   and convex display 14 may include volume 326 above plane
   324  (defined by inner edges 328 of display 14)  and below
15 inner surface 330 of display 14.    This is because inner
   surface 330 of support structure 320 is concave    (in the
   FIG. 24 example).    Volume 326 provides space which may be
   used for placement of internal components such as
   component 332   (e.g., printed circuit boards, antennas or
20 other components).    The ability to bend flexible display
   layer 14A into the convex shape of FIG. 24 that matches
   the convex outer surface of support structure 320 may
   therefore help maximize the interior space that is
   available within device 10 to mount device components.
25            FIG. 25 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of device 10.    In the illustrative embodiment of
   FIG. 25, convex display 14 is formed from flexible display
   layer 14A, adhesive layer 322, and rigid cover layer 14C
   (e.g., a layer of rigid plastic or a layer of rigid cover
30 glass having a convex external surface and a concave inner
   surface to which flexible display layer 14A conforms).
   Convex display 14 may be formed adjacent to bezel portion
   housing 12 or may be joined to housing 12 by an additional
   mounting member.    Providing device 10 with a layer such as
                                  53

   flexible display layer 14A that conforms to the convex
   shape of cover layer 14C    (i.e.,  so that layer 14A conforms
   to the concave inner surface of layer 14C) may provide
   additional internal volume 326 between plane 324       (defined
 5 by inner edges 328 of display 14)     and inner surface 330 of
   display 14.
             FIG. 26 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of another embodiment of device 10.       In the
   illustrative embodiment of FIG. 26, convex display 14 is
10 formed from flexible display layer 14A attached to
   optional touch-sensitive layer 14B by adhesive layer 322.
   Touch-sensitive layer 14B may further be attached to rigid
   cover layer 14C  (e.g., a glass or plastic layer) using
   adhesive layer 340  such that all layers     (322, 14B, 340,
15 and 14C) of display 14 conform to the convex shape of
   cover layer 14C  (i.e.,  so that layers 14A and 14B conform
   to the concave inner surface of cover layer 14C).        Convex
   display 14 may be formed adjacent to housing 12 or may be
   joined to housing 212 by an additional mounting member.
20 The convex shape of all layers     (14A, 322,  14B, 340,  and
   14C) may combine with convex housing 12 to provide a thin
   appearance for device 10 and may provide additional
   internal volume 326 between plane 324      (defined by inner
   edges 328 of display 14)   and inner surface 330 of display
25 14.
             FIG. 27 is a cross-sectional perspective view of
   an illustrative electronic device 10 in the vicinity of a
   connecting structure such as connecting structure 350
   (e.g. an audio port or other female connector).       As shown
30 in FIG. 27, audio port 350 may have electrical contacts
   352 for mating with contacts 356 of a connector such as
   mating connector 354   (e.g., a mating audio plug or other
   male connector).   In the embodiment of FIG. 27,     a portion
   of audio port 350 may occupy a portion of internal volume
                                   54

   326 above plane 324    (defined by inner edges 328 of display
   14).   The convex shape of display 14 of device 10 may
   provide a thin appearance and may provide additional
   internal volume 326 between plane 324      (defined by inner
 5 edges 328 of display 14)    and inner surface 330 of display
   14 in which a portion of mating connectors such as
   connector 350 may be mounted.
              FIG. 28 is a cross-sectional side view of an
   illustrative electronic device 10 in the vicinity of a
10 stack of components 360 such as printed circuit boards
   (PCBs),  sensors, switches, connectors, battery structures,
   or other electronic components.      In the embodiment shown
   in FIG. 28,   some components 360 may be mounted partially
   or completely in a portion of internal volume 326 above
15 plane 324   (defined by inner edges 328 of display 14).      The
   convex shape of display 14 of device 10 may provide a thin
   appearance and may provide additional internal volume 326
   between plane 324   (defined by inner edges 328 of display
   14)  and inner surface 330 of display 14 in which PCBs and
20 other components 360 may be mounted.      The example of FIG.
   29 in which components 360 are mounted in volume 326 is
   merely illustrative.     Other components or structures may
   occupy volume 326, if desired.
              FIG. 29 is a cross-sectional side view of an
25 illustrative electronic device in which display 14 of
   device  10 completely surrounds device 10. As shown in FIG.
   29, device 10 may have convex front     (upper) and rear
   (lower) surfaces that are joined along curved sidewalls.
   Display 14 may cover the front, rear, and sidewall
30 surfaces of device 10 so as to completely surround
   electrical components 360     (e.g., printed circuit boards,
   integrated circuits, switches, sensors, etc.).       Edges 372
   may be joined by a joining member such as joining member
   370.   Member 370 may be a separate member formed of
                                   55

   plastic, glass, ceramics, fiber composites, metal      (e.g.,
   stainless steel, aluminum, etc.),   other suitable
   materials, or a combination of these materials, or may be
   formed from an adhesive material.
 5            In the example of FIG. 29, display 14 may be
   formed by stacking multiple layers including flexible
   display layer 14A, touch-sensitive layer 14B, and cover
   layer 14C.   Display 14 may also include other layers of
   material such as adhesive layers, optical films,     or other
10 suitable layers.    As an example, display 14 may be formed
   by mounting flexible display layer 14A to a rigid convex
   support structure having one or more convex outer surfaces
   and one or more associated concave inner surfaces that
   completely surrounds device 10.    In another configuration,
15 display 14 may be formed from flexible display layer 14A,
   adhesive layer 322,   and rigid cover layer 14C   (e.g., a
   rigid cover layer with one or more convex outer surfaces
   and one or more associated concave inner surfaces).       In
   another possible configuration, convex display 14 may be
20 formed by attaching flexible display layer 14A to optional
   touch-sensitive layer 14B using adhesive layer 322.
   Touch-sensitive layer 14B may further be attached to rigid
   cover layer 14C   (e.g., a glass or plastic layer) using
   adhesive layer 340   so that all layers  (322, 14B, 340,   and
25 14C) of display 14 conform to the convex shape of cover
   layer 14C.   These examples are merely illustrative and
   other configurations of display 14 may be used.
              The convex shape of display 14 of device 10 may
   provide a thin appearance for device 10 and may help to
30 maximize the internal volume of the device in which
   components such as battery 310, PCBs 360 or other
   components such as component 312 may be mounted.
   Surrounding device 10 completely with convex display 14
   may allow the area of a device available for visual
                                  56

   display to be enlarged.
             The foregoing is merely illustrative of the
   principles of this invention and various modifications can
   be made by those skilled in the art without departing from
 5 the scope and spirit of the invention.
             Electronic devices may be provided with convex
   displays.  A convex display may be used to maximize the
   internal volume of a device.   Convex displays may be
   formed from one or more flexible layers.   A flexible
10 display layer may be mounted to a rigid support structure
   or a rigid cover layer.  Flexible display layers that
   conform to the curved shape of a rigid structure may
   provide additional internal volume in which internal
   components of the device may be positioned.
15           In accordance with another embodiment, an
   electronic device is provided including a housing and a
   display mounted in the housing, where the display has a
   flexible display layer that conforms to a convex outer
   surface of a rigid support structure.
20           In accordance with another embodiment, the
   display further includes an adhesive layer and the
   adhesive layer attaches the flexible display layer to the
   convex outer surface of the rigid support structure.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
25 display further includes a touch-sensitive layer.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   display further includes first and second adhesive layers,
   where the first adhesive layer attaches the flexible
   display layer to the touch-sensitive layer and the second
30 adhesive layer attaches the flexible display layer to the
   convex outer surface of the rigid support structure.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   flexible display layer includes image pixels formed from
   organic light-emitting diodes.
                                57

             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   housing has at least one opening, where the opening is
   associated with a connector port and the electronic device
   further includes a connector structure mounted in the
 5 connector port.
             In accordance with another embodiment, an
   electronic device is provided that includes a housing and
   a display mounted in the housing, where the display
   includes a rigid cover layer having at least one convex
10 outer surface and having at least one associated concave
   inner surface and includes a flexible display layer that
   conforms to the concave inner surface.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   display further includes an adhesive layer and the
15 adhesive layer bonds the flexible display layer to the
   concave inner surface of the rigid cover layer.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the rigid
   cover layer includes glass.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
20 flexible display layer includes image pixels formed from
   organic light-emitting diodes.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   flexible display layer includes image pixels formed from
   organic light-emitting diodes.
25           In accordance with another embodiment, the
   display further includes a touch sensor layer that
   conforms to the concave inner surface.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   concave display further includes first and second adhesive
30 layers, where the first adhesive layer attaches the
   flexible display layer to the touch sensor layer and the
   second adhesive layer attaches the touch sensor layer to
   the concave inner surface of the display.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the touch
                                58

   sensor layer includes indium-tin-oxide electrodes.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes an internal component,
   where the concave inner surface of the display provides an
 5 additional internal volume for the electronic device and
   where the internal component is mounted at least partially
   in the additional internal volume.
             In accordance with another embodiment, an
   electronic device is provided having at least a front
10 surface and a rear surface and including electronic
   components interposed between the front and rear surfaces
   and a display that substantially covers at least the front
   and rear surfaces and that surrounds the electronic
   components, where the display includes a rigid cover layer
15 having at least one inner surface and a flexible display
   layer that is bent to conform to the inner surface.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   display further includes a touch-sensitive layer attached
   to at least a portion of the flexible display layer.
20           In accordance with another embodiment, the inner
   surface includes a concave inner surface and the
   electronic device further includes a connector structure
   and a housing having an opening, where the connector
   structure is mounted in the opening to form a connector
25 port.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device has at least two sidewall surfaces and
   the display substantially covers the two sidewall
   surfaces.
30           In accordance with another embodiment, the
   display has at least two edges and the edges of the
   display are joined by a joining member.
             The foregoing is merely illustrative of the
   principles of this invention and various modifications can
                                59

   be made by those skilled in the art without departing from
   the scope and spirit of the invention.   The foregoing
   embodiments may be implemented individually or in any
   combination.
 5           As shown in the examples of FIGS. 30-44, an
   electronic device may be provided with a flexible display
   and other user interface components.   The user interface
   components may include buttons, switches, microphones,
   actuators such as solenoids, motors, and piezoelectric
10 actuators, connector ports, touch screens, proximity
   sensors and other components for accepting input from, or
   transmitting information to, a user of the electronic
   device.
             Flexible displays may be formed from flexible
15 layers such as a flexible display layer   (e.g., a flexible
   organic light-emitting diode array),  a flexible touch
   sensitive layer (e.g., a sheet of polymer with an array of
   transparent capacitor electrodes for a capacitive touch
   sensor), a flexible substrate layer, etc.    These flexible
20 layers may, if desired, be covered by a flexible or rigid
   cover layer (sometimes referred to as a cover glass) or
   may be supported by a support structure   (e.g., a rigid
   support structure on the underside of the flexible
   layers).  In electronic devices with flexible displays
25 that are covered by rigid cover layers, the cover layers
   may be provided with openings that provide access to the
   flexible layers of the display in the vicinity of a user
   interface device.  For example, a cover glass layer may
   have an opening that allows a button member to move
30 relative to the cover glass layer.   As another example, a
   cover glass layer may have one or more speaker openings
   through which sound may pass.
             To maximize the area of the portion of the
   flexible display that is available for displaying visual
                                60

   information to the user, user interface components may be
   positioned behind, abutted against, or integrated into the
   flexible display.    The deformable nature of the flexible
   display may allow a user to interact with the user
 5 interface components    (input-output components) by moving
   the display into contact with the user interface
   components or by otherwise allowing the display to locally
   flex  (e.g., to allow sound to pass through the flexible
   display or to allow barometric pressure measurements of
10 the exterior environment to be made by an internal
   pressure sensor).
              If desired, a portion of the flexible display
   may form a membrane structure for an electrical component.
   For example, a portion of the flexible display may form a
15 speaker membrane for a speaker component.     Components that
   may be provided with a membrane structure formed from a
   portion of a flexible display include speakers,
   microphones, laser microphones, pressure sensors, etc.
              An illustrative electronic device of the type
20 that may be provided with a flexible display is shown in
   FIG. 30.   Electronic device 10 may be a computer such as a
   computer that is integrated into a display.     For example,
   electronic device 10 may be a computer monitor, a laptop
   computer, a tablet computer, a somewhat smaller portable
25 device such as a wrist-watch device, pendant device, or
   other wearable or miniature device, a cellular telephone,
   a media player, a tablet computer, a gaming device, a
   speaker device, a navigation device, a computer monitor, a
   television, or other electronic equipment.
30            Device 10 may include a housing such as housing
   412.   Housing 412, which may sometimes be referred to as a
   case, may be formed of plastic, glass, ceramics, fiber
   composites, metal   (e.g., stainless steel, aluminum, etc.),
   other suitable materials, or a combination of these
                                  61

   materials.   In some situations, parts of housing 412 may
   be formed from dielectric or other low-conductivity
   material.   In other situations, housing 412 or at least
   some of the structures that make up housing 412 may be
 5 formed from metal elements.
              Housing 412 may be formed using a unibody
   configuration in which some or all of housing 412 is
   machined or molded as a single structure or may be formed
   using multiple structures   (e.g., an internal frame
10 structure, one or more structures that form exterior
   housing surfaces, etc.).
              As shown in FIG. 30, housing 412 may have
   multiple parts.   For example, housing 412 may have upper
   portion 412A and lower portion 412B.    Upper portion 412A
15 may be coupled to lower portion 412B using a hinge that
   allows portion 412A to rotate about rotational axis 416
   relative to portion 412B.    A keyboard such as keyboard 418
   and a touch pad such as touch pad 420 may be mounted in
   housing portion 412B.
20            Device 10 may have a flexible display such as
   flexible display 414.   Flexible display 414 may be formed
   from multiple layers of material.    These layers may
   include a touch sensor layer such as a layer on which a
   pattern of indium tin oxide (ITO) electrodes or other
25 suitable transparent electrodes have been deposited to
   form a capacitive touch sensor array.    These layers may
   also include a display layer that contains an array of
   display pixels.   The touch sensor layer and the display
   layer may be formed using flexible sheets of polymer
30 (e.g., polyimide) or other substrates having thicknesses
   of 10 microns to 0.5 mm, having thicknesses of less than
   0.2 mm, or having other suitable thicknesses    (as
   examples).
              The display pixel array may be an organic light
                                  62

   emitting diode   (OLED) array, for example.   Other types of
   flexible display pixel arrays may also be formed     (e.g.,
   electrowetting displays, electrophoretic displays,
   flexible liquid crystal displays, flexible electrochromic
 5 displays, etc.).    The use of OLED technology to form
   flexible display 414 is sometimes described herein as an
   example.   This is,  however, merely illustrative.    In
   general,  any suitable type of flexible display technology
   may be used in forming display 414.
10            In addition to these functional display layers
   (i.e., the OLED array and the optional touch sensor
   array),  display 414 may include one or more structural
   layers.   For example, display 414 may be covered with a
   flexible or rigid cover layer and/or may be mounted on a
15 support structure   (e.g., a rigid support).   If desired,
   layers of adhesive may be used to attach flexible display
   layers to each other and/or to mount flexible display
   layers to rigid and flexible structural layers.
              In some embodiments, display 414 may have an
20 active area such as active area AA and an inactive area
   such as area IA.    In active display region AA, an array of
   image pixels may be used to present text and images to a
   user of device 10.    In active region AA, display 414 may
   include touch sensitive components for input and
25 interaction with a user of device 10.     If desired, both
   central portion AA and peripheral portion IA may be
   provided with display pixels    (i.e., all or substantially
   all of the entire front planar surface of upper housing
   portion 412A may be provided with display pixels).
30            In the example of FIG. 31, device 10 has been
   implemented using a housing that is sufficiently small to
   fit within a user's hand (e.g., device 10 of FIG. 31 may
   be a handheld electronic device such as a cellular
   telephone).   As show in FIG. 31,   device 10 may include a
                                  63

   display such as display 414 mounted on the front of
   housing 412.  Display 414 may be substantially filled with
   active display pixels or may have an inactive portion such
   as inactive portion IA that surrounds an active portion
 5 such as active portion AA.   Display 414 may have openings
   (e.g., openings in inactive region IA or active region AA
   of display 414) such as an opening to accommodate button
   422 and an opening to accommodate speaker port 424.
             FIG. 32 is a perspective view of electronic
10 device 10 in a configuration in which electronic device    10
   has been implemented in the form of a tablet computer.     As
   shown in FIG. 32, display 414 may be mounted on the upper
   (front) surface of housing 412.    An opening may be formed
   in display 414 to accommodate button 422    (e.g., an opening
15 may be formed in inactive region IA surrounding active
   region AA).
             FIG. 33 is a perspective view of electronic
   device 10 in a configuration in which electronic device 10
   has been implemented in the form of a television or in the
20 form of a computer integrated into a computer monitor.     As
   shown in FIG. 33, display 414 may be mounted on the front
   surface of housing 412.   Stand 426 may be used to support
   housing 412.  Display 414 may include an inactive region
   such as inactive region IA that surrounds active region
25 AA.
             An exploded perspective view of an illustrative
   display is shown in FIG. 34.    As shown in FIG. 34,
   flexible display 414 may be formed by stacking multiple
   layers including flexible display layer 414A and touch
30 sensitive layer 414B.   An optional cover layer such as
   cover layer 462 may be formed over flexible display 414.
   Cover layer 462 may be a layer of glass, plastic, or other
   protective display layer.
             Flexible display 414 may also include other
                                 64

   layers of material such as adhesive layers, optical films,
   sealant layers, or other suitable layers.      Flexible
   display layer 414A may include image pixels formed from
   light-emitting diodes    (LEDs), organic LEDs  (OLEDs), plasma
 5 cells, electrowetting display elements, electrophoretic
   display elements, liquid crystal display     (LCD) components,
   or other suitable image pixel structures compatible with
   flexible displays.
              Touch-sensitive layer 414B may incorporate
10 capacitive touch electrodes such as horizontal transparent
   electrodes 432 and vertical transparent electrodes 434.
   Touch-sensitive layer 414B may, in general, be configured
   to detect the location of one or more touches or near
   touches on touch-sensitive layer 414B based on capacitive,
15 resistive, optical, acoustic, inductive, or mechanical
   measurements, or any phenomena that can be measured with
   respect to the occurrences of the one or more touches or
   near touches in proximity to touch sensitive layer 414B.
20            Flexible display 414 may be formed from display
   pixel array layer 414A and optional touch sensor layer
   414B.  In the example of FIG. 34,    touch-sensitive layer
   414B is interposed between cover layer 462 and flexible
   display layer 414A.    This arrangement is merely
25 illustrative.    If desired, flexible display layer 414A may
   be interposed between cover layer 462 and touch-sensitive
   layer 414B   (e.g., flexible display layer 414A may be
   arranged on top of touch-sensitive layer 414B).      If
   desired, touch-sensitive layer 414B and flexible display
30 layer 414A may be integrated as a single layer.      For
   example, capacitive touch electrodes such as electrodes
   432 and 434 and display pixels such as display pixels 430
   may be formed on a common substrate, if desired.
              FIG. 35 is a cross-sectional side view of a
                                   65

   portion of flexible display layer 414A.      As shown in FIG.
   35,  flexible display layer 414A may contain multiple
   sublayers.    For example, display layer 414A may include a
   substrate layer such as substrate layer 415.       Substrate
 5 layer 415 may be formed from a flexible or rigid
   dielectric such as glass, ceramic, or plastic.       As an
   example, substrate layer 415 may be formed from one or
   more flexible sheets of polymer     (e.g., polyimide).
   Substrate layer 415 may have a thickness of 10 microns to
10 0.5 mm, may have a thickness of less than 0.2 mm, or may
   have other suitable thickness     (as examples).
              A thin-film transistor    (TFT) layer such as TFT
   layer 417 may include a layer of thin-film transistor
   structures   (e.g., polysilicon transistors and/or amorphous
15 silicon transistors) formed on substrate layer 415.
              An organic emissive layer such as OLED layer 419
   may be formed over TFT layer 417.      OLED layer 419 may
   include a light-emitting material such as an array of
   organic light-emitting diode structures that are used to
20 form display pixels such as display pixels 430 of FIG. 34.
              A sealant layer such as sealant layer 421 may be
   formed over OLED layer 419 to protect the structures of
   OLED layer 419 and TFT layer 417.      Sealant layer 421 may
   be formed from one or more layers of polymer      (e.g., one or
25 more layers of polymer that are deposited onto OLED layer
   419),  metal foil   (e.g., a layer of metal foil that is
   laminated, sputtered, evaporated, or otherwise applied
   onto OLED layer 419),    or other suitable coating or
   conformal covering.
30            Electronic device 10 may be provided with one or
   more speaker structures for providing sound to a user of
   electronic device 10.     FIG. 36 is a cross-sectional side
   view of a portion of electronic device 10 in the vicinity
   of a speaker structure such as speaker structure 448.
                                   66

   Sound produced by speaker structure 448 may be transmitted
   through flexible display 414 to the exterior of device 10.
   Flexible display 414 may be used as a speaker membrane
   structure for speaker 448.   Portions such as portion 414M
 5 that serve as a speaker membrane for speaker 448 may be
   located in an active or inactive portion of display 414.
   Arrangements in which speaker membrane 414M forms an
   active display area may allow the size of the active
   region of flexible display 414 to be increased relative to
10 its inactive region.
             As shown in FIG. 36, speaker structure 448 may
   be driven by a transducer such as transducer 450.
   Transducer 450 may be configured to receive electrical
   audio signal input from circuitry in device 10 and to
15 convert the electrical signal into sound.    In the example
   of FIG. 36, transducer 450 is formed from a magnet such as
   magnet 440 surrounded by coils such as coils 442.     Magnet
   440 may be a permanent magnet formed from ferrite
   material, ceramic material, iron alloy material, rare
20 earth material, other suitable material, or a combination
   of these materials.   Coils 442 may be formed from copper,
   aluminum, silver, other suitable materials, etc.     If
   desired, there may be one or more sets of coils
   surrounding magnet 440.
25           When current passes through coils 442,   a
   magnetic field is produced.    This allows coils 442 to act
   as a variable electromagnet with a magnetic field that
   interacts with the constant magnetic field produced by
   permanent magnet 440.   For example, the negative pole of
30 the electromagnet may be repelled by the negative pole of
   permanent magnet 440.   The magnetic force created by this
   repulsion will force magnet 440 away from coils 442.     When
   the current flowing through coils 442 changes direction,
   the polarity of the variable electromagnet reverses.
                                 67

   Magnet 440 may be pushed back and forth rapidly (along the
   z-axis) as the current in coils 442 alternates directions.
              Portions of flexible display 414 such as portion
   414M may form a speaker membrane for speaker 448.    As
 5 magnet 440 moves back and forth along the z-axis, attached
   speaker membrane 414M will in turn vibrate the air in
   front of speaker membrane 414M, creating sound waves.
              In some arrangements, an optional support
   structure such as support structure 446   (sometimes
10 referred to as a stiffening structure or stiffener) may be
   interposed between transducer 450 and speaker membrane
   414M.   Support structure 446 may be used to stiffen
   speaker membrane portion 414M of display 414.    Support
   structure 446 may be formed from a metal plate, from
15 specialized composite structures   (e.g., a layer of foam
   interposed between layers of stiffener, etc.),   from other
   support materials or stiffening structures, or from a
   combination of these materials.   Using a support structure
   such as support structure 446 may allow speaker membrane
20 414M to respond more accurately to the movement of magnet
   440.   In arrangements where optional support structure 446
   is not used, magnet 440 may be configured to stiffen
   portion 414M of display 414 that serves as a speaker
   membrane structure.
25            There may be one or more speaker structures 448
   in device 10.   Some or all of speaker structures 448 in
   device  10 may have speaker membranes that are formed from
   flexible display 414.   If desired, some, all, or
   substantially all of flexible display 414 may be used as a
30 speaker membrane for one speaker, for two speakers, for
   three speakers, or for more than three speakers.
              A suspension structure such as suspension
   structure 454 may be used to attach portions of flexible
   display 414 to a rigid support structure such as housing
                                 68

   412.   Suspension structure 454 may prevent speaker
   membrane 414M from moving laterally along the x-axis
   and/or the y-axis, but may allow free motion of speaker
   membrane 414M along the z-axis as speaker 448 produces
 5 sound.   Suspension structure 454 may be formed from an
   elastomeric material, foam material, resin coated
   material, other suitable materials, or a combination of
   these materials.   As shown in the example of FIG. 36,
   suspension structure 454 may form a pliant interface
10 between speaker membrane 414M and housing sidewalls 412S.
   This is merely illustrative.    If desired, suspension
   structure 454 may form a pliant interface between speaker
   membrane 414M and any suitable surrounding housing
   structure or any suitable rigid support structure.
15            If desired, other suspension structures may be
   incorporated into speaker structure 448.    For example,
   there may be one or more suspension structures attached to
   magnet 440.   This type of suspension structure may provide
   a restoring force that returns magnet 440 to an
20 equilibrium position after being displaced by magnetic
   forces.
              The desired range of frequencies produced by
   speaker 448 may depend on several factors.    For example,
   the desired range of frequencies produced by speaker 448
25 may depend on the type of electronic device in which
   speaker 448 is implemented, may depend on the location of
   speaker 448 in device 10, may depend on the other speaker
   structures that are being used in combination with speaker
   structure 448, etc.   Design choices may be made to obtain
30 a desired frequency response from speaker 448.    For
   example, materials used in forming speaker 448 may be
   selected based on the desired frequency response.
              The type of enclosure that surrounds speaker 448
   may also be selected based on the desired frequency
                                 69

   response.  For example, the enclosure that surrounds the
   speaker may be ported.   As shown in FIG. 36, housing 412
   may optionally be provided with an opening or port such as
   acoustic port 452  (sometimes referred to as a funnel,
 5 horn, vent, hole, etc.).    Port 452 may be used to equalize
   the pressure between the inside of housing 412 and the
   outside of housing 412.    This may in turn augment the
   sound waves produced by speaker 448.     A ported enclosure
   such as the ported enclosure shown in the example of FIG.
10 36 may increase the magnitude of low-frequency sound waves
   produced by speaker 448   (e.g., a speaker with a ported
   enclosure may have a higher bass output than a speaker
   with a sealed enclosure).
             As shown in FIG. 36, port 452 may have a portion
15 such as portion 452P that protrudes into the enclosure.
   The size and shape of protruding portion 452P may be
   customized to obtain a desired frequency response.      For
   example, protruding portion 452P of port 452 may have a
   "horn" shape, in which the diameter of opening 452 varies
20 along the length of portion 452P.     Protruding portion 452P
   may have a curved shape, if desired.     In general,
   protruding portion 452P may have any suitable shape, and
   opening 452 may have any suitable size.     The
   characteristics of port 452 will depend on the desired
25 frequency response of speaker 448,    the structure of device
   10, etc., and may be modified accordingly.      The example
   shown in FIG. 36 is merely illustrative.
             If desired, speaker 448 may be provided with a
   sealed enclosure that does not have a port.      The example
30 of FIG. 36 in which housing 412 is provided with port 452
   is merely illustrative.    The type of enclosure into which
   speaker 448 is implemented    (e.g., a sealed enclosure, a
   ported enclosure, etc.)  will depend on the desired
   frequency response of speaker 448,    the structure of device
                                  70

   10,  etc.,  and may be modified accordingly.
               Electronic device 10 may have internal
   components or structures such as internal component 456.
   Internal components such as internal component 456 may
 5 optionally be used to tune the resonant frequency of
   speaker 448.    Internal component 456 may be a battery or
   other internal structure.    If desired, optional component
   456 may be omitted or may otherwise not be used to tune
   the resonant frequency of speaker 448.
10              If desired, housing 412 may have one or more
   raised edges such as optional raised portion 412'.      Raised
   portion 412' may have an upper surface that lies above the
   upper surface of display 414    (e.g., the upper surface of
   raised portion 412' may protrude above the upper surface
15 of flexible display 414 in vertical dimension z).
   Optional raised housing 412'    may allow a user to hold
   device   10 in hand without disrupting the speaker
   functionality of display 414.     Raised portion 412' of
   housing 412 may surround the entire periphery of display
20 414,  or may be located on one side of display 414, on two
   sides of display 414,   on three sides of display 414,   or on
   all four sides of display 414.     Raised portion 412' may be
   formed as an integral part of housing 412 or may be formed
   as a separate structure in contact with housing 412.
25             FIG. 37 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of electronic device 10 in the vicinity of another
   possible embodiment of speaker structure 448.      As shown in
   FIG. 37,   speaker structure 448 may be driven by a
   transducer such as transducer 450.     In the example of FIG.
30 37,  transducer 450 may be formed from one or more central
   sets of coils 442 surrounded by a magnet such as magnet
   440.   In some arrangements,  inner portion 444 of coils 442
   may also contain a magnet structure     (e.g., coils 442 may
   surround a magnet structure).     Magnet structures that are
                                  71

   formed within inner portion 444 of coils 442 may be formed
   as an integral part of outer magnet 440     (e.g., may be
   joined above and/or below coils 442) or may be a separate
   magnet structure.     If desired, inner portion 444 of coils
 5 442 may be free of magnet structures.
              As with the transducer of FIG. 36, transducer
   450 of FIG. 37 may be configured to receive electrical
   audio signal input from circuitry in device 10 and to
   convert the electrical signal into sound.      As current
10 passes through coils 442,    a magnetic field is produced.
   The magnetic field produced by coils 442 interacts with
   the constant magnetic field produced by permanent magnet
   440.   The interaction of the electromagnet with the
   constant magnetic field will create a magnetic force
15 between coils 442 and magnet 440     (e.g., an attractive or
   repulsive force).     When the current flowing through coils
   442 changes direction, the polarity of the variable
   electromagnet    (and thus the direction of magnetic force)
   is reversed.    Coils 442 may be pushed back and forth
20  (along the z-axis) by the varying magnetic force as the
   current in coils 442 alternates directions.
              As coils 442 move back and forth, attached
   speaker membrane 414M will in turn vibrate the air in
   front of speaker membrane 414M, creating sound waves.
25 Support structure 446 may be used to stiffen speaker
   membrane 414M so that membrane portion 414M of flexible
   display 414 responds accurately to the movement of
   transducer 450.
              In the example of FIG. 37,    speaker 448 may be
30 provided with a sealed enclosure that does not have a
   port.   This is merely illustrative.     Any suitable type of
   enclosure   (e.g., a sealed enclosure, a ported enclosure,
   etc.)  may be used.    The type of enclosure into which
   speaker 448 is implemented will depend on the desired
                                   72

   frequency response of speaker 448,     the structure of device
   10,  etc.,  and may be modified accordingly.
               FIG. 38 is a cross-sectional side view of a
   portion of device 10 in the vicinity of another possible
 5 embodiment of speaker structure 448.      In the example of
   FIG. 38,   speaker 448 is supported by a rigid structure
   within device 10 such as rigid structure 466.      Rigid
   structure 466 may be formed from housing structures or
   internal components, or may be a dedicated structure used
10 to form a frame     (sometimes referred to as a chassis or
   "basket") or other rigid support structure for speaker
   448.   Suspension structure 454 may be used to form a
   pliant interface between speaker 448 and rigid structure
   466.   As with the suspension structure of FIGS. 7 and 8
15 (in which suspension structure 454 is attached to housing
   sidewalls 412S),     suspension structure 454 of FIG. 38 may
   prevent speaker membrane portions 414M of display 414 from
   moving laterally along the x-axis and/or the y-axis, but
   may allow free motion of speaker membrane 414M along the
20 z-axis as speaker 448 produces sound.      Suspension
   structure 454 may be attached to any suitable portion of
   speaker 448    (e.g.,  support structure 446, magnet 440,
   speaker membrane portion 414M, etc.)
               The type of arrangement shown in FIG. 38 may be
25 beneficial for configurations in which speaker 448 is not
   in the vicinity of housing sidewalls 412S or in other
   configurations in which speaker 448 is not attached to
   housing 412.     For example, speaker 448 may be located in
   the central portion of a large display.      In this type of
30 configuration, a rigid structure such as rigid structure
   466 of FIG. 38 may be used to support speaker 448, if
   desired.
               There may be one or more speakers 448 in device
   10.   Multiple speakers 448 may be attached to a common
                                    73

   rigid structure 466 or each speaker 448 may be attached to
   a separate rigid structure 466.
             If desired, a cover layer such as optional cover
   layer 462 may be formed over flexible display 414.    Cover
 5 layer 462 may be formed from glass, plastic, or other
   suitable material.  Cover layer 462 may allow a user to
   hold device 10 in hand without disrupting the speaker
   functionality of display 414.   Cover layer 462 may also
   serve to protect display 414 and other parts of device 10
10 while still allowing speaker membrane 414M to move freely
   along the z-axis as speaker 448 produces sound.    Cover
   layer 462 may be in contact with display 414 or there may
   be a gap 463 interposed between cover layer 462 and
   display 414.  Gap 463 may be filled with air or may
15 include a layer of material such as a layer of sealant    (as
   an example).
             One or more holes such as holes 464   (sometimes
   referred to as openings or speaker openings) may be formed
   in cover layer 462 so that sound may pass from speaker 448
20 to the exterior of device 10.
             A perspective view of device 10 showing how
   holes 464 may be formed in cover layer 462 is shown in
   FIG. 39.  As shown in FIG. 39, holes 464 may be formed in
   a "speaker grill" fashion in which an array of openings is
25 formed in front of one or more speakers.   Holes 464 may be
   formed in cover layer 462 in any suitable location.    For
   example, holes 464 may be formed in localized areas of
   cover layer 462 that overlap a speaker structure, or holes
   464 may be formed in a uniform array that covers some,
30 all, or substantially all of the front surface of display
   414.  Holes 464 may have any suitable size.   For example,
   holes 464 may have a diameter between  .25 mm and .5 mm,
   between .5 mm and 1 mm, between 1 mm and 1.5 mm, more than
   1.5 mm, less than 1.5 mm, etc.   The size, shape, and
                                74

   number of openings 464 formed in cover layer 462 may
   depend on the type and number of speakers 448   in device
   10.
              FIG. 40 is a cross-sectional side view of device
 5 10 in the vicinity of support structure 446.    Support
   structure 446 may be used to stiffen portions of flexible
   display 414.   As discussed in connection with FIG. 36,
   stiffening structure 446 may be formed from a metal plate,
   from fiber-based composite materials, from laminated
10 layers of one or more materials, or from other suitable
   materials.   As shown in the example of FIG. 40,  stiffening
   structure 446 may be formed from a layer of foam 474
   interposed between first and second stiffening sheets 472.
   Sheets 472 may be formed from polymer, metal, glass,
15 ceramic, fiber-based composites, or other suitable
   materials.   This type of structure may provide a stiff and
   lightweight support structure for display 414.    If
   desired, support structure 446 may be used to stiffen
   speaker membrane portions 414M of display 414, may be used
20 to stiffen other portions of display 414, or may be used
   to stiffen all or substantially all of display 414.
              Support structure 446 may be shaped in any
   desired fashion.   For example, support structure 446 may
   be curved, may be planar, or may have a combination of
25 curved and planar portions.
              FIG. 41 is a cross-sectional side view of device
   10 in the vicinity of curved support structure 446.     As
   shown in FIG. 41,  flexible display 414 may conform to the
   shape of stiffening structure 446.   In the example of FIG.
30 41 stiffening structure 446 has a curved shape so that
   flexible display 414 is concave.   This is, however, merely
   illustrative.   In general, stiffening structure 446 and
   the attached portion of display 414 may have any suitable
   shape.  For example, stiffening structure 446 may have a
                                 75

   curved shape so that flexible display 414 is convex.      The
   example of FIG. 41 in which display 414 has a concave
   shape may be suitable for configurations in which display
   414 forms a speaker membrane for speaker 448.     A concave
 5 shaped speaker membrane may improve the quality of sound
   produced by speaker 448.    Speakers with convex membranes
   may also be used.
               FIG. 42 is a cross-sectional side view of
   device 10 in the vicinity of a single speaker structure.
10 As shown in FIG. 42, portion 414M of flexible display 414
   may form a speaker membrane for speaker structure 448.
   Transducer 450 for speaker 448 may be any suitable type of
   transducer   (e.g., one or more sets of coils surrounded by
   a magnet, one or more sets of coils surrounding a magnet,
15 a piezoelectric transducer, a microphone transducer, a
   sensor, an actuator, etc.).     Speaker 448 may be the only
   speaker in device 10 or may be one of a plurality of
   speakers in device 10.    Display-based speaker structure
   448 may be used in conjunction with speaker structures
20 that are not display-based.     For example, there may be
   other speakers in device 10 which do not use display 414
   as a speaker membrane.    Speaker structure 448 of FIG. 42
   may use all or substantially all of display 414 as a
   speaker membrane   (e.g., the entire front face of device   10
25 may be occupied by a speaker),    or may use only a portion
   of display 414 as a speaker membrane.
              In the example of FIG. 43, an array of
   transducers 450 may be used to form a plurality of
   display-based speakers 448.     Display-based speaker
30 structures 448 may be used in conjunction with speaker
   structures that are not display-based.     Each display-based
   speaker 448 may have an associated transducer 450.     Each
   associated transducer 450 may be any suitable type of
   transducer   (e.g., one or more sets of coils surrounded by
                                  76

   a magnet, one or more sets of coils surrounding a magnet,
   a piezoelectric transducer, a microphone transducer, a
   sensor, an actuator, etc.).      The type of transducer 450
   used may be different for each speaker 448      (e.g., the
 5 array of speakers 448 in FIG. 43 may include different
   types of transducers, if desired).      Providing speakers 448
   with different types of transducers, different structures,
   and different characteristics may give device 10 the
   ability to produce sound with a wider range of
10 frequencies.
              FIG. 44 is a bottom view of a portion of device
   10 showing how an array of display-based speakers such as
   the array shown in FIG. 43 may be implemented in device
   10.   In the example of FIG. 44,    support structure 446 is
15 formed on the underside of display 414.      Support structure
   446 may be used to stiffen speaker membrane portions 414M
   of display 414    (e.g., support structure 446 may be
   interposed between transducer 450 and display 414).
   Support structure 446 may also be used to stiffen portions
20 of display 414 between adjacent speakers 448.
              Each speaker 448 may be surrounded by a ring
   414'  of flexible display 414 that is not stiffened by
   support structure 446.     Flexible ring-shaped portions 414'
   of flexible display 414 may provide a barrier structure
25 around each speaker 448 that prevents interference between
   adjacent speakers 448.     For example, as speaker membrane
   414M vibrates, ring 414'     (which is surrounded by support
   structure 446) may absorb vibrations moving laterally in
   display 414   (e.g.,  in directions along the x-axis and/or
30 y-axis).   This may allow adjacent speakers 448 to operate
   independently without being disrupted by the vibrations of
   a neighboring speaker.
              If desired, speakers 448 may include a variety
   of speaker types.     Examples of speaker types that may be
                                   77

   used for speakers 448 include subwoofers, woofers, mid
   range speakers, tweeters, supertweeters, etc.   If desired,
   different channels of audio input may be routed to each
   speaker.  For example, speakers 448 may include a center
 5 channel speaker, a left channel speaker, a right channel
   speaker, a surround channel speaker, etc.   Any suitable
   characteristic of speakers 448  (e.g., size, type,
   location, input channel, etc.) may be modified to achieve
   a desired frequency response and/or to accommodate the
10 structure of device 10.
             Electronic devices that contain flexible
   displays and one or more display-based speaker structures
   may be provided.  The speaker structures may be positioned
   under the flexible display.   Portions of the flexible
15 display may be used as speaker membranes for the speaker
   structures.  The speaker structures may be driven by
   transducers that convert electrical audio signal input
   into sound.  Piezoelectric transducers or transducers
   formed from coils and magnets may be used to drive the
20 speaker structures.  Speaker membranes may be formed from
   active display areas of the flexible display.   Some, all,
   or substantially all of the flexible display may be used
   as a speaker membrane for one or more display-based
   speaker structures.  An optional cover layer may be
25 provided with speaker openings so that sound may pass from
   the display-based speaker structures to the exterior of
   the device.
             In accordance with another embodiment, an
   electronic device is provided including a flexible display
30 and a speaker structure having a speaker membrane, where
   the speaker membrane is formed from a portion of the
   flexible display.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes a stiffening structure
                                78

   configured to stiffen the portion of the flexible display
   that forms the speaker membrane.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   stiffening structure includes a layer of foam.
 5           In accordance with another embodiment, the
   stiffening structure includes first and second stiffening
   sheets that are attached to opposing first and second
   sides of the layer of foam.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
10 flexible display includes an active portion configured to
   display images and the speaker membrane is formed from the
   active portion of the flexible display.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes a rigid structure and a
15 suspension structure configured to attach portions of the
   speaker structure to the rigid structure.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes an electronic device
   housing in which the flexible display is mounted, where
20 the rigid structure is formed at least partly from the
   electronic device housing.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes a cover layer formed
   over the flexible display, where the cover layer includes
25 at least one opening formed over the speaker membrane.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes an electronic device
   housing in which the flexible display is mounted, where
   the electronic device housing has at least one acoustic
30 port.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   flexible display includes an organic light-emitting diode
   display having a substrate formed from a flexible sheet of
   polymer.
                                79

             In accordance with another embodiment an
   electronic device is provided including a flexible display
   and a plurality of speaker structures, where portions of
   the flexible display form speaker membranes for the
 5 plurality of speaker structures.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes a plurality of
   stiffening structures configured to stiffen the portions
   of the flexible display that form the speaker membranes.
10           In accordance with another embodiment, the
   flexible display includes a set of stiffened regions,
   where each of the stiffened regions in the set of
   stiffened regions forms part of a respective one of the
   speaker structures, flexible regions, where each of the
15 flexible regions surrounds a respective one of the
   stiffened regions in the set of stiffened regions, and a
   surrounding stiffened region, where each of the flexible
   regions is surrounded by portions of the surrounding
   stiffened region.
20           In accordance with another embodiment, the
   speaker structures include a left channel speaker and a
   right channel speaker.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes transducers configured
25 to drive the speaker structures, where each transducer
   includes coils and a magnet.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   electronic device further includes piezoelectric
   transducers configured to drive the speaker structures.
30           In accordance with another embodiment, the
   flexible display includes an organic light-emitting diode
   display having a substrate formed from a flexible sheet of
   polymer.
             In accordance with another embodiment, a
                                80

   portable electronic device is provided, including a
   housing, a flexible organic light-emitting diode display
   mounted in the housing, where the flexible organic light
   emitting diode display has a substrate formed from a
 5 flexible sheet of polymer, and at least one speaker having
   a speaker membrane formed from a portion of the flexible
   sheet of polymer.
             In accordance with another embodiment,  the
   portable electronic device further includes a stiffening
10 structure interposed between the at least one speaker and
   the speaker membrane, where the stiffening structure
   includes a composite material.
             In accordance with another embodiment, the
   speaker membrane has a concave shape.
15           In accordance with another embodiment, the
   housing includes a rectangular housing with four
   peripheral edges and the flexible organic light-emitting
   diode display and the speaker membrane extend between the
   four peripheral edges.
20           The foregoing is merely illustrative of the
   principles of this invention and various modifications can
   be made by those skilled in the art without departing from
   the scope and spirit of the invention.  The foregoing
   embodiments may be implemented individually or in any
25 combination.
                                81

What is Claimed is:
          1.   An electronic device, comprising:
               a flexible display; and
               an internal component, wherein the flexible
display may be deformed by an action external to the
device, and wherein deformation of the flexible display
creates a response from the internal component.
          2.   The electronic device defined in claim 1
wherein the flexible display comprises:
               a flexible display layer; and
               a touch-sensitive layer.
          3.   The electronic device defined in claim 2
wherein the flexible display layer of the flexible display
includes an active display region, and wherein the
internal component is covered with a portion of the active
display region of the flexible display.
          4.   The electronic device defined in claim 3
wherein the internal component comprises a button, and
wherein deformation of the flexible display compresses the
button.
          5.   The electronic device defined in claim 4
wherein the flexible display further comprises a rigid
cover layer having at least one opening.
          6.   The electronic device defined in claim 5
wherein the opening comprises a hole in the rigid cover
layer, wherein the button further comprises a button
member in the opening, wherein the button member moves
within the hole in the rigid cover layer, and wherein the
                             82

movement of the button member in the opening causes
deformation of the flexible display.
          7.   The electronic device defined in claim 3
wherein the internal component comprises a pressure
sensor, and wherein deformation of the flexible display
exerts a mechanical pressure on the pressure sensor.
          8.   The electronic device defined in claim 7
wherein the pressure sensor comprises a piezoelectric
actuator, and wherein the mechanical pressure induces a
voltage on the piezoelectric actuator.
          9.   The electronic device defined in claim 3
wherein the internal component comprises a laser
microphone for detecting a sound originating external to
the electronic device, and wherein detecting the sound
comprises with a laser, detecting deformation of the
flexible display.
          10.  An electronic device, comprising:
               a flexible display; and
               an audio component that transmits or
receives sound through the flexible display.
          11.  The electronic device defined in claim 10
wherein the flexible display includes an active display
region, and wherein the audio component is mounted behind
the active display region of the flexible display.
          12. The electronic device defined in claim 11
wherein the flexible display comprises:
               a flexible display layer; and
               a touch-sensitive layer.
                             83

           13. The electronic device defined in claim 11
wherein the audio component comprises a diaphragm, and
wherein the diaphragm is mounted in contact with the
flexible display.
           14. An electronic device, comprising:
               a housing;
               a flexible display mounted on the housing;
and
               a first internal component mounted under a
portion of the flexible display, wherein the first
internal component is configured to deform the portion of
the flexible display.
           15. The electronic device defined in claim 14
wherein the first internal component comprises a
piezoelectric actuator, wherein a voltage applied to the
piezoelectric actuator causes an expansion of the
piezoelectric actuator, and wherein the portion of the
flexible display deforms in response to the expansion of
the piezoelectric actuator.
           16. The electronic device defined in claim 14
wherein the first internal component comprises a
structural component, wherein the portion of the flexible
display deforms in response to physical contact with the
structural component, and wherein deformation of the
portion of the flexible display causes the portion of the
flexible display to conform to a surface of the structural
component.
           17. The electronic device defined in claim 16
further comprising a second internal component mounted
                             84

under the portion of the flexible display, wherein the
portion of the flexible display that conforms to the
surface of the structural component indicates the location
of the second internal component.
          18.  The electronic device defined in claim 17
wherein the second internal component comprises a button,
wherein the portion of the flexible display is configured
to be further deformed by an action external to the
electronic device, and wherein further deformation of the
portion of the flexible display compresses the button.
          19.  The electronic device defined in claim 16
wherein the first internal component further comprises an
actuator, wherein the structural component is mounted on
the actuator, wherein raising the actuator moves the
structural component into contact with the portion of the
flexible display, and wherein lowering the actuator moves
the structural component out of contact with the flexible
display.
          20.  The electronic device defined in claim 19
wherein the flexible display comprises a touch-sensitive
layer and wherein deformation of the portion of the
flexible display conforming to the surface of the
structural component indicates the location of a portion
of the touch-sensitive layer of the flexible display.
          21.  The electronic device defined in claim 19
further comprising a second internal component mounted on
the actuator, and wherein deformation of the portion of
the flexible display conforming to the surface of the
structural component indicates the location of the second
internal component.
                             85

           22. The electronic device defined in claim 19
further comprising:
               a cover member;  and
               an actuator switch coupled to the actuator,
wherein deformation of the flexible display exerts a
pressure on the cover member, and wherein the pressure on
the cover member lifts the cover member.
           23. An electronic device, comprising:
               a housing; and
               a concave display mounted in the housing,
wherein the concave display has a rigid internal support
structure having a concave surface and a flexible display
layer attached to the rigid internal support structure
that conforms to the concave surface of the rigid support
structure.
           24. The electronic device defined in claim 23
wherein the concave display further comprises a first
adhesive layer, and wherein the first adhesive layer
attaches the flexible display layer to the concave surface
of the rigid internal support structure.
           25. The electronic device defined in claim 23
wherein the concave display further comprises a touch
sensitive layer.
           26. The electronic device defined in claim 25
wherein the concave display further comprises first and
second adhesive layers, wherein the first adhesive layer
attaches the flexible display layer to the touch-sensitive
layer, and wherein the second adhesive layer attaches the
flexible display layer to the rigid internal support
                             86

structure.
           27. The electronic device defined in claim 23
wherein the housing comprises a bezel, and wherein the
bezel surrounds a periphery of the concave display.
           28. The electronic device defined in claim 26
wherein the rigid internal support structure has a convex
inner surface and wherein the electronic device further
comprises at least one internal component mounted adjacent
to the convex inner surface.
           29. The electronic device defined in claim 28,
wherein the rigid internal support structure has at least
one opening.
           30. The electronic device defined in claim 29
wherein the at least one opening comprises a hole in the
rigid internal support structure, and wherein the at least
one internal component is mounted in the hole in the rigid
internal support structure.
           31. An electronic device, comprising:
               a housing; and
               a concave display mounted in the housing,
wherein the concave display includes a rigid cover layer
having at least one concave outer surface and at least one
corresponding convex inner surface and includes a flexible
display layer, wherein the flexible display layer conforms
to the convex inner surface of the rigid cover layer.
           32. The electronic device defined in claim 31
wherein the flexible display layer comprises image pixels
formed from organic light-emitting diodes.
                             87

          33.  The electronic device defined in claim 31
wherein the concave display further comprises a first
adhesive layer, and wherein the first adhesive layer
attaches the flexible display layer to the convex inner
surface of the rigid cover layer.
          34.  The electronic device defined in claim 33
wherein the rigid cover layer has at least one opening,
wherein the electronic device further comprises an
internal component, and wherein the internal component is
mounted adjacent to the flexible display layer under the
at least one opening in the rigid cover layer.
          35.  The electronic device defined in claim 34
wherein the internal component comprises a speaker and
wherein the speaker transmits sound through the flexible
display layer.
          36.  The electronic device defined in claim 34
wherein the internal component comprises a button, wherein
the electronic device further comprises a button member in
the at least one opening in the rigid cover layer, wherein
the button member moves within the at least one opening in
the rigid cover layer, and wherein the movement of the
button member compresses the button.
          37.  An electronic device, comprising:
               an electronic device housing; and
               a concave display mounted in the electronic
device housing, wherein the concave display comprises a
rigid cover layer having a concave outer surface and a
convex inner surface, a flexible display layer, and a
touch-sensitive layer, wherein the flexible display layer
                             88

and the touch-sensitive layer each conform to the convex
inner surface of the rigid cover layer.
          38.  The electronic device defined in claim 37
wherein the concave display further comprises first and
second adhesive layers, wherein the flexible display layer
is attached to the touch-sensitive layer with the first
adhesive layer, and wherein the touch-sensitive layer is
attached to the convex inner surface of the rigid cover
layer with the second adhesive layer.
          39.  The electronic device defined in claim 38
further comprising at least one internal component mounted
adjacent to the flexible display layer of the concave
display.
          40.  The electronic device defined in claim 39
wherein the rigid cover layer of the convex display has at
least one opening, wherein the at least one internal
component is an audio component, and wherein the audio
component is mounted under the at least one opening in the
rigid cover layer.
          41.  The electronic device defined in claim 38
wherein the concave outer surface of the concave display
has a curvature and peripheral edges, wherein the
curvature has a deepest point, wherein the deepest point
and at least some of the peripheral edges define a maximum
depth associated with the curvature of the concave display
and wherein the maximum depth of the concave display is
between 0.5 millimeter and 20 millimeters.
          42.  The electronic device defined in claim 41
further comprising an internal component, wherein the
                             89

internal component is mounted at a distance from the
peripheral edges of the concave outer surface, and wherein
the distance is smaller than the maximum depth.
          43.  An electronic device, comprising:
               a housing; and
               a display mounted in the housing, wherein
the display has a flexible display layer that conforms to
a convex outer surface of a rigid support structure.
          44.  The electronic device defined in claim 43
wherein the display further comprises an adhesive layer,
and wherein the adhesive layer attaches the flexible
display layer to the convex outer surface of the rigid
support structure.
          45.  The electronic device defined in claim 43
wherein the display further comprises a touch-sensitive
layer.
          46.  The electronic device defined in claim 45
wherein the display further comprises first and second
adhesive layers, wherein the first adhesive layer attaches
the flexible display layer to the touch-sensitive layer,
and wherein the second adhesive layer attaches the
flexible display layer to the convex outer surface of the
rigid support structure.
          47.  The electronic device defined in claim 46
wherein the flexible display layer comprises image pixels
formed from organic light-emitting diodes.
          48.  The electronic device defined in claim 46,
wherein the housing has at least one opening, wherein the
                             90

opening is associated with a connector port, the
electronic device further comprising a connector structure
mounted in the connector port.
          49.  An electronic device, comprising:
               a housing; and
               a display mounted in the housing, wherein
the display includes a rigid cover layer having at least
one convex outer surface and having at least one
associated concave inner surface and includes a flexible
display layer that conforms to the concave inner surface.
          50.  The electronic device defined in claim 49
wherein the display further comprises an adhesive layer,
and wherein the adhesive layer bonds the flexible display
layer to the concave inner surface of the rigid cover
layer.
          51.  The electronic device defined in claim 49
wherein the rigid cover layer comprises glass.
          52.  The electronic device defined in claim 51
wherein the flexible display layer comprises image pixels
formed from organic light-emitting diodes.
          53.  The electronic device defined in claim 49
wherein the flexible display layer comprises image pixels
formed from organic light-emitting diodes.
          54.  The electronic device defined in claim 49
wherein the display further comprises a touch sensor layer
that conforms to the concave inner surface.
          55.  The electronic device defined in claim 54
                             91

wherein the concave display further comprises first and
second adhesive layers, wherein the first adhesive layer
attaches the flexible display layer to the touch sensor
layer, and wherein the second adhesive layer attaches the
touch sensor layer to the concave inner surface of the
display.
          56.  The electronic device defined in claim 55
wherein touch sensor layer comprises indium-tin-oxide
electrodes.
          57.  The electronic device defined in claim 49
further comprising an internal component, wherein the
concave inner surface of the display provides an
additional internal volume for the electronic device, and
wherein the internal component is mounted at least
partially in the additional internal volume.
          58.  An electronic device having at least a
front surface and a rear surface, comprising:
               electronic components interposed between
the front and rear surfaces; and
               a display that substantially covers at
least the front and rear surfaces and that surrounds the
electronic components, wherein the display comprises a
rigid cover layer having at least one inner surface and a
flexible display layer that is bent to conform to the
inner surface.
          59.  The electronic device defined in claim 58
wherein the display further comprises a touch-sensitive
layer attached to at least a portion of the flexible
display layer.
                             92

          60.  The electronic device defined in claim 58
wherein the inner surface comprises a concave inner
surface, the electronic device further comprising a
connector structure and a housing having an opening,
wherein the connector structure is mounted in the opening
to form a connector port.
          61.  The electronic device defined in claim 58
wherein the electronic device has at least two sidewall
surfaces, and wherein the display substantially covers the
two sidewall surfaces.
          62.  The electronic device defined in claim 61
wherein the display has at least two edges, and wherein
the edges of the display are joined by a joining member.
          63.  An electronic device, comprising:
               a flexible display; and
               a speaker structure having a speaker
membrane, wherein the speaker membrane is formed from a
portion of the flexible display.
          64.  The electronic device defined in claim 63,
further comprising:
               a stiffening structure configured to
stiffen the portion of the flexible display that forms the
speaker membrane.
          65.  The electronic device defined in claim 64
wherein the stiffening structure comprises a layer of
foam.
          66.  The electronic device defined in claim 65
wherein the stiffening structure comprises first and
                             93

second stiffening sheets that are attached to opposing
first and second sides of the layer of foam.
          67.  The electronic device defined in claim 63
wherein the flexible display comprises an active portion
configured to display images and wherein the speaker
membrane is formed from the active portion of the flexible
display.
          68.  The electronic device defined in claim 63,
further comprising:
               a rigid structure; and
               a suspension structure configured to attach
portions of the speaker structure to the rigid structure.
          69.  The electronic device defined in claim 68,
further comprising:
               an electronic device housing in which the
flexible display is mounted, wherein the rigid structure
is formed at least partly from the electronic device
housing.
          70.  The electronic device defined in claim 63,
further comprising:
               a cover layer formed over the flexible
display, wherein the cover layer comprises at least one
opening formed over the speaker membrane.
          71.  The electronic device defined in claim 63
further comprising an electronic device housing in which
the flexible display is mounted, wherein the electronic
device housing has at least one acoustic port.
          72.  The electronic device defined in claim 63
                             94

wherein the flexible display comprises an organic light
emitting diode display having a substrate formed from a
flexible sheet of polymer.
          73.  An electronic device, comprising:
               a flexible display; and
               a plurality of speaker structures, wherein
portions of the flexible display form speaker membranes
for the plurality of speaker structures.
          74.  The electronic device defined in claim 73,
further comprising:
               a plurality of stiffening structures
configured to stiffen the portions of the flexible display
that form the speaker membranes.
          75.  The electronic device defined in claim 73
wherein the flexible display comprises:
               a set of stiffened regions, wherein each of
the stiffened regions in the set of stiffened regions
forms part of a respective one of the speaker structures;
               flexible regions, wherein each of the
flexible regions surrounds a respective one of the
stiffened regions in the set of stiffened regions;  and
               a surrounding stiffened region, wherein
each of the flexible regions is surrounded by portions of
the surrounding stiffened region.
          76.  The electronic device defined in claim 73
wherein the speaker structures comprise a left channel
speaker and a right channel speaker.
          77.  The electronic device defined in claim 73,
further comprising:
                             95

               transducers configured to drive the speaker
structures, wherein each transducer comprises coils and a
magnet.
          78.  The electronic device defined in claim 73
further comprising piezoelectric transducers configured to
drive the speaker structures.
          79.  The electronic device defined in claim 73
wherein the flexible display comprises an organic light
emitting diode display having a substrate formed from a
flexible sheet of polymer.
          80.  A portable electronic device, comprising:
               a housing;
               a flexible organic light-emitting diode
display mounted in the housing, wherein the flexible
organic light-emitting diode display has a substrate
formed from a flexible sheet of polymer; and
               at least one speaker having a speaker
membrane formed from a portion of the flexible sheet of
polymer.
          81.  The portable electronic device defined in
claim 80, further comprising:
               a stiffening structure interposed between
the at least one speaker and the speaker membrane, wherein
the stiffening structure comprises a composite material.
          82.  The portable electronic device defined in
claim 80 wherein the speaker membrane has a concave shape.
          83.  The portable electronic device defined in
claim 80 wherein the housing comprises a rectangular
                             96

housing with four peripheral edges and wherein the
flexible organic light-emitting diode display and the
speaker membrane extend between the four peripheral edges.
                             97

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
