1002068748
                                                 ABSTRACT
               Trace element levels of mercury in crude oil are reduced by first passing the crude oil
      through a filtration device to generate filtered crude having a reduced concentration of
      mercury and a reject stream having a concentrated mercury level. In one embodiment, the
 5    filtration device is back-flushed to generate the reject stream. In another embodiment, the
      reject stream comprises a portion of the retentate from a cross-flow filter device. The reject
      stream is treated with an extractive agent selected from tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)phosphonium
      sulfate; tetrakis(hydroxymethyl) phosphonium chloride; an oxidizing agent; an organic or
      inorganic sulfidic compound to extract a portion of the mercury into a water phase for
t0    subsequent removal. In one embodiment, the extractive agent is a reductant to convert non
      volatile mercury into volatile mercury.

1002068748
        PROCESS, METHOD, AND SYSTEM FOR REMOVING HEAVY METALS FROM
                                                   FLUIDS
      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
  5           [001]   This application is a divisional of Australian application 2014241842 filed on
      4 March 2014 and claiming priority from US Patent Application Serial No. 13/826213, with a
      filing date of March 14, 2013. Australian application 2014241842 is the national phase entry
      of PCT application PCT/US2014/020298 which was published as WO 2014/158810. The
      entire contents of each of these publications is hereby incorporated by reference.
 [0
      TECHNICAL FIELD
              [002]   The invention relates generally to a process, method, and system for removing
      heavy metals such as mercury from liquid hydrocarbons.
 [5   BACKGROUND
              [003]   Heavy metals such as mercury can be present in trace amounts in all types of
      hydrocarbon streams such as crude oils. The amount can range from below the analytical
      detection limit to several thousand ppbw (parts per billion by weight) depending on the
      source. It is desirable to remove the trace amounts of these metals from crude oils.
 !o           [004]   Various methods to remove trace metal contaminants in liquid hydrocarbon
      feed such as mercury have been disclosed.
              [005]   US Patent Nos. 6537443 and 6685824 disclose processes for removing
      mercury, in which the liquid hydrocarbon feed is mixed with sulfur containing compounds,
      and removing the mercury-containing particulates in a pre-coated pressure filter.   A filtering
25    process is compact, but it may result in loss of hydrocarbons and waste in the form of oily
      solids.   In US Patent Publication Nos. US20120067785A1, US20120067784A1,
      US20120125816A1, reactive extraction methods are employed, wherein the liquid
      hydrocarbon feed stream is brought into contact with additives including but not limited to an
      iodine source, tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)phosphonium sulfate / tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)
30    phosphonium chloride, and oxidizing agents, respectively, wherein mercury is extracted from
      the crude oil into a water phase for subsequent removal.
              [006]   There is a need for improved methods and systems for the removal of mercury
      from liquid hydrocarbon steams, particularly a compact system maximizing oil recovery and
      using lower quantities of chemical reagents than in prior art methods.
                                                       1

SUMMARY
         [007]  In one aspect, a method for reducing a trace element of mercury in a crude oil
feedstock is provided. The method comprises the steps: passing the crude oil feedstock
having a mercury concentration as feed to a filtration device having a filter element to
generate a filtered crude having a reduced concentration of mercury and a reject stream
containing crude oil having a concentrated mercury level of at least 10 times the
concentration of mercury in the crude oil feed; mixing into the reject stream an effective
amount of an extractive agent to remove a portion of the mercury for a treated crude oil
having a reduced concentration of mercury.
         [008]  In one embodiment, the filtration device is a dead-end filter, and the device is
back-flushed to generate the reject stream. In another embodiment, the device is a cross
flow filtration which generates a permeate stream comprising the filtered crude, and the reject
stream comprising a retentate stream having a mercury concentration of at least 20 times the
concentration of mercury in the crude oil feedstock.
         [009]  In another aspect, a method for removing a trace amount of mercury in liquid
hydrocarbons is disclosed. The process comprises: passing the crude oil feed through a
filtration device having a filtration element to retain at least 50% of the mercury on the
filtration media and generate a filtered crude having a reduced concentration of mercury;
back-flushing the filtration device with a portion of the filtered crude to generate a reject
stream containing crude oil having a concentrated mercury level of at least 20 times the
concentration of mercury in the filtered crude; mixing into the reject stream an effective
amount of an extractive agent selected from the group of tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)
phosphonium sulfate; tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)phosphonium chloride; an oxidizing agent; an
organic or inorganic sulfidic compound with at least one sulfur atom reactive with mercury;
and combinations thereof to extract a portion of the mercury into a water phase; and
separating the water phase containing the mercury from the crude oil for a treated crude oil
having a reduced concentration of mercury.
         [010]  In one embodiment, the filtration device is a cross-flow filtration device.   In
another embodiment, the filtration device is a dead-end filtration device having the filtration
element pre-coated with a filter aid material, e.g., materials including but not limited to
pearlite, diatomite, cellulose fiber, and combinations thereof.
                                                 2

            [011] In another aspect, a method for removing a trace amount of mercury in liquid
   hydrocarbons is disclosed. The process comprises the steps of: passing the crude oil feed
   through a dead-end filtration device to retain at least 50% of the mercury on the filtration
   media and generate a filtered crude having a reduced concentration of mercury; back-flushing
   the filtration device with a portion of the filtered crude or other solvents to generate a reject
   stream having a concentrated mercury level of at least 20 times the concentration of mercury
   in the filtered crude; mixing into the reject stream an effective amount of a reducing agent to
   convert a portion of the mercury into a volatile form of mercury; and removing a portion of
   the volatile mercury by at least one of stripping, scrubbing, adsorption, and combinations
   thereof to obtain a treated crude oil having a reduced concentration of mercury.
   DRAWINGS
            [012] Figure 1 is a block diagram of embodiments of a system and a process to
   remove mercury from oily solids.
 5 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
            [013] The following terms will be used throughout the specification and will have
   the following meanings unless otherwise indicated.
            [014]    "Crude oil" refers to both crude oil and condensate. Crude, crude oil, crudes
   and liquid hydrocarbons are used interchangeably and each is intended to include both a
10 single crude and blends of crudes.
            [015]   "Trace amount" refers to the amount of mercury in the crude oil, which varies
   depending on the source, e.g., from a few ppb to up to 30,000 ppb.
            [016]   "Dead-end filtration" (conventional or normal filtration) refers to a filter
   system where substantially the entire liquid portion of the slurry, rather than just a fraction, is
is forced through the filter element, with most or all of the solids retained on the filter element
   as filter cake.
            [017] "Cross-flow" filtration (or crossflow filtration or tangential flow filtration
   (TFF)) refers to a filtration technique in which the feed stream flows parallel or tangentially
   along the surface of the filter element (membrane) and the filtrate flows across the filter
20 element, and typically only a portion of the liquid in the solids-containing stream passes
   through the filter element. In cross-flow filtration, solid material which is smaller than the
                                                      3

   filter element pore size passes through (across) the element as permeate or filtrate, and
   everything else is retained on the feed side of the element as retentate or concentrate.
            [018] "Diafiltration" (DF) refers to a cross-flow filtration process wherein a buffer
   material, e.g., a solvent, is added into the feed stream and / or the filtering process while
 5 filtrate is removed continuously from the process.
            [019] "Dynamic filtration" is an extension of cross-flow filtration, wherein the filter
   medium is kept essentially free from plugging or fouling by using rotary, oscillating, or
   vibratory motion of the filtration membrane relative to the feed slurry to disrupt the formation
   of cake layers adjacent to the filter medium. These results are accomplished by moving the
10 material being filtered fast enough relative to the filtration medium to produce high shear
   rates as well as high lift forces on the particles.
            [020] As used herein, the term cross-flow filtration (or filter) includes diafiltration
   and dynamic filtration techniques / apparatuses.
            [021] Crudes may contain small amounts of mercury, which may be present as
15 elemental mercury Hg0 , ionic mercury, inorganic mercury compounds, and / or organic
   mercury compounds. Examples include but are not limited to: mercuric halides (e.g., HgXY,
   X and Y could be halides, oxygen, or halogen-oxides), mercurous halides (e.g., Hg 2XY, X
   and Y could be halides, oxygen, or halogen-oxides), mercuric oxides (e.g., HgO), mercuric
   sulfide (e.g., HgS, meta-cinnabar and/or cinnabar), mercuric sulfate (HgSO4), mercurous
20 sulfate (Hg 2 SO4), mercury selenide (e.g., HgSe 2, HgSe8 , HgSe), mercury hydroxides, and
   organo-mercury compounds (e.g., alkyl mercury compounds) and mixtures of thereof.
            [022]   The invention relates to the removal of trace mercury in crude oil in a mercury
   removal process comprising a filtration step and a reactive extraction step, for a compact
   system requiring less chemical reagents than in the prior art.
25          [023]   Filtration Process Step:   In one embodiment, the liquid hydrocarbon is first
   treated in a filtration process step, wherein a portion of mercury particulate mercury and
   solids containing adsorbed mercury are removed.
            [024] In one embodiment, the system comprises a dead-end filtration device selected
   from the group of sand filter, multimedia filter, cartridge filter, bag filter, employing a filter
30 element (membrane), employed in a form known in the art, e.g., cartridges, screens, bags,
   pleated filter, spiral wound filters, etc. As the crude is forced through the filter element by
   pressure drop, e.g., between 5 to 50 psig, solids as well as mercury containing particulates
   deposit on the filter element(s), resulting in a crude with a reduced concentration of mercury.
                                                      4

            [025] In one embodiment, the filter element is a stainless steel sintered metal filter
   with no pre-coating, having pore size ranges from 0.5 to 5 microns. In another embodiment,
   the filter element is pre-coated with a filter aid material known in the art, e.g., pearlite,
   diatomite (diatomaceous earth or "DE"), cellulose fiber, or combinations thereof         The filter
 5 aid material has a median particle size of 0.1 to 100 pm and at a thickness of at least 1 mm in
   one embodiment; a median particle size ranging from 1 to 50 pm in a second embodiment;
   and from 3 to 20 pm in a third embodiment. In one embodiment, the filter aid layer has a
   thickness of 2-10 mm. In yet another embodiment, the filter aid layer has a thickness of less
   than 1" (2.54 cm). The filter aid material has a median particle size ranging from 1 to 50 pm
10 in one embodiment; and from 3 to 20 pm in a second embodiment.
            [026] In another embodiment, the filter system comprises a cross-flow filter device.
   The cross-flow device is of the dynamic filtration type in one embodiment. In a second
   embodiment, the cross-flow filter device is of a vibratory shear enhanced processing (VSEP)
   filter type from New Logic Research, Inc. of Emeryville, CA and similar devices from other
15 manufacturers. The cross-flow filter device separates a mercury containing crude feed into
   two streams, a first stream which passes through the filter membrane containing crude with a
   reduced mercury concentration ("permeate stream"), and a second stream ("retentate stream")
   with the remainder of the crude feed, solids, and particulates, which does not pass through the
   filter membrane, having mercury concentration of at least 10 - 50 times the mercury
20 concentration in the first stream.
            [027] In one embodiment of a cross-flow filtration operation, a portion of the
   retentate stream is recycled and combined with the liquid hydrocarbon feed to the cross-flow
   filter. The amount of the recycle stream in the recirculation loop can be varied to allow
   further concentration of the mercury in the reject (retentate) stream, provide buffer from
25 process upsets, and control of the concentration in the reject stream for further Hg removal
   treatment. A portion of the retentate stream ranging from 1 to 25% of the total stream can be
   continuously or periodically purged from the cross-flow filtration process as a reject stream,
   allowing control of the amount of mercury and other matters from the system. In one
   embodiment, a portion the retentate stream equivalent to about 1-10% of the feed to the
30 filtration system is purged for further treatment in the reactive extraction process step.
            [028] Any suitable filtration element (membrane) can be utilized in the crossflow or
   dead-end filtration assembly. In one embodiment, the filter element comprises a porous
   material which permits crude oil and solids below a certain size to flow through as the
                                                     5

   filtrate (or permeate) while retaining particles, including mercury-containing particles, in the
   retentate. The filter membrane is of sufficient nominal pore size for at least 50% of the
   crude to pass through in one embodiment; at least 60% in a second embodiment; at least 70%
   in a third embodiment; and at least 80% in a fourth embodiment. The filter membrane has a
 5 pore size of 0.1 - 50 pm in one embodiment; of 0.5 - 20 pm in a second embodiment; and at
   least 1 pm in a third embodiment.
            [029] Polymers, organic materials, inorganic ceramic materials, and metals are
   suitable for use as construction materials for the membrane in the cross-flow filtration device,
   or the filter element in the dead-end filtration device, as long as it does not undergo
10 significant chemical changes to substantially impair the desired properties of the filtered
   crude. In one embodiment, the material is an inorganic material such as a ceramic (silicon
   carbide, zirconium oxide, titanium oxide, etc.) having the ability to withstand harsh
   environments. In another embodiment, the material is a metal such as stainless steel,
   titanium, or nickel-copper alloy.
15          [030] Over time, filtration becomes more difficult as pressure builds up across the
   filter apparatus with the filter element being clogged up with particulates.    The filter is
   periodically (or whenever needed as clogged) back-flushed to remove oily solids, which
   comprise filtered particulates and pre-coated filter aid material (if any was applied). In one
   embodiment, the back-flushing is carried out by reversing the flow direction of the filtrate
20 stream to force oily solids off the membrane / screen, generating a reject stream. In another
   embodiment, the trans-membrane pressure is periodically inverted by the use of a secondary
   pump. In one embodiment, the filter device is back-flushed with a fluid to force the filtered
   particulates and filter aid materials (if any was applied) off the filter element and out of the
   filter system. This back flushing also forces a portion of the hyrocarbon liquids out of the
25 filter system with the solids as a reject stream.
            [031] In one embodiment, a gas, e.g., methane, nitrogen, carbon dioxide, etc., is used
   for the back-flushing. In another embodiment, in addition to or in place of using a gas, the
   filtered crude or a solvent (or a mixture thereof) is used to extract the oily solids. The
   extraction solvent is a light specific gravity solvent or solvent mixtures, such as, for example,
30 xylene, benzene, toluene, kerosene, reformate (light aromatics), light naphtha, heavy naphtha,
   light cycle oil (LCO), medium cycle oil (MCO), propane, diesel boiling range material,
   which is used to "wash" the filter membrane / screen / filter aid and remove the oily solids,
   generating a reject stream.
                                                     6

            [032] In one embodiment of a cross-flow filtration operation, instead of or in
   addition to periodic back-flushing with a gas, the filtered crude, or an extracting solvent, a
   small amount of the solvent is optionally added to the feed stream to be filtered, with the
   weight ratio of the solvent being slowing increasing overtime to facilitate the filtration
 5 operation or decreasing the frequency of back-flushing.         The solvent feed is added in a
   weight ratio of solvent to feed of 0 at the start of the filtering operation, to 10:1 toward the
   end of the operation as the pressure begins to build up as the membrane becomes clogged.
            [033] In one embodiment, the filter device comprises a plurality of filter elements
   with means within the assembly for back-flushing at least one of the filter screens /
10 membranes without interrupting the operation while the device is on-stream, with the back
   flushed device being isolated from the crude feed. In yet another embodiment, the filter
   device is of a clean-in-place (CIP) type known in the art, with accessory pumps, holding
   tanks, and the like supplying solvents and / or reactive agents such as sodium hypochlorite
   and sulfidic compounds to alleviate fouling and pressure build-up in the filtration system.
15          [034] Descriptions and operations of filter devices that can be used in the filtration
   process step include and are not limited to US patent publications US20120132597A1 titled
   "Cross-flow filtration with turbulence and back-flushing action for use with online chemical
   monitors," US8128829 titled "Cross flow filter device," US3994810 titled "Onstream back
   flush filter," and US5587074 titled "Fluid filter with enhanced back-flush flow," US6322698
20 titled "Vibratory separation systems and membrane separation units," the relevant disclosures
   are incorporated herein by reference.
            [035]   In one embodiment and in addition to filtration, the liquid hydrocarbon is
   optionally treated with an organic or inorganic sulfidic compound with at least one sulfur
   atom reactive with mercury as disclosed in US Patent Nos. 6537443 and 6685824, the
25 relevant disclosures are incorporated herein by reference. In one embodiment, the sulfidic
   compound when dissolved in water yields           SH, Sx2, or SXH- anions, and a solution with a
                                                   S2-,
   pH greater than 7.    Examplary sulfidic compounds include but are not limited to potassium
   or sodium sulfide (Na 2S), sodium hydrosulfide (NaSH), potassium or sodium polysulfide
   (Na2 Sx), ammonium sulfide [(NH4)2S], ammonium hydrosulfide (NH 4HS), ammonium
30 polysulfide [(NH4) 2 Sx], Group 1 and Group 2 counterparts of these materials, and
   combinations thereof. The treating sulfidic compound is added for a concentration of 1.0
   and about 10000 ppbw in one embodiment; and about 5.0 ppbw and about 1000 ppbw in a
   second embodiment.
                                                     7

            [036] In one embodiment, the sulfidic treatment is in-situ in the filtering operation
   with the use of filter aid materials pretreated or coated with the organic or inorganic sulfidic
   compound.       In another embodiment, the crude feed is mixed with the sulfidic compound
   prior to the filter operation, in an in-line static mixer or a mixing tank with a residence time
 5 of at least 1 minute, wherein any mercury precipitate formed is removed in the filtration step.
   In another embodiment, the mixing time is at least 15 minutes.
            [037] Depending on the initial concentration of mercury in the liquid hydrocarbon
   feed, the filtration step results in two streams, a first stream for further mercury removal
   ("reject stream") containing optional extract solvent, oily solids, and less than 10 vol. % of
10 the original crude feed with a mercury concentration of much higher than in the original
   crude feed; and a second stream with filtered crude containing at least 90 vol. % of the
   original crude feed, for further processing or sale.
            [038]    The reject stream has a mercury concentration of at least 20 times the
   concentration of mercury in the filtered crude in one embodiment; at least 50 times in a
15 second embodiment; at least 100 times in a third embodiment; and at least 1000 times in a
   fourth embodiment. The first stream has a mercury concentration of at least 5 times the
   mercury concentration in the original crude feed in one embodiment; at least 10 times in a
   second embodiment; and at least 100 times in a third embodiment.
            [039] The filtered crude stream has a reduced mercury concentration of less than
20  1000 ppbw in one embodiment; less than 500 ppbw in a second embodiment; less than 300
   ppbw n a third embodiment; less than 100 ppbw in a third embodiment; and less than 50
   ppbw in a fourth embodiment. With optional treatment with a sulfidic compound, the
   mercury in the filtered crude is reduced to less than 100 ppbw in one embodiment; less than
   75 ppbw in a second embodiment; and less than 50 ppbw in a third embodiment.
25          [040] Reactive Extraction Process Step: The reject stream, i.e., the crude with a
   concentrated mercury level is further treated with chemical reagents to lower its mercury
   level. In the reactive extraction process, the reject stream is brought into contact with one or
   more extractive agents selected from the group of tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)phosphonium
   sulfate; tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)phosphonium chloride; an oxidizing agent; an organic or
30 inorganic sulfidic compound with at least one sulfur atom reactive with mercury; and
   combinations thereof. In one embodiment, a solvent such as water may also be added along
   with the extractive agent.     The extractive agent extracts a portion of mercury into the water
   phase for subsequent removal in a phase separation process step.         At least 50% of the
                                                       8

   mercury is extracted from the crude oil into the water phase in one embodiment; at least 75%
   extraction in a second embodiment; at least 90% extraction in a third embodiment.
            [041] In another embodiment, the crude is treated with a reducing agent
   ("reductant") as an extractive agent, wherein the reductant coverts at least 25% of the non
 5 volatile mercury portion of the mercury to a volatile (strippable) form. The mercury is then
   removed from the crude via stripping with a stripping gas known in the art, e.g., natural gas,
   methane, nitrogen, or combinations thereof.
            [042] The extractive agent can be employed in any form of a liquid, a powder,
   slurry, aqueous form, a gas, a material on a support, or combinations thereof.      Different
10 extractive agents can be added, e.g., in one embodiment after the addition of an oxidant, a
   reducing agent is added. In another embodiment, the crude is brought into contact directly
   with a reducing agent without any oxidant addition.
            [043]   The amount of extractive agent needed for mercury removal is at least equal to
   the amount of mercury to be removed on a molar basis (1:1), if not in an excess amount. In
15 one embodiment, the molar ratio ranges from 2:1 to 5,000:1. In another embodiment, from
    10:1 to 2,500:1. In yet another embodiment, the molar ratio ranges from 5:1 to 10,000:1.
            [044] The contact with the extractive agent can be at any temperature that is
   sufficiently high enough for the crude to be liquid. The contact is at room temperature in one
   embodiment; at a sufficiently elevated temperature, e.g., at least 50'C, in another
20 embodiment; for at least a minute in one embodiment; at least 1 hr in another embodiment;
   and at least 2 hrs. in yet another embodiment.
            [045]   The contact between the reject stream with concentrated mercury level and the
   extractive agent can be either via a non-dispersive or dispersive method. The dispersive
   contacting method can be via mixing valves, static mixers or mixing tanks or vessels, or other
25 methods known in the art. The non-dispersive method can be any of packed inert particle
   beds, fiber film contactors, or other method known in the art.
            [046]   In one embodiment, the extractive agent is an organic or inorganic sulfidic
   compound, which converts or extracts non-volatile mercury from the crude oil to a water
   soluble form. The reactive extractive agent can be the same or different sulfur compound
30 used in the filtration process (if any was used). Examples include but are not limited to alkali
   metal sulfides, alkaline earth metal sulfides, alkali metal polysulfides, alkaline earth metal
   polysulfides, alkali metal trithiocarbonates, dithiocarbamates, either in the monomeric or
   polymeric form, sulfurized olefins, mercaptans, thiophenes, thiophenols, mono and dithio
                                                    9

   organic acids, and mono and dithioesters, and mixtures thereof In one embodiment, the
   sulfidic compound is water-soluble monatomic sulfur compound, e.g., any of sodium
   hydrosulfide, potassium hydrosulfide, ammonium hydrosulfide, sodium sulfide, potassium
   sulfide, calcium sulfide, magnesium sulfide, and ammonium sulfide.
 5         [047] In another embodiment, the extractive agent is an oxidizing agent ("oxidant")
   to extract mercury from the crude oil forming a soluble mercury compound. The oxidant in
   one embodiment is selected from the group of iodine sources, oxyhalites, hydroperoxides,
   organic peroxides, inorganic peracids and salts thereof, organic peracids and salts thereof,
   ozone, and combinations thereof. In one embodiment, the oxidant is selected from the group
10 of elemental halogens or halogen containing compounds, e.g., chlorine, iodine, fluorine or
   bromine, alkali metal salts of halogens, e.g., halides, chlorine dioxide, etc. In another
   embodiment, the oxidant is an iodide of a heavy metal cation. In yet another embodiment,
   the oxidant is selected from ammonium iodide, an alkaline metal iodide, and
   etheylenediamine dihydroiodide. In one embodiment, the oxidant is selected from the group
15 of hypochlorite ions (OC- such as NaOCl, NaOCl 2 , NaOCl 3, NaOC4, Ca(OCl) 2, NaClO 3 ,
   NaClO 2, etc.), vanadium oxytrichloride, Fenton's reagent, hypobromite ions, chlorine
   dioxine, iodate I03 (such as potassium iodate KIO 3 and sodium iodate NaIO 3), and mixtures
   thereof In one embodiment, the oxidant is selected from KMnO 4 , K 2 S 2 0 8 , K 2 CrO7 , and Cl 2 .
           [048] In one embodiment, the extractive agent is a reducing agent ("reductant"),
20 which can be added as the only extracting agent. In another embodiment, the reducing agent
   is added in addition to the oxidizing agent (and other optional reagents such as demulsifiers)
   for a portion of the mercury to be converted from a non-volatile to a volatile form. The
   oxidant / reductant can be introduced continuously, e.g., in a water stream being brought into
   contact continuously with a crude oil stream, or intermittently, e.g., injection of a water
25 stream batch-wise.
           [049] Examples of reducing agents include but are not limited to reduced sulfur
   compounds contain at least one sulfur atom in an oxidation state less than +6. (e.g., sodium
   thiosulfate, sodium or potassium bisulfite, metabisulfite, or sulfite); ferrous and ferric
   compounds include inorganic and organic ferrous compounds; stannous compounds which
30 include inorganic stannous compounds and organic stannous compounds; oxalates which
   include oxalic acid, inorganic oxalates and organic oxalates; cuprous compounds include
   inorganic and organic cuprous compounds; organic acids decompose to form C02 upon
   heating and act as reducing agents; nitrogen compounds include hydroxylamine compounds
                                                   10

   and hydrazine; sodium borohydride; diisobutylaluminium hydride (DIBAL-H); thiourea; a
   transition metal halide such as ferric chloride, zinc chloride, NiCl 2 ; SO2 in N 2 or other inert
   gases, hydrogen; hydrogen sulfide; and hydrocarbons such as CO 2 and carbon monoxide.
            [050] After the addition of an extractive agent that converts some of the mercury in
 5 the concentrated crude to a soluble form, e.g., iodine source or an oxidant, the treated crude
   having a reduced concentration of mercury can be separated from the aqueous phase
   containing the extracted mercury by methods known in the art, e.g., gravity settling,
   coalescing, etc., using separation devices such as centrifuges, hydrocyclones, separators,
   mesh coalescer etc.
10          [051] In one embodiment, the removal of mercury from the treated crude can be
   enhanced with the addition of a complexing agent to the oil-water emulsion mixture, added in
   a sufficient amount to effectively stabilize (forming complexes with) the soluble mercury.
   This amount as expressed as molar ratio of complexing agent to soluble mercury ranges from
    1:1 to 5,000:1 in one embodiment; from 5:1 to 1000:1 in a second embodiment; and 10:10 to
15 500:1 in a third embodiment. Mercury forms coordination complexes with compounds
   including but not limited to oxygen, sulfur, phosphorous and nitrogen containing compound,
   e.g., thiol groups, thiophene groups, thioether groups, thiazole groups, thalocyanine groups,
   thiourenium groups, amino groups, polyethylene imine groups, hydrazido groups, N
   thiocarbamoyl-polyalkylene polyamino groups, derivatives thereof, and mixtures thereof           In
20 another embodiment, the complexing agent is an inorganic sulfur compound selected from
   sulfides, ammonium thiosulfate, alkali metal thiosulfates, alkaline earth metal thiosulfates,
   iron thiosulfates, alkali metal dithionites, and alkaline earth metal dithionites, and mixtures
   thereof     In yet another embodiment, the complexing agent is a polyamine for forming stable
   cationic complexes with mercury ions.
25          [052] In one embodiment with the use of a reductant as a extractive agent, the
   volatile mercury is stripped from the treated crude oil using methods and equipment known in
   the art, e.g., a stripping unit, an adsorption bed, etc. In one embodiment, the crude oil is sent
   to a stripping unit with the addition of a stripping (carrier) gas for the removal of the volatile
   mercury from the crude into the stripping gas. The crude removed from the bottom of the
30 unit contains less than 50% of the mercury originally in the crude (both volatile and non
   volatile forms) in one embodiment.
            [053] The treated crude oil can be combined with the filtered crude oil to form a
   combined crude oil product stream having a reduced concentration of mercury, e.g., less than
                                                     11

    100 ppbw in one embodiment. The combined crude oil product stream in one embodiment is
   at least 95% volume of the crude oil feedstock to the filtration unit; and at least 98 vol. % in a
   second embodiment.
            [054] Stripping of Volatile Mercury:       In one embodiment, with the conversion of a
 5 portion the mercury from a non-volatile to a volatile form, the volatile mercury is stripped
   from the reject stream while it is in contact with the extracting agents, e.g., oxidant and / or
   reductant, with a stripping (carrier) gas. In another embodiment, the volatile mercury is
   removed from the treated crude using methods and equipment known in the art, e.g., a
   stripping unit, an adsorption bed, etc.
10          [055]    After treatment with the extractive agents, the concentration of mercury in the
   treated crude oil is reduced to 100 ppbw or less in one embodiment; 50 ppbw or less in a
   second embodiment; 20 ppbw or less in a third embodiment; and less than 10 ppbw in a
   fourth embodiment.       In yet another embodiment, at least 75% of the mercury is extracted
   from the crude oil in the reject stream. In another embodiment, the removal or the reduction
15 is at least 90%.
            [056]   Examples of extractive agents and methods for mercury removal using
   extractive agents are disclosed in US Patent Publication Nos. US20120125816A1,
   US20120125817A1, US20120125818A1, US20120067784A1, US20120067785A1,
   US20120067786A1, and US20120067779A1, the relevant disclosures are incorporated herein
20 by reference.
            [057]   Figure Illustrating Embodiments: Reference will be made to Figure 1 for a
   diagram schematically illustrating various embodiments of a system for removing mercury
   from oily solids.
            [058]   In Figure 1, a crude oil stream containing mercury 15 is sent to filtration
25 system 10, which in one embodiment is a bank of filter elements in the form of dead-end
   filtration or cross- flow filtration. In one embodiment, a gas stream 18 is used for the back
   flushing of the filter element. In another embodiment, an extraction solvent stream is used
   for the back-flushing instead of or in addition to the gas stream 18. Although not shown, in
   one embodiment, the filtration system includes a recirculation loop with one or more
30 recirculation pumps for the recycling of the retentate stream, with a portion of the retentate
   stream being purged from the recycled retentate stream continuously or periodically to form
   the reject stream for further treatment.    The filtered crude 16 with a reduced concentration of
   mercury is sent to storage tank 50 for sale or further treatment. The reject stream 17
                                                    12

   containing the back-flushed crude and /or the purged portion of the retentate stream is sent to
   settling tank 20. The reject stream 17 has a mercury concentration of 2-50 times the
   concentration of mercury in the feed stream 15.
            [059] In one embodiment of an oxidation-complexation process for the removal of
 5 mercury (as shown in dotted lines), at least an oxidizing agent 36 is added to the reject stream
   25 in a mixing tank 30, and the mixture of oxidizing agent and crude oil 35 is directed to the
   reactive extraction process step 40, with the addition of an aqueous stream containing
   reducing / complexing reagent 45. Waste water 47 containing mercury is sent to disposal or
   re-injected into a reservoir, and crude 46 with reduced mercury content is sent to storage 50.
10          [060]   In another embodiment with the use of direct reduction for the removal of
   mercury (solid lines), from the settling tank 20, stream 26 containing back-flushed crude and
   / or purged retentate stream is directed to the reactive extraction process step 40, wherein at
   least an aqueous stream containing a reducing agent 45 is added for the conversion wherein a
   portion of non-volatile mercury is converted to volatile strippable mercury. In one
15 embodiment, a stripping gas 44, e.g., N 2 , C0 2 , H2, methane, argon, helium, steam, natural gas,
   and combinations thereof is employed to remove the volatile mercury. From this process
   step, gas stream 48 containing mercury is sent to disposal, re-injected into a reservoir or
   treated with an adsorbent material by methods known in the art for mercury removal from gas
   streams. Crude 46 with reduced mercury content is sent to storage 50.
20          [061]   In a third embodiment of a sulfidic extraction process for the removal of
   mercury (as shown in dotted lines), an aqueous stream 45' containing an inorganic sulfidic
   compound is added to the extraction step 40 for the conversion of or extraction of non
   volatile mercury from the crude oil stream 26 to a water-soluble form. Waste water 47
   containing water-soluble mercury is sent to disposal or re-injected into a reservoir, and crude
25 46 with reduced mercury content is sent to storage 50.
            [062] The system as illustrated can be any of a mobile unit, located on-shore such as
   in a refinery, or off-shore on a facility such as an FPSO or other offshore facility for the
   production of oil and/or gas.
            [063] EXAMPLES:          The illustrative examples are intended to be non-limiting.
30          [064] Examples 1 - 2: Different 500 API crude and 550 API natural gas condensate
   samples with starting Hg concentration ranging from 588 to 2200 ppbw are processed using
   cross-flow filtration conducted at 175 0 C and 75 psig, employing a Teflon@ on Woven
   Fiberglass membrane having a pore size of 1 prm. The retentate is recycled back to the filter
                                                     13

   system in a recirculation loop with the use of a recirculation pump to combine with the feed
   to the system. The recirculation pump also maintains a sufficient velocity through the tubes
   of the filter housing (greater than 10 feet/second) to avoid membrane fouling. A portion of
   the retentate in an amount of about 2-10% the feed to filtration system is continuously
 5 purged from the system.      The filtered products are expected to have a mercury concentration
   of less than 100 ppbw. The purged retentate is expected to have a concentration of 10-50
   times the mercury concentration of the feed to the filter system.
            [065]   Example 3: The filtration in Examples 1-2 continues until there is a
   substantial pressure build-up, e.g., going from 10-15 psi at the beginning to 25-30psi. The
10 filter element is back-flushed with nitrogen, along with a small amount of the filtered oil.
   The back-flushed oil samples are placed into centrifuge tubes, shaken by hand vigorously for
   about 2 minutes. The back-flushed oil samples are expected to have a concentrated mercury
   level of at least 10,000 ppwb, if not at least 50,000 ppbw.
            [066] Example 4: Various samples of 50 mL of the back-flushed oil with
15 concentrated mercury level in Example 3 are combined with the purged retentate streams, and
   added to a number of lOmL Teflon-capped centrifuge tubes. Different oxidants are as shown
   in Table 2. The tubes are shaken vigorously for about 2 minutes. 5 mL of distilled water is
   added to tube. A pre-determined volume of TETREN as complexing agent is added for a
   final concentration of 30pM. Tubes are again shaken by hand vigorously for about 2
20 minutes, then centrifuged for 1 minute to separate oil from water. Aliquots of both oil and
   water from each are analyzed for mercury with resulting concentrations as listed in Table 2.
   It is expected that the mercury removal efficiency is as previously obtained in US Patent
   Publication No. 20120125817.
            [067]   Table 2
        No.       Oxidant                      Dosage     Hg in oil    Hg in water       Hg
                                                ppbw         ppb           ppb      removal %
          1      None - control                   -       >10,000        < 1000          3.7
         2       Iodine                         1000        < 100       > 1000          > 90
         3        Sodium polysulfide           29,000       < 100        > 1000         > 90
         4        Oxone T M                     7260        <150         >1000          >80
         5       Iodine                         7260        < 150        > 1000         >80
25
            [068] For the avoidance of doubt, the present application includes the subject-matter
   defined in the following numbered paragraphs:
                                                    14

            [069] Paragraph 1. A method for reducing a trace element of mercury in a crude oil
   feedstock, comprising: passing the crude oil feedstock having a mercury concentration as
   feed to a filtration device having at least a filter element to generate a filtered crude having a
   reduced concentration of mercury and a reject stream containing crude oil having a
 5 concentrated mercury level of at least 10 times the concentration of mercury in the crude oil
   feed; mixing into the reject stream an effective amount of an extractive agent to remove at
   least a portion of the mercury for a treated crude oil having a reduced concentration of
   mercury.
            [070]    Paragraph 2. The method of Paragraph 1, where the treated crude oil is
10 combined with the filtered crude oil to form a combined product stream having a mercury
   concentration of less than 100 ppbw.
            [071] Paragraph 3. The method of Paragraph 2, wherein the combined product
   stream is at least 98 vol. % of the crude oil feedstock.
            [072] Paragraph 4.     The method of Paragraph 1, wherein the extractive agent is
15 selected from the group of oxidizing agents; reducing agents, organic or inorganic sulfidic
   compounds with at least one sulfur atom reactive with mercury; tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)
   phosphonium sulfate; tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)phosphonium chloride; and combinations
   thereof .
            [073] Paragraph 5.     The method of Paragraph 1, wherein the extractive agent
20 extracts a portion of the mercury into a water phase, and wherein the method further
   comprises: separating the water phase containing the mercury from the crude oil for the
   treated crude oil to have a concentration of mercury of less than 100 ppbw.
            [074] Paragraph 6.     The method of Paragraph 1, wherein the filtration device is
   periodically back-flushed to generate the reject stream.
25          [075]    Paragraph 7.  The method of Paragraph 6, wherein the filtration device is
   back-flushed with any of: an extraction solvent; a portion of the filtered crude; a gas selected
   from methane, nitrogen, carbon dioxide; and combinations thereof to generate the reject
   stream.
            [076] Paragraph 8.     The method of Paragraph 1, wherein the filtration device is a
30 dead-end filtration device and wherein at least 50% of the mercury is retained on the filter
   element.
            [077] Paragraph 9.      The method of Paragraph 8, wherein the filter element is pre
   coated with a filter aid material.
                                                      15

            [078] Paragraph 10. The method of Paragraph 9, wherein the filter aid material has a
   median particle size of 0.1 to 100 pm and the filter aid pre-coat is at least 1 mm thick.
            [079] Paragraph 11. The method of Paragraph 9, wherein the filter aid material has a
   median particle size of 3 to 20 pm and the filter aid pre-coat has a thickness of 2-10 mm.
 5          [080] Paragraph 12. The method of Paragraph 9, wherein the filter aid material is
   selected from pearlite, diatomite, cellulose fiber, and combinations thereof.
            [081] Paragraph 13. The method of Paragraph 9, wherein the filter aid material is
   diatomite pretreated with an organic or inorganic sulfidic compound with at least one sulfur
   atom reactive with mercury.
10          [082] Paragraph 14. The method of Paragraph 1, wherein the filtration device is a
   cross-flow filter device.
            [083] Paragraph 15. The method of Paragraph 14, wherein at least a portion of the
   retentate stream is purged to generate the reject stream.
            [084] Paragraph 16. The method of Paragraph 14, wherein the cross-flow filtration
15 device generates a permeate stream comprising the filtered crude having a reduced
   concentration of mercury, and a retentate stream having a mercury concentration of at least
    10 times the first concentration of mercury.
            [085]   Paragraph 17. The method of Paragraph 14, wherein a portion of the retentate
   stream is recycled in a recirculation loop and combined with the crude oil feedstock as feed to
20 the filtration device.
            [086] Paragraph 18. The method of Paragraph 14, wherein the permeate stream has
   a reduced concentration of mercury of less than 100 ppbw.
            [087] Paragraph 19. The method of Paragraph 14, wherein the cross-flow filtration
   device is periodically back-flushed with an extraction solvent to generate a back-flushed
25 stream, and wherein the back-flushed stream is added to the retentate stream to generate the
   reject stream.
            [088]   Paragraph 20. The method of Paragraph 1, wherein the filtration device is a
   dynamic filtration device.
            [089] Paragraph 21. The method of Paragraph 20, wherein the filtration device is a
30 vibratory shear enhanced processing filter.
            [090] Paragraph 22. The method of Paragraph 1, wherein the extractive agent is an
   organic or inorganic sulfidic compound selected from the group of alkali metal sulfides,
   alkaline earth metal sulfides, alkali metal polysulfides, alkaline earth metal polysulfides,
                                                   16

   alkali metal trithiocarbonates, dithiocarbamates, either in the monomeric or polymeric form,
   sulfurized olefins, mercaptans, thiophenes, thiophenols, mono and dithio organic acids, and
   mono and dithioesters, and mixtures thereof.
            [091] Paragraph 23. The method of Paragraph 1, wherein the extractive agent is a
 5 water-soluble monatomic sulfur compound selected from the group of sodium hydrosulfide,
   potassium hydrosulfide, ammonium hydrosulfide, sodium sulfide, potassium sulfide, calcium
   sulfide, magnesium sulfide, ammonium sulfide, and mixtures thereof.
            [092] Paragraph 24. The method of Paragraph 1, wherein the extractive agent is an
   oxidant selected from the group of iodine sources, oxyhalites, hydroperoxides, organic
10 peroxides, inorganic peracids and salts thereof, organic peracids and salts thereof, ozone,
   hypochlorite ions, vanadium oxytrichloride, Fenton's reagent, hypobromite ions, chlorine
   dioxine, iodate IO, and mixtures thereof
            [093]   Paragraph 25. The method of Paragraph 2, further comprising: mixing a
   complexing agent into the mixture of the reject stream and the extractive agent, wherein the
15 complexing agent is selected from the group of thiol groups, thiophene groups, thioether
   groups, thiazole groups, thalocyanine groups, thiourenium groups, amino groups,
   polyethylene imine groups, hydrazido groups, N-thiocarbamoyl-polyalkylene polyamino
   groups, sulfides, ammonium thiosulfate, alkali metal thiosulfates, alkaline earth metal
   thiosulfates, iron thiosulfates, alkali metal dithionites, and alkaline earth metal dithionites,
20 polyamines, and mixtures thereof.
            [094] Paragraph 26. The method of Paragraph 6, wherein the filtration device is
   back-flushed with a portion of the filtered crude in an amount of less than 10 vol. % of the
   crude oil feed.
            [095]   Paragraph 27. The method of Paragraph 1, wherein the reject stream has a
25 mercury level of at least 50 times the concentration of mercury in the crude oil feed.
            [096] Paragraph 28. The method of Paragraph 26, wherein the filtered crude
   contains less than 100 ppbw mercury.
            [097] Paragraph 29. The method of Paragraph 27, wherein the filtered crude
   contains less than 50 ppbw mercury.
30          [098] Paragraph 30. The method of Paragraph 1, wherein the treated crude contains
   less than 100 ppbw mercury.
            [099] Paragraph 31. A method for reducing a trace element of mercury in a crude
   oil feed, comprising: passing the crude oil feed having a mercury concentration through a
                                                     17

   filtration device having a filter element to retain at least 50% of the mercury on the filter
   element and generate a filtered crude having a reduced concentration of mercury; back
   flushing the filtration element with a portion of the filtered crude to generate a reject stream
   containing crude oil having a concentrated mercury level of at least 20 times the
 5 concentration of mercury in the crude oil feed; mixing into the reject stream an effective
   amount of a reducing agent to convert a portion of the mercury into a volatile mercury;
   removing a portion of the volatile mercury by one of stripping, scrubbing, adsorption, and
   combinations thereof to obtain a treated crude oil having a reduced concentration of
   mercury.
10          [0100] The method of Paragraph 31, wherein the reducing agent is selected from
   sulfur compounds containing at least one sulfur atom having an oxidation state less than +6;
   ferrous compounds; stannous compounds; oxalates; cuprous compounds; organic acids
   which decompose to form CO 2 upon heating; hydroxylamine compounds; hydrazine
   compounds; sodium borohydride; diisobutylaluminium hydride; thiourea; transition metal
15 halides; sulfites, bisulfites and metabisulfites; oxalic acid, cuprous chloride, stannous
   chloride, sodium borohydride, and mixtures thereof
                                                     18

   CLAIMS
            1.      A method for reducing a trace element of mercury in a crude oil feedstock,
   comprising:
 5          passing the crude oil feedstock having a mercury concentration as feed to a filtration
   device having at least a filter element to generate a filtered crude having a reduced
   concentration of mercury and a reject stream containing crude oil having a concentrated
   mercury level of at least 10 times the concentration of mercury in the crude oil feed;
            mixing into the reject stream an effective amount of an extractive agent to remove at
10 least a portion of the mercury for a treated crude oil having a reduced concentration of
   mercury;
            wherein the extractive agent is selected from the group of oxidizing agents; reducing
   agents, organic or inorganic sulfidic compounds with at least one sulfur atom reactive with
   mercury; tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)phosphonium sulfate; tetrakis(hydroxymethyl)
15 phosphonium chloride; and combinations thereof.
            2.      The method of claim 1, where the treated crude oil is combined with the
   filtered crude oil to form a combined product stream having a mercury concentration of less
   than 100 ppbw.
20
            3.      The method of any of claims 1 - 2, wherein the combined product stream is at
   least 98 vol. % of the crude oil feedstock.
            4.      The method of any of claims 1 - 2, wherein the extractive agent extracts a
25 portion of the mercury into a water phase, and wherein the method further comprises:
            separating the water phase containing the mercury from the crude oil for the treated
   crude oil to have a concentration of mercury of less than 100 ppbw.
            5.      The method of any of claims 1 - 2, wherein the filtration device is periodically
30 back-flushed to generate the reject stream, and wherein the filtration device is back-flushed
   with any of: an extraction solvent; a portion of the filtered crude; a gas selected from
   methane, nitrogen, carbon dioxide; and combinations thereof to generate the reject stream.
                                                    19

            6.      The method of any of claims 1 - 2, wherein the filtration device is selected
   from: a dead-end filtration device, a dynamic filtration device, a vibratory shear enhanced
   processing filter, and a cross-flow filter device.
 5          7.       The method of any of claims 1 - 2, wherein the filter element is pre-coated
   with a filter aid material having a median particle size of 0.1 to 100 pm and the filter aid pre
   coat is at least 1 mm thick, and wherein the filter aid material is selected from pearlite,
   diatomite, cellulose fiber, and combinations thereof.
10          8.       The method of claim 7, wherein the filter aid material is diatomite pretreated
   with an organic or inorganic sulfidic compound with at least one sulfur atom reactive with
   mercury.
            9.      The method of claim 6, wherein the filtration device is a cross-flow filtration
15 device, and wherein the cross-flow filtration device generates a permeate stream comprising
   the filtered crude having a reduced concentration of mercury, and a retentate stream having a
   mercury concentration of at least 10 times the first concentration of mercury.
            10.     The method of claim 9, wherein a portion of the retentate stream is recycled in
20 a recirculation loop and combined with the crude oil feedstock as feed to the filtration device.
            11.     The method of claim 9, wherein the cross-flow filtration device is periodically
   back-flushed with an extraction solvent to generate a back-flushed stream, and wherein the
   back-flushed stream is added to the retentate stream to generate the reject stream.
25
            12.      The method of any of claims 1 - 2, wherein the extractive agent is an organic
   or inorganic sulfidic compound selected from the group of alkali metal sulfides, alkaline earth
   metal sulfides, alkali metal polysulfides, alkaline earth metal polysulfides, alkali metal
   trithiocarbonates, dithiocarbamates, either in the monomeric or polymeric form, sulfurized
30 olefins, mercaptans, thiophenes, thiophenols, mono and dithio organic acids, and mono and
   dithioesters, and mixtures thereof.
                                                    20

             13.   The method of any of claims 1 - 2, wherein the extractive agent is a water
   soluble monatomic sulfur compound selected from the group of sodium hydrosulfide,
   potassium hydrosulfide, ammonium hydrosulfide, sodium sulfide, potassium sulfide, calcium
   sulfide, magnesium sulfide, ammonium sulfide, and mixtures thereof.
 5
            14.    The method of any of claims 1 - 2, wherein the extractive agent is an oxidant
   selected from the group of iodine sources, oxyhalites, hydroperoxides, organic peroxides,
   inorganic peracids and salts thereof, organic peracids and salts thereof, ozone, hypochlorite
   ions, vanadium oxytrichloride, Fenton's reagent, hypobromite ions, chlorine dioxine, iodate
10 103 and mixtures thereof
            15.    The method of any of claims 1 - 2, further comprising:
            mixing a complexing agent into the mixture of the reject stream and the extractive
   agent, wherein the complexing agent is selected from the group of thiol groups, thiophene
15 groups, thioether groups, thiazole groups, thalocyanine groups, thiourenium groups, amino
   groups, polyethylene imine groups, hydrazido groups, N-thiocarbamoyl-polyalkylene
   polyamino groups, sulfides, ammonium thiosulfate, alkali metal thiosulfates, alkaline earth
   metal thiosulfates, iron thiosulfates, alkali metal dithionites, and alkaline earth metal
   dithionites, polyamines, and mixtures thereof.
20
            16.     A method for reducing a trace element of mercury in a crude oil feed,
   comprising:
            passing the crude oil feed having a mercury concentration through a filtration device
   having a filter element to retain at least 50% of the mercury on the filter element and generate
25 a filtered crude having a reduced concentration of mercury;
            back-flushing the filtration element with a portion of the filtered crude to generate a
   reject stream containing crude oil having a concentrated mercury level of at least 20 times the
   concentration of mercury in the crude oil feed;
            mixing into the reject stream an effective amount of a reducing agent to convert a
30 portion of the mercury into a volatile mercury;
            removing a portion of the volatile mercury by one of stripping, scrubbing, adsorption,
   and combinations thereof to obtain a treated crude oil having a reduced concentration of
   mercury.
                                                    21

           17.     The method of claim 16, wherein the reducing agent is selected from sulfur
  compounds containing at least one sulfur atom having an oxidation state less than +6; ferrous
  compounds; stannous compounds; oxalates; cuprous compounds; organic acids which
5 decompose to form CO 2 upon heating; hydroxylamine compounds; hydrazine compounds;
  sodium borohydride; diisobutylaluminium hydride; thiourea; transition metal halides;
  sulfites, bisulfites and metabisulfites; oxalic acid, cuprous chloride, stannous chloride,
  sodium borohydride, and mixtures thereof.
                                                   22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
