HIGH-BANDWIDTH UNDERWATER DATA COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
ABSTRACT
      A system (1200) to perform seismic exploration in an aqueous medium, comprising:
      a detector (1240) to provide an indication to a wake-up system (1225) to turn on one or
more of a storage and control system (1220), a sensor, or an optical transmitter;
      the wake-up system (1225), in response to the indication from the detector (1240),
operational to:
      identify an optical communication link established via the optical transmitter through the
aqueous medium;
      determine a quality control parameter of the optical communication link; and
      validate, based on the quality control parameter the optical communication link established
via the optical transmitter through the aqueous medium; and
      the storage and control system (1220) operational to cause the optical transmitter to
transmit, via the optical communication link validated by the wake-up system (1225), data
indicative of a parameter sensed by the sensor.

                                                   1
HIGH-BANDWIDTH UNDERWATER DATA COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2104265955 having
a filing date of 12 March 2014, which claims the benefit of priority to United States Patent
Application No. 14/203,550, filed March 10, 2014, which claims the benefit of priority under 35
U.S.C. § 120 as a continuation in-part of United States Patent Application No. 13/843,942, filed
March 15, 2013, each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002] The invention relates to the transmission of data between underwater entities, particular
at high data rates.
BACKGROUND
[0003] This Background section is provided for informational purposes only, and should not be
considered as an admission that any of the material contained in this section qualifies as prior art
to the present application.
[0004] There is a need for conveying data between two separate underwater entities in
applications including defense, oceanography, hydrocarbon development, etc. Conventional
methods for conveying data between underwater entities employ either a tethered link using
copper or fiber optics, or rely on acoustic transmission. According to the former approach, the
underwater entities must be repositioned or replaced in situ, while the latter approach has a very
low data rate (1 to 20 kilobits per second is typical) that is currently possible using acoustic
transmission. An approach that uses light propagating freely in the ocean environment would
provide much higher data rates and the possibility of conveniently exchanging data between
arbitrary pairs of transmitting and receiving devices (transceivers).
[0005] Some attempts to implement data transmission between underwater entities using optical
means have been frustrated by a lack of suitable light sources. The propagation of light through
water is limited by the fundamental absorption properties of pure water, scattering of

                                                   2
particulates such as plankton and inorganic particulates, and absorption by chlorophyl
containing phytoplankton and other organic materials. The components combine, in various
combinations, to favor strongly the transmission of light in the blue-green region of the optical
spectrum, approximately from 400 to 600 nm. The optical effect of the various combinations of
the components admixed in water can be summarized as water types and range from the very
purest natural waters, which favor deep blue propagation (nominally 450 nm), to waters which
favor blue-green (nominally 490 nm) and green (nominally 530 nm) propagation. The minimum
optical attenuation coefficients at the optimal wavelengths vary from about 0.02 m-I for the
very clearest natural waters, to more than 2 m-I in the most turbid coastal or harbor waters.
[0006] Previous light sources in the blue-green wavelength range have included been bulky,
inefficient, expensive and employed external modulators.
SUMMARY
[0006A] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome, or at least ameliorate,
one or more disadvantages of existing arrangements orm to offer a useful alternative.
[0006B] According to the present disclosure, there is provided a method of performing seismic
exploration in an aqueous medium, comprising:
       receiving, by an ocean bottom seismometer (OBS) unit disposed in the aqueous medium,
sub-aqueous environmental data; converting, by a data conversion module of the OBS unit, the
sub-aqueous environmental data into an optical signal having a first format configured for
optical transmission in the aqueous medium;
       establishing, via the OBS unit and at least one of a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) and
an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV), an optical link through the aqueous medium;
       determining, by at least one of the OBS unit, the ROV, and the AUV, a characteristic of
the aqueous medium based on the optical link established via the OBS unit and the at least one
of the ROV and the AUV;
       adjusting, by the OBS unit, a parameter associated with the optical signal based on the
characteristic of the aqueous medium;
       transmitting, by an optical transmitter of the OBS unit via the optical link through the
aqueous medium established by the OBS unit and the at least one of the ROV and the AUV, the

                                                    3
optical signal in the first format, the parameter of the optical signal transmitted through the
aqueous medium adjusted based on the characteristic of the aqueous medium;
       receiving, by an optical receiver of the at least one of the ROV the AUV, the optical signal
transmitted through the aqueous medium via the optical link;
       converting, by the at least one of the ROV and the AUV, the optical signal transmitted
through the aqueous medium into a non-optical signal having a second format; and
       transmitting the non-optical signal in the second format from the at least one of the ROV
and the AUV to a marine vessel.
[0006C] According to the present disclosure, there is provided a method of performing seismic
exploration in an aqueous medium, comprising:
       receiving sub-aqueous environmental data of a first ocean bottom seismometer (OBS) unit
disposed in the aqueous medium;
       converting, by a data conversion module of the OBS unit, the sub-aqueous environmental
data into an optical signal having a first format configured for optical transmission in the
aqueous medium;
       transmitting, by an optical transmitter of the OBS unit, the optical signal in the first format
through the aqueous medium;
       receiving, by an optical receiver of at least one of a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) and
an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV), the optical signal transmitted through the aqueous
medium;
       converting, by the at least one of the ROV and the AUV, the optical signal transmitted
through the aqueous medium into a non-optical signal having a second format;
transmitting the non-optical signal in the second format from the at least one of the ROV and the
AUV to a marine vessel;
       initiating an optical link between the OBS unit and the at least one of the ROV and the
AUV;
       transmitting, from the OBS unit to the at least one of the ROV and the AUV, a first optical
signal having a first data rate;
       determining that a bit error rate of the optical first signal satisfies a threshold or does not
satisfy the threshold; and
       responsive to determining that the bit error rate satisfies the threshold, transmitting,

                                                     4
from the OBS unit to the at least one of the ROV and the AUV, a second optical signal having a
second data rate, the second data rate greater than the first data rate, or
       responsive to determining that the bit error rate does not satisfy the threshold,
       selecting a third data rate that is less than the first data rate, and transmitting the second
optical signal having the third data rate
[0006D] According to the present disclosure, there is provided a system to perform seismic
exploration in an aqueous medium, comprising:
       an ocean bottom seismometer (OBS) unit disposed in the aqueous medium configured to
receive sub-aqueous environmental data;
       a first data conversion module of the OBS unit configured to convert the sub-aqueous
environmental data into an optical signal having a first format configured for optical
transmission in the aqueous medium;
       the OBS unit configured to establish an optical link through the aqueous medium with at
least one of a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) and an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV);
       the at least one of the OBS unit and the at least one of the ROV and the AUV
       determines a characteristic of the aqueous medium based on the optical link established
between the OBS unit and the at least one of the ROV and the AUV, and wherein the OBS unit
adjusts a parameter associated with the optical signal based on the characteristic of the aqueous
medium;
       an optical transmitter of the OBS unit configured to transmit the optical signal in the first
format through the aqueous medium via the optical link;
       an optical receiver of at least one of the ROV and the AUV configured to receive the
optical signal transmitted through the aqueous medium via the optical link;
       a second data conversion module of the at least one of the ROV and the AUV configured
to convert the optical signal transmitted through the aqueous medium into a non-optical signal
having a second format; and
       a transmitter of the at least one of the ROV and the AUV configured to transmit the non
optical signal in the second format from the at least one of the ROV and the AUV to a marine
vessel.
[0006E] According to the present disclosure, there is provided a method of performing seismic
exploration in an aqueous medium, comprising:

                                                     5
       initiating an optical link between an ocean bottom seismometer (OBS) unit and at least
one of a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) and an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV);
       transmitting, from the OBS unit to the at least one of the ROV and the AUV, a first optical
signal having a first data rate;
       determining that a bit error rate of the first optical signal does not satisfy a threshold;
responsive to determining that the bit error rate does not satisfy the threshold, adjusting an
automatic gain control;
       receiving sub-aqueous environmental data of the OBS unit disposed in the aqueous
medium;
       converting, by a data conversion module of the OBS unit, the sub-aqueous environmental
data into a second optical signal having a first format configured for optical transmission in the
aqueous medium;
       transmitting, by an optical transmitter of the OBS unit, the second optical signal in the first
format through the aqueous medium;
       receiving, by an optical receiver of at least one the ROV and the AUV, the second optical
signal transmitted through the aqueous medium;
       converting, by the at least one of the ROV and the AUV, the second optical signal
transmitted through the aqueous medium into a non-optical signal having a second format; and
       transmitting the non-optical signal in the second format from the at least one of the ROV
and the AUV to a marine vessel.
[0007] At least one aspect is directed to a method of performing seismic exploration in an
aqueous medium. In some embodiments, the method includes receiving subaqueous
environmental data of a first ocean bottom seismometer (OBS) unit. The first OBS unit can be
disposed in the aqueous medium. The method can include a data conversion module of the OBS
unit converting the sub-aqueous environmental data into an optical signal having a first format.
The first format can be configured for optical transmission in the aqueous medium. The method
can include an optical transmitter of the OBS unit transmitting the optical signal in the first
format through the aqueous medium. The method can include an optical receiver of at least one
of a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) and an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) receiving
the optical signal transmitted through the aqueous medium. The method can include the at least
one of the ROV and the AUV converting the optical signal transmitted through the aqueous
medium into a non-optical signal having a second format. The method can include the at least

                                                     6
one of the ROV and the AUV transmitting the non-optical signal in the second format a marine
vessel.
[0008] In some embodiments, the method can include converting the optical signal into the non
optical signal configured for wired transmission to a marine vessel. The method can include
transmitting the non-optical signal to the marine vessel via a cable. In some embodiments, the
optical receiver can include a first optical transceiver, and the optical transmitter can include a
second optical transceiver. In some embodiments, the non-optical signal transmitted from the at
least one of the ROV and the AUV to the marine vessel includes an electrical signal.
[0009] In some embodiments, the OBS unit is a first OBS unit, the optical signal is a first optical
signal, and the geophone is a first geophone. In these embodiments, the method can include a
second OBS unit transmitting a second optical signal to the first OBS unit through the aqueous
medium. The second optical signal can be based on sub-aqueous environmental data received
via the second OBS unit. The method can include the first OBS unit receiving the second optical
signal for transmission to the at least one of the ROV and the AUV.
[0010] In some embodiments, the method includes at least one of the OBS unit, the ROV and
the AUV determining a characteristic of the aqueous medium. The method can include adjusting
a parameter associated with the optical signal based on the characteristic of the aqueous
medium. In some embodiments, the characteristic comprises at least one of a turbidity metric, a
water quality, a water current, and an opacity. In some embodiments, the parameter includes at
least one of a data rate of the optical signal, an output intensity of the optical signal, a
wavelength of the optical signal, and a gain of the receiver.
[0011] In some embodiments, the method includes initiating an optical link between the OBS
unit and the at least one of the ROV and the AUV. The method can include the OBS unit
transmitting a first optical signal to the at least one of the ROV and the AUV. The first optical
signal can have a first data rate. The method can include determining that a bit error rate of the
first signal satisfies a threshold. The method can include the OBS unit transmitting a second
optical signal to the at least one of the ROV and the AUV. The second optical signal can have a
second rate that is greater than the first rate, and the second rate can be transmitted responsive to
determining that the bit error rate satisfies the threshold.

                                                    7
[0012] In some embodiments, the method includes initiating an optical link between the OBS
unit and the at least one of the ROV and AUV. The method can include the OBS unit
transmitting a first optical signal having a first data rate to the at least one of the ROV and the
AUV. The method can include determining that a bit error rate of the first signal does not satisfy
a threshold. The method can include selecting a second data rate that is less than the first data
rate. The second data rate can be selected responsive to determining that the bit error rate does
not satisfy the threshold. The method can include transmitting a second optical signal having the
second data rate.
[0013] In some embodiments, the method includes initiating an optical link between the OBS
unit and the at least one of the ROV and AUV. The method can include the OBS unit
transmitting a first optical signal having a first data rate to the at least one of the ROV and the
AUV. The method can include determining that a bit error rate of the first signal does not satisfy
a threshold. The method can include adjusting an automatic gain control. The automatic gain
control can be adjusted responsive to determining that the bit error rate does not satisfy the
threshold,
[0014] In some embodiments, the method can include the OBS unit transmitting the optical
signal via at least one of a solid state light source, an InGaN based light source, a laser, and an
LED. In some embodiments, the method can include the OBS unit transmitting data via the
optical signal at a data rate of at least 300 Mbps. In some embodiments, the method can include
the OBS unit transmitting the optical signal using a channel coding technique. The channel
coding technique can include at least one of an on-off keyed format, 8b/10b encoding, pulse
position discrimination, Quadrature Phase Shift Keying (QPSK), and Quadrature Amplitude
Discrimination. In some embodiments, the method can include the OBS unit transmitting the
optical signal using a multi-carrier transmission discrimination technique based on Orthogonal
Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM).
[0015] In some embodiments, the sub-aqueous environmental data includes data indicating at
least one of seismic activity, dissolved solids in the aqueous medium, dissolved minerals in the
aqueous medium, a state of the aqueous medium, oxygen concentration in the aqueous medium,
salt concentration in the aqueous medium, plankton concentration in the aqueous medium,
turbidity of the aqueous medium, and animal presence in the aqueous medium.

                                                   8
[0016] In some embodiments, the sub-aqueous environmental includes seismic data, and the
method includes receiving the seismic data using a geophone of a first ocean bottom
seismometer (OBS) unit disposed in the aqueous medium.
[0017] In some embodiments, the OBS unit is a first OBS unit, and the method includes
receiving, by an optical receiver of a second OBS unit, from the first OBS unit, the optical
signal. The method can include an optical transmitter of the second OBS unit transmitting the
optical signal to at least one of the ROV and the AUV. In some embodiments, the subaqueous
environmental includes seismic data, and the method includes receiving the seismic data using
an accelerometer disposed in the OBS unit.
[0018] At least one aspect is directed to a system to perform seismic exploration in an aqueous
medium. In some embodiments, the system can include a first ocean bottom seismometer (OBS)
unit disposed in the aqueous medium. The first OBS unit can be configured to receive sub
aqueous environmental data. The system can include a first data conversion module of the OBS
unit. The first data conversion module can be configured to convert the sub-aqueous
environmental data into an optical signal having a first format. The first format can be
configured for optical transmission in the aqueous medium. In some embodiments, the system
can include an optical transmitter of the OBS unit. The optical transmitter can be configured to
transmit the optical signal in the first format through the aqueous medium. In some
embodiments, the system can include an optical receiver of at least one of a remotely operated
vehicle (ROV) and an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). The optical receiver can be
configured to receive the optical signal transmitted through the aqueous medium. The system
can include a second data conversion module of the at least one of the ROV and the AUV. The
second data conversion module can be configured to convert the optical signal transmitted
through the aqueous medium into a non-optical signal having a second format. The system can
include a transmitter of the at least one of the ROV and the AUV. The transmitter can be
configured to transmit the non-optical signal in the second format from the at least one of the
ROV and the AUV to a marine vessel.
[0019] At least one aspect of the present disclosure is directed to a device for transmitting and
receiving data optically through an aqueous medium. In some embodiments, the device includes
an optical transmitter. The device can also include an optical receiver. The transmitter and
receiver can operate using light with wavelengths in the range of 400 nm-600 nm.

                                                 9
[0020] In one embodiment, the optical transmitter and optical receiver of the device are enclosed
in a waterproof container. The optical container can include one or more optical windows. Light
can be transmitted through the one or more optical windows through the waterproof container
and into or out of the aqueous medium.
[0021] In one embodiment, the optical transmitter includes at least one solid state light source.
[0022] In one embodiment, the light source is an InGaN based light source.
[0023] In one embodiment, the light source includes an LED.
[0024] In one embodiment, the light source includes a laser.
[0025] In one embodiment, the device is configured to transmit data at a rate of about 10 Mbps
or greater.
[0026] In one embodiment, the device is configured to transmit data at a rate of about 100 Mbps
or greater.
[0027] In one embodiment, the device includes a controller configured to modulate the output of
the light source. The controller can modulate the output of the light source by varying a drive
current to the source.
[0028] In one embodiment, the optical receiver includes a photodiode.
[0029] In one embodiment, the optical receiver includes at least one from the list consisting of: a
silicon photodiode, silicon PIN photodiode, and avalanche photodiode, and a hybrid photodiode.
[0030] In one embodiment, the optical receiver includes a photomultiplier tube.
[0031] In one embodiment, the optical receiver includes a micro-channel plate configured to
detect particles such as photons.
[0032] In one embodiment, the photomultiplier tube includes a plurality of gain stages. An
output can be extracted from a gain stage prior to a final gain stage.

                                                  10
[0033] In one embodiment, the optical receiver is configured to use a measurement of the
optical signal strength to control the gain of an amplifier following the optical detector.
[0034] In one embodiment, the optical receiver is configured to use a measurement of the
optical signal strength to control a gain of the optical detector.
[0035] In one embodiment, the device includes at least one controller operatively coupled to one
or both of the transmitter and receiver. The controller can be configured to implement a channel
coding technique during transmission.
[0036] In one embodiment, the devices includes at least one controller operatively coupled to
one or both of the transmitter and receiver. The controller can be configured to dynamically
adjust one or more transmission parameters. The controller can dynamically adjust the
transmission parameters responsive to one or more detected transmission conditions.
[0037] In one embodiment, dynamically adjusting one or more transmission parameters includes
controlling the gain of one or more amplifier elements in the device.
[0038] In one embodiment, the device includes at least one controller operatively coupled to one
or both of the transmitter and receiver. The controller can be configured to implement multi
carrier transmission discrimination techniques.
[0039] In one embodiment, the discrimination technique can include optically based Orthogonal
Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM).
[0040] In one embodiment, the transceiver is configured to enter a power up state in response to
the detected presence of another data transmission device.
[0041] In one embodiment, the device includes a controller configured to align a local
transceiver with a remote transceiver. The controller can align the local transceiver with the
remote transceiver based on a signal from the one or more optical detectors that can sense the
relative angle of the remote transceiver.

                                                  11
[0042] In one embodiment, the device includes a controller configured to align a local
transceiver with a remote transceiver based on a signal from one or more sensors used to detect
the relative position of the remote transceiver.
[0043] In one embodiment, the controller is configured to control a platform for the device
based at least in part on the detected position information.
[0044] In one embodiment, the device includes a controller configured to control a plurality of
transmitting sources to direct light to the remote transceiver. The controller can control the
plurality of transmitting sources based on a signal from one or more optical detectors used to
sense the relative angle of the remote transceiver.
[0045] In one embodiment, the device includes a controller configured to select an anode in a
multiple-anode photomultiplier tube and align a local receiver's angular field of view with the
remote transceiver. The controller can select the anode and align the local receiver's angular
field view based on a signal from one or more optical detectors that are used to sense the relative
angle of a remote transceiver.
[0046] In one embodiment, the device includes a controller configured to provide guidance
commands to a platform on which the device is mounted. The one or more optical detectors can
be used to sense the relative angle of a remote transceiver.
[0047] In one embodiment, the device is incorporated in an all-optical system for transmission
of seismic data.
[0048] In one embodiment, the one or more diffractive optical elements are used to collect an
optical transmission beam.
[0049] In one embodiment, the one or more diffractive optical elements are used to steer an
optical transmission beam.
[0050] In one embodiment, one or more diffractive optical elements are used to shape an optical
transmission beam.

                                                 12
[0051] In one embodiment, the device is mounted on or in at least one from the list consisting
of: a remotely operated vehicle, an autonomously operated vehicle, a submarine vessel, and an
ocean bottom seismic node.
[0052] In one embodiment, the device includes an acoustic communication device.
[0053] At least one aspect is directed to a method that includes optically transmitting data
through an aqueous medium using light with wavelengths in the range of 400 nm -600 nm.
[0054] In one embodiment, the method includes generating the light using at least one solid state
light source.
[0055] In one embodiment of the method, the light source includes an LED.
[0056] In one embodiment, the light source includes a laser.
[0057] In one embodiment, the step of optically transmitting data includes transmitting data at a
rate of at least about 10 Mbps.
[0058] In one embodiment, the step of optically transmitting data includes transmitting data at a
rate of at least 100 Mbps.
[0059] In one embodiment, the step of optically transmitting data includes using one or more
channel coding techniques.
[0060] In one embodiment, the step of optically transmitting data includes dynamically
adjusting one or more transmission parameters. The transmission parameters can be dynamically
adjusted in response to one or more detected transmission conditions.
[0061] In one embodiment, the step of optically transmitting data includes implementing a
multi-carrier transmission discrimination technique.
[0062] In one embodiment, the discrimination technique includes optically based Orthogonal
Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM).

                                                  13
[0063] In some embodiments, an output optical transmitted signal can be transmitted through a
fiber optic to a window. In some embodiments, a plurality of fiber optics can be bundled
together and tapered at one end (e.g., at 1 mm diameter at one and 1 cm at a second end) such
that an optical signal can be transmitted through the window.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0064] FIG. 1 is an isometric schematic view of one embodiment of a seismic operation in deep
water.
[0065] FIG. 2 is a block diagram showing operation of an exemplary pair of transceivers in
communication with each other.
[0066] FIG. 3 is an illustration of exemplary pairs of transceivers.
[0067] FIG. 4 is an illustration of receiver lenses and corresponding circuitry.
[0068] FIGS. 5-9 are block diagrams of exemplary embodiments of transceivers.
[0069] FIG. 10 is an illustration of a system to perform seismic exploration in an aqueous
environment using optical transmission, in accordance with an embodiment.
[0070] FIG. 11 is an illustration of a method of performing seismic exploration in an aqueous
environment using optical transmission, in accordance with an embodiment.
[0071] FIG. 12 is an illustration of a system for powering an optical system for performing
seismic exploration in an aqueous environment.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0072] Applicants have recognized that optical data transceivers may be provided that operate in
an aqueous medium, such as a marine environment in which seismic exploration is performed.
In some embodiments, the transceivers operate with high data transfer rates, e.g., greater than
about 1 megabit per second (Mbps), about 10 Mbps, about 100 Mbps, about 300 MBps, or more
(e.g., up to or exceeding about 1 Gbps). In some embodiments, systems and methods can use a

                                                  14
variable, asymmetric link where a first optical signal has a first data rate and a second optical
signal has a second data rate different from the first optical signal.
[0073] In some embodiments, the devices use light sources, e.g., lasers light sources or light
emitting diode ("LED") sources, with outputs in the blue-green region of the spectrum, e.g., with
wavelengths in the range of 400-600 nm or any subrange thereof.
[0074] For example, in some embodiments, solid-state light emitters, e.g., based upon the
Indium-Gallium-Nitride (InGaN) semicondutor materials now provide a family of light sources
in the blue-green spectral region that are efficient, compact, long-lived, and can be directly
modulated (their optical output power controlled by the amount of electrical current flow in the
device). Such devices may operate at wavelengths throughout the blue-green region. Because
these devices can be directly modulated, e.g., by modulating a drive current, they can be
arranged in arrays for increased output power or for transmission into other spatial directions
such as between platforms with relative movement.
[0075] In some embodiments, the receiver portion of the transceiver device includes one or
more optical detectors that are sensitive in the blue-green spectral region that may be compact
and reliable. Examples include detectors using semiconductor junctions such as PN junctions or
PIN junctions (e.g., silicon PIN photodiodes or avalanche photodiodes). For example, in some
embodiments, avalanche photodiodes may be used that, with the proper electrical bias voltage
applied, exhibit electronic gain, which can be useful in certain implementations. Photomultiplier
tubes may also be used in the blue-green, and have the advantage, like avalanche photodiodes,
of voltage-dependent electronic gain, as well as fast temporal response even with large
collecting areas.
[0076] In some embodiments, the optical detector's active or photosensitive area places
simultaneous constraints on the collecting area of a receiver lens and the angular field over
which light intercepted by the receiver lens actually lands on the detector (the angular field of
view). Under some applications, particularly where one or another underwater platform is
maneuvering, the angular field of view possible with temporally optimal detectors will be too
small to maintain a communication connection. Also, it may be useful to reduce the angular
spread of the transmitter beam in order to increase the intercepted power on a remote receiver.
In this case it may be advantageous to mount the transmitter and receiver on controllable mounts

                                                   15
(e.g., gimbals), or to provide a mechanism (e.g., an electrical or electromechanical mechanism)
for the transmitter output beam and/or the receiver field of view to follow a remote transmitter
and receiver. Guidance commands for the motion of the transmitter and receiver can be
generated using, e.g., a system of optical detectors or a multi-element detector with appropriate
signal processing to interpret varying light levels from the remote transmitter and guide the
direction of the transmitter beam and the receiver field of view.
[0077] FIG. 1 is an isometric schematic view of one embodiment of a seismic operation in deep
water facilitated by a first marine vessel 5. The first vessel 5 is positioned on a surface 10 of a
water column 15 and includes a deck 20 which supports operational equipment. At least a
portion of the deck 20 includes space for a plurality of sensor device racks 90 where 10 seismic
sensor devices are stored. The sensor device racks 90 may also include data retrieval devices
and/or sensor recharging devices.
[0078] The deck 20 also includes one or more cranes 25A, 25B attached thereto to facilitate
transfer of at least a portion of the operational equipment, such as an autonomous underwater
vehicle (AUV), autonomously operated vehicle (AOV), an ROV and/or seismic sensor devices,
from the deck 20 to the water column 15. For example, a crane 25A coupled to the deck 20 is
configured to lower and raise an ROV 35A, which transfers and positions one or more sensor
devices 30 (e.g., OBS units) on a seabed 55. The ROV 35A is coupled to the first vessel 5 by a
tether 46A and an umbilical cable 44A that provides power, communications, and control to the
ROV 35A. A tether management system (TMS) 50A is also coupled between the umbilical
cable 44A and the tether 46A. Generally, the TMS 50A may be utilized as an intermediary,
subsurface platform from which to operate the ROV 35A. For most ROV 35A operations at or
near the seabed 55, the TMS 50A can be positioned approximately 50 feet above seabed 55 and
can pay out tether 46A as needed for ROV 35A to move freely above seabed 55 in order to
position and transfer seismic sensor devices 30 thereon.
[0079] A crane 25B is coupled to a stern of the first vessel 5, or other locations on the first
vessel 5. Each of the cranes 25A, 25B may be any lifting device and/or launch and recovery
system (LARS) adapted to operate in a marine environment. In this embodiment, the crane 25B
is coupled to a seismic sensor transfer device 100 by a cable 70. The transfer device 100 may be
a drone, a skid structure, a basket, or any device capable of housing one or more sensor devices
30 therein. The transfer device 100 may be a structure configured as a magazine adapted to

                                                    16
house and transport one or more sensor devices 30. In one embodiment, the transfer device 100
is configured as a sensor device storage rack for transfer of sensor devices 30 from the first
vessel 5 to the ROV 35A, and from the ROV 35A to the first vessel 5. The transfer device 100
may include an on-board power supply, a motor or gearbox, and/or a propulsion system (all not
shown). Alternatively, the transfer device 100 may not include any integral power devices
and/or not require any external or internal power source. If needed, the cable 70 may provide
power and/or control to the transfer device 100. Alternatively, the cable 70 may be an umbilical,
a tether, a cord, a wire, a rope, and the like, that is configured solely for support of the transfer
device 100.
[0080] The ROV 35A includes a seismic sensor device storage compartment 40 that is
configured to store one or more seismic sensor devices 30 therein for a deployment and/or 11
retrieval operation. The storage compartment 40 may be a magazine, a rack, or a container
configured to store the seismic sensor devices. The storage compartment 40 may also include a
movable platform having the seismic sensor devices thereon, such as a carousel or linear
platform configured to support and move the seismic sensor devices 30 therein. In one
embodiment, the seismic sensor devices 30 may be deployed on the seabed 55 and retrieved
therefrom by operation of the movable platform. In this embodiment, the ROV 35A may be
positioned at a predetermined location above or on the seabed 55 and seismic sensor devices 30
are rolled, conveyed, or otherwise moved out of the storage compartment 40 at the
predetermined location. In another embodiment, the seismic sensor devices 30 may be deployed
and retrieved from the storage compartment 40 by a robotic device 60, such as a robotic arm, an
end effector or a manipulator, disposed on the ROV 35A.
[0081] For example, in a deployment operation, a first plurality of seismic sensor devices,
comprising one or more sensor devices 30, may be loaded into the storage compartment 40
while on the first vessel 5 in a pre-loading operation. The ROV 35A, having the storage
compartment coupled thereto, is then lowered to a subsurface position in the water column 15.
The ROV 35A utilizes commands from personnel on the first vessel 5 to operate along a course
to transfer the first plurality of seismic sensor devices 30 from the storage compartment 40 and
deploy the individual sensor devices 30 at selected locations on the seabed 55. Once the storage
compartment 40 is depleted of the first plurality of seismic sensor devices 30, the transfer device

                                                  17
100 is used to ferry a second plurality of seismic sensor devices 30 as a payload from first vessel
5 to the ROV 35A.
[0082] The transfer device 100 is preloaded with a second plurality of seismic sensor devices 30
while on or adjacent the first vessel 5. When a suitable number of seismic sensor devices 30 are
loaded onto the transfer device 100, the transfer device 100 may be lowered by crane 25B to a
selected depth in the water column 15. The ROV 35A and transfer device 100 are mated at a
subsurface location to allow transfer of the second plurality of seismic sensor devices 30 from
the transfer device 100 to the storage compartment 40. When the transfer device 100 and ROV
35A are mated, the second plurality of seismic sensor devices 30 contained in the transfer device
100 are transferred to the storage compartment 40 of the ROV 35A. Once the storage
compartment 40 is reloaded, the ROV 35A and transfer device 100 are detached or unmated and
seismic sensor device placement by ROV 35A may resume. In one embodiment, reloading of
the storage compartment 40 is provided while the first vessel 5 is in motion. If the transfer
device 100 is empty after transfer of the second plurality 12 of seismic sensor devices 30, the
transfer device 100 may be raised by the crane 25B to the vessel 5 where a reloading operation
replenishes the transfer device 100 with a third plurality of seismic sensor devices 30. The
transfer device 100 may then be lowered to a selected depth when the storage compartment 40
needs to be reloaded. This process may repeat as needed until a desired number of seismic
sensor devices 30 have been deployed.
[0083] Using the transfer device 100 to reload the ROV 35A at a subsurface location reduces the
time required to place the seismic sensor devices 30 on the seabed 55, or "planting" time, as the
ROV 35A is not raised and lowered to the surface 10 for seismic sensor device reloading.
Further, mechanical stresses placed on equipment utilized to lift and lower the ROV 35A are
minimized as the ROV 35A may be operated below the surface 10 for longer periods. The
reduced lifting and lowering of the ROV 35A may be particularly advantageous in foul weather
and/or rough sea conditions. Thus, the lifetime of equipment may be enhanced as the ROV 35A
and related equipment are not raised above surface 10, which may cause the ROV 35A and
related equipment to be damaged, or pose a risk of injury to the vessel personnel.
[0084] Likewise, in a retrieval operation, the ROV 35A utilizes commands from personnel on
the first vessel 5 to retrieve each seismic sensor device 30 that was previously placed on seabed
55. The retrieved seismic sensor devices 30 are placed into the storage compartment 40 of the

                                                 18
ROV 35A. In one embodiment, the ROV 35A may be sequentially positioned adjacent each
seismic sensor device 30 on the seabed 55 and the seismic sensor devices 30 are rolled,
conveyed, or otherwise moved from the seabed 55 to the storage compartment 40. In another
embodiment, the seismic sensor devices 30 may be retrieved from the seabed 55 by a robotic
device 60 disposed on the ROV 35A.
[0085] Once the storage compartment 40 is full or contains a pre-determined number of seismic
sensor devices 30, the transfer device 100 is lowered to a position below the surface 10 and
mated with the ROV 35A. The transfer device 100 may be lowered by crane 25B to a selected
depth in the water column 15, and the ROV 35A and transfer device 100 are mated at a
subsurface location. Once mated, the retrieved seismic sensor devices 30 contained in the
storage compartment 40 are transferred to the transfer device 100. Once the storage
compartment 40 is depleted of retrieved sensor devices, the ROV 35A and transfer device 100
are detached and sensor device retrieval by ROV 35A may resume. Thus, the transfer device
100 can ferry the retrieved seismic sensor devices 30 as a payload to the first vessel 5, allowing
the ROV 35A to continue collection of the seismic sensor devices 30 from the 13 seabed 55. In
this manner, sensor device retrieval time is significantly reduced as the ROV 35A is not raised
and lowered for sensor device unloading. Further, mechanical stresses placed on equipment
related to the ROV 35A are minimized as the ROV 35A may be subsurface for longer periods.
[0086] In this embodiment, the first vessel 5 may travel in a first direction 75, such as in the +X
direction, which may be a compass heading or other linear or predetermined direction. The first
direction 75 may also account for and/or include drift caused by wave action, current(s) and/or
wind speed and direction. In one embodiment, the plurality of seismic sensor devices 30 are
placed on the seabed 55 in selected locations, such as a plurality of rows R, in the X direction
(RI and R2 are shown) and/or columns C, in the Y direction (Cl -C3 are shown), wherein n
equals an integer. In one embodiment, the rows R, and columns C, define a grid or array,
wherein each row R, comprises a receiver line in the width of a sensor array (X direction) and/or
each column C, comprises a receiver line in a length of the sensor array (Y direction), The
distance between adjacent sensor devices 30 in the rows is shown as distance LR and the
distance between adjacent sensor devices 30 in the columns is shown as distance Lc. While a
substantially square pattern is shown, other patterns may be formed on the seabed 55. Other
patterns include non-linear receiver lines and/or non-square patterns. The pattern(s) may be pre-

                                                  19
determined or result from other factors, such as topography of the seabed 55. In one
embodiment, the distances LR and Lc may be substantially equal and may include dimensions
between about 60 meters to about 400 meters, or greater. The distance between adjacent seismic
sensor devices 30 may be predetermined and/or result from topography of the seabed 55 as
described above.
[0087] The first vessel 5 is operated at a speed, such as an allowable or safe speed for operation
of the first vessel 5 and any equipment being towed by the first vessel 5. The speed may take
into account any weather conditions, such as wind speed and wave action, as well as currents in
the water column 15. The speed of the vessel may also be determined by any operations
equipment that is suspended by, attached to, or otherwise being towed by the first vessel 5. For
example, the speed is typically limited by the drag coefficients of components of the ROV 35A,
such as the TMS 50A and umbilical cable 44A, as well as any weather conditions and/or
currents in the water column 15. As the components of the ROV 35A are subject to drag that is
dependent on the depth of the components in the water column 15, the first vessel speed may
operate in a range of less than about 1 knot. In this embodiment, wherein two receiver lines
(rows RI and R2) are being laid, the first vessel includes a first 14 speed of between about 0.2
knots and about 0.6 knots. In other embodiments, the first speed includes an average speed of
between about 0.25 knots, which includes intermittent speeds of less than 0.25 knots and speeds
greater than about 1 knot, depending on weather conditions, such as wave action, wind speeds,
and/or currents in the water column 15.
[0088] During a seismic survey, one receiver line, such as row RI may be deployed. When the
single receiver line is completed a second vessel 80 is used to provide a source signal. The
second vessel 80 is provided with a source device 85, which may be a device capable of
producing acoustical signals or vibrational signals suitable for obtaining the survey data. The
source signal propagates to the seabed 55 and a portion of the signal is reflected back to the
seismic sensor devices 30. The second vessel 80 may be required to make multiple passes, for
example at least four passes, per a single receiver line (row RI in this example). During the time
the second vessel 80 is making the passes, the first vessel 5 continues deployment of a second
receiver line. However, the time involved in making the passes by the second vessel 80 is much
shorter than the deployment time of the second receiver line. This causes a lag time in the

                                                  20
seismic survey as the second vessel 80 sits idle while the first vessel 5 is completing the second
receiver line.
[0089] In this embodiment, the first vessel 5 utilizes one ROV 35A to lay sensor devices to form
a first set of two receiver lines (rows RI and R2) in any number of columns, which may produce
a length of each receiver line of up to and including several miles. In one embodiment, the two
receiver lines (rows RI and R2) are substantially parallel. When a single directional pass of the
first vessel 5 is completed and the first set (rows RI, R2) of seismic sensor devices 30 are laid to
a predetermined length, the second vessel 80, provided with the source device 85, is utilized to
provide the source signal. The second vessel 80 is typically required to make eight or more
passes along the two receiver lines to complete the seismic survey of the two rows RI and R2.
[0090] While the second vessel 80 is shooting along the two rows RI and R2, the first vessel 5
may turn 180 degrees and travel in the -X direction in order to lay seismic sensor devices 30 in
another two rows adjacent the rows RI and R2, thereby forming a second set of two receiver
lines. The second vessel 80 may then make another series of passes along the second set of
receiver lines while the first vessel 5 turns 180 degrees to travel in the +X direction to lay
another set of receiver lines. The process may repeat until a specified area of the seabed 55 has
been surveyed. Thus, the idle time of the second vessel 80 is minimized as the deployment time
for laying receiver lines is cut approximately in half by deploying two rows in one pass of the
vessel 5.
[0091] Although only two rows RI and R2 are shown, the sensor device 30 layout is not limited
to this configuration as the ROV 35A may be adapted to layout more than two rows of sensor
devices in a single directional tow. For example, the ROV 35A may be controlled to lay out
between three and six rows of sensor devices 30, or an even greater number of rows in a single
directional tow. The width of a "one pass" run of the first vessel 5 to layout the width of the
sensor array is typically limited by the length of the tether 46A and/or the spacing (distance LR)
between sensor devices 30.
[0092] Referring to FIG. 2, an optical communication system that transmit data through an
aqueous medium includes a first optical transceiver 10 and a second optical transceiver 20. Each
optical transceiver includes an optical transmitter 100 and an optical receiver 200. As shown, the
optical transmitter 100 and an optical receiver 200 of transceiver 10 are packaged together in a

                                                  21
housing 300 to provide bi-directional data transmission with a similarly packaged optical
transceiver 20.
[0093] Each of the transceivers may be mounted on any suitable platform including an
underwater vehicle (e.g., subsea equipment, a submarine, remotely operated vehicle, or
autonomously operated vehicle), an underwater device (e.g., an ocean bottom seismic node,
such as the types available from FairfieldNodal, Inc. of Sugarland, TX), an underwater structure
(e.g., an oil drilling or pumping platform), or any other suitable object.
[0094] A transmitter and receiver packaged together are referred to as a transceiver. Although
the embodiments shown focus on transceiver packages, it is to be understood that in various
embodiments, the transmitter and receiver may be separately packaged. In some embodiments, a
single transmitter in a single receiver may be used for uni-directional communication.
[0095] As shown in FIG. 2, simultaneous bi-directional data transmission may be accomplished
by the use of spectrally separated wavelengths, so that the transmitter 1 of transceiver 10 may
transmit a wavelength 1 (for example, a blue wavelength or band of wavelengths, such as might
be emitted by an InGaN LED) and the transmitter 2 of transceiver 20 transmits a wavelength 2
for example, a blue-green or green wavelength or band of wavelengths). The receiver 2 of
transceiver 20 can receive the wavelength 1 of transmitter 1 and reject the wavelength 2 of
transmitter 2 and all or as many as possible wavelengths outside the band of wavelength 1 using
optical filters. Other data transmission schemes may be employed as well. For example, instead
of separating the upstream and downstream signals by wavelength, they may instead be
transmitted using time-division multiplexing or by polarization. Similarly, code-division
multiplexing and other data transmission schemes may be used.
[0096] Various embodiments include the capacity to incorporate multi-carrier transmission
discrimination techniques such as optically based Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing
(OFDM). Many closely spaced subcarriers are utilized to increase the overall transmission rate.
The optical data can also be transmitted using coherent OFDM, COOFDM, protocols using
single carrier or multicarrier transmission schemes. In some embodiments, discrimination or
discrimination techniques can refer to optical discrimination techniques.

                                                  22
[0097] Similarly receiver of transceiver 1 may be configured to receive wavelength 2 of
transmitter 2 and reject the wavelength of transmitter 1 and all or as many as possible
wavelengths outside of the band of wavelength 2.
[0098] Another embodiment, shown in FIG. 3, provides for bidirectional transmission by spatial
separation of the respective transmitters and receivers. Here the transmitter 1 of transceiver 1 is
aligned (e.g., closely aligned) with receiver 2 of transceiver 2, and the transmitter 2 of
transceiver 2 is aligned (e.g., closely aligned) with the receiver 2 of transceiver 2, so as to
prevent light emitted by transmitter 1 but scattered by the intervening aqueous medium from
entering receiver 1, and similarly the light from transmitter 2 but scattered by the intervening
aqueous medium is unable to enter receiver 2. In some embodiments, the optical transceivers 10
and 20 can include one or more filters configured to prevent, limit, block, or otherwise filter
light coming from one or more directions (e.g., to limit off-axis visibility). In a non-limiting
example, the one or more filters may include a honeycomb filter or a directionally selective
optical plate. For example, in order to discriminate unwanted photon sources, a direction sorting
device such as a light control film, window blind louver type or element or the like may be used.
[0099] Various embodiments may include one or more mechanisms to direct the output light
from a transmitter in the direction of a receiver and/or to cause the field of view of a receiver to
track the output of a transmitter. In addition to mechanical scanning of the transmitter and
receiver to change the pointing direction, electronic systems may also be used. An electronic
system capable of scanning the transmitter direction may arrange a plurality of individual light
sources (e.g. LEDs or lasers), or a plurality of arrays of light sources, pointing in different
directions so that the device or array pointing in the direction of interest can be used to transmit
the data, as shown in Figure 2. In this way the power consumption of the transceiver can be
significantly reduced compared to a system that transmits power into a larger angular field of
view.
[0100] For example, FIG. 4 shows an electronic mechanism for scanning the receiver field of
view using a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube 410, in which separate gain-producing dynode
arrays and anodes are provided in a one- or two-dimensional arrangement such that light striking
a spatial location on the photocathode produces an electrical signal at the anode corresponding
to the photocathode spatial location. By placing the multiple-anode photomultiplier tube 410 at
the focus of a lens 215 the angular position of the remote transmitter beam is converted into a

                                                   23
spatial location on the photocathode. This receiver can serve a dual purpose; sensing the location
of the remote transmitter for guidance; and by selecting only the anode corresponding to the
photocathode location where the transmitter signal is detected a specific field of view can be
obtained, as in Figure 2, thereby rejecting interfering light sources.
[0101] The components of an exemplary optical transceiver are now described with reference to
FIG. 5. The transmitter 100 comprises a series of electronic components used to convert an
incoming data signal into an outgoing optical signal that can be transmitted through the aqueous
medium. A data signal is conducted to a data conversion module 110, which converts the
incoming data for transmission via a non-optical domain, typically conveyed using either a
conducting cable or a fiber-optic cable, into an on-off keyed format, such as 8b/10b encoding or
pulse-position discrimination, which is appropriate for use by the transmitter. This module may
typically also provide the functions of ascertaining whether a data connection is present on the
cable side, and in turn provide a signaling format that the transmitter can transmit to a remote
receiver so as to alert the remote transceiver as to its presence. The output of the data conversion
module 110 is conveyed to a transmitter drive module 120, which receives the output of the data
conversion module 110 and by use of amplifiers and other electronic components converts the
output of the data conversion module 110 into a drive signal for the light source 130, either
singly or in a plurality (e.g., an array), such that the optical output of the light source 130 varies
between a lower optical power state (e.g., with little or no optical output) and a higher optical
power state.
[0102] The electronic circuits of the transmitter drive module 120 may be designed so as to
maintain as much fidelity as possible between the temporal characteristics (pulse width, rise
time and fall-time) of the electronic output waveform of the data conversion module 110 and the
optical output waveform of the light source 130. This may require a combination of electronic
feedback within the amplifier circuits, temperature compensation to correct for temperature
induced changes in the optical output of the light source 130 for a given electrical current
conveyed from the transmitter drive module 120, or optical feedback from the light source 130
into circuits associated with the transmitter drive module 120 such that the optical waveform
exhibits maximum fidelity to the input electrical waveform.
[0103] As noted above, the light source may be, for example, an LED source or a laser source,
such as an InGaN based LED or current driven solid state laser such as an InGaN laser. The

                                                  24
choice of whether an LED or laser is used will depend largely on the data bandwidth required.
In some embodiments, it may be difficult to achieve to achieve data bandwidths of much greater
than 10 or 20 Mbps using LEDs due to carrier-lifetime effects in the PN junction leading to long
temporal decays of the optical output.
[0104] In contrast, laser sources may operate with a significantly shorter temporal pulse width.
In some embodiments this is because when the drive current to the laser drops below a threshold
level, lasing ceases, and the output intensity of the laser rapidly decreases. Similarly, as the drive
current increases across the lasing threshold, the output intensity of the laser may rapidly
increase. Accordingly, the modulated laser output may reproduce even a rapidly modulated
drive signal with very high fidelity. Accordingly, in some embodiments, a data rate transmission
rate of greater than 10 Mbps, 50 Mbps, 75 Mbps, 100Mbps, 200 Mbps, 300 Mbps, 400 Mbps,
500 Mbps, 600 Mbps, 1000 Mbps or more may be provided.
[0105] The optical output of the light source may be modified in angular extent by use of an
optical element 140. The optical element 140 may be, for example, a transparent epoxy lens
integral to an LED or diode laser in an industry-standard package, or, particularly in the case of
a laser in lieu of an LED, this external element may be a lens or other refractive, reflective, or
diffractive element as required to shape the transmitter beam into the desired angular field.
[0106] A power supply 170 is provided to condition input power from the platform hosting the
transmitter 100 and provide the required voltages and currents to power the various electronic
modules of the transmitter 100. This power supply 170 may typically be a high-efficiency, low
noise switching supply, with one or more outputs.
[0107] The receiver 200 of the optical transceiver will generally comprise an optical element
210 which collects incoming light and directs it to the photosensitive area of an optical detector
230. The optical element 210 may be a spherical or aspherical lens, or another reflective,
refractive, or diffractive optical element (or grouping of elements) selected so as to match the
desired angular field and collecting area with the photosensitive area of the detector. In one
embodiment a field lens 215 may be added following the optical element 210 in order to
illuminate the surface of the optical detector 230 more uniformly.

                                                  25
[0108] An optical filter 220 (or any other suitable wavelength selective elements) will either
precede the optical element 210 (be placed on the side towards the remote transmitter 100) or
follow the optical element 210 but precede the optical detector 230. The purpose of the optical
filter is to as completely as possible transmit only the optical wavelength or wavelengths
corresponding to those emitted by the remote transmitter 100 and to reject as completely as
possible the wavelength or wavelengths emitted by an adjacent transmitter, as well as ambient
sunlight and other extraneous light. The optical filter 220 may include, for example, a color
(absorbing) glass filter, a color (absorbing) plastic filter, or an interference (reflecting) filter or
wavelength diffractive element, as appropriate to the required optical bandwidth, rejection and
angular acceptance. In some embodiments, the optical filter 220 may include a special filter, a
general filter, a custom designed filter or other type of filter configured to facilitate optical
bandwidth rejection).
[0109] The optical detector 230 converts the light collected by optical element 210 and
transmitted by optical filter 220 into an electrical signal for further processing. The optical
detector is followed by an amplifier module 240. In one embodiment the optical detector 230
may be a semiconductor detector such as a silicon PIN photodiode. In this embodiment the
amplifier module 240 comprises a preamplifier and an automatic gain control amplifier to
amplify the electrical output of the photodiode to match the electrical output to electronic stages.
A power supply 235 provides a low bias voltage to the PIN photodiode to reduce shunt
capacitance and improve temporal response.
[0110] In some embodiments, e.g., as illustrated in FIG. 6, using an avalanche photodiode as the
optical detector 230 the power supply 235 would be of a higher voltage to drive the photodiode
into the avalanche regime and provide electronic gain. In this embodiment the power supply 235
would typically have a temperature sensor (such as a thermistor) to monitor the avalanche
photodiode temperature and automatically adjust the voltage output to compensate for
temperature dependence in the avalanche voltage of the avalanche 20 photodiode. In this
embodiment the amplifier module 240 may also provide a small fraction of the amplified
electrical signal to an automatic gain control module 250 which integrates the electrical signal,
conditions it and supplies it to a voltage-control input of the power supply 235, thereby
controlling the voltage of the power supply 235 and thereby the gain of the avalanche

                                                 26
photodiode to match varying light levels received at the optical detector 230 due to received
transmitter light or other detected light.
[0111] The automatic gain control module may itself, e.g., in its own internal circuits, include
variable gain to keep the output signal within the required range for subsequent processing (such
as in the discrimination module 260).
[0112] In an embodiment using a photomultiplier tube the as the optical detector 230 a power
supply 235 supplies high voltage (100-500V typical) to the photomultiplier tube in order to
provide fast temporal response and electronic gain. Typically the power supply 235 in this
embodiment will have a voltage control input, as in an embodiment using the avalanche
photodiode, so that a similar automatic gain control module 250 can control the voltage supplied
to the photomultiplier tube and thereby its electronic gain to match varying light levels received
at the optical detector 230 due to received transmitter light or other detected light, as well as to
protect the photomultiplier tube from damage due to high light levels.
[0113] In an embodiment that uses a photomultiplier tube at data rates above, e.g., 100Mbps,
such as 622 Mbps or 1000Mbps, special consideration may be taken with the choice of
photomultiplier tube. A very high bandwidth tube may be required, and particular care may be
needed in its operation. For example, it may be necessary to utilize only the first few stages of a
conventional high-speed photomultiplier tube, drawing the signal current from an intermediate
dynode stage, rather than from the anode, in order to obtain fast enough rise and fall times to
support the high bit rate. In an additional embodiment a photomultiplier tube which uses a
micro-channel plate as the electronic gain medium in lieu of a conventional dynode structure
may be used. In a further embodiment, a hybrid photodiode may be used, a device which
combines a vacuum stage operating at high voltage followed by an internal semiconductor
avalanche structure may be used to provide a significant photosensitive area and electronic gain
while supporting the bandwidth required for, e.g, 1000Mbps operation. In another embodiment,
a vacuum photodiode, which provides a large collecting area and high speed without internal
electronic gain may be used, provided that sufficient gain can be provided in subsequent
electronic amplification stages.
[0114] The output of the amplifier module 240 is conveyed to a discrimination module 260
which detects the amplified waveform using a waveform detection module which may include,

                                                  27
e.g., Schmidt triggers, clocks and other circuits to convert the detected waveform into a signal
that can be conveyed to the data conversion module 270 which converts the data format created
by the discrimination module 260 from the detected optical waveform into a non-optical format
useable for an external data recipient located on the host platform.
[0115] A power supply 280 is provided to condition input power from the platform hosting the
transmitter 100 and provide the required voltages and currents to power the various electronic
modules of the receiver 200. This power supply 280 may typically be a high-efficiency, low
noise switching supply, with one or more outputs.
[0116] In the case of infrequent data exchanges, a power control module 290, which uses an
optical detector and a low-powered circuit with an amplifier, electronic filter, a threshold circuit
and a relay or electronic switch may be provided to sense the proximity of a remote transmitter
and activate the local transmitter and receiver by connecting the input power between the power
supply 170/280 and the power source on the platform.
[0117] In the embodiment illustrated in FIG. 2 the transmitter 100 and the receiver 200 will be
collocated in a pressure vessel 300 in order to isolate the transmitter 100 and receiver 200 from
contact with the aqueous environment. In this embodiment windows 310 will be provided to
convey light from the transmitter 100 into the aqueous medium and to a remotely mounted
receiver, and from a remotely mounted transmitter through the aqueous medium to the receiver
200. These may typically be separate windows for the transmitter and receiver, but can also be a
single window serving both transmitter and receiver.
[0118] In an embodiment in which the directions of the transmitter beam and/or receiver field of
view must be moved during operation (such as for communication between a moving and a
stationary transceiver) an element is provided that senses the direction of a remote transmitter
and generates control signals for a gimbal or other mechanical device that translates the pointing
angle of the transmitter or receiver, or for an electronic pointing angles translator. Figure 6
shows one embodiment, useful for the case where the angular directions must be controlled in
one dimension only, in which an array of optical detectors 410 are pointed in different angles to
sense the incoming transmitter beam. The optical detectors are provided with optical filters 415
(or other wavelength selective elements) to transmit light from the remote transmitter and reject
backscattered light from the local transmitter. The optical detectors may also be provided with

                                                  28
lenses 420 or another optical element capable of defining the optical detector field of view. The
electrical signal from the optical detectors 410 is conveyed to an amplifier module 440. The
amplifier module 440 will typically include automatic gain control in order to maintain the
output signal within the range of voltage levels useable by following stages. The electrical
output from the optical detectors is conveyed to a guidance processor module 460 which
measures the signal strength from each optical detector and calculates the direction of the
remote transmitter. The calculation can be accomplished for coarse direction by taking the ratios
of the strengths of the optical signals using either a system of operational amplifiers or by using
an actual analog to digital conversion and performing the calculation in a microprocessor
system. A more precise calculation of the direction of the remote transmitter can be
accomplished in a microprocessor by taking into account the geometry of the detectors and the
amount of remote transmitter light that will be intercepted by them as a function of angle.
[0119] Another embodiment illustrated in FIG. 8 uses a position-sensitive optical detector 520
such as a position-sensing semiconductor photodiode (e.g., a split photodiode), position-sensing
(e.g., resistive anode) photomultiplier tube, or a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube with a
voltage divider circuit to provide the angular location of the remote transmitter. An imaging
optical element 410 such as a lens is used to convert the angle of the incoming transmitter light
into a position on the active area of the positions-sensitive optical detector 520. An optical filter
415 can be used to transmit light from the remote transmitter and reject ambient background
light and backscattered local transmitter light. The electrical output of the position-sensitive
detector 520 is conveyed to an amplifier module 440 and the output of the amplifier module 440
conveyed to a guidance processor module 460 for the generation of guidance signals. The
guidance signals generated from this embodiment are accurate enough for precision platform
guidance, if needed.
[0120] In addition to wavelength-selective optical filter 415, in order to reject background light
(such as sunlight when the transceivers are shallow) an electronic filter may be included either
in the amplifier module 440 or in the guidance processor module 460 in order to reject steady or
slowly varying (un-modulated) optical signals and accept the modulated signal from the remote
transmitter.
[0121] The output of the guidance processor module 460 is conveyed to a drive module 470
which provides electrical signals to a motor driven gimbal 480 (or other positioning device) on

                                                   29
which are mounted the transmitter and receiver such that an electrical signal from 23 the drive
module 470 translates the angle of the transmitter and receiver relative to the housing. A power
supply 490 is provided to condition power from the platform and provide the required voltages
and currents to the respective modules.
[0122] Another embodiment illustrated in FIG. 9 uses the output of the guidance processor
module 460 to select angularly separated transmitter light sources or light source arrays 610 so
as to project a transmitter beam into the desired direction. Another embodiment uses the output
of the guidance processor to switch the output of a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube used as
the optical detector so as to select the direction for which an incoming light beam will be sensed.
[0123] In some embodiments, the transceivers described herein may use channel coding
techniques to increase link robustness and transmission rates. For example, low-density parity
check, LDPC, codes and rate adaptive channel codes may be used.
[0124] In some embodiments, the transceivers described herein may implement dynamic
optimization of the transmission parameters. In underwater environments such as seismic
sensing, the local water conditions can vary significantly. In order to accommodate the variation
the optical links are dynamically configured to measure link loss mechanisms, alone or in
combinations with other effects such as dispersion, and assign an optimal data rate. In addition,
if the underwater environmental conditions permit, multi-carrier modes can be initiated. Local
Digital Signal Processing, DSP, can be performed to adjust or compensate for the applicable
transmission-reception parameters, or software can implement the communication control
adjustments. The optical transmission receiver linkage can be monitored continuously in order
to maintain link performance.
[0125] In some embodiments, receivers of the type herein may be used to transmit seismic data,
e.g., from an autonomous underwater seismic node to a retrieval device. The retrieval device
may be mounted on, for example, an submarine vessel, a remotely operated vehicle, or an
autonomously operated vehicle. In some embodiments, the seismic data transfer may be
performed at a rate of at least 10 Mbps, 100 Mbps, 500 Mbps, 1000 Mbps or more. In some
embodiments, the transmission link is maintained for at least 1 second, 10 seconds, 1 minute, 5
minutes, 10 minutes, 20 minutes, 30 minutes, 40 minutes, 50 minutes, 1 hour, or more. In some

                                                 30
embodiments, the transmission occurs over a distance of at least 10 cm, 100 cm, 1 m, 2 m, 3 m,
5 m, 10 m, 20 m, 100 m or more.
[0126] Although in many embodiments (e.g., as described herein) it is advantageous to used
wavelengths in the range of 400-600 nm (or any sub-range thereof), in other cases depending on
the application at hand any other suitable wavelengths may be used (e.g., wavelengths in the
range of 300 nm to 1400 nm).
[0127] FIG. 10 is an illustration of a system 1000 to perform seismic exploration in an aqueous
environment using optical transmission. In some embodiments, the system 1000 includes a first
optical link 1001 that transmits and receives optical signals to/from or between a second optical
link 1003. In some embodiments, the first optical link 1001 and the second optical link 1003 can
include one or more of the same components. The one or more same components may be
configured in a complimentary manner such that the transmission component of the first optical
link 1001 is configure to transmit optical signals to a receiving component of the second optical
link 1003.
[0128] In some embodiments, the first optical link 1001 includes a magnetic module 1002
configured to isolate voltages in an Ethernet network connection. The magnetic module 1002
can isolate voltage so that equipment operating from different voltage sources can coexist on a
single network. In some embodiments, where one or more components of system 1000 or other
network components are powered from the same power supply, it may not be necessary to
include the magnetics module 1002. In some embodiments, the magnetics module 1002 includes
one or more transformers configured to blocks DC and low frequency voltages. In some
embodiments, the magnetics module 1002 is a hardware module that is external to the PCB, and
not part of the FPGA. In some embodiments, the magnetics module 1002 may be internal to the
FPGA or otherwise communicatively coupled to the FPGA to facilitate systems and methods of
performing seismic exploration using optical transmissions.
[0129] In some embodiments, the system 1000 includes a phy module or "physical layer"
module 1004. The phy module 1004 may refer to a low layer (e.g., or a lowest layer) in an Open
Systems Interconnection model of a network. The phy module 1004 is configured to transmit
and receives signal based on one or more specifications such as Ethernet, WiFi, WiMax,
Bluetooth, Near Field Communications, etc. In some embodiments, the phy module includes

                                                 31
one or more chips on one or more circuit cards that are external the FPGA. In some
embodiments, the phy module 1004 may be internal to the FPGA or otherwise communicatively
coupled to the FPGA to facilitate systems and methods of performing seismic exploration using
optical transmissions.
[0130] In some embodiments, the system 1000 includes an FPGA 1006 (e.g., a field
programmable gate array having one or more integrated circuits that can be configured to
facilitate seismic exploration in an aqueous environment). In some embodiments, the FPGA
1006 can include one or more Media Access Controller (MAC) (e.g., a first MAC 1008 and a
second MAC 1010). The first and second MACs 1008 and 1010 can represent the second layer
of the Open Systems Interconnection model. The first and second MACs 1008 and 1010 can be
configured to perform one or more of the following functions: receive/transmit frames,
retransmit and backoff functions, inter-frame gap enforcement, and discard malformed frames.
In some embodiments, the first MAC 1008 (or topside MAC) can transmit and receive data via
an Ethernet connection (e.g., the Phy 1004 and magnetics 1002), and the second MAC 1010 (or
bottomside MAC) can transmit and receive data via an optical connection.
[0131] In some embodiments, the FPGA 1006 includes a micro-processor 1012. The micro
processor 1012 can be communicatively coupled to the first and second MACs 1008 and 1010,
respectively. The micro-processor 1012 can be configured to receive data frames from a host
and buffer the data frames until the system is ready for the data frames. The micro-processor
1012 may include or have access to memory configured to store the received the data frames.
The amount of memory may be sufficient to store relatively large amounts of data sufficient to
facilitate systems and methods of performing seismic exploration using an optical link. In some
embodiments, the micro-processor 1012 is further configured to send data to the second MAC
1010 when the Link Status and Control module 1016 determines that both receivers are
receiving valid data.
[0132] In some embodiments, the FPGA 1006 includes a buffer 1014 that is accessible to the
micro-processor 1012. The buffer 1014 may include memory that is used by the microprocessor
1012 to save data frames until the second MAC 1010 is ready to transmit the data frames.
[0133] In some embodiments, the FPGA 1006 includes a receive data sync module 1018. The
receive data sync module 1018 can build data frames from the data received from a decoder

                                                  32
1020 (e.g., a 8B/10B decoder) and also provide synchronization information to the Link Status
and Control block 1016. The frames are built by receiving data until an interframe gap is
detected. When the interframe gap is detected, the frame is sent to the second MAC 1010 (e.g.,
at a rate of 1Gbps). The interframe gap can include specific control characters transmitted by the
second optical link 1003 and decoded by the decoder 1020. These control characters can include
optical signal strength information reported by the second optical link 1003. In some
embodiments, synchronization data reported to the Link Status and Control block 1016 can
indicate, for example: (1) a receiver is not currently synchronized to the incoming data stream or
there is no data stream; (2) a receiver is synchronized to the incoming data stream, but the
information in that data stream in the form of control characters indicates that the other side's
receiver is not synchronized to our transmitter; or (3) a receiver is synchronized to the incoming
data stream, and the information in that data stream in the form of control characters indicates
that the other side's receiver is also synchronized to our transmitter.
[0134] In some embodiments, the optical link 1001 or FPGA 1006 can include a decoder 1020,
such as an 8B/10B decoder. The decoder 1020 can receive data from a de-serializer 1022 and
converts the data into 8 bit data characters of 8 bit control characters using the 8B/10B encoding
scheme. The decoder 1020 can synchronize to the data stream upon command using control
characters in the data stream. In some embodiments, the decoder 1020 can be configured to
decode data using other decoding techniques that facilitate performing seismic exploration using
an optical link in an aqueous environment.
[0135] In some embodiments, the optical link 1001 or FPGA 1006 can include a deserializer
1022. The de-serializer can receive a serial data stream and produce data (e.g., 10 bit parallel
data) suitable for use by the decoder 1020. In some embodiments, the deserializer 1022
determines the edges of the received data pulses and adjusts a clock to latch the data at a suitable
point in the data waveform, which may correspond to the center of an eye pattern. In some
embodiments, when the receive data synchronizer 1018 sends a synchronize command, the de
serializer 1022 can attempt to synchronize with an input data stream using control characters of
the synchronization process. The synchronization process may be is repeated responsive to a
command from the receive data synchronizer 1018.
[0136] In some embodiments, the optical link 1001 includes a photo multiplier tube (PMT)
1024. The PMT 1024 can be communicatively coupled to the FPGA 1006, while being external

                                                    33
to the FPGA. The PMT 1024 can include associated circuitry that converts incident or received
light to electrical signals suitable for amplification. In some embodiments, the PMT 1024 can
include or be communicatively coupled to the optical receivers 200 of FIG. 2. In some
embodiments, the PMT 1024 can include or be communicatively coupled to the multi-anode
PMT 410 of FIG. 4.
[0137] In some embodiments, the optical link includes a gain control 1026. The gain control
1026 can include a circuit or other hardware that adjusts the gain of the PMT so that a suitable
electrical signal can be produced from the incident light. In some embodiments, the gain can be
adjusted based on anode current measured from the PMT and the magnitude of the data
waveform on the signal chain. The gain can be adjusted by increasing or decreasing the bias
voltage on the tube. The gain required to get the desired signal is also sent to the link status and
control block 1016. The gain may also be sent to a transmit/sync generator block 1034, which
may send the information to the second optical link 1003 using control characters in the
interframe gap. The second optical link 1003 can adjust transmit power based on this
information to maintain a reliable link over a wide range of optical conditions.
[0138] The first and second optical links 1001 and 1003 can include one or more lasers 1030
and 1032 (e.g., optical transmitters 100 of FIG. 2), respectively, that produce an amplitude
modulated optical signal containing digital information. For example, the laser 1032 can
produce an optical signal containing digital information received from serializer 1038. The
optical signal can be modulated by modulating the current through the laser 1030 and 1032. The
magnitude of the discrimination current, and therefore the light discrimination, can be adjusted
via commands from the link and status control module 1016. For example, the magnitude and
discrimination can be adjusted to compensate for optical conditions (e.g., murkiness, turbidity,
or murkiness of the aqueous medium).
[0139] In some embodiments, the optical link 1001 or FPGA 1006 can include a serializer 1038.
The serializer 1038 can receive data (e.g., parallel data) from an encoder 1036 (e.g., 8B/10B
encoder) and send a data stream (e.g., serial data stream) to the laser 1032.
[0140] In some embodiments, the optical link 1001 or FPGA 1006 includes an encoder 1036. In
some embodiments, the encoder 1036 may include an 8B/10B encoder that converts an 8 bit

                                                  34
data stream to a DC balanced 10 bit data stream. The data can be any of 256 possible 8 bit data
values or one of 16 control characters.
[0141] In some embodiments, the first optical link 1001 or FPGA 1006 includes a transmit sync
generator 1034. The transmit sync generator 1034 can receive data (e.g., at a data rate of 1
Gpbs) from the second MAC 1010. The transmit sync generator 1034 can buffer the data using a
first in first out memory, and send the data out at a second data rate (e.g., 300 Mbps) to the
encoder 1036. The transmit sync generator 1034 can send a signal to the microprocessor 1012
indicating that the transmit sync generator 1034 is ready to receive more data from the second
MAC 1010. The transmit sync generator 1034 can facilitate synchronization by the second
optical link 1003 by sending synchronization data. The transmit sync generator 1034 can receive
a command from the link status and control module 1016 indicating to send the synchronization
data to the second optical link 1003. In some embodiments, the transmit sync generator 1034
can send, to the second optical link 1003, received signal strength information in the inter-frame
gaps so that the second optical link 1003 can adjust its laser light discrimination.
[0142] In some embodiments, the first optical link 1001 or FPGA 1006 includes a link status
and control module 1016 that monitors the link status, directs adjustments to transmitter power,
or initiates synchronization. For example, the link status and control module 1016 can determine
when the transmitter should send sync characters based on the sync status received from the
second optical link 1003. If the second optical link 1003 reports that it is not synchronized or no
signal is received from the other side, the link status and control module 1016 can facilitate
sending synchronization characters. In some embodiments, the link status and control module
1016 can determines the signal strength information the transmitter will send to the other side
based on the required PMT gain. In some embodiments, the link status and control module 1016
can set the laser discrimination level based on signal strength information received from the
second optical link 1003. In some embodiments, the link status and control module 1016 can
provide link state information to the micro-processor 1012. The micro-processor 1012 may then
provide the link state information it upon request to a host device.
[0143] FIG. 11 illustrates an embodiment of a method 1100 of performing seismic exploration
in an aqueous medium. The method 1100 can be performed by one or more systems or
components illustrated in FIGs. 2-10 in the environment illustrated in FIG. 11. For example, the

                                                  35
method 1100 can be performed using FPGA 1006 of FIG. 10 and transceivers 10 and 20 of FIG.
2.
[0144] In some embodiments, the method 1100 includes receiving sub-aqueous environmental
data of a first ocean bottom seismometer (OBS) unit (e.g., a sensor device 30 of FIG. 1)
disposed in the aqueous medium (1105). Sub-aqueous environmental data may include, for
example, one or more of seismic data, underwater creature data, turbidity data, water quality
data, water current data, water opacity data, water temperature data, etc. The OBS unit may
receive the sub-aqueous environmental data using one or more sensors disposed within the OBS
unit or one or more sensors external to the OBS. The one or more 29 sensors may include, for
example, a geophone, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, a scale, etc. In some embodiments, the
OBS unit may be placed at or near an ocean floor or seabed. In some embodiments, the OBS
unit may be in contact with, placed on, partially buried or otherwise coupled to the ocean floor.
In some embodiments, the OBS unit may be coupled to the seabed via a spike, while in other
embodiments the OBS unit may be placed on the ocean floor (e.g., the OBS unit may include a
disk-shaped case where a bottom surface is substantially flat and configured to sufficiently
couple with the ground or seabed such that a geophone disposed within the OBS unit can
receive seismic data).
[0145] In some embodiments, the sub-aqueous environmental data includes data indicating at
least one of seismic activity, dissolved solids in the aqueous medium, dissolved minerals in the
aqueous medium, a state of the aqueous medium, oxygen concentration in the aqueous medium,
salt concentration in the aqueous medium, plankton concentration in the aqueous medium,
turbidity of the aqueous medium, and animal presence in the aqueous medium. The OBS unit
may include (internally or externally) or have access to one or more sensors configured to
receive, identify, determine or otherwise obtain the sub-aqueous environmental data.
[0146] In some embodiments, the method 1100 includes converting the sub-aqueous
environmental data into an optical signal (1110). The optical signal can be formatted for optical
transmission in the aqueous medium. For example, a data conversion module of the OBS unit
can convert the sub-aqueous environmental data received by the OBS unit into a first format
having one or more channel coding techniques. The channel coding techniques may include, for
example, on-off keyed format, 8b/lOb encoding, pulse-position discrimination, Quadrature
Phase Shift Keying (QPSK), and Quadrature Amplitude Discrimination. In some embodiments,

                                                  36
the first format can include or be associated with one or more parameters such as a frequency,
data rate, wavelength, angle, bandwidth, intensity, photon density, etc. For example, the method
1100 may include using one or more components of system 1000 such as a microprocessor
1012, MAC 1010, transmit/sync generator 1034, encoder 1036 or serializer 1038 to convert or
transmit the sub-aqueous environmental data into an optical signal.
[0147] In some embodiments, the method 1100 includes transmitting the optical signal in the
first format through the aqueous medium (1115). For example, an optical transmitter of the OBS
unit can be configured to transmit the optical signal in the first format through the aqueous
medium. The optical signal can be transmitted based on the first format, one or 30 more
parameters, or a channel coding technique. In some embodiments, the method 1100 includes the
transmitting the optical signal using a light source or other optical transmitter such as a solid
state light source, an InGan based light source, a laser or an LED. In some embodiments, the
optical transmitter may be a component of a transceiver, such as transceiver 10 or 20 illustrated
in FIG. 2.
[0148] In some embodiments, the method 1100 includes transmitting the optical signal using a
single-carrier transmission discrimination technique. In some embodiments, the method 1100
includes transmitting the optical signal using a multi-carrier discrimination technique. For
example, the multi-carrier discrimination technique may include multiplexing techniques. In
some embodiments, the multi-carrier transmission technique may include an optical Orthogonal
Frequency Division Multiplexing technique.
[0149] In some embodiments, the data rate of the optical signal transmitted through the aqueous
medium can range from about 10 Mbps to about 300 Mbps. In some embodiments, the data rate
can range from about 10 Mbps to about 1 Gbps. In some embodiments, for example in certain
types of monitor unit, lower data rates as low as 10 Mbps or 100 Mbps may be used.
[0150] In some embodiments, the method 1100 includes receiving the optical signal transmitted
through the aqueous medium. For example, an optical receiver of at least one of a remotely
operated vehicle (ROV), autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV), or autonomously operating
vehicle (AOV) can receive the optical signal. The method 1100 may include receiving the
optical signal via optical receivers 200 or transceivers 10 or 20 illustrated in FIG. 2 or using
PMT 1024 illustrated in FIG. 10.

                                                   37
[0151] In some embodiments, the method 1100 may include converting the optical signal
transmitted through the aqueous medium into a non-optical signal having a second format
(1125). In some embodiments, the non-optical signal may refer to an electrical signal that can be
transmitted via a wire or cable. In some embodiments, the non-optical signal includes the
electrical signal configured for transmission through a fiber optical cable or other cable to a
marine vessel (e.g., a ship at the surface of the ocean).
[0152] In some embodiments, the second format of the non-optical signal or electrical signal
transmitted through the aqueous medium is different than the first format of the optical signal.
For example, the second format of the electrical signal may include a data rater that is higher
than a data rate of the first format of the optical signal. The data of the second format may be
higher because the electrical signal or non-optical signal is transmitted through a cable, rather
than optically through the aqueous medium.
[0153] In some embodiments, the method 1100 includes a plurality of OBS units transmitting
one or more optical signals through the aqueous medium. For example, a first OBS unit may
transmit an optical signal through the aqueous medium to a second OBS unit. The second OBS
unit may receive the optical signal and transmit another optical signal to a third OBS unit
through the aqueous medium. In some embodiments, one of the OBS units may transmit an
optical signal to an ROV, AUV or AOV or some other access point through the aqueous
medium. The ROV, AUV, AOV or other access point may then convert the received optical
signal to a non-optical signal, and transmit the non-optical signal via a cable or wire to the
marine vessel or other device that facilitates transmitting data to the surface of the ocean.
[0154] In some embodiments, the first OBS unit transmits a first optical signal to a second OBS
unit, and the second OBS unit transmits data of the first optical signal in addition to data of the
second OBS unit to an ROV, AUV, AOV or other access point. Thus, the plurality of OBS units
can aggregate data transmitted via optical signals through the aqueous medium to facilitate
conveying the data to an ROV or other device capable of transmitting the data via a non-optical
signal and wire to the surface of the ocean.
[0155] In some embodiments, the method 1100 includes determining a characteristics of the
aqueous medium in order to adjust a parameter or coding technique associated with transmitting
the optical signal. The characteristic can include at least one of a turbidity metric, a water

                                                   38
quality, a water current and an opacity. In some embodiments, the method can include using the
amount of light detected at the receiver to measure the amount of light at the receiver and
thereby discern the water clarity (e.g., turbidity) and/or the distance between the transmitter and
receiver. Since the photocurrent at the output of a detector will be approximately equal to the
product of the optical power at the photosensitive element (such as the photocathode), the
efficiency of converting the optical power into photoelectrons (the quantum efficiency) and the
gain of the detector, such a measurement can be accomplished by measuring the output current
from the photodetector (the PIN diode, Avalanche Photodiode (APD), Hybrid Photodetector
(HPD, vacuum photodiode, dynodetype photomultiplier or Microchannel-Plate (MCP)-type
photomultiplier, etc.) and also the gain of the photodetector (as manifested by the bias voltage(s)
for the APD, HPD or photomultiplier) and the gain of any amplifier elements.
[0156] Another embodiment will use the measurement of the optical power as described in the
preceding paragraph to vary the data rate to ensure a low rate of errors and the maximum
effective rate of data transfer. Under conditions where the received transmitter power is weak,
due to turbidity, distance between the transmitter and receiver, fouling or debris at the window,
etc., the data rate can be reduced so that the number of photons per bit is increased, shot noise at
the receiver is reduced, and the error rate is thereby reduced. In some embodiments, an output
intensity of the optical signal can be increased. In some embodiments, a wavelength of the light
can be adjusted to improve data rate (e.g., if it is determined that one or more wavelengths of
light are more likely to be absorbed or reflected off of debris in the aqueous medium).
[0157] In some embodiments, the method 1100 includes initiating an optical link between an
OBS unit and at least one of the ROV and the AUV. The method 1100 can include transmitting
a first optical signal from the OBS unit to the at least one of the ROV and the AUV. The ROV
or AUV may determine (e.g., via a microprocessor) that a bit error rate of the first signal is
satisfactory, it may determine that a bit error rate is too low. In some embodiments, the ROV or
AUV may compare the bit error rate with a threshold set by an administrator of the system. In
some embodiments, the method may include performing a bit error rate test using a bit error rate
test pattern (e.g., a pseudorandom binary sequence, quasi random signal source, 3 in 24, 1:7,
Min/Max, all ones, all zeros, alternating Os and Is, 2 in 8, bridgetap, multipat, or Ti-DALY and
55 OCTET). In some embodiments, the bit error rate threshold may, for example, range from

                                                      39
about le-2 to about le-8. In some embodiments, the bit error rate threshold may range from about
1 e-3 to about 1 e-4.
[0158] In some embodiments, the method 1100 can include transmitting a second optical signal
having a second data rate that is greater than the first rate. The method 1100 may include
selecting the second data rate to be higher than the first data rate responsive to determining that
the bit error rate of the first signal satisfies the threshold. For example, if the bit error rate of the
first signal is relatively good (e.g., le-4 or lower), then the method 1100 may include selecting a
second data rate that is higher than the first rate. In some embodiments, the method 1100 may
include selecting a second data rate based on the bit error rate (e.g., if the bit error rate is
relatively low, then the second data rate may be a multiple of the first bit error rate such as twice
the first data rate).
[0159] In some embodiments, the method 1100 includes determining that the bit error rate is
less than a threshold or otherwise does not satisfy the threshold (e.g., the bit error rate is 33 too
high). In this case, the method 1100 may include selecting a second data rate that is less than the
first data rate (e.g., the second data rate may be about 10% to about 90% of the first data rate).
[0160] In some embodiment, an automatic gain control can be used to provide a slow-start
function. Automatic gain control can to allow the receiver to function in an optimal range of
sensitivity over a range of received transmitter powers. A slow-start can protect a photodetector
(e.g., an optical receiver) that has a voltage-dependent gain, such as an APD, HPD, dynode-type
photomultiplier or MCP-type photomultiplier. These photodetectors may be damaged by
operation at high light levels or gains. Thus, an automatic gain control that starts by default from
a low gain may prevent damage of the photodetector. In some embodiments, the slow-start
automatic gain control can be implemented in hardware using a timing circuit. In some
embodiments, the slow-start automatic gain control can be implemented in software for greater
flexibility if the transceiver already includes a microcontroller or other processor system for
other functionality, such as measuring the received transmitter power, varying bit rates, etc.
[0161] FIG. 12 is an illustration of a system 1200 for powering an optical system for performing
seismic exploration in an aqueous environment. In some embodiments, system 1200 includes a
wake-up sub-system 1225 configured to perform a detect process that can consume low energy
(e.g., from about 0 watts to about 1 watts) and a validate process. The system 1200 can

                                                 40
determine whether a communications link (e.g., an optical link) has been properly established
and is performing correctly (e.g., using quality control parameters such as bit error rate, or other
handshaking protocols). In some embodiments, the energy consumption may be on the order of
a hundred micro watts. In some embodiments, the system 1200 can use little to no energy by
drawing energy from the impinging wave/signal, be it acoustic or optic. For example, the system
1200 can be driven by wave energy, light energy, sound energy, or chemical reactions. In some
embodiments, the wake-up sub-system 1225 can draw energy from light provided by an ROV,
AUV, or AOV or other light source. In some embodiments, a specialty, custom made or other
separate battery can power the wake-up sub-system 1225. This separate battery may be different
from the power-sub system 1205. In some embodiments, the wake-up sub-system 1225 can
facilitate a zero power startup or very low power startup.
[0162] In some embodiments, the system 1200 includes a power sub-system. The power sub
system can be provide power to one or more component of the system 1200 including, 34 for
example, the 3 axis sensor 1210, acquisition sub-system 1215, storage and control subsystem
1220, extraction sub-system 1230 and wake-up sub-system 1225. In some embodiments, the
power sub-system 1205 includes a fuel cell, battery pack, capacitor, or other energy storage
device. In some embodiments, the power sub-system can be rechargeable. In some
embodiments, the power sub-system 1205 may not provide power to the wake-up sub-system
1225 (e.g., the power sub-system 1205 may not be coupled to the wakeup sub-system 1225).
[0163] In some embodiments, the system 1200 includes a 3 axis sensor 1210. The 3 axis sensor
can determine, detect or otherwise identify an orientation of the system 1200 or device including
the system 1200 (e.g., an OBS unit or other device in an aqueous medium). The 3 axis sensor
can determine identify a change in an orientation, movement of the sensor device or other
parameter associated with an axis or orientation of the system 1200. The 3 axis sensor can be
communicatively coupled to an acquisition sub-system 1215 and provide data to the acquisition
sub-system 1215.
[0164] In some embodiments, the system 1200 includes an acquisition sub-system 1215. The
acquisition sub-system 1215 can be configured to receive data from the 3 axis sensor 1210 and
convey that data to the storage and control sub-system or the wake-up sub-system 1225. The
acquisition sub-system can include one or more logic arrays, microprocessor or other circuitry to
acquire and convey data between one or more component of system 1200.

                                                   41
[0165] In some embodiments, the system 1200 includes a storage and control sub-system 1220.
The storage and control sub-system 1220 can include one or more logic arrays, microprocessor
or other circuitry to acquire and convey data between one or more component of system 1200.
The storage and control sub-system 1220 can be configured to communicate with the wake-up
sub-system 1225 to initiate power to the various components system 1200. In some
embodiments, the storage and control sub-system 1220 can facilitate monitoring life in the
aqueous medium, such as fish, mammals, or other sea creatures.
[0166] In some embodiments, the system 1200 includes an extraction sub-system 1230 designed
and constructed to extract data stored in, for example, in the storage and control sub-system
obtained via another component of system 1200, and transmit the data via a transmitter 1235. In
some embodiments, the extraction sub-system 1230 can include one or more logic array,
processor or other circuits. In some embodiments, the extraction subsystem 1230 can convert the
data from one format to another format for transmitting. In some embodiments, the extraction
sub-system 1230 can include a power control, storage interface, link interface and processor.
The link interface may be communicatively coupled to the transmitter 1235.
[0167] In some embodiments, the system 1200 includes a transmitter 1235. The transmitter
1235 may transmit data using, e.g., optical signals, radio frequency signals, or electrical signals
via a wire or cable. In some embodiments, the transmitter 1235 may include an Ethernet link or
other interface to transmit data.
[0168] In some embodiments, the system 1200 includes a detector 1240 communicatively
coupled to the wake-up sub-system 1225. The detector 1240 may include a photodetector,
acoustic detector, motion detector, proximity detector, magnetic detector, or other sensor that
facilitates providing an indication to the wake-up sub-system 1225 to wake up or power on one
or more component of system 1200 or another system for performing seismic exploration.
[0169] While various inventive embodiments have been described and illustrated herein, those
of ordinary skill in the art will readily envision a variety of other means and/or structures for
performing the function and/or obtaining the results and/or one or more of the advantages
described herein, and each of such variations and/or modifications is deemed to be within the
scope of the inventive embodiments described herein. More generally, those skilled in the art
will readily appreciate that all parameters, dimensions, materials, and configurations described

                                                  42
herein are meant to be exemplary and that the actual parameters, dimensions, materials, and/or
configurations will depend upon the specific application or applications for which the inventive
teachings is/are used. Those skilled in the art will recognize, or be able to ascertain using no
more than routine experimentation, many equivalents to the specific inventive embodiments
described herein. It is, therefore, to be understood that the foregoing embodiments are presented
by way of example only and that, within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents
thereto, inventive embodiments may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described and
claimed. Inventive embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to each individual feature,
system, article, material, kit, and/or method described herein. In addition, any combination of
two or more such features, systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods, if such features,
systems, articles, materials, kits, and/or methods are not mutually inconsistent, is included
within the inventive scope of the present disclosure.
[0170] The above-described embodiments can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For
example, the embodiments may be implemented using hardware, software or a combination
thereof. When implemented in software, the software code can be executed on any suitable
processor or collection of processors, whether provided in a single computer or distributed
among multiple computers.
[0171] Also, a computer may have one or more input and output devices. These devices can be
used, among other things, to present a user interface. Examples of output devices that can be
used to provide a user interface include printers or display screens for visual presentation of
output and speakers or other sound generating devices for audible presentation of output.
Examples of input devices that can be used for a user interface include keyboards, and pointing
devices, such as mice, touch pads, and digitizing tablets. As another example, a computer may
receive input information through speech recognition or in other audible format.
[0172] Such computers may be interconnected by one or more networks in any suitable form,
including a local area network or a wide area network, such as an enterprise network, and
intelligent network (IN) or the Internet. Such networks may be based on any suitable technology
and may operate according to any suitable protocol and may include wireless networks, wired
networks or fiber optic networks.

                                                 43
[0173] A computer employed to implement at least a portion of the functionality described
herein may comprise a memory, one or more processing units (also referred to herein simply as
"processors"), one or more communication interfaces, one or more display units, and one or
more user input devices. The memory may comprise any computer-readable media, and may
store computer instructions (also referred to herein as "processor-executable instructions") for
implementing the various functionalities described herein. The processing unit(s) may be used to
execute the instructions. The communication interface(s) may be coupled to a wired or wireless
network, bus, or other communication means and may therefore allow the computer to transmit
communications to and/or receive communications from other devices. The display unit(s) may
be provided, for example, to allow a user to view various information in connection with
execution of the instructions. The user input device(s) may be provided, for example, to allow
the user to make manual adjustments, make selections, enter data or various other information,
and/or interact in any of a variety of manners with the processor during execution of the
instructions.
[0174] The various methods or processes outlined herein may be coded as software that is
executable on one or more processors that employ any one of a variety of operating systems or
platforms. Additionally, such software may be written using any of a number of suitable
programming languages and/or programming or scripting tools, and also may be compiled as
executable machine language code or intermediate code that is executed on a framework or
virtual machine.
[0175] In this respect, various inventive concepts may be embodied as a computer readable
storage medium (or multiple computer readable storage media) (e.g., a computer memory, one
or more floppy discs, compact discs, optical discs, magnetic tapes, flash memories, circuit
configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor devices, or other
non-transitory medium or tangible computer storage medium) encoded with one or more
programs that, when executed on one or more computers or other processors, perform methods
that implement the various embodiments of the invention discussed above. The computer
readable medium or media can be transportable, such that the program or programs stored
thereon can be loaded onto one or more different computers or other processors to implement
various aspects of the present invention as discussed above.

                                                  44
[0176] The terms "program" or "software" are used herein in a generic sense to refer to any type
of computer code or set of computer-executable instructions that can be employed to program a
computer or other processor to implement various aspects of embodiments as discussed above.
Additionally, it should be appreciated that according to one aspect, one or more computer
programs that when executed perform methods of the present invention need not reside on a
single computer or processor, but may be distributed in a modular fashion amongst a number of
different computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present invention.
[0177] Computer-executable instructions may be in many forms, such as program modules,
executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally, program modules include
routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc. that perform particular tasks or
implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules
may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.
[0178] Also, data structures may be stored in computer-readable media in any suitable form. For
simplicity of illustration, data structures may be shown to have fields that are related through
location in the data structure. Such relationships may likewise be achieved by assigning storage
for the fields with locations in a computer-readable medium that convey relationship between
the fields. However, any suitable mechanism may be used to establish a relationship between
information in fields of a data structure, including through the use of pointers, tags or other
mechanisms that establish relationship between data elements.
[0179] Also, various inventive concepts may be embodied as one or more methods, of which an
example has been provided. The acts performed as part of the method may be ordered in any
suitable way. Accordingly, embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an
order different than illustrated, which may include performing some acts simultaneously, even
though shown as sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.
[0180] All definitions, as defined and used herein, should be understood to control over
dictionary definitions, definitions in documents incorporated by reference, and/or ordinary
meanings of the defined terms.
[0181] The indefinite articles "a" and "an," as used herein in the specification and in the claims,
unless clearly indicated to the contrary, should be understood to mean "at least one."

                                                  45
[0182] The phrase "and/or," as used herein in the specification and in the claims, should be
understood to mean "either or both" of the elements so conjoined, i.e., elements that are
conjunctively present in some cases and disjunctively present in other cases. Multiple elements
listed with "and/or" should be construed in the same fashion, i.e., "one or more" of the elements
so conjoined. Other elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically
identified by the "and/or" clause, whether related or unrelated to those elements specifically
identified. Thus, as a non-limiting example, a reference to "A and/or B", when used in
conjunction with open-ended language such as "comprising" can refer, in one embodiment, to A
only (optionally including elements other than B); in another embodiment, to B only (optionally
including elements other than A); in yet another embodiment, to both A and B (optionally
including other elements); etc.
[0183] As used herein in the specification and in the claims, "or" should be understood to have
the same meaning as "and/or" as defined above. For example, when separating items in a list,
"or" or "and/or" shall be interpreted as being inclusive, i.e., the inclusion of at least one, but also
including more than one, of a number or list of elements, and, optionally, additional unlisted
items. Only terms clearly indicated to the contrary, such as "only one of or "exactly one of," or,
when used in the claims, "consisting of," will refer to the inclusion of exactly one element of a
number or list of elements. In general, the term "or" as used herein shall only be interpreted as
indicating exclusive alternatives (i.e. "one or the other but not both") when preceded by terms of
exclusivity, such as "either," "one of," "only one of," or "exactly one of." "Consisting essentially
of," when used in the claims, shall have its ordinary meaning as used in the field of patent law.
[0184] As used herein in the specification and in the claims, the phrase "at least one," in
reference to a list of one or more elements, should be understood to mean at least one element
selected from any one or more of the elements in the list of elements, but not necessarily
including at least one of each and every element specifically listed within the list of elements
and not excluding any combinations of elements in the list of elements. This definition also
allows that elements may optionally be present other than the elements specifically identified
within the list of elements to which the phrase "at least one" refers, whether related or unrelated
to those elements specifically identified. Thus, as a non-limiting example, "at least one of A and
B" (or, equivalently, "at least one of A or B," or, equivalently "at least one of A and/or B") can
refer, in one embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one, A, with no B

                                                  46
present (and optionally including elements other than B); in another embodiment, to at least one,
optionally including more than one, B, with no A present (and optionally including elements
other than A); in yet another embodiment, to at least one, optionally including more than one, A,
and at least one, optionally including more than one, B (and optionally including other
elements); etc.
[0185] In the claims, as well as in the specification above, all transitional phrases such as
"comprising," "including," "carrying," "having," "containing," "involving," "holding,"
"composed of," and the like are to be understood to be open-ended, i.e., to mean including but
not limited to. Only the transitional phrases "consisting of and "consisting essentially of shall
be closed or semi-closed transitional phrases, respectively, as set forth in the United States
Patent Office Manual of Patent Examining Procedures, Section 2111.03

                                                 47
CLAIMS
1.    A system to perform seismic exploration in an aqueous medium, comprising:
      a detector to provide an indication to a wake-up system to turn on one or more of a storage
and control system, a sensor, or an optical transmitter;
      the wake-up system, in response to the indication from the detector, operational to:
      identify an optical communication link established via the optical transmitter through the
aqueous medium;
      determine a quality control parameter of the optical communication link; and
      validate, based on the quality control parameter the optical communication link established
via the optical transmitter through the aqueous medium; and
      the storage and control system operational to cause the optical transmitter to transmit, via
the optical communication link validated by the wake-up system, data indicative of a parameter
sensed by the sensor.
2. The system of claim 1, comprising:
      the detector comprising a photodetector to detect light and provide the indication to the
wake-up system responsive to detection of the light.
3. The system of claim 1, comprising:
      the detector comprising a motion detector to detect motion and provide the indication to
the wake-up system responsive to detection of the motion.
4. The system of claim 1, comprising:
      the detector comprising an acoustic detector to detect sound and provide the indication to
the wake-up system responsive to detection of the sound.
5. The system of claim 1, comprising:
      the detector comprising at least one of a motion detector, a magnetic detector or a
proximity detector.

                                                     48
6. The system of claim 1, comprising:
       the wake-up system operational to communicate, responsive to the indication, with the
storage and control system to provide power from a power source to an extraction system to
extract the data, and provide power to the optical transmitter to transmit the data.
7. The system of claim 1, comprising:
       the wake-up system operational to turn on, responsive to the indication, at least one of the
sensor, the storage and control system, or the optical transmitter.
8. The system of claim 1, comprising:
       the wake-up system operational to validate the optical communication link using a
handshaking protocol.
9. The system of claim 1, comprising:
       the wake-up system configured to:
       evaluate a bit error of the optical communication link; and
       validate, responsive to evaluation of the bit error, the optical communication link.
10. The system of claim 1, comprising:
       the wake-up system configured to:
       establish the optical communication link with a remote device;
       transmit a first optical signal having a first data rate to the remote device;
       evaluate a bit error of the first optical signal; and
       provide an indication to adjust an automatic gain control responsive to evaluation of the bit
error.
11. The system of claim 1, comprising:
       the wake-up system configured to:
       evaluate a bit error of the optical communication link; and
       increase, responsive to evaluation of the bit error, a data rate of the optical communication
link.

                                                   49
12. The system of claim 1, comprising:
       the sensor comprising a 3-axis sensor configured to identify a change in the orientation and
provide data indicative of the change to the storage and control system.
13. The system of claim 1, comprising:
       the power source configured to convert at least one of light energy, wave energy, or
acoustic energy to electricity to power at least one of the detector, the wake-up system, the
storage and control system, the optical transmitter, or the sensor.
14. The system of claim 1, comprising:
       an ocean bottom seismometer ("OBS") unit, wherein the OBS unit includes the detector,
the wake-up system, the sensor, the storage and control system, and the optical transmitter.
15. The system of claim 1, comprising:
       the optical transmitter operational to convert the data from a first format into a second
format configured for transmission via at least one of an optical signal, a radio frequency signal,
or an electrical signal via a cable.
16. A method of performing seismic exploration in an aqueous medium, comprising:
       providing, by a detector, an indication to a wake-up system to turn on one or more of a
storage and control system, a sensor, or an optical transmitter;
       identifying, by the wake-up system responsive to the indication from the detector, an
optical communication link established via the optical transmitter through the aqueous medium;
       determining, by the wake-up system responsive to identifying the optical communication
link, a quality control parameter of the optical communication link; and
       validating, by the wake-up system based on the quality control parameter, the optical
communication link established via the optical transmitter through the aqueous medium; and
       communicating, by the storage and control system, with the optical transmitter to transmit,
via the optical communication link validated by the wake-up system, data indicative of a
parameter sensed by the sensor.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the detector comprises a photodetector, comprising:
       detecting, by the photodetector, light; and

                                                  50
      providing, by the photodetector, the indication to the wake-up system responsive to
detecting the light.
18. The method of claim 16, comprising:
      validating, by the wake-up system, the optical communication link using a handshaking
protocol.
19. The method of claim 16, comprising:
      evaluating, by the wake-up system, a bit error of the optical communication link; and
      validating, by the wake-up system responsive to the evaluating the bit error, the optical
communication link.
20. The method of claim 16, comprising:
      providing an ocean bottom seismometer ("OBS") unit comprising the detector, the wake
up system, the sensor, the storage and control system, and the optical transmitter.
21. A system to perform seismic exploration in an aqueous medium, comprising:
      an ocean bottom seismometer (OBS) unit disposed in the aqueous medium to receive sub
aqueous environmental data;
      a data conversion module of the OBS unit to convert the sub-aqueous environmental data
into an optical signal with a first format configured for optical transmission via the aqueous
medium;
      at least one of the OBS unit and an underwater vehicle to:
      establish, between the OBS unit and the underwater vehicle separated from the OBS unit
by the aqueous medium, an optical link through the aqueous medium; and
      determine a condition of the aqueous medium from a measurement of a characteristic of
the optical link;
      a controller of the OBS unit to adjust a parameter associated with the optical signal based
on the characteristic of the aqueous medium;
      an optical transmitter of the OBS unit to transmit, via the optical link, the optical signal to
an optical receiver of the underwater vehicle, the optical signal comprising the first format and
the parameter adjusted by the OBS unit based on the characteristic of the aqueous medium;
      the underwater vehicle to:

                                                  51
       receive the optical signal transmitted by the optical transmitter of the OBS unit via the
optical link through the aqueous medium;
       convert, responsive to receipt of the optical signal, the optical signal into a non-optical
signal comprising a second format; and
       provide the non-optical signal in the second format to a retrieval device.
22. The system of claim 21, comprising:
       the retrieval device provided on a marine vessel.
23. The system of claim 21, comprising:
       a cable,
       wherein the underwater is further configured to provide the non-optical signal to the
retrieval device.
24. The system of claim 21, comprising:
        the optical receiver of the underwater vehicle further configured to sense an angle of the
optical transmitter of the OBS unit; and
       the underwater vehicle configured to select, based on a signal from the angle sensed by
the optical receiver, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube to align an angular
field of view of the optical receiver with the optical transmitter.
25. The system of claim 21, comprising:
       a photodiode of the optical receiver of the underwater vehicle to generate the non-optical
signal comprising an electrical output based on light received by the optical receiver from the
optical transmitter of the OBS unit; and
       an automatic gain control amplifier of the underwater vehicle to adjust a level of the
electrical output.
26. The system of claim 21, comprising the OBS unit configured to:
       detect a presence of the underwater vehicle; and
       enter a power up state responsive to the detection to transmit the optical signal.

                                                   52
27. The system of claim 21, comprising:
       an optical transmitter of the OBS unit to enter, responsive to detection of a presence of the
underwater vehicle, a power up state to transmit the optical signal,
      wherein the OBS unit is further configured to validate, responsive to the power up state,
the optical link prior to transmission of the optical signal.
28. The system of claim 21, wherein the optical transmitter is enclosed in a waterproof
contained, and the optical transmitter comprises a solid state light source.
29. The system of claim 21, comprising the OBS unit configured to:
       dynamically adjust the parameter in response one or more measurements of the
characteristic of the optical link.
30. The system of claim 21, wherein the parameter comprises at least one of a data rate of the
optical signal, an output intensity of the optical signal, a wavelength of the optical signal, and a
gain of the optical receiver.
31. A method of performing seismic exploration in an aqueous medium, comprising:
      receiving, by an ocean bottom seismometer (OBS) unit disposed in the aqueous medium,
sub-aqueous environmental data;
       converting, by a data conversion module of the OBS unit, the sub-aqueous environmental
data into an optical signal having a first format configured for optical transmission via the
aqueous medium;
       establishing, between the OBS unit and an underwater vehicle separated from the OBS unit
by the aqueous medium, an optical link through the aqueous medium;
       determining, by at least one of the OBS unit and the underwater vehicle, a condition of the
aqueous medium by measuring a characteristic of the optical link;
       adjusting, by the OBS unit, a parameter associated with the optical signal based on the
characteristic of the aqueous medium;
      transmitting, by an optical transmitter of the OBS unit via the optical link, the optical
signal to an optical receiver of the underwater vehicle, the optical signal comprising the first
format and the parameter adjusted by the OBS unit based on the characteristic of the aqueous
medium;

                                                   53
       receiving, by the optical receiver of the underwater vehicle, the optical signal transmitted
by the optical transmitter of the OBS unit via the optical link through the aqueous medium;
       converting, by the underwater vehicle responsive to receiving the optical signal, the optical
signal into a non-optical signal comprising a second format; and
       providing, by the underwater vehicle, the non-optical signal in the second format to a
retrieval device.
32. The method of claim 31, comprising:
       providing the retrieval device on a marine vessel.
33. The method of claim 31, comprising:
       providing, by the underwater vehicle via a cable, the non-optical signal to the retrieval
device.
34. The method of claim 31, comprising:
       sensing, by the optical receiver of the underwater vehicle, an angle of the optical
transmitter of the OBS unit; and
       selecting, by the underwater vehicle, based on a signal from the angle sensed by the
optical receiver, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube to align an angular field
of view of the optical receiver with the optical transmitter.
35. The method of claim 31, comprising:
       generating, by a photodiode of the optical receiver of the underwater vehicle, the non
optical signal comprising an electrical output based on light received by the optical receiver from
the optical transmitter of the OBS unit; and
       adjusting, by an automatic gain control amplifier of the underwater vehicle, a level of the
electrical output.
36. The method of claim 31, comprising:
       detecting, by the OBS unit, a presence of the underwater vehicle; and
       entering, by the optical transmitter of the OBS unit, a power up state responsive to the
detection to transmit the optical signal.

                                                   54
37. The method of claim 31, comprising:
       detecting, by the OBS unit, a presence of the underwater vehicle;
       entering, by the optical transmitter of the OBS unit, a power up state responsive to the
detection to transmit the optical signal; and
      validating, responsive to entering the power up state, the optical link prior to transmitting
the optical signal.
38. The method of claim 31, wherein the optical transmitter is enclosed in a waterproof
contained, and the optical transmitter comprises a solid state light source.
39. The method of claim 31, comprising:
       dynamically adjusting, by the OBS unit, the parameter in response measuring the
characteristic of the optical link.
40. The method of claim 31, wherein the parameter comprises at least one of a data rate of the
optical signal, an output intensity of the optical signal, a wavelength of the optical signal, and a
gain of the optical receiver.
41. A system to optically transfer seismic data through an aqueous medium, comprising:
       a retrieval device comprising a first optical transmitter to transmit light and a first
optical receiver;
       an ocean bottom seismic ("OBS") node comprising:
       a second optical receiver comprising one or more optical detectors to detect a presence
of the retrieval device based on the light transmitted by the first optical transmitter of the
retrieval device, and sense a relative angle of the first optical transmitter of the retrieval
device;
       one or more controllers to adjust, responsive to identification of an underwater
environmental condition, a transmission parameter used by a second optical transmitter to
transmit light with the seismic data, and control the second optical transmitter to direct the
light with the seismic data through the aqueous medium to the first optical receiver of the
retrieval device based on the relative angle of the first optical transmitter of the retrieval
device sensed by the one or more optical detectors; and
      the second optical transmitter to enter a power up state responsive to detection, by the
second optical receiver, of the presence of the retrieval device, and transmit the light with

                                                    55
seismic data through the aqueous medium using the transmission parameter adjusted by the
one or more controllers, the light with the seismic data directed towards the first optical
receiver through the aqueous medium by the one or more controllers;
       the first optical receiver of the retrieval device to receive the light with the seismic data
transmitted through the aqueous medium by the second optical transmitter of the OBS node;
       a photodiode of the first optical receiver that generates electrical output based on the
light with the seismic data transmitted by the second optical transmitter and received by the
first optical receiver; and
       an automatic gain control amplifier of the retrieval device that receives the electrical
output from the first optical receiver and adjusts a level of the electrical output.
42. The system of claim 41, wherein the retrieval device comprises:
       one or more optical detectors to sense the relative angle of the second optical transmitter;
and
       at least one controller to select, based on a signal from the one or more optical detectors of
the retrieval device, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube and align an angular field
of view of the first optical receiver with the second optical transmitter.
43. The system of claim 41, wherein the OBS node comprises:
       the one or more controllers to select, based on a signal from the one or more optical
detectors of the OBS node, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube and align an
angular field of view of the second optical receiver with the first optical transmitter.
44. The system of claim 41, wherein the second optical transmitter comprises a solid state light
sources comprising at least one of an InGaN based light source, an LED, and a laser.
45. The system of claim 41, wherein the second optical receiver comprises at least one of a
photomultiplier tube, a silicon photodiode, a silicon PIN photodiode, an avalanche photodiode,
and a hybrid photodiode.
46. The system of claim 41, wherein the OBS node comprises one or more diffractive optical
elements to steer an optical transmission beam towards the retrieval device.

                                                  56
47. The system of claim 41, wherein the OBS node uses a multi-carrier transmission modulation
technique to transmit the seismic data to the retrieval device.
48. The system of claim 41, wherein the second optical transmitter transmits the light having a
wavelength in the range of 400 nm - 600 nm.
49. A system to optically transfer seismic data through an aqueous medium, comprising:
       a retrieval device comprising a first optical transceiver to transmit and receive light;
       an ocean bottom seismic ("OBS") node comprising:
       a second optical transceiver comprising one or more optical detectors to detect a
presence of the retrieval device based on the light transmitted by the first optical transmitter
of the retrieval device;
       a controller to adjust, responsive to identification of an underwater environmental
condition, a transmission parameter used by a second optical transceiver to transmit light with
the seismic data through the aqueous medium; and
       the second optical transceiver to enter a power up state responsive to detection, by the
second optical receiver, of the presence of the retrieval device, and transmit the light with the
seismic data through the aqueous medium using the transmission parameter adjusted by the
controller;
       the retrieval device comprising:
       the first optical transceiver comprising one or more optical detectors to sense a relative
angle of the second optical transceiver of the OBS node;
       one or more controllers to align the first optical transceiver in a direction with the
second optical transceiver of the OBS node based on the relative angle of the second optical
transceiver of the OBS node sensed by the one or more optical detectors; and
       the first optical transceiver aligned by the one or more controller based on the relative
angle to receive the light with the seismic data transmitted through the aqueous medium by the
second optical transceiver of the OBS node responsive to detection of the presence of the
retrieval device;
       a photodiode of the first optical transceiver that generates electrical output based on the
light with the seismic data transmitted by the second optical transceiver and received by the
first optical transceiver; and
       an automatic gain control amplifier of the retrieval device that receives the electrical

                                                   57
output from the first optical transceiver and adjusts a level of the electrical output.
50. The system of claim 49, wherein the OBS node comprises:
       one or more optical detectors to sense a relative angle of the first optical transceiver; and
       at least one controller to select, based on a signal from the one or more optical detectors of
the OBS node, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube and align an angular field of
view of the second optical transceiver with the first optical transceiver.
51. The system of claim 49, wherein the retrieval device comprises:
       the one or more controllers to select, based on a signal from the one or more optical
detectors of the retrieval device, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube and align
an angular field of view of the first optical transceiver with the second optical transceiver;
52. The system of claim 49, wherein the first optical transceiver comprises a solid state light
sources comprising at least one of an InGaN based light source, an LED, and a laser.
53. The system of claim 49, wherein the first optical transceiver comprises at least one of a
photomultiplier tube, a silicon photodiode, a silicon PIN photodiode, an avalanche photodiode,
and a hybrid photodiode.
54. A method of optically transferring seismic data through an aqueous medium,
comprising:
       transmitting, by a retrieval device comprising a first optical transmitter and a first
optical receiver, light;
       detecting, by an ocean bottom seismic ("OBS") node comprising a second optical
receiver having one or more optical detectors, a presence of the retrieval device based on the
light transmitted by the first optical transmitter of the retrieval device;
       sensing, by the OBS node, a relative angle of the first optical transmitter of the retrieval
device;
       adjusting, by one or more controllers of the OBS node, responsive to identification of an
underwater environmental condition, a transmission parameter used by a second optical
transmitter to transmit light with the seismic data;
       controlling, by the one or more controllers of the OBS node, the second optical
transmitter to direct the light with the seismic data through the aqueous medium to the first

                                                    58
optical receiver of the retrieval device based on the relative angle of the first optical
transmitter of the retrieval device sensed by the one or more optical detectors;
       entering, by the second optical transmitter of the OBS node, a power up state responsive
to detection, by the second optical receiver, of the presence of the retrieval device;
       transmitting, by the second optical transmitter of the OBS node, the light with the
seismic data through the aqueous medium using the transmission parameter adjusted by the
controller, the light with the seismic data directed towards the first optical receiver through
the aqueous medium by the one or more controllers based on the relative angle;
       receiving, by the first optical receiver of the retrieval device, the light with the seismic
data transmitted through the aqueous medium by the second optical transmitter of the OBS
node;
       generating, by a photodiode of the first optical receiver, electrical output based on the
light received by the first optical receiver from the second optical transmitter; and
       adjusting, by an automatic gain control amplifier of the retrieval device, a level of the
electrical output received from the first optical receiver.
55. The method of claim 54, comprising:
       sensing, by one or more optical detectors of the retrieval device, the relative angle of the
second optical transmitter; and
       selecting, by at least one controller of the retrieval device, based on a signal from the one
or more optical detectors of the retrieval device, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier
tube and align an angular field of view of the first optical receiver with the second optical
transmitter.
56. The method of claim 54, comprising:
       selecting, by the one or more controllers of the OBS node, based on a signal from the
one or more optical detectors of the OBS node, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier
tube; and
       aligning, by the OBS node, an angular field of view of the second optical receiver with
the first optical transmitter.
57. The method of claim 54, wherein the second optical transmitter comprises a solid state
light sources comprising at least one of an InGaN based light source, an LED, and a laser.

                                                    59
58. The method of claim 54, wherein the second optical receiver comprises at least one of a
photomultiplier tube, a silicon photodiode, a silicon PIN photodiode, an avalanche photodiode,
and a hybrid photodiode.
59. The method of claim 54, comprising:
       steering, by one or more diffractive optical elements of the OBS node, an optical
transmission beam towards the retrieval device.
60. The method of claim 54, comprising:
       transmitting, by the OBS node to the retrieval device, the seismic data using a multi-carrier
transmission modulation technique.
61. A system to optically transfer seismic data through an aqueous medium, comprising:
       a retrieval device comprising a first optical transmitter to transmit light and a first
optical receiver;
       an ocean bottom seismic ("OBS") node placed on an ocean bottom, the OBS node
comprising:
       a second optical receiver comprising one or more optical detectors to detect a presence
of the retrieval device based on the light transmitted by the first optical transmitter of the
retrieval device, and sense a relative angle of the first optical transmitter of the retrieval
device;
       one or more controllers to adjust, responsive to identification of an underwater
environmental condition, a transmission parameter used by a second optical transmitter to
transmit light with the seismic data, and control the second optical transmitter to direct the
light with the seismic data through the aqueous medium to the first optical receiver of the
retrieval device based on the relative angle of the first optical transmitter of the retrieval
device sensed by the one or more optical detectors; and
       the second optical transmitter of the OBS node placed on the ocean bottom to transmit
the light with seismic data through the aqueous medium using the transmission parameter
adjusted by the one or more controllers, the light with the seismic data directed towards the
first optical receiver through the aqueous medium by the one or more controllers of the OBS
node placed on the ocean bottom;
       the first optical receiver of the retrieval device to receive the light with the seismic data
transmitted through the aqueous medium by the second optical transmitter of the OBS node

                                                   60
placed on the ocean bottom;
       a photodiode of the first optical receiver that generates electrical output based on the
light with the seismic data transmitted by the second optical transmitter and received by the
first optical receiver; and
       an automatic gain control amplifier of the retrieval device that receives the electrical
output from the first optical receiver and adjusts a level of the electrical output.
62. The system of claim 61, comprising:
       the retrieval device mounted on a remotely operated vehicle.
63. The system of claim 61, comprising:
       the retrieval device mounted on an autonomous underwater vehicle.
64. The system of claim 61, comprising:
       the retrieval device to receive the seismic data from the OBS node placed on the ocean
bottom, and store the seismic data in memory of the retrieval device.
65. The system of claim 61, comprising:
        the second optical transmitter to enter a power up state responsive to detection, by the
second optical receiver, of the presence of the retrieval device.
66. The system of claim 61, wherein the retrieval device comprises:
       one or more optical detectors to sense the relative angle of the second optical transmitter;
and
       at least one controller to select, based on a signal from the one or more optical detectors of
the retrieval device, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube and align an angular field
of view of the first optical receiver with the second optical transmitter.
67. The system of claim 61, wherein the OBS node comprises:
       the one or more controllers to select, based on a signal from the one or more optical
detectors of the OBS node, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube and align an
angular field of view of the second optical receiver with the first optical transmitter.

                                                   61
68. The system of claim 61, wherein the second optical transmitter comprises a solid state light
sources comprising at least one of an InGaN based light source, an LED, and a laser.
69. The system of claim 61, wherein the second optical receiver comprises at least one of a
photomultiplier tube, a silicon photodiode, a silicon PIN photodiode, an avalanche photodiode,
and a hybrid photodiode.
70. The system of claim 61, wherein the OBS node comprises one or more diffractive optical
elements to steer an optical transmission beam towards the retrieval device.
71. A method of optically transferring seismic data through an aqueous medium,
comprising:
       transmitting, by a retrieval device comprising a first optical transmitter and a first
optical receiver, light;
       detecting, by an ocean bottom seismic ("OBS") node placed on an ocean bottom and
comprising a second optical receiver having one or more optical detectors, a presence of the
retrieval device based on the light transmitted by the first optical transmitter of the retrieval
device;
       sensing, by the OBS node, a relative angle of the first optical transmitter of the retrieval
device;
       adjusting, by one or more controllers of the OBS node, responsive to identification of an
underwater environmental condition, a transmission parameter used by a second optical
transmitter to transmit light with the seismic data,
       controlling, by the one or more controllers of the OBS node, the second optical
transmitter to direct the light with the seismic data through the aqueous medium to the first
optical receiver of the retrieval device based on the relative angle of the first optical
transmitter of the retrieval device sensed by the one or more optical detectors;
       transmitting, by the second optical transmitter of the OBS node placed on the ocean
bottom, light with seismic data through the aqueous medium using the transmission parameter
adjusted by the one or more controllers, the light with the seismic data directed towards the
first optical receiver through the aqueous medium by the one or more controllers of the OBS
node placed on the ocean bottom;
       receiving, by the first optical receiver of the retrieval device, the light with the seismic
data transmitted through the aqueous medium by the second optical transmitter of the OBS

                                                   62
node placed on the ocean bottom;
       generating, by a photodiode of the first optical receiver, electrical output based on the
light with the seismic data transmitted by the second optical transmitter and received by the
first optical receiver; and
       adjusting, by an automatic gain control amplifier of the retrieval device, a level of the
electrical output.
72. The method of claim 71, wherein the retrieval device is mounted on a remotely operated
vehicle.
73. The method of claim 71, wherein the retrieval device is mounted on an autonomous
underwater vehicle.
74. The method of claim 71, comprising:
       storing, by the retrieval device in memory, the seismic data received from the OBS node
placed on the ocean bottom.
75. The method of claim 71, comprising:
       entering, by the second optical transmitter, a power up state responsive to detection, by
the second optical receiver, of the presence of the retrieval device.
76. The method of claim 71, comprising:
       sensing, by one or more optical detectors of the retrieval device, the relative angle of the
second optical transmitter; and
       selecting, by at least one controller, based on a signal from the one or more optical
detectors of the retrieval device, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube to align an
angular field of view of the first optical receiver with the second optical transmitter.
77. The method of claim 71, comprising:
       selecting, by the one or more controllers, based on a signal from the one or more optical
detectors of the OBS node, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube to align an
angular field of view of the second optical receiver with the first optical transmitter.

                                                   63
78. The method of claim 71, wherein the second optical transmitter comprises a solid state
light sources comprising at least one of an InGaN based light source, an LED, and a laser.
79. The method of claim 71, wherein the second optical receiver comprises at least one of a
photomultiplier tube, a silicon photodiode, a silicon PIN photodiode, an avalanche photodiode,
and a hybrid photodiode.
80. The method of claim 71, comprising:
       steering, by one or more diffractive optical elements of the OBS node, an optical
transmission beam towards the retrieval device.
81. A system to perform seismic exploration in an aqueous medium, comprising:
       an ocean bottom seismometer (OBS) unit placed on a seabed to receive seismic data;
       a data conversion module of the OBS unit to convert the seismic data into an optical signal
with a first format configured for optical transmission via the aqueous medium;
       at least one of the OBS unit placed on the seabed and an underwater vehicle to:
       establish, between the OBS unit and the underwater vehicle separated from the OBS unit
by the aqueous medium, an optical link through the aqueous medium; and
       determine a condition of the aqueous medium from a measurement of a characteristic of
the optical link;
       a controller of the OBS unit to adjust a parameter associated with the optical signal based
on the characteristic of the aqueous medium;
       an optical transmitter of the OBS unit placed on the seabed to transmit, via the optical link,
the optical signal to an optical receiver of the underwater vehicle, the optical signal comprising
the first format and the seismic data, the optical signal adjusted by the OBS unit based on the
characteristic of the aqueous medium; and
       the underwater vehicle to:
       receive the optical signal transmitted by the optical transmitter of the OBS unit placed on
the seabed via the optical link through the aqueous medium;
       convert, responsive to receipt of the optical signal, the optical signal into a non-optical
signal comprising a second format; and
       provide the non-optical signal in the second format to a retrieval device.

                                                  64
82. The system of claim 81, comprising:
      the OBS unit comprising a geophone to receive the seismic data.
83. The system of claim 81, comprising:
      the retrieval device provided on a vessel to receive the non-optical signal in the second
format.
84. The system of claim 81, comprising:
       a cable,
      wherein the underwater vehicle provides the non-optical signal to the retrieval device, the
non-optical signal comprising the seismic data received from the OBS unit placed on the seabed.
85. The system of claim 81, comprising the OBS unit placed on the seabed to:
       detect a presence of the underwater vehicle; and
       enter a power up state responsive to the detection to transmit the optical signal.
86. The system of claim 81, wherein the OBS unit placed on the seabed comprises:
       a detector to provide an indication to a wake-up system to turn on one or more of a storage
and control system, a sensor, or the optical transmitter;
      the wake-up system, in response to the indication from the detector, to:
       identify the optical link established between the OBS unit placed on the seabed and the
underwater vehicle;
       determine a quality control parameter of the optical link; and
      validate, based on the quality control parameter, the optical link.
87. The system of claim 86, comprising the OBS unit placed on the seabed to:
      transmit, responsive to the optical link validated by the wake-up system, the optical signal
to the optical receiver of the underwater vehicle.
88. The system of claim 86, comprising the OBS unit to:
      transmit, responsive to the optical link validated by the wake-up system, to the underwater
vehicle, information sensed by a sensor of the OBS unit placed on the seabed.

                                                   65
89. The system of claim 86, comprising:
       the detector comprising at least one of a motion detector, a magnetic detector or a
proximity detector.
90. The system of claim 81, wherein the parameter comprises at least one of a data rate of the
optical signal, an output intensity of the optical signal, a wavelength of the optical signal, and a
gain of the optical receiver.
91. The system of claim 81, comprising:
        the optical receiver of the underwater vehicle further configured to sense an angle of the
optical transmitter of the OBS unit; and
       the underwater vehicle configured to select, based on a signal from the angle sensed by
the optical receiver, an anode in a multiple-anode photomultiplier tube to align an angular
field of view of the optical receiver with the optical transmitter.
92. A method of performing seismic exploration in an aqueous medium, comprising:
       placing an ocean bottom seismometer (OBS) unit on a seabed;
       receiving, by the OBS unit, seismic data;
       converting, by a data conversion module of the OBS unit, the seismic data into an optical
signal with a first format configured for optical transmission via the aqueous medium;
       establishing, between the OBS unit and the underwater vehicle separated from the OBS
unit by the aqueous medium, an optical link through the aqueous medium;
       determining a condition of the aqueous medium from a measurement of a characteristic of
the optical link;
       adjusting, by a controller of the OBS unit, a parameter associated with the optical signal
based on the characteristic of the aqueous medium;
       transmitting, by an optical transmitter of the OBS unit placed on the seabed, via the optical
link, the optical signal to an optical receiver of the underwater vehicle, the optical signal
comprising the first format and the seismic data, the optical signal adjusted by the OBS unit
based on the characteristic of the aqueous medium;
       receiving, by the underwater vehicle, the optical signal transmitted by the optical
transmitter of the OBS unit placed on the seabed via the optical link through the aqueous
medium;

                                                  66
       converting, by the underwater vehicle, responsive to receipt of the optical signal, the
optical signal into a non-optical signal comprising a second format; and
       providing, by the underwater vehicle, the non-optical signal in the second format to a
retrieval device.
93. The method of claim 92, comprising:
       receiving, by a geophone of the OBS unit, the seismic data.
94. The method of claim 92, comprising:
       receiving, by the retrieval device provided on a vessel, the non-optical signal in the second
format.
95. The method of claim 92, comprising:
       providing a cable;
       providing, by the underwater vehicle, the non-optical signal to the retrieval device, the
non-optical signal comprising the seismic data received from the OBS unit placed on the seabed.
96. The method of claim 92, comprising:
       detecting, by the OBS unit placed on the seabed, a presence of the underwater vehicle; and
       entering a power up state responsive to the detection to transmit the optical signal.
97. The method of claim 92, comprising:
       providing, by a detector of the OBS unit placed on the seabed, an indication to a wake-up
system to turn on one or more of a storage and control system, a sensor, or the optical
transmitter;
       identifying, by the wake-up system responsive to the indication from the detector, the
optical link established between the OBS unit placed on the seabed and the underwater vehicle;
       determining, by the wake-up system, a quality control parameter of the optical link; and
       validating, by the wake-up system, based on the quality control parameter, the optical link.
98.   The method of claim 97, comprising:
       transmitting, by the OBS unit placed on the seabed, responsive to the optical link validated
by the wake-up system, the optical signal to the optical receiver of the underwater vehicle.

                                                 67
99.   The method of claim 97, comprising:
      transmitting, by the OBS unit responsive to the optical link validated by the wake-up
system, to the underwater vehicle, information sensed by a sensor of the OBS unit placed on the
seabed.
100. The method of claim 97, wherein:
      the detector comprises at least one of a motion detector, a magnetic detector or a proximity
detector; and
      the parameter comprises at least one of a data rate of the optical signal, an output intensity
of the optical signal, a wavelength of the optical signal, and a gain of the optical receiver.
                                Fairfield Industries Incorporated
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
