ABSTRACT
Methods of treating autoimmune diseases, allergic responses, cancer, or inflammatory diseases
in an animal, promoting wound healing, and promoting angiogenesis in an organ or tissue of an
animal by administering to the animal mesenchymal stem cells in an effective amount.

               MESENCHYMAL STEM CELLS AND USES THEREFOR
           This is a divisional of AU2015252160, the entire contents of which are
   incorporated herein by reference.
 5         This invention relates to mesenchymal stem cells. More particularly, this
   invention relates to novel uses for mesenchymal stem cells, including
   promoting angiogenesis in various tissues and organs, treating autoimmune
   diseases, treating allergic responses, treating cancer, treating inflammatory
   diseases and disorders, and promoting would healing.
10         Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are multipotent stem cells that can
   differentiate readily into lineages including osteoblasts, myocytes,
   chondrocytes, and adipocytes (Pittenger, et al., Science, Vol. 284, pg. 143
   (1999); Haynesworth, et al., Bone, Vol. 13, pg. 69 (1992); Prockop, Science,
   Vol. 276, pg. 71 (1997)). In vitro studies have demonstrated the capability of
15 MSCs to differentiate into muscle (Wakitani, et al., Muscle Nerve, Vol. 18,, pg.
   1417 (1995)), neuronal-like precursors (Woodbury, et al., J. Neurosci. Res., Vol.
   69, pg. 908 (2002); Sanchez-Ramos, et al., Exp. Neurol., Vol. 171, pg. 109
   (2001)), cardiomyocytes (Toma, et al., Circulation, Vol. 105, pg. 93 (2002);
   Fakuda, Artif. Organs, Vol. 25, pg. 187 (2001)) and possibly other cell types. In
20 addition, MSCs have been shown to provide effective feeder layers for
   expansion of hematopoietic and embryonic stem cells (Eaves, et al., Ann. N.Y.
   Acad. Sci., Vol. 938, pg. 63 (2001); Wagers, et al., Gene Therapy, Vol. 9, pg.
   606 (2002)). Recent studies with a variety of animal models have shown that
   MSCs may be useful in the repair or regeneration of damaged bone, cartilage,
25 meniscus or myocardial tissues (DeKok, et
                                           1

al., Clin. Oral Implants Res., Vol. 14, pg. 481 (2003)); Wu, et al., Transplantation, Vol.
75, pg. 679 (2003); Noel, et al., Curr. Opin. Investing. Drugs, Vol. 3, pg. 1000 (2002);
Ballas, et al., J. Cell. Biochem. Suppl., Vol. 38, pg. 20 (2002); Mackenzie, et al., Blood
Cells Mol. Dis., Vol. 27 (2002)).          Several investigators have used MSCs with
encouraging results for transplantation in animal disease models including osteogenesis
imperfecta (Pereira, et al., Proc. Nat. Acad.           Sci., Vol. 95, pg. 1142 (1998)),
parkinsonism (Schwartz, et al., Hum. Gene Ther., Vol. 10, pg. 2539 (1999)), spinal cord
injury (Chopp, et al., Neuroreport, Vol. 11, pg. 3001 (2000); Wu, et al., J. Neurosci.
Res., Vol. 72, pg. 393 (2003)) and cardiac disorders (Tomita, et al., Circulation, Vol.
100, pg. 247 (1999).       Shake, et al., Ann. Thorac. Surg., Vol. 73, pg. 1919 (2002)).
Importantly, promising results also have been reported in clinical trials for osteogenesis
imperfecta (Horwitz, et al., Blood, Vol. 97, pg. 1227 (2001); Horowitz, et al. Proc. Nat.
Acad. Sci., Vol. 99, pg. 8932 (2002)) and enhanced engraftment of heterologous bone
marrow transplants (Frassoni, et al., Int. Society for Cell Therapy, SA006 (abstract)
(2002); Koc, et al., J. Clin. Oncol., Vol. 18, pg. 307 (2000)).
         MSCs express major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I antigen on their
surface but limited MHC class II (Le Blanc, et al., Exp. Hematol., Vol. 31, pg. 890
(2003); Potian, et al., J. Immunol., Vol. 171, pg. 3426 (2003)) and no B7 or CD40 co
stimulatory molecules (Majumdar, et al., J. Biomed. Sci., Vol. 10, pg. 228 (2003)),
suggesting that these cells have a low-immunogenic                phenotype   (Tse, et al.,
Transplantation, Vol. 75, pg. 389 (2003)).           MSCs also inhibit T-cell proliferative
responses in an MHC-independent manner (Bartholomew, et al., Exp. Hematol., Vol.
30, pg. 42 (2002); Devine, et al., Cancer J., Vol. 7, pg. 576 (2001); DiNicola, et al.,
Blood, Vol. 99, pg. 3838 (2002)). These immunological properties of MSCs may
enhance their transplant engraftment and limit the ability of the recipient immune system
to recognize and reject allogeneic cells following transplantation. The production of
factors by MSCs, that modulate the immune response and support hematopoiesis
together with their ability to differentiate into appropriate cell types under local stimuli
make them desirable stem cells for cellular transplantation studies (Majumdar, et al.,
Hematother. Stem Cell Res., Vol. 9, pg. 841 (2000); Haynesworth, et al., J. Cell.
Physiol., Vol. 166, pg. 585 (1996).
                                                2

        Applicants presently have examined the interactions of mesenchymal stem cells
with isolated immune cell populations, including dendritic cells (DC1 and DC2), effector
T-cells (Th1 and Th2), and NK cells. Based on such interactions, Applicants discovered
that mesenchymal stem cells may regulate the production of various factors that may
regulate several steps in the immune response process. Thus, the mesenchymal stem
cells may be employed in the treatment of disease conditions and disorders involving
the immune system, or diseases, conditions, or disorders involving inflammation or
allergic responses.        Such diseases, conditions, and disorders include, but are not
limited to, autoimmune diseases, allergies, arthritis, inflamed wounds, alopecia araeta
(baldness), periodontal diseases including gingivitis and periodontitis, and other
diseases, conditions or disorders involving an immune response.
         In addition, it is believed that mesenchymal stem cells stimulate peripheral blood
 mononuclear cells (PBMCs) to produce vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF,
which promotes angiogenesis by stimulating the formation of new blood vessels.
         Furthermore, it is believed that mesenchymal stem cells stimulate dendritic cells
 (DCs) to produce Interferon-Beta (IFN-B), which promotes tumor suppression and
 immunity against viral infection.
         In accordance with an aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
 method of treating an autoimmune disease in an animal.                The method comprises
 administering to the animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount effective to treat the
 autoimmune disease in the animal.
         Although the scope of this aspect of the present invention is not to be limited to
 any theoretical reasoning, it is believed that at least one mechanism by which the
 mesenchymal stem cells suppress autoimmune disease is by causing the release of
 Interleukin-1 0 (IL-1 0) from regulatory T-cells (Treg cells) and/or dendritic cells (DC),
                                                 3

        Autoimmune diseases which may be treated in accordance with the present
invention include, but are not limited to, multiple sclerosis, Type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid
arthritis, uveitis, autoimmune thyroid disease, inflammatory bowel disease, autoimmune
lymphoproliferative       disease     (ALPS),     demyelinating    disease,    autoimmune
encephalomyelitis, autoimmune gastritis (AIG), and autoimmune glomerular diseases.
It is to be understood, however, that the scope of the present invention is not to be
limited to the treatment of the specific autoimmune diseases mentioned herein.
         In one embodiment, the animal to which the mesenchymal stem cells are
administered is a mammal. The mammal may be a primate, including human and non
human primates.
         In general, the mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) therapy is based, for example, on
the following sequence: harvest of MSC-containing tissue, isolation and expansion of
MSCs, and administration of the MSCs to the animal, with or without biochemical or
genetic manipulation.
         The mesenchymal stem cells that are administered may be a homogeneous
composition or may be a mixed cell population enriched in MSCs.              Homogeneous
mesenchymal stem cell compositions may be obtained by culturing adherent marrow or
periosteal cells, and the mesenchymal stem cell compositions may be obtained by
culturing adherent marrow or periosteal cells, and the mesenchymal stem cells may be
identified by specific cell surface markers which are identified with unique monoclonal
antibodies. A method for obtaining a cell population enriched in mesenchymal stem
cells is described, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 5,486,359. Alternative sources for
 mesenchymal stem cells include, but are not limited to, blood, skin, cord blood, muscle,
fat, bone, and perichondrium.
         The mesenchymal stem cells may be administered by a variety of procedures.
The mesenchymal stem cells may be administered                  systemically, such as by
 intravenous, intraarterial, or intraperitoneal administration.
                                                4

        The mesenchymal stem cells may be from a spectrum of sources including
autologous, allogeneic, or xenogeneic.
        The mesenchymal stem cells are administered in an amount effective to treat an
autoimmune disease in an animal. The mesenchymal stem cells may be administered
in an amount of from about 1x1 05 cells/kg to about 1x107 cells/kg, preferably from about
1x10 6 cells/kg to about 5x101 cells/kg. The amount of mesenchymal stem cells to be
administered is dependent upon a variety of factors, including the age, weight, and sex
of the patient, the autoimmune disease to be treated, and the extent and severity
thereof.
        The mesenchymal stem cells may be administered in conjunction with an
acceptable pharmaceutical carrier. For example, the mesenchymal stem cells may be
administered as a cell suspension in a pharmaceutically acceptable liquid medium for
injection.
        In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
method of treating an inflammatory response in an animal.           The method comprises
administering to the animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount effective to treat the
inflammatory response in the animal.
        Although the scope of this aspect of the present invention is not to be limited to
any theoretical reasoning, it is believed that the mesenchymal stem cells promote T-cell
 maturation to regulatory T-cells (Treg), thereby controlling inflammatory responses. It is
also believed that the mesenchymal stem cells inhibit T helper 1 cells (Th1 cells),
thereby decreasing the expression of the Interferon-y (IFN-y) in certain inflammatory
 reactions, such as those associated with psoriasis, for example.
        In one embodiment, the inflammatory responses which may be treated are those
associated with psoriasis.
                                               5

        In another embodiment, the mesenchymal stem cells may be administered to an
animal such that the mesenchymal stem cells contact microglia and/or astrocytes in the
brain    to  reduce    inflammation,    whereby    the    mesenchymal       stem   cells   limit
neurodegeneration caused by activated glial cells in diseases or disorders such as
Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinson's Disease, stroke, or brain cell injuries.
        In yet another embodiment, the mesenchymal stem cells may be administered to
an animal such that the mesenchymal stem cells contact keratinocytes and Langerhans
cells in the epidermis of the skin to reduce inflammation as may occur in psoriasis,
chronic dermatitis, and contact dermatitis. Although this embodiment is not to be limited
to any theoretical reasoning, it is believed that the mesenchymal stem cells may contact
the keratinocytes and Langerhans cells in the epidermis, and alter the expression of T
cell receptors and cytokine secretion profiles, leading to decreased expression of tumor
necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-a) and increased regulatory T-cell (Treg cell) population.
        In a further embodiment, the mesenchymal stem cells may be used to reduce
inflammation in the bone, as occurs in arthritis and arthritis-like conditions, including but
not limited to, osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, and other arthritic diseases listed in
the website www.arthritis.org/conditions/diseases.  Although the scope of this embodiment
is not intended to be limited to any theoretical reasoning, it is believed that the
mesenchymal stem cells may inhibit Interleukin-17 secretion by memory T-cells in the
synovial fluid.
        In another embodiment, the mesenchymal stem cells may be used to limit
inflammation in the gut and liver during inflammatory bowel disease and chronic
hepatitis, respectively. Although the scope of this aspect of the present invention is not
intended to be limited to any theoretical reasoning, it is believed that the mesenchymal
stem cells promote increased secretion of Interleukin-10 (IL-10) and the generation of
regulatory T-cells (Treg cells).
        In another embodiment, the mesenchymal stem cells may be used to inhibit
excessive neutrophil and macrophage activation in pathological conditions such as
                                               6

sepsis and trauma, including burn injury, surgery, and transplants. Although the scope
of this embodiment is not to be limited to any theoretical reasoning, it is beleived the
mesenchymal stem cells promote secretion of suppressive cytokines such as IL-1 0, and
inhibit macrophage migration inhibitory factor.
         In another embodiment, the mesenchymal stem cells may be used to control
inflammation in immune privileged sites such as the eye, including the cornea, lens,
pigment epithelium, and retina, brain, spinal cord, pregnant uterus and placenta, ovary,
testes, adrenal cortex, liver, and hair follicles. Although the scope of this embodiment is
not to be limited to any theoretical reasoning, it is believed that the mesenchymal stem
cells promote the secretion of suppressive cytokines such as IL-10 and the generation
of Treg cells.
          In yet another embodiment, the mesenchymal stem cells may be used to control
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) infections during dialysis and/or glomerulonephritis.
Although the scope of this embodiment is not to be limited to any theoretical reasoning,
 it is believed that mesenchymal stem cells induce peripheral blood mononuclear cells to
express vascular endothelial growth factor, or VEGF, which stimulates glomerular
structuring.
          In a further embodiment, the mesenchymal stem cells may be used to control
viral infections such as influenza, hepatitis C, Herpes Simplex Virus, vaccinia virus
 infections, and Epstein-Barr virus. Although the scope of this embodiment is not to be
 limited to any theoretical reasoning, it is believed that the mesenchymal stem cells
 promote the secretion of Interferon-Beta (IFN-p).
          In yet another embodiment, the mesenchymal stem cells may be used to control
 parasitic infections such as Leishmania infections and Helicobacter infections. Although
the scope of this embodiment is not to be limited to any theoretical reasoning, it is
 believed that the mesenchymal stem cells mediate responses by T helper 2 (Th2) cells,
 and thereby promote increased production of Immunoglobulin E (IgE) by p-cells.
                                                7

         It is to be understood, however, that the scope of this aspect of the present
invention is not to be limited to the treatment of any particular inflammatory response.
        The mesenchymal stem cells may be administered to a mammal, including
human and non-human primates, as hereinabove described.
         The mesenchymal stem cells also may be administered systemically, as
hereinabove described.         Alternatively, in the case of osteoarthritis or rheumatoid
arthritis, the mesenchymal stem cells may be administered directly to an arthritic joint.
         The mesenchymal stem cells are administered in an amount effective to treat an
inflammatory response in an animal.              The mesenchymal stem cells may be
administered in an amount of from about 1x10 5 cells/kg to about 1x10 7 cells/kg,
preferably from about 1x10 6 cells/kg to about 5x10 6 cells/kg.        The exact dosage of
mesenchymal stem cells to be administered is dependent upon a variety of factors,
including the age, weight, and sex of the patient, the inflammatory response being
treated, and the extent and severity thereof.
         The mesenchymal stem cells may be administered in conjunction with an
acceptable pharmaceutical carrier, as hereinabove described.
         In accordance with yet another aspect of the present invention, there is provided
a method of treating cancer in an animal. The method comprises administering to the
animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount effective to treat cancer in the animal.
         Although the scope of this aspect of the present invention is not to be limited to
any theoretical reasoning, it is believed that the mesenchymal stem cells interact with
dendritic cells, which leads to IFN-p secretion, which in turn acts as a tumor suppressor.
Cancers which may be treated include, but are not limited to, hepatocellular carcinoma,
cervical cancer, pancreatic cancer, prostate cancer, fibrosarcoma, medullablastoma,
and astrocytoma.       It is to be understood, however, that the scope of the present
invention is not to be limited to any specific type of cancer.
                                                8

        The animal may be a mammal, including human and non-human primates, as
hereinabove described.
        The mesenchymal stem cells are administered to the animal in an amount
effective to treat cancer in the animal.      In general, the mesenchymal stem cells are
                                                                                 7
administered in an amount of from about 1x10 5 cells/kg to about 1x10              cells/kg,
preferably from about 1x10 6 cells/kg to about 5x10       6 cells/kg. The exact amount of
mesenchymal stem cells to be administered is dependent upon a variety of factors,
including the age, weight, and sex of the patient, the type of cancer being treated, and
the extent and severity thereof.
        The mesenchymal stem cells are administered in conjunction with an acceptable
pharmaceutical      carrier, and   may be administered        sytemically, as hereinabove
described. Alternatively, the mesenchymal stem cells may be administered directly to
the cancer being treated.
        In accordance with still another aspect of the present invention, there is provided
a method of treating an allergic disease or disorder in an animal.            The method
comprises administering to the animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount effective
to treat the allergic disease or disorder in the animal.
        Although the scope of this aspect of the present invention is not to be limited to
any theoretical      reasoning,  it is believed that mesenchymal stem cells, when
administered after an acute allergic response, provide for inhibition of mast cell
activation and degranulation.      Also, it is believed that the mesenchymal stem cells
downregulate basophil activation and inhibit cytokines such as TNF-a, chemokines such
as Interleukin-8 and monocyte chemoattractant protein, or MCP-1, lipid mediators such
as leukotrienes, and inhibit main mediators such as histamine, heparin, chondroitin
sulfates, and cathepsin.
                                                9

         Allergic diseases or disorders which may be treated include, but are not limited
to, asthma, allergic rhinitis, atopic dermatitis, and contact dermatitis.       It is to be
understood, however, that the scope of the present invention is not to be limited to any
specific allergic disease or disorder
         The mesenchymal stem cells are administered to the animal in an amount
effective to treat the allergic disease or disorder in the animal. The animal may be a
mammal. The mammal may be a primate, including human and non-human primates.
In general, the mesenchymal stem cells are administered in an amount of from about
 1x10  5 cells/kg to about 1x10 7 cells/kg, preferably from about 1x10 6 cells/kg to about
5x10Q cells/kg. The exact dosage is dependent upon a variety of factors, including the
age, weight, and sex of the patient, the allergic disease or disorder being treated, and
the extent and severity thereof.
         The mesenchymal stem cells may be administered in conjunction with an
acceptable pharmaceutical carrier, as hereinabove described. The mesenchymal stem
cells may be administered systemically, such as by intravenous or intraarterial
administration, for example.
         In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
 method of promoting wound healing in an animal. The method comprises administering
to the animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount effective to promote wound healing
 in the animal.
         Although the scope of the present invention is not to be limited to any theoretical
 reasoning, it is believed that, as mentioned hereinabove, the mesenchymal stem cells
cause T., cells and dendritic cells to release Interleukin-10 (IL-10). The IL-10 limits or
controls inflammation in a wound, thereby promoting healing of a wound.
         Furthermore, the mesenchymal stem cells may promote wound healing and
fracture healing by inducing secretion factors by other cell types.       For example, the
                                              10

mesenchymal stem cells may induce prostaglandin E2 (PGE 2)-mediated release of
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) by peripheral blood mononuclear cells
(PBMCs), as well as PGE 2-mediated release of growth hormone, insulin, insulin-like
growth factor 1 (IGF-1)       insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 (IGFBP-3), and
endothelin-1.
          The mesenchymal stem cells are administered to the animal in an amount
effective to promote wound healing in the animal. The animal may be a mammal, and
the mammal may be a primate, including human and non-human primates. In general,
the mesenchymal stem cells are administered in an amount of from about 1x10' cells/kg
to about 1x10 7 cells/kg, preferably from about 1x10     6 cells/kg to about 5x10 6 cells/kg.
The exact amount of mesenchymal stem cells to be administered is dependent upon a
variety of factors, including the age, weight, and sex of the patient, and the extent and
severity of the wound being treated.
          The mesenchymal stem cells may be administered in conjunction with an
acceptable pharmaceutical carrier, as hereinabove described. The mesenchymal stem
cells may be administered systemically, as hereinabove described. Alternataively, the
 mesenchymal stem cells may be administered directly to a wound, such as in a fluid on
a dressing or reservoir containing the mesenchymal stem cells.
          In accordance with yet another aspect of the present invention, there is provided
a method of treating or preventing fibrosis in an animal.           The method comprises
administering to the animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount effective to treat or
 prevent fibrosis in an animal.
          The mesenchymal stem cells may be administered to the animal in order to treat
or prevent any type of fibrosis in the animal, including, but not limited to, cirrhosis of the
 liver, fibrosis of the kidneys associated with end-stage renal disease, and fibrosis of the
 lungs. It is to be understood that the scope of the present invention is not to be limited
to any specific type of fibrosis.
                                                11

        The mesenchymal stem cells are administered to the animal in an amount
effective to treat or prevent fibrosis in the animal. The animal may be a mammal, and
the mammal may be a primate, including human and non-human primates. In general,
the mesenchyrnal stem cells are administered in an amount of from about 1x105 cells/kg
to about 1x10   7 cells/kg, preferably from about 1x10 6 cells/kg to about 5x10 6 cells/kg.
The exact amount of mesenchymal stem cells to be administered is dependent upon a
variety of factors, including the age, weight, and sex of the patient, and the extent and
severity of the fibrosis being treated or prevented.
        The mesenchymal stem cells may be administered in conjunction with an
acceptable pharmaceutical carrier, as hereinabove described. The mesenchymal stem
cells may be administered systemically, also as hereinabove described.
        It is another object of the present invention to promote angiogenesis in a tissue
or organ of an animal, wherein such tissue or organ is in need of angiogenesis.
        Thus, in accordance with a further aspect of the present invention, there is
provided a method of promoting angiogenesis in an organ or tissue of an animal. The
method comprises administering to the animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount
effective to promote angiogenesis in an organ or tissue of the animal.
        Angiogenesis is the formation of new blood vessels from a pre-existing
microvascular bed.
        The induction of angiogenesis may be used to treat coronary and peripheral
artery insufficiency, and thus may be a noninvasive and curative approach to the
treatment of coronary artery disease, ischemic heart disease, and peripheral artery
disease. Angiogenesis may play a role in the treatment of diseases and disorders in
tissue and organs other than the heart, as well as in the development and/or
maintenance of organs other than the heart. Angiogenesis may provide a role in the
treatment of internal and external wounds, as well as dermal ulcers. Angiogenesis also
plays a role in embryo implantation, and placental growth, as well as the development of
                                              12

the embryonic vasculature. Angiogenesis also is essential for the coupling of cartilage
resorption with bone formation, and is essential for correct growth plate morphogenesis.
        Furthermore, angiogenesis is necessary for the successful engineering and
maintenance of highly metabolic organs, such as the liver, where a dense vascular
network is necessary to provide sufficient nutrient and gas transport.
        The mesenchymal stem cells can be administered to the tissue or organ in need
of angiogenesis by a variety of procedures.         The mesenchymal stem cells may be
 administered systemically, such as by intravenous, intraarterial, or intraperitoneal
 administration, or the mesenchymal stem cells may be administered directly to the
tissue or organ in need of angiogenesis, such as by direct injection into the tissue or
 organ in need of angiogenesis.
        The mesenchymal stem cells may be from a spectrum of sources including
 autologous, allogeneic, or xenogeneic.
        Although the scope of the present invention is not to be limited to any theroretical
 reasoning, it is believed that the mesenchymal stem cells, when administered to an
 animal, stimulate peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) to produce vascular
 endothelial growth factor, or VEGF, which stimulates the formation of new blood
 vessels.
         In one embodiment, the animal is a mammal. The mammal may be a primate,
 including human and non-human primates.
        The mesenchymal stem cells, in accordance with the present invention, may be
 employed in the treatment, alleviation, or prevention of any disease or disorder which
 can be alleviated, treated, or prevented through angiogenesis. Thus, for example, the
 mesenchymal stem cells may be administered to an animal to treat blocked arteries,
 including those in the extremities, i.e., arms, legs, hands, and feet, as well as the neck
 or in various organs. For example, the mesenchymal stem cells may be used to treat
                                              13

blocked arteries which supply the brain, thereby treating or preventing stroke. Also, the
mesenchymal stem cells may be used to treat blood vessels in embryonic and post
natal corneas and may be used to provide glomerular structuring.               In another
embodiment, the mesenchymal stem cells may be employed in the treatment of
wounds, both internal and external, as well as the treatment of dermal ulcers found in
the feet, hands, legs or arms, including, but not limited to, dermal ulcers caused by
diseases such as diabetes and sickle cell anemia.
         Furthermore, because angiogenesis is involved in embryo implantation and
 placenta formation, the mesenchymal stem sells may be employed to promote embryo
 implantation and prevent miscarriage.
         In addition, the mesenchymal stem cells may be administered to an unborn
 animal, including humans, to promote the development of the vasculature in the unborn
 animal.
         In another embodiment, the mesenchymal stem cells may be administered to an
 animal, born or unborn, in order to promote cartilage resorption and bone formation, as
 well as promote correct growth plate morphogenesis.
         The mesenchymal stem cells are administered in an amount effective in
 promoting angiogenesis in an animal.           The mesenchymal stem cells may be
                                                      5  cells/kg to about 1x10 7 cells/kg,
 administered in an amount of from about 1x10
 preferably from about 1x10      6 cells/kg to about 5x10 6 cells/kg.     The amount of
 mesenchymal stem cells to be administered is dependent upon a variety of factors,
 including the age, weight, and sex of the patient, the disease or disorder to be treated,
 alleviated, or prevented, and the extent and severity thereof.
         The mesenchymal stem cells may be administered in conjunction with an
 acceptable pharmaceutical carrier. For example, the mesenchymal stem cells may be
 administered as a cell suspension in a pharmaceutically acceptable liquid medium for
                                              14

injection.     Injection can be local, i.e., directly into the tissue or organ in need of
angiogenesis, or systemic.
        The mesenchymal stem cells may be genetically engineered with one or more
polynucleotides encoding a therapeutic agent. The polynucleotides may be delivered to
the mesenchymal stem cells via an appropriate expression vehicle.               Expression
vehicles which may be employed to genetically engineer the mesenchymal stem cells
include, but are not limited to, retroviral vectors, adenoviral vectors, and adeno
associated virus vectors.
        The selection of an appropriate polynucleotide encoding a therapeutic agent is
dependent upon various factors, including the disease or disorder being treated, and the
extent and severity thereof.         Polynucleotides encoding therapeutic agents, and
appropriate expression vehicles are described further in U.S. Patent No. 6,355,239.
        It is to be understood that the mesenchymal stem cells, when employed in the
above-mentioned therapies and treatments, may be employed in combination with other
therapeutic agents known to those skilled in the art, including, but not limited to, growth
factors, cytokines, drugs such as anti-inflammatory drugs, and cells other than
mesenchymal stem cells, such as dendritic cells, and may be administered with soluble
carriers for cells such as hyalurionic acid, or in combination with solid matrices, such
collagen, gelatin, or other biocompatible polymers, as appropriate.
        It is to be understood that the methods described herein may be carried out in a
number of ways and with various modifications and permutations thereof that are well
known in the art. It also may be appreciated that any theories set forth as to modes of
action or interactions between cell types should not be construed as limiting this
invention in any manner, but are presented such that the methods of the invention can
be understood more fully.
        The invention now will be described with respect to the drawings, wherein:
        Fig. 1 MSCs modulate dendritic cell functions. (A) Flow cytometric analysis of
mature monocytic DC1 cells using antibodies against HLA-DR and CD11c and of
plasmacytoid DC2 cells using antibodies against HLA-DR and CD123 (IL-3 receptor). (
                                               15

-): isotype control; (       ): FITC/PE conjugated antibodies. (B) MSCs inhibit TNF-ca
secretion (primary y-axis) and increase IL-10 secretion (secondary y-axis) from
activated DC1 and DC2 respectively. (C) MSCs cultured with mature DC1 cells inhibit
IFN-y secretion (primary y-axis) by T cells and increase IL-4 levels (secondary y-axis) as
compared to MSC or DC alone. The decreased production of pro-inflammatory IFN-y
and increased production of anti-inflammatory IL-4 in the presence of MSCs indicated a
shift in the T cell population towards an anti-inflammatory phenotype.
         Fig. 2 MSCs inhibit pro-inflammatory effector T cell function. (A) Flow
cytometric analysis of TReg cell numbers (in %) by staining PBMCs or non-adherent
fraction in MSC+PBMC culture (MSC+PBMC) with FITC-conjugated CD4 (x-axis) and
 PE conjugated CD25 (y-axis) antibodies. Gates were set based on isotype control
antibodies as background. Graphs are representative of 5 independent experiments. (B)
THI cells generated in presence of MSCs secreted reduced levels of IFN-y (primary y
axis) and TH2 cells generated in presence of MSCs secreted increased amounts of IL-4
 (secondary y-axis) in cell culture supernatants. (C) MSCs inhibit IFN-y secretion from
 purified NK cells cultured for 0, 24, or 48 hours in a 24-well plate. Data shown are
 mean±SD cytokine secretion in one experiment and are representative of 3 independent
 experiments.
         Fig. 3 MSCs lead to increased numbers             of Treg cell population and
 increased GITR expression. (A) A CD4* CD25* Treg cell population from PBMC or
 MSC + PBMC (MSC to PBMC ratio 1:10) cultures (cultured without any further
 stimulation for 3 days) was isolated using a 2-step magnetic isolation procedure. These
 cells were irradiated (to block any further proliferation) and used as stimulators in a
 mixed    lymphocyte reaction (MLR),      where     responders were allogeneic    PBMCs
 (stimulator to responder ratio 1:100) in the presence of phytohemagglutinin (PHA) (2.5
 mg/ml). The cells were cultured for 48 hours, following which 3 H thymidime was added,
 and incorporated radioactivity was counted after 24 hours. The results showed that the
Treg population generated in the presence of MSCs (lane 3) was similar functionally to
the Treg cells generated in the absence of MSCs (lane 2). (B) PBMCs were cultured for 3
                                             16

days in the absence (top plot) or presence (bottom plot) of MSCs (MSC to PBMC ratio
1:10), following which the non-adherent fraction was harvested and immunostained with
FITC-labeled GITR and PE-labeled CD4. Results show a greater than twofold increase
in GITR expression in cells cultured in the presence of MSCs.
        Fig. 4 MSCs produce PGE 2 and blocking PGE 2 reverses MSC-mediated
immuno-modulatory effects . (A) PGE 2 secretion (mean±SD) in culture supernatants
obtained from MSCs cultured in the presence or absence of PGE 2 blockers NS-398 or
indomethacin (Indometh.) at various concentrations. Inhibitor concentrations are in pLM
and data presented are values obtained after 24 hour culture (B) COX-1 and COX-2
expression in MSCs        and   PBMCs     using  real-time RT-PCR.   MSCs    expressed
significantly higher levels of COX-2 as compared to PBMCs, and when MSCs were
cultured in presence of PBMCs, there was a >3-fold increase in COX-2 expression in
MSCs. Representative data from 1 of 3 independent experiments is shown. The
MSC+PBMC cultures were setup in a trans-well chamber plate where MSCs were
plated onto the bottom chamber and PBMCs onto the top chamber. (C) Presence of
PGE 2 blockers indomethacin (Ind.) or NS-398 increases TNF-a secretion from activated
DCs (0) and IFN-y secretion from TO1 cells (EI)     as compared to controls. Data were
calculated as % change from cultures generated in absence of MSCs and PGE 2
inhibitors (C) Presence of PGE 2 blockers indomethacin (Indo) and NS-398 during MSC
PBMC co-culture (1:10) reverses MSC-mediated anti-proliferative effects on PHA
treated PBMCs. Data shown are from one experiment and are representative of 3
independent experiments.
        Fig. 5 Constituitive MSC cytokine secretion is elevated in the presence of
allogeneic PBMCs.       Using previously characterized human MSCs, the levels of the
cytokines IL-6 and VEGF, lipid mediator PGE 2, and matrix metalloproteinase 1 (pro
MMP-1) in culture supernatant of MSCs cultured for 24 hours in the presence (hatched
bars) or absence (open bars) of PBMCs (MSC to PBMC ratio 1:10) were analyzed. The
MSCs produced IL-6, VEGF, and PGE 2 constituitively, and the levels of these factors
increased upon co-culture with PBMCs, thereby suggesting that MSCs may play a role
in modulating immune functions in an inflammatory setting.
                                             17

         Fig. 6 MSCs     inhibit mitogen-induced       T-cell  proliferation  in  a   dose
dependent manner.          Increasing numbers of allogeneic PBMCs were incubated with
constant numbers of MSCs (2,000 cells/well) plated on a 96-well plate in the presence
or absence of PHA (2.5 mg/ml) for 72 hours, and 3 H thymidine incorporation determined
(in counts per minute, or cpm).         There was a dose-dependent inhibition of the
proliferation of PHA-treated PBMCs in the presence of MSCs.           Representative results
from I of 3 independent experiments are shown.            Similar results were reported by
LeBlanc, et al., Scand J. Immunol., Vol. 57, pg. 11 (2003).
         Fig. 7 Schematic diagram of proposed MSC mechanism of action
         MSCs mediate their immuno-modulatory effects by affecting cells from both the
innate (DCs- pathways 2-4; and NK- pathway 6) and adaptive (T- pathways 1 and 5 and
B-pathway 7) immune systems. In response to an invading pathogen, immature DCs
migrate to the site of potential entry, mature and acquire an ability to prime naive T cells
(by means of antigen specific and co-stimulatory signals) to become protective effector
T cells (cell-mediated TH1 or humoral TH2 immunity). During MSC-DC interaction,
 MSCs, by means of direct cell-cell contact or via secreted factor, may alter the outcome
of immune response by limiting the ability of DCs to mount a cell-mediated response
(pathway 2) or by promoting the ability to mount a humoral response (pathway 4). Also,
when mature effector T cells are present, MSCs may interact with them to skew the
 balance of TH1 (pathway 1) responses towards TH2 responses (pathway 5), and
 probably towards an increased IgE producing B cell activity (pathway 7), desirable
outcomes for suppression of GvHD and autoimmune disease symptoms. MSCs in their
ability to result in an increased generation of TReg population (pathway 3) may result in a
tolerant phenotype and may aid a recipient host by dampening bystander inflammation
 in their local micro-environment. Dashed line (----) represents proposed mechanism.
         The invention now will be described with respect to the following example; it is to
 be understood, however, that the scope of the present invention is not to be limited
thereby.
                                              18

                                         Example 1
Materials and Methods
Culture of human MSCs
       Human MSCs were cultured as described by Pittenger et al., Science, Vol. 284,
pg. 143 (1999). Briefly, marrow samples were collected from the iliac crest of
anonymous donors following informed consent by Poietics Technologies, Div of
Cambrex Biosciences. MSCs were cultured in complete Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's
Medium-Low Glucose (Life Technologies, Carlsbad, California) containing 1 % antibiotic
antimyotic solution (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, California) and 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS,
JRH BioSciences, Lenexa, Kansas). MSCs grew as an adherent monolayer and were
detached with trypsin/EDTA (0.05% trypsin at 370 C for 3 minutes). All MSCs used were
previously characterized for multilineage potential and retained the         capacity to
differentiate into mesenchymal lineages (chondrocytic, adipogenic, and osteogenic)
(Pittenger, et al., Science, Vol. 284, pg. 143 (1999)).
Isolation of Dendritic cells
        Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were obtained from Poietics
Technologies, Div of Cambrex Biosciences (Walkersville, MD). Precursors of dendritic
cells (DCs) of monocytic lineage (CD1c*) were positively selected from PBMCs using a
2-step magnetic separation method according to Dzionek, et. al., J. Immunol., Vol. 165,
pg. 6037 (2000). Briefly, CD1 c expressing B cells were magnetically depleted of CD1 9*
cells using magnetic beads, followed by labeling the B-cell depleted fraction with biotin
labeled CD1c (BDCA1*) and anti-biotin antibodies and separating them from the
unlabeled cell fraction utilizing magnetic columns according to the nianufacturer's
instructions (Miltenyi Biotech, Auburn, California). Precursors of DCs of plasmacytoid
lineage were isolated from PBMCs by immuno-magnetic sorting of positively labeled
antibody coated cells (BDCA2*) (Miltenyi Biotech, Auburn, California).
MSC-DC culture
                                              19

        In most experiments, human MSCs and DCs were cultured in equal numbers for
                                                                                   0
various time periods and cell culture supernatant collected and stored at -80 C until
further evaluation. In selected experiments, MSCs were cultured with mature DC1 or
DC2 cells (1:1 MSC:DC ratio) for 3 days, and then the combined cultures (MSCs and
DCs) were irradiated to prevent any proliferation. Next, antibody purified, naYve,
allogeneic T cells (CD4*,CD45RA*) were added to the irradiated MSCs/DCs and
cultured for an additional 6 days. The non-adherent cell fraction (purified T cells) was
then collected from the cultures, washed twice and re-stimulated with PHA for another
24 hours, following which cell culture supernatants were harvested and analyzed for
secreted IFN-y and IL-4 by ELISA.
 Isolation of NK cells
         Purified populations of NK cells were obtained by depleting non-NK cells that are
 magnetically labeled with a cocktail of biotin-conjugated monoclonal antibodies (anti
 CD3, -CD14, -CD19, -CD36 and anti-IgE antibodies) as a primary reagent and anti
 biotin monoclonal antibodies conjugated to Microbeads as secondary labeling reagent.
 The magnetically labeled non-NK cells were retained in MACS (Miltenyi Biotech,
 Auburn, California) columns in a magnetic field, while NK cells passed through and
 were collected.
 Isolation of TReg cell population
        The TReg cell population was isolated using a 2-step isolation procedure. First
 non-CD4' T cells were indirectly magnetically labeled with a cocktail of biotin labeled
 antibodies and anti-biotin microbeads. The labeled cells were then depleted by
 separation over a       MACS    column (Miltenyi Biotech, Auburn,      California). Next,
 CD4*CD25* cells were directly labeled with CD25 microbeads and isolated by positive
 selection from the pre-enriched CD4* T cell fraction. The magnetically labeled
 CD4*CD25* T cells were retained on the column and eluted after removal of the column
 from the magnetic field.
                                              20

        In order to determine whether the increased CD4+CD25+ population generated
in the presence of MSCs were suppressive in nature, CD4+CD25+ Treg cell populations
were isolated from PBMC or MSC+PBMC (MSC to PBMC ratio 1:10) cultures (cultured
without any further stimulation for 3 days) using a 2-step magnetic isolation procedure.
These cells were irradiated to block any further proliferation and. used as stimulators in a
mixed     lymphocyte reaction (MLR),      where    responders were allogeneic PBMCs
(stimulator to responder ratio 1:100) in the presence of PHA (2.5 pg/ml). The culture
was carried out for 48 hours, following which 3 H thymidine was added.          Incorporated
radioactivity was counted after 24 hours.
        PBMCs were cultured in the absence or presence of MSCs (MSC to PBMC ratio
1:10), following which the non-adherent fraction was harvested and immunostained with
FITC-labeled glucocorticoid-induced TNF receptor, or GITR, and PE -labeled CD4.
Generation of THI/TH2 cells
        Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were plated at 2x1 06 cells/ml for 45
min. at 37 0C in order to remove monocytes. Non-adherent fraction was incubated in the
presence of plate-bound anti-CD3 (5 pg/ml) and anti-CD28 (1 pg/ml) antibodies under
TH1 (IL-2 (4 ng/ml) + IL-12 (5 ng/ml) + anti-IL-4 (1 pg/ml)) or TH2 (IL-2 (4 ng/ml) + IL-4 (4
ng/ml) + anti-IFN-y (1 ptg/ml)) conditions for 3 days in the presence or absence of MSCs.
The cells were washed and then re-stimulated with PHA (2.5 pig/ml) for another 24 or 48
hours, following which levels of IFN-y and IL-4 were measured in culture supernatants
by ELISA (R&D Systems, Minneapolis, Minnesota).
        Analysis of levels of VEGF, PGE 2, and pro-MMP-1 in culture supernatant of
MSCs.
         Using previously characterized human MSCs, the levels of Interleukin-6 (IL-6),
VEGF, lipid mediator prostaglandin E2 (PGE 2), and matrix metalloproteinase 1 (pro
MMP-1) were analyzed in culture supernatant of MSCs cultured for 24 hours in the
presence or absence of PBMCs (MSC to PBMC ratio 1:10).
                                              21

Proliferation of PBMCs
        Purified  PBMCs       were    prepared    by  centrifuging leukopack    (Cambrex,
Walkersville, Maryland) on Ficoll-Hypaque (Lymphoprep, Oslo, Norway). Separated
cells were cultured (in triplicates) in the presence or absence of MSCs (plated 3-4 hours
prior to PBMC addition to allow them to settle) for 48 hours in presence of the mitogen
PHA (Sigma Chemicals, St. Louis, Missouri). In selected experiments, PBMCs were
resuspended in medium containing PGE 2 inhibitors Indomethacin (Sigma Chemicals,
St. Louis, Missouri) or NS-938 (Cayman Chemicals, Ann Arbor, Michigan). (3 H)
thymidine was added (20 pid in a 200 pl culture) and the cells harvested after an
additional 24 hour culture using an automatic harvester. The effects of MSCs or PGE 2
blockers were calculated as the percentage of the control response (100%) in presence
of PHA.
Quantitative RT-PCR
        Total RNA from cell pellets were prepared using a commercially available kit
(Qiagen, Valencia, California) and according to the manufacturer's instructions.
Contaminating genomic DNA was removed using the DNA-free kit (Ambion, Austin,
Texas). Quantitative RT-PCR was performed on a MJ Research Opticon detection
system (South San Francisco, California) using QuantiTect SYBR Green RT-PCR kit
(Qiagen, Valencia, California) with primers at concentration of 0.5 p.M. Relative changes
in expression levels in cells cultured under different conditions were calculated by the
difference in Ct values (crossing point) using P-actin as internal control. The sequence
for COX-1 and COX-2 specific primers were: COX-1: 5'-CCG GAT GCC AGT CAG GAT
GAT G-3'(forward), 5'-CTA GAC AGC CAG ATG CTG ACA G-3' (reverse); COX-2: 5'
ATC TAC CCT CCT CAA GTC CC-3'(forward), 5'-TAC CAG AAG GGC AGG ATA
CAG-3' (reverse).
        Increasing numbers of allogeneic PBMCs were incubated with constant numbers
of MSCs (2,000 cells/well) plated on a 96-well plate in the presence of PHA (2.5 pg/ml)
for 72 hours, and 3 H thymidine incorporation (counts per minute, cpm) was determined.
                                               22

The PBMCs and MSCs were cultured at ratios of MSC:PBMC of 1:1, 1:3, 1:10, 1:30,
and 1:81.
Results
        In the present studies, the interaction of human MSCs with isolated immune cell
populations, including dendritic cells (DC1 and DC2), effector T cells (TH1 and TH2) and
NK cells was examined.       The interaction of MSCs with each immune cell type had
specific consequences, suggesting that MSCs may modulate several steps in the
immune response process. The production of secreted factor(s) that modulate and may
be responsible for MSC immuno-modulatory effects was evaluated and prostaglandin
synthesis was implicated.
        Myeloid (DC1) and plasmacytoid (DC2) precursor dendritic cells were isolated by
immuno-magnetic sorting of BDCA1* and BDCA2* cells respectively and matured by
incubation with GM-CSF and IL-4 (1x 103 IU/ml and 1x10 3 IU/ml, respectively) for DC1
cells, or IL-3 (10 ng/ml) for DC2 cells. Using flow cytometry, DC1 cells were HLA-DR*
and CD1 1c*, whereas DC2 cells were HLA-DR* and CD123* (Fig. 1A). In the presence
of the inflammatory agent bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS, I ng/ml), DC1 cells
produced moderate levels of TNF-a but when MSCs were present (ratios examined 1:1
and 1:10), there was >50% reduction in TNF-a secretion (Fig. 1B). On the other hand,
DC2 cells produced IL-10 in the presence of LPS and its levels were increased greater
than 2-fold upon MSC:DC2 co-culture (1:1) (Fig. 1B). Therefore, the MSCs modified the
cytokine profile of activated DCs in culture towards a more tolerogenic phenotype.
Additionally, activated DCs, when cultured with MSCs, were able to reduce IFN-y and
increase IL-4 levels secreted by naive CD4+ T cells (Fig. IC) suggesting a MSC
mediated shift from pro-inflammatory to anti-inflammatory T cell phenotype.
       As increased IL-10 secretion plays a role in generation of regulatory cells
(Kingsley, et al., J. Immunol., Vol. 168, pg. 1080 (2002)), T-regulatory cells (TReg) were
quantified by flow cytometry in co-cultures of PBMCs and MSCs. Upon culture of
PBMCs with MSCs for 3-5 days, there was an increase in TReg cell numbers as
                                              23

determined by staining of PBMCs with anti-CD4 and anti-CD25 antibodies (Fig. 2A),
further supporting a MSC-induced tolerogenic response. The CD4*CD25*              TReg  cell
population, generated in presence of MSCs expressed increased levels of gluocorticoid
induced TNF receptor (GITR), a cell surface receptor expressed on                 TReg   cell
populations, and was suppressive in nature as it suppressed allogeneic T cell
proliferation (Fig. 3A,B). Next, MSCs were investigated as to their direct ability to affect
T cell differentiation. Using antibody selected purified T cells (CD4* Th cells), IFN-y
producing TH1 and IL-4 producing TH2 cells were generated in presence or absence of
MSCs. When MSCs were present during differentiation, there, was reduced IFN-y
secretion by TH1 cells and increased IL-4 secretion by TH2 cells (Fig. 2B). No significant
change in IFN-y or IL-4 levels were seen when MSCs were added to the culture after Th
cells had differentiated (at 3 days) into effector TH1 or TH2 types (data not shown).
These experiments suggest that MSCs can affect effector T cell differentiation directly
and alter the T cell cytokine secretion towards a humoral phenotyp e.
        Similarly, when MSCs were cultured with purified NK cells (CD3-, CD14-, CD19-,
CD36~) at a ratio 1:1 for different time periods (0-48 hrs), there -was decreased IFN-y
secretion in the culture supernatant (Fig. 2C), thereby suggesting that MSCs can
modulate NK cell functions also.
        Previous work has indicated that MSCs modify T-cell functions by soluble
factor(s) (LeBlanc, et al., Exp. Hematol., Vol. 31,         pg. 890   (2003); Tse, et al.,
Transplantation, Vol. 75, pg. 389 (2003).        It was observed that the MSCs secreted
several factors, including IL-6, prostaglandin E2 , VEGF and prcMMP-1constitutively,
and the levels of each increased upon culture with PBMCs (Fig. 5). In order to
investigate MSC-derived factors leading to inhibition of TNF-a and increase of IL-10
production by DCs, the potential role of prostaglandin E2 was investigated, as it has
been shown to inhibit TNF-a production by activated DCs (\fassiliou, et al., Cell.
Immunol., Vol. 223, pg. 120 (2003)). Conditioned media from MSC culture (24 hour
culture of 0.5  x10 6 cells/ml) contained approx. 1000 pg/ml of PGE 2 (Fig. 4A). There was
no detectable presence of known inducers of PGE 2 secretion e.g. TNF-a, IFN-y or IL-1p
                                              24

(data not shown) in the culture supernatant indicating a constitutive secretion of PGE 2
by MSCs. The PGE 2 secretion by hMSCs was inhibited 60-90% in the presence of
known inhibitors of PGE 2 production, NS-398 (5 tM) and indomethacin (4 ptM) (Fig. 4A).
As the release of PGE 2 secretion occurs as a result of enzymatic activity of
constitutively active cycloxygenase enzyme 1 (COX-1) and inducible cycloxygenase
enzyme 2 (COX-2) (Harris, et al., Trends Immunol., Vol. 23, pg. 144 (2002)) the mRNA
expression for COX-1 and COX-2 in MSCs and PBMCs using trans-well culture system
was analyzed. MSCs expressed significantly higher levels of COX-2 as compared to
PBMCs and the expression levels increase >3-fold upon co-culture of MSCs and
PBMCs (MSC to PBMC ratio 1:10) for 24 hours (Fig. 4B). Modest changes in COX-1
levels were seen suggesting that the increase in PGE 2 secretion upon MSC-PBMC co
culture (Fig. 5) is mediated by COX-2 up-regulation. To investigate whether the
immunomodulatory effects of MSC on DCs and T-cells were mediated by PGE 2, MSCs
were cultured with activated dendritic cells (DC1) or TH1 cells in the presence of PGE 2
inhibitors NS-398 or indomethacin. The presence of NS-398 or indomethacin increased
TNF-a secretion by DC1s, and IFN-y secretion from TH1 cells (Fig. 4C), respectively,
suggesting that MSC effects on immune cell types may be mediated by secreted PGE 2.
Recent studies have shown that MSCs inhibit T-cell proliferation induced by various
stimuli (DeNicola, et al., Blood, Vol. 99, pg. 3838 (2002); LeBlanc, et al., Scand. J.
Immunol., Vol. 57, pg. 11 (2003)). It was observed that MSCs inhibit mitogen-induced T
cell proliferation in a dose-dependent manner (Fig. 6) and when PGE 2 inhibitors NS-398
(5 piM) or indomethacin (4 pM) were present, there was a >70% increase in (3 H)
thymidine incorporation by PHA-treated        PBMCs in MSC containing cultures as
compared to controls without inhibitors (Fig. 4D).
        In summary, a model of MSC interaction with other immune cell types (Fig. 7) is
proposed. When mature T cells are present, MSCs may interact with them directly and
inhibit the pro-inflammatory IFN-y production (pathway 1) and promote regulatory T cell
phenotype (pathway 3) and anti-inflammatory TH2 cells (pathway 5). Further, MSCs can
alter the outcome of the T cell immune response through DCs by secreting PGE 2 ,
inhibiting pro-inflammatory DC1 cells (pathway 2) and promoting anti-inflammatory DC2
cells (pathway 4) or regulatory DCs (pathway 3). A shift towards TH2 immunity in turn,
                                            25

suggests a change in B cell activity towards increased generation of IgE/IgG1 subtype
antibodies (pathway 7). MSCs, by their ability to inhibit IFN-y secretion from NK cells
likely modify NK cell function (pathway 6). This model of MSC:Immune cell interactions
is consistent with the experimentation performed in several other laboratories (LeBlanc,
et al., Exp. Hematol., Vol. 31, pg. 890 (2003); Tse, et al., Transplantation, Vol. 75, pg.
389 (2003); DiNicola, et al., Blood, Vol. 99, pg. 3838 (2002)). Further examination of
the proposed mechanisms is underway and animal studies are now necessary to
examine the in vivo effects of MSC administration.
        The     disclosures of all  patents,   publications, including published    patent
applications, depository accession numbers, and database accession numbers are
hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each patent, publication,
depository accession number, and database accession number were specifically and
individually incorporated by reference.
        It is to be understood, however, that the scope of the present invention is not to
be limited to the specific embodiments described above.           The invention may be
practiced other than as particularly described and still be within the scope of the
accompanying claims.
                                             26

       WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
       1.     A method of promoting angiogenesis in an organ or tissue of an animal
other than the heart, comprising:
              administering to said animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount
              effective to promote angiogenesis in an organ or tissue other than the
              heart of said animal.
       2.     The method of Claim 1 wherein said animal is a mammal..
       3.     The method of Claim 2 wherein said mammal is a primate.
       4.     The method of Claim 3 wherein said primate is a human.
        5.    The method of Claim 1 wherein said mesenchymal stem cells are
                                                                        7 cells/kg.
administered in an amount of from about 1x10' cells/kg to about 1X10
        6.    The method of Claim 5 wherein said mesenchymal stem cells are
administered in an amount of from about 1x106 cells/kg to about 5x1 06 cells/kg.
        7.    The method of Claim I wherein said mesenchymal stem cells are
administered systemically.
        8.    The method of Claim 1 wherein said mesenchymal stem cells are
administered intravenously.
        9.    The method of Claim 1 wherein said mesenchymal stem cells are
administered by direct injection to said organ or tissue other than the heart of said
animal.
        10.   A method of treating an autoimmune disease in an animal, comprising:
                                             27

                       administering to said animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount
effective to treat said autoimmune disease in said animal
        11.     The method of Claim 10 wherein said animal is a mammal
        12.     The method of Claim 11 wherein said mammal is a human.
        13.     The method of Claim 10 wherein said autoimmune disease is multiple
sclerosis.
        14.     A method of treating an inflammatory response in an animal, comprising:
                       administering to said animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount
effective to treat said inflammatory response in said animal.
        15.     The method of Claim 14 wherein said animal is a mammal.
        16.     The method of Claim 15 wherein said mammal is a human.
        17.     The method of Claim 14 wherein said inflammatory response is
associated with psoriasis.
        18.     A method of treating cancer in an animal, comprising:
                       administering to said animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount
effective to treat cancer in said animal.
        19.     The method of Claim 18 wherein said animal is a mammal.
        20.     The method of Claim 19 wherein said mammal is a human.
        21.     A method of treating an allergic disease or disorder in an animal,
comprising:
                                              28

                       administering to said animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount
effective to treat said allergic disease or disorder in said animal.
         22.    The method of Claim 21 wherein said animal is a mammal.
         23.    The method of Claim 22 wherein said mammal is a human.
         24.    The method of Claim 14 wherein said allergic disease or disorder is
arthritis.
         25.    A method of promoting wound healing in an animal, comprising:
                       administering to said animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount
effective to promote wound healing in said animal.
         26.    The method of Claim 25 wherein said animal is a mammal.
         27.    The method of Claim 26 wherein said mammal is a human.
         28.    A method of preventing fibrosis in an animal, comprising:
                       administering to said animal mesenchymal stem cells in an amount
effective to prevent fibrosis in said animal.
                                               29

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
