OPTICALLY COUPLED COCHLEAR IMPLANT SYSTEMS AND
METHODS
ABSTRACT
       A system (10) to stimulate tissue of a user having a tympanic membrane, the system (10)
comprising: a plurality of electrodes (32E) configured for placement at least partially within the
tissue; circuitry configured to receive a signal from a source; at least one light source coupled to
the circuitry, the at least one light source and the circuitry configured to transmit through the
tympanic membrane a multiplexed optical signal comprising a plurality of light pulses; at least
one photo detector (34) sized and shaped to collect a scattered multiplexed optical signal
transmitted through the tympanic membrane, the at least one photodetector (34) and the plurality
of electrodes (32E) configured to pass current through the electrodes (32E) in response to the
scattered multiplexed optical signal comprising the plurality of light pulses in order to stimulate
the tissue, wherein the multiplexed optical signal comprises a plurality of optical channels, each
optical channel of the plurality corresponding to at least one frequency of the sound, and
wherein the multiplexed optical signal is transmitted through the tympanic membrane of the user
to the at least one photodetector (34) , the at least one photodetector (34) configured to be
affixed to the middle ear and coupled to the plurality of electrodes (32e) configured to be
positioned at least partially within the cochlea.

                                                  1
OPTICALLY COUPLED COCHLEAR IMPLANT SYSTEMS AND
METHODS
FIELD
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. <removed-apn>, filed <removed-date>. Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn> was a
divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2010263045, filed 18 June 2010, which claimed
priority to U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61/218,377, filed 18 June 2009 and 61/220,124,
filed 24 June 2009. The contents of each of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61/218,377 and
61/220,124, and Australian Patent Application Nos. 2010263045 and <removed-apn> are
incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
BACKGROUND
[0002] 1. Field of the Disclosure. The present invention relates to tissue stimulation with
electrodes generally, and more specifically to stimulation of the cochlea for hearing. Although
specific reference is made to cochlear implants, embodiments of the present invention can be
used in many applications wherein tissue is stimulated, for example with stimulation of muscles,
nerves and neural tissue, for example the treatment of Parkinson's.
[0003] The prior devices used to stimulate tissue can be somewhat invasive, in at least some
instances. An example of a device used to stimulate tissue is the cochlear implant, which can be
used to stimulate the nerve tissue of the cochlea. At least some of the prior devices used with
cochlear implants can be more invasive than would be ideal. For example, in at least some
instances cochlear implants rely on the cutting of bone and the cut bone can take at least some
time to heal such that the surgery can be more invasive than would be ideal. Also, the cutting of
bone may lead to weakening of the bone in at least some instances. Also, at least some of the
prior cochlear implants may be removed and the cut bone may leave at least a partial void in the
bone in at least some instances. Also, the circuitry associated with cochlear implants can be
somewhat larger than ideal.

                                                   2
[0004] The coupling of cochlear implants to an external driver can be somewhat cumbersome
and may be less than ideal in at least some instances. For example, prior cochlear implants can
transmit energy through a pair of transmitter and receiver RF coils, and the use of such coils can
be somewhat awkward and less than ideal in at least some instances. For example, the coils may
require alignment and although a pair of magnets may be used to align the RF coils, one of the
two magnets may be semi-permanently implanted in temporal bones which can be somewhat
invasive in at least some instances. As body implanted magnets are contraindications for MRI
machines, and the magnets may be surgically removed prior to imaging in at least some
instances. As cochlear implants can be implanted in children as young as 18 months and
implanted in adults, there is at least a reasonable likelihood that the surgically implanted
magnets may require removal prior to an MRI and a second procedure for reimplantation
following the MRI in at least some instances.
[0005] At least some of the prior cochlear implants may produce a perceived sound quality that
is less than ideal in at least some instances. For example, sound localization cues and allow a
person to localize sound and hear in a noisy environment, and in at least some instances the
prior cochlear implant devices may not provide the sound localization cues that are present with
natural hearing. Also, the sound produced with at least some cochlear implant devices may
sound at least somewhat distorted in at least some instances.
[0006] It would be helpful to stimulate tissue with electrical current in a manner that overcomes
at least some of the shortcomings of the prior cochlear implant devices. Ideally, such devices
would be less invasive and provide improved hearing with sound localization cues and less
distortion land fewer surgeries after implantation.
SUMMARY
[0007] It is an object of the present disclosure to overcome or at least ameliorate one or more
disadvantages of the prior art.
[0008] The present disclosure relates to tissue stimulation with electrodes generally, and more
specifically to stimulation of the cochlea for hearing. Although specific reference is made to
cochlear implants, examples of the present disclosure can be used in many applications wherein
tissue is stimulated, for example with stimulation of muscles, nerves and neural tissue, for
example the treatment of Parkinson's.

                                                   3
[0009] Examples of the present disclosure provide devices, systems and methods of stimulating
tissue with electrical current that overcome at least some of the problems associated with the
prior devices. For example, an output assembly can be sized for placement in the middle and
inner ear, such that removal of bone can be decreased. Also, the output assembly may comprise
substantially non-magnetic materials such that a person can undergo MRI imaging when the
output assembly is implanted. The output assembly may comprise at least one photo detector, a
demultiplexer and an electrode array sized to pass through an incision in the eardrum. An input
transducer assembly can be configured to transmit a multiplexed optical signal to the output
assembly. For example, the input assembly can be configured to transmit the multiplexed
optical signal through the eardrum such that tissue removal can be decreased and the device can
be implanted without removal of bone. The multiplexed optical signal may comprise a pulse
width modulated signal so as to decrease the effect of non-linearities of the light source and light
detector and provide quality sound to the user. For example, the pulse width modulated signal
may comprise optical pulses having a frequency above the hearing frequency, for example
above at least about 20 kHz, such that the cochlea demodulates pulses and the phase of the
sound signal transmitted to the user is substantially maintained. The sound may comprise a
plurality of frequencies corresponding a plurality of channels, and a series of width modulated
pulses may be determined for each of the channels. The width modulated pulses of each
channel can be delivered optically through the tympanic membrane with high frequencies such
that the cochlea demodulates the high frequency pulses to the user perceptible sound having
amplitude and phase maintained.
[0010] In accordance with one aspect, the present invention provides a system to stimulate
tissue of a user having a tympanic membrane, the system comprising:
        a plurality of electrodes configured for placement at least partially within the tissue;
        circuitry configured to receive a signal from a source;
        at least one light source coupled to the circuitry, the at least one light source and the
circuitry configured to transmit through the tympanic membrane a multiplexed optical signal
comprising a plurality of light pulses;
        at least one photo detector sized and shaped to collect a scattered multiplexed optical
signal transmitted through the tympanic membrane, the at least one photodetector and the
plurality of electrodes configured to pass current through the electrodes in response to the
scattered multiplexed optical signal comprising the plurality of light pulses in order to stimulate
the tissue,

                                                    4
        wherein the multiplexed optical signal comprises a plurality of optical channels, each
optical channel of the plurality corresponding to at least one frequency of the sound, and
        wherein the multiplexed optical signal is transmitted through the tympanic membrane of
the user to the at least one photodetector, the at least one photodetector configured to be affixed
to the middle ear and coupled to the plurality of electrodes configured to be positioned at least
partially within the cochlea.
[0011] In accordance with another aspect, the present invention provides a system to transmit an
audio signal to a user having a tympanic membrane, the system comprising:
        an electrode array comprising a plurality of electrodes configured for placement at least
partially within a cochlea of the user;
        circuitry configured to receive the audio signal from a sound source;
        at least one light source coupled to the circuitry, the at least one light source and the
circuitry configured to transmit through the tympanic membrane a multiplexed optical signal
comprising a plurality of light pulses and comprising the audio signal, wherein the multiplexed
optical signal comprises a plurality of optical channels, each optical channel of the plurality
corresponding to at least one frequency of the audio signal;
        at least one detector sized and shaped to collect a scattered multiplexed optical signal
transmitted through the tympanic membrane and pass current through the electrodes in response
to the scattered multiplexed optical signal comprising the plurality of light pulses in order to
transmit the audio signal,
        wherein the multiplexed optical signal is transmitted through the tympanic membrane of
the user to the at least one detector, the at least one detector configured to be affixed to the
middle ear and coupled to the electrode array configured to be positioned at least partially within
the cochlea.
[0012] Examples of the present disclosure provide a method of stimulating tissue. A
multiplexed optical signal is transmitted so as to stimulate the tissue.
[0013] Examples of the present disclosure also provide a method of transmitting a sound to a
cochlea of a user, the user having a tissue, the method comprising:
        transmitting a multiplexed optical signal through the tissue of the user such that the user
hears the sound in response to the multiplexed optical signal transmitted through the tissue.
[0014] In many examples, the tissue comprises tissue of an eardrum.

                                                    5
[0015] In many examples, the multiplexed optical signal is transmitted to an optical structure
supported with the middle ear, the optical structure configured to separate wavelengths of the
multiplexed signal to stimulate the cochlea.
[0016] In many examples, the said optical structure is affixed to the middle ear. The said optical
structure can be sized to pass through an incision in the eardrum for placement in a cavity of the
middle ear.
[0017] In many examples, the optical structure comprises at least one of an optical filter, an
optical fiber, a grating, an etalon, a plurality of optical fibers, a waveguide, a plurality of
waveguides, a mirror or a prism.
[0018] In many examples, the multiplexed optical signal comprises a plurality of channels, each
channel of the plurality corresponding to at least one frequency of the sound.
[0019] In many examples, the plurality of channels corresponds to at least about sixteen
channels and said at least one frequency corresponds to at least about sixteen frequencies.
[0020] In many examples, the multiplexed optical signal is transmitted through the eardrum
with a plurality of light sources, each light source configured to transmit a light signal
corresponding to said channel of the plurality such that said light source corresponds to said at
least one frequency of sound. The plurality of light sources may comprise at least three light
sources, and each of the at least three light sources is configured to emit separate wavelengths of
light.
[0021] In many examples, each of the plurality of channels corresponds to a pair of electrodes,
and a first current travels between said pair of electrodes in response to a first width modulated
light pulse and a second current travels between said pair of electrodes in response to a second
width modulated light pulse. The first current is opposite the second current. The first current
has a first amount corresponding to a first width of the first pulse, and the second current has a
second amount corresponding to a second width of the second pulse. The width of the first
pulse corresponds to the width of the second pulse so as to inhibit rectification and balance
charge transfer between the first electrode and the second electrode.

                                                   6
[0022] In many examples, the first light pulse comprises a first wavelength of light coupled to a
first detector and the second light pulse comprises a second wavelength of light coupled to a
second detector.
[0023] In many examples, the multiplexed optical signal is transmitted through the eardrum of
the user to at least one photodetector, and the at least one photodetector affixed to the middle ear
and coupled to an electrode array positioned at least partially within the cochlea. The at least
one photodetector and at least one electrode array can be sized to pass through an incision in the
eardrum.
[0024] In many examples, the multiplexed optical signal comprises a wavelength multiplexed
optical signal, the wavelength multiplexed optical signal comprising a plurality of wavelengths
such that each wavelength corresponds to an electrode of the array. Each wavelength of the
plurality may correspond to an electrode of the array.
[0025] In many examples, the at least one photodetector comprises a plurality of photodetectors,
and each photodetector of the plurality is coupled to a corresponding electrode of the array and a
corresponding wavelength of the plurality such that the tissue stimulating current is passed
through the electrode in response to the tissue stimulating wavelength.
[0026] In many examples, an optical structure is positioned in the middle ear of the user to
separate the wavelengths to correspond with each detector, and such that each separated
wavelength corresponding to each detector is transmitted to said each detector based on the
wavelength.
[0027] In many examples, a plurality of optical filters is positioned in the middle ear of the user,
and the wavelengths are separated with the optical filters, in which each optical filter is
positioned over one detector and configured to pass the wavelengths corresponding to the
electrode coupled to said one detector.
[0028] In many examples, a grating is configured to select the wavelengths of each detector to
corresponding to each electrode.
[0029] In many examples, the multiplexed optical signal comprises a time division multiplexed
signal. The time division multiplexed signal may comprise the plurality of time-slots, in which

                                                  7
each time slot of the plurality corresponds to an electrode of the array. The time division
multiplexed signal may comprise the plurality of time slots and a clock signal, and the circuitry
can be coupled to the at least one photodetector and the electrode array so as to receive the clock
signal and divide the time division multiplexed signal among the electrodes of the array such
that each time slot corresponds to at least one electrode of the array.
[0030] In many examples, each time slot corresponds to at least one frequency of the sound such
that current is passed through each electrode in response to a portion of the multiplexed signal
corresponding to the time slot. The time division multiplexed signal can pulse width modulated
such that each timeslot of the plurality comprises a pulse of light having a duration that
corresponds to current through the electrode corresponding to said timeslot.
[0031] In many examples, the multiplexed optical signal is transmitted to at least one optical
fiber extending into the cochlea. The at least one optical fiber can be sized to pass through an
incision in the middle ear. The at least one optical fiber may comprise a plurality of optical
fibers extending into the cochlea, each fiber corresponding to at least one frequency of the
sound. Each fiber can be configured to stimulate the cochlea at a predetermined location of the
cochlea corresponding to a corresponding range of frequencies in response to the at least one
frequency of the sound.
[0032] In many examples, the multiplexed optical signal is transmitted through at least one of an
opening or a window in the eardrum.
[0033] In many examples, the electrode array, the at least one photodetector, and the
demultiplexer comprise substantially non-magnetic materials configured for MRI imaging when
implanted in the user.
[0034] In many examples, the sound comprises a phase, and the optical signal comprises width
modulated light pulses transmitted with a frequency of at least about 10 kHz. Each light pulse
generates an electrical current within the cochlea such that the cochlea demodulates the light
pulses and the phase of the sound is maintained.
[0035] In many examples, the width modulated light pulses comprises a series of width
modulated pulses for each channel and wherein the series of width modulated pulses of said
each channel comprises a frequency of at least about 10 kHz to maintain the phase of the sound

                                                  8
when the user hears the sound. The frequency of said each series may comprise at least about
20 kHz to maintain the phase of the sound when the user hears the sound. The plurality of
channels may comprise at least about eight channels and the frequency of the width modulated
light pulses comprises at least about 160 kHz.
[0036] In many examples, the pulses of the series of width modulated pulses of each channel are
combined to form a sequence of packet of pulses, each packet comprising one pulse from each
series.
[0037] In many examples, the at least one photodetector is positioned in the middle ear cavity so
as to receive the multiplexed optical signal through a posterior portion of the eardrum.
[0038] Examples of the present disclosure also provide a system to stimulate tissue. A plurality
of electrodes is configured for placement at least partially within the tissue. Circuitry is
configured to receive a signal from a source. At least one light source coupled to the circuitry
and configured to emit a multiplexed optical signal comprising a plurality of light pulses. At
least one photo detector is configured to receive the multiplexed optical and pass current
through the electrodes in response to the light pulses to stimulate the tissue.
[0039] Examples of the present disclosure also provide a system to transmit an audio signal to a
user. An electrode array comprises a plurality of electrodes configured for placement at least
partially within a cochlea of the user. Circuitry is configured to receive the audio signal from a
sound source. At least one light source coupled to the circuitry and configured to emit a
multiplexed optical signal comprising a plurality of light pulses. At least one detector is
configured to receive the multiplexed optical and pass current through the electrodes in response
to the light pulses.
[0040] In many examples, the circuitry is configured to determine widths of a plurality of light
pulses and wherein each light pulse corresponds to an electrode of the array and a width of said
each light pulse corresponds to an amount of current through said corresponding electrode of the
array.
[0041] In many examples, the circuitry is configured to determine frequencies of the audio
signal and wherein the frequencies correspond to electrodes of the array and wherein the

                                                    9
circuitry is configured to determine a width of each pulse in response to one or more of the
frequencies.
[0042] In many examples, the at least one light source comprises a plurality of light sources and
wherein each light source corresponds to one electrode of the array. Each of the plurality of
light sources can be configured to emit light comprising wavelengths substantially separated
from wavelengths of other light sources of the plurality.
[0043] In many examples, the plurality of light sources comprises at least three light sources and
the electrode array comprises at least three electrodes, and each of the at least three light sources
corresponds to one electrode of the at least three electrodes of the array. Each of the at least
three light sources can be configured to emit light comprising wavelengths substantially
separated from others of the at least three light sources, and the wavelengths of each source
correspond to one electrode of the at least three.
[0044] In many examples, the at least one detector comprises a plurality of detectors, and each
detector of the plurality corresponds to one electrode of the array.
[0045] In many examples, the plurality of light detectors comprises at least three light detectors
and the electrode array comprises at least three electrodes and each of the at least three light
detectors corresponds to one electrode of the at least three electrodes of the array.
[0046] In many examples, an optical structure configured to receive the multiplexed optical
signal, the optical structure configured for placement in the middle, the optical structure
configured to select wavelengths of the multiplexed signal. The said optical structure can be
sized to pass through an incision in the eardrum for placement in the middle ear and the
electrode array is sized for placement at least partially inside the cochlea through a round
window of the cochlea.
[0047] In many examples, the optical structure comprises at least one of an optical filter, a
grating, an etalon, a plurality of optical fibers, or a prism.
[0048] In many examples, the multiplexed optical signal comprises a plurality of optical
channels, each optical channel of the plurality corresponding to at least one frequency of the

                                                 10
sound. The plurality of optical channels may correspond to at least about sixteen channels and
said at least one frequency corresponds to at least about sixteen frequencies.
[0049] An elongate optical transmission structure is configured for placement at least partially
within the ear canal of the user, and the elongate optical transmission structure is configured to
transmit multiplexed optical signal through the eardrum.
[0050] In many examples, the multiplexed optical signal is transmitted through the eardrum of
the user to at least one photodetector, in which the at least one photodetector is affixed to the
middle ear and coupled to an electrode array positioned at least partially within the cochlea.
[0051] In many examples, the at least one photodetector and the electrode array are sized to pass
through an incision in the eardrum.
[0052] In many examples, the multiplexed optical signal comprises a wavelength multiplexed
optical signal, the wavelength multiplexed optical signal comprising a plurality of wavelengths
such that each wavelength corresponds to an electrode of the array. Each wavelength of the
plurality may correspond to an electrode of the array. The plurality of wavelengths may
comprise at least three wavelengths and wherein the plurality of electrodes comprises at least
three electrodes and wherein each wavelength of the plurality corresponds to one electrode of
the at least three electrodes.
[0053] In many examples, the circuitry is configured to transmit a series of the light pulses to
correspond to electrodes of the array.
[0054] In many examples, the series comprises a plurality of pulses and wherein each pulse of
the plurality corresponds to one electrode of the plurality.
[0055] In many examples, the plurality of electrodes comprises at least three electrodes and
wherein the series comprises at least three pulses and wherein each pulse of the at least three
pulses corresponds to one electrode of the at least three electrodes.
[0056] In many examples, the series comprises a timing pulse. The timing pulse may comprise
a substantially fixed width and wherein the timing pulse comprises energy to power circuitry
coupled to the plurality of electrodes. Switching circuitry can be coupled to the at least one

                                                   11
detector to couple sequentially each electrode of the plurality to the at least one detector in
response to the timing pulse such that each pulse of the series corresponds to one electrode of
the plurality. The series of pulses may comprise a pre-determined order and timing of the pulses
and the switching circuitry may comprise a timer coupled to switches to open the switches and
close the to correspond with pulses of the series.
[0057] In many examples, the series comprises at least three pulses and wherein the switching
circuitry is configured to coupled at least one detector sequentially to each electrode of the at
least three such that each pulse of the series corresponds to one electrode of the plurality.
[0058] In many examples, the electrode array, the at least one photodetector, and the
demultiplexer comprise substantially non-magnetic materials configured for MRI imaging when
implanted in the user.
[0059] In many examples, each of the plurality of channels corresponds to a pair of electrodes
and wherein a first current travels between said pair of electrodes in response to a first width
modulated light pulse and a second current travels between said pair of electrodes in response to
a second width modulated light pulse, the first current opposite the second current, the first
current opposite the second current, the first current having a first amount corresponding to a
first width of the first pulse and the second current having a second amount corresponding to a
second width the second pulse, and the width of the first pulse corresponds to the width of the
second pulse so as to inhibit rectification and balance charge transfer between the first electrode
and the second electrode.
[0060] In many examples, the first light pulse comprises a first wavelength of light coupled to a
first detector coupled to said pair of electrodes, and the second light pulse comprises a second
wavelength of light coupled to a second detector coupled to said pair of electrodes. The first
detector is coupled to said pair of electrodes opposite the second detector. Each channel may
correspond to a pair of electrodes and a first detector coupled to the pair of electrodes opposite a
second detector, for example at least about 8 channels corresponding to 8 pairs of electrodes
coupled 16 detectors.
[0061] In many examples, the sound comprises a phase and wherein the optical signal comprises
width modulated light pulses transmitted with a frequency of at least about 10 kHz and wherein
each light pulse generates an electrical current within the cochlea such that the cochlea

                                                 12
demodulates the light pulses and the phase of the sound is maintained. The width modulated
light pulses may comprise a series of width modulated pulses for each channel, and the series of
width modulated pulses of said each channel comprises a frequency of at least about 10 kHz to
maintain the phase of the sound when the user hears the sound.
[0062] In many examples, the frequency of said each series comprises at least about 20 kHz to
maintain the phase of the sound when the user hears the sound.
[0063] In many examples, the plurality of channels comprises at least about eight channels and
the frequency of the width modulated light pulses comprises at least about 160 kHz.
[0064] In many examples, the pulses of the series of width modulated pulses of each channel are
combined to form a sequence of packet of pulses, each packet comprising one pulse from each
series.
[0065] Examples of the present disclosure also provide a method of providing a hearing
prosthesis for a user. An incision is made in an eardrum of the user, in which the eardrum
comprises an annulus. An electrode array, at least one photodetector, and a demultiplexer are
passed through the incision. For example, an output assembly may comprise the electrode array,
the at least one photodetector, and the demultiplexer, and the output assembly can be passed
through the incision.
[0066] In many examples, the incision extends at least partially through the annulus.
[0067] In many examples, the eardrum is positioned to a side of an ear canal to pass the
electrode array, the demultiplexer and the at least one photodetector through the incision.
[0068] In many examples, the at least one detector and the demultiplexer are affixed to the
middle ear of the user.
[0069] In many examples, the electrode array is positioned at least partially through a round
window and wherein the at least one detector and the demultiplexer are positioned in a middle
ear of the user.

                                                   13
[0070] In many examples, the at least one detector and the demultiplexer are affixed to the
middle ear of the user.
[0071] In many examples, the at least one photo detector comprises at least three
photodetectors.
[0072] In many examples, the demultiplexer comprises an optical demultiplexer. The optical
demultiplexer may comprise at least three filters to separate at least three wavelengths of light.
[0073] In many examples, the demultiplexer comprises switching circuitry and a timer.
[0074] In many examples, the electrode array, the at least one photodetector, and the
demultiplexer passed through the incision comprise substantially non-magnetic materials
configured for MRI imaging.
[0075] In many examples, the at least one photodetector is positioned in the middle ear cavity to
receive light energy transmitted through the posterior portion of the eardrum.
[0076] Examples of the present disclosure also provide a device to stimulate tissue. The device
comprises a means for generating a multiplexed optical signal, and means for stimulating tissue
in response to the optical signal. The means for generating the optical signal may comprise one
or more of the structures of the input assembly for generating the multiplexed optical signals as
described herein, and the means for stimulating the tissue may comprise one or more of the
structures of the output assembly having the corresponding function as described herein.
[0077] There is also disclosed herein a system to transmit an audio signal to a user having a
tympanic membrane, the system comprising: an electrode array comprising a plurality of
electrodes configured for placement at least partially within a cochlea of the user; circuitry
configured to receive the audio signal from a sound source; at least one light source coupled to
the circuitry, the at least one light source and the circuitry configured to transmit through the
tympanic membrane a multiplexed optical signal comprising a plurality of light pulses and
comprising the audio signal; and at least one detector sized and shaped to collect a scattered
multiplexed optical signal transmitted through the tympanic membrane and pass current through
the electrodes in response to the scattered multiplexed optical signal comprising the plurality of
light pulses in order to transmit the audio signal, wherein the multiplexed optical signal is

                                                   14
transmitted through the tympanic membrane of the user to the at least one detector, the at least
one detector configured to be affixed to the middle ear and coupled to the electrode array
configured to be positioned at least partially within the cochlea.
[0078] There is also disclosed herein a method of transmitting an audio signal to a user having a
tympanic membrane, the method comprising: transmitting a multiplexed optical signal
comprising a plurality of light sources and comprising the audio signal from at least one light
source through the tympanic membrane of the user to at least one detector, wherein the least one
detector is configured to be affixed to a middle ear and coupled to a plurality of electrodes and is
configured to be positioned at least partially within a cochlea of the user; and stimulating tissue
of the user to enable user to hear sound in response to the transmitted multiplexed optical signal.
[0079] There is also disclosed herein a system to stimulate tissue of a user having a tympanic
membrane, the system comprising: a plurality of electrodes configured for placement at least
partially within the tissue; circuitry configured to receive a signal from a source; at least one
light source coupled to the circuitry, the at least one light source and the circuitry configured to
transmit through the tympanic membrane a multiplexed optical signal comprising a plurality of
light pulses; at least one photo detector sized and shaped to collect a scattered multiplexed
optical signal transmitted through the tympanic membrane, the at least one photodetector and
the plurality of electrodes configured to pass current through the electrodes in response to the
scattered multiplexed optical signal comprising the plurality of light pulses in order to stimulate
the tissue, wherein the multiplexed optical signal is transmitted through the tympanic membrane
of the user to the at least one photodetector, the at least one photodetector configured to be
affixed to the middle ear and coupled to the plurality of electrodes configured to be positioned at
least partially within the cochlea.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0080] Preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0081] Figure 1A shows an optically coupled cochlear implant system comprising a behind the
ear unit, in accordance with embodiments of the present invention;

                                                  15
[0082] Figure 1A1 shows an optically coupled cochlear implant system comprising an ear canal
module, in accordance with embodiments of the present invention;
[0083] Figure 1A2 shows an optically coupled output transducer assembly having a
photodetector positioned in a middle ear cavity to couple optically through a posterior portion of
the eardrum and an electrode array extending into the cochlea through the round window, as
seen from the ear canal looking into the middle ear cavity with a medial view, in accordance
with embodiments;
[0084] Figure 1B shows an input transducer assembly configured to emit a multiplexed optical
signal, in accordance with embodiments of the present invention;
[0085] Figure 2A shows an input transducer assembly configured to emit a wavelength
multiplexed optical signal in accordance with embodiments of the present invention;
[0086] Figure 2A1 optical pulses comprising separate wavelengths of light of a wavelength
multiplexed optical signal as in Fig. 2A;
[0087] Figure 2A2 shows an optical multiplexer configured to wavelength multiplex light from
a plurality of light sources having separate wavelengths, as in Fig. 2A;
[0088] Figure 2B shows an output transducer assembly comprising an optical demultiplexer
configured to couple with an input transducer assembly as in Fig 2A;
[0089] Figure 2C shows an output transducer assembly comprising an optical demultiplexer
comprising optical filters and an array of detectors, in accordance with embodiments;
[0090] Figure 2C 1 shows circuitry of a channel of the output transducer assembly of Figure 2C
so as to provide at least biphasic pulses in response to a first light pulse comprising a first
wavelength and a second light pulse comprising a second wavelength, in accordance with
embodiments;
[0091] Figure 3A shows an input transducer assembly configured to emit a time multiplexed
optical signal in accordance with embodiments of the present invention;

                                                  16
[0092] Figure 3A1 optical pulses comprising a series of pulses of the time multiplexed optical
signal as in Fig. 3A;
[0093] Figure 3A2 shows a clock pulse of the series of optical pulses of the time multiplexed
optical signal as in Fig. 3A;
[0094] Figure 3B shows an output transducer assembly configured for use with an input
transducer assembly as in Fig. 3A;
[0095] Figure 4 shows tri-phasic pulse width modulated pulses, in accordance with
embodiments;
[0096] Figure 5A shows signal to channel conversion with bandpass filtering and pulse width
modulation so as to maintain substantially phase of the audio signal among the channels with
high frequency stimulation of the cochlea, in accordance with embodiments;
[0097] Figure 5B shows pulses of a channel for high frequency stimulation of the cochlea so as
to maintain phase of the audio signal as in Fig. 5A; and
[0098] Figure 6 shows an experimental set up to determine optical transmission through the
tympanic membrane, in accordance with embodiments.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0099] The present invention relates to tissue stimulation with electrodes generally, and more
specifically to stimulation of the cochlea for hearing. Although specific reference is made to
cochlear implants, embodiments of the present invention can be used in many applications
wherein tissue is stimulated, for example with stimulation of muscles, nerves and neural tissue,
for example the treatment of Parkinson's.
[0100] As used herein light encompasses infrared light, visible light and ultraviolet light.
[0101] Figure 1A shows an optically coupled cochlear implant system 10 comprising an input
transducer assembly 20 and an output assembly 30. The input transducer assembly 20 may
comprise behind the ear unit (hereinafter "BTE"). The BTE unit can be positioned behind a
pinna P of the user, so as to decrease visibility of the BTE unit. The BTE unit can house

                                                  17
electronics used to process and input signal. An input transducer, for example microphone 22,
is coupled to the BTE unit and can transmit an audio signal to the BTE unit. The BTE can
convert the input signal into a multiplexed optical signal ) M. The BTE unit may house the light
source which can be coupled to an optical transmission structure 12 to emit the multiplexed
optical signal Xm.  The light transmission structure 12 can extend from the BTE into the ear
canal EC. The light transmission structure 12 may support microphone 22. Microphone 22 can
be positioned in many locations, for example within the ear canal or near the ear canal opening
to detect sound localization cues. Alternatively, the microphone may be positioned on the ear
canal. The input transducer may comprise a second microphone positioned on the BTE unit for
noise cancelation. The sound input may comprise sound from a Bluetooth connection, and the
BTE may comprise circuitry to couple with a cell phone, for example.
[0102] The output assembly 30 is configured for placement in the middle ear and inner ear of
the user. The output assembly 30 comprises at least one detector 34 configured to receive the
multiplexed optical signal 2CM. The output assembly comprises an electrode array 32 coupled to
the at least one detector 34 so as to stimulate the cochlea in response to the multiplexed optical
signal kM. The electrode array comprises a plurality of electrodes 32E, for example 16 pairs of
electrodes. The output assembly 30 may comprise a demultiplexer coupled to the at least one
detector to demultiplex the optical signal. The multiplexed optical signal may comprise, for
example, a time multiplexed optical signal or a wavelength multiplexed optical signal. The
demultiplexer comprises structures so as to demultiplex the optical signal and stimulate tissue of
the cochlea. The demultiplexer can be configured to coupled pulses of the multiplexed optical
signal with electrodes of the array such that pulses of the multiplexed optical signal correspond
to electrodes of the array.
[0103] The output assembly 30 may comprise many known biocompatible and substantially
non-magnetic materials, such that output assembly 30 is configured for use with MRI imaging
when implanted in the patient. For example the electrode array 32 may comprise substantially
non-magnetic conducting metal, such as at least one of Platinum, Titanium, Ni, or NiTinol. The
electrode array may comprise a biocompatible substantially non-magnetic housing material, for
example at least one of silicone elastomer, biocompatible plastic, or hydrogel.
[0104] The electrode array 32E and at least one photo detector 34 can be configured in many
ways to stimulate the cochlea. For example, the electrodes can be coupled to the photo detector
for monophasic pulses. The electrode array may comprise bi-phasic pulses with a first pulse

                                                   18
corresponding to a first current in a first direction and a second pulse corresponding to a second
pulse in a second direction. The light energy of the first pulse corresponding to the first
direction may comprise a first amount of light energy and the second light pulse corresponding
to the second direction may comprise a second amount of the light energy, and the first amount
of light energy and the second amount of light energy can be substantially similar so as to
decrease cumulative charging of the electrodes and/or so as to inhibit rectification and charge
transfer with the electrodes, for example. The corresponding circuitry of the electrode array can
be configured to transmit the audio signal and stimulate the cochlea many kinds of pulses, for
example tri-phasic pulses. The light pulses of each channel may comprise a pair of pulse width
modulated light pulses having a first width modulated light pulse corresponding to a first
polarity of the electrode pair and a second width modulated light pulse corresponding to a
second polarity of the electrode pair opposite the first light pulse. The first width modulated
light pulse may have a first wavelength and the second width modulated light pulse may have a
second wavelength, for example.
[0105] Figure 1A1 shows an optically coupled cochlear implant system comprising an ear canal
module (hereinafter "ECM"). The ECM may comprise many of the components of the BTE
unit and vice-versa. The ECM may be shaped from a mold of the user's ear canal EC. Circuitry
(CR) can be coupled to microphone 22. The circuitry may comprise a sound processor. The
ECM may comprise an energy storage device PS configured to store electrical energy. The
storage device may comprise many known storage devices such at least one of a battery, a
rechargeable batter, a capacitor, a supercapacitor, or electrochemical double layer capacitor
(EDLC). The ECM can be removed, for example for recharging or when the user sleeps. The
ECM may comprise a channel 29 to pass air so as to decrease occlusion. Although air is passed
through channel 29, feedback is substantially non-existent due to the electrical and non-acoustic
stimulation of the cochlea.
[0106] The energy storage device PS may comprise a rechargeable energy storage device that
can be recharged in many ways. For example, the energy storage device may be charged with a
plug in connector coupled to a super capacitor for rapid charging. Alternatively, the energy
storage device may be charged with an inductive coil or with a photodetector PV. The
photodetector detector PV may be positioned on a proximal end of the ECM such that the
photodetector is exposed to light entering the ear canal EC. The photodetector PV can be
coupled to the energy storage device PS so as to charge the energy storage device PS. The
photodetector may comprise many detectors, for example black silicone as described above.

                                                  19
The rechargeable energy storage device can be provided merely for convenience, as the energy
storage device PS may comprise batteries that the user can replace when the ECM is removed
from ear canal.
[0107] The photodetector PV may comprise at least one photovoltaic material such as
crystalline silicon, amorphous silicon, micromorphous silicon, black silicon, cadmium telluride,
copper indium gallium selenide, and the like. In some embodiments, the photodetector PV may
comprise black silicon, for example as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,354,792 and 7,390,689 and
available under from SiOnyx, Inc. of Beverly, Massachusetts. The black silicon may comprise
shallow junction photonics manufactured with semiconductor process that exploits atomic level
alterations that occur in materials irradiated by high intensity lasers, such as a femto-second
laser that exposes the target semiconductor to high intensity pulses as short as one billionth of a
millionth of a second. Crystalline materials subject to these intense localized energy events may
under go a transformative change, such that the atomic structure becomes instantaneously
disordered and new compounds are "locked in" as the substrate re-crystallizes. When applied to
silicon, the result can be a highly doped, optically opaque, shallow junction interface that is
many times more sensitive to light than conventional semiconductor materials. Photovoltaic
transducers for hearing devices are also described in detail in U.S. Patent Applications Nos.
61/073,271, entitled "Optical Electro-Mechanical Hearing Devices With Combined Power and
Signal Architectures" (Attorney Docket No. 026166-001800US); and 61/073,281, entitled
"Optical Electro-Mechanical Hearing Devices with Separate Power and Signal" (Attorney
Docket No. 026166-001900US), the full disclosures of which have been previously incorporated
herein by reference and may be suitable for combination in accordance with some embodiments
as described herein.
[0108] The BTE may comprise many of the components of the ECM, for example photodetector
PV, energy storage device PS, the processor and circuitry, as described above.
[0109] Fig. 1A2 shows the optically coupled output transducer assembly 30 having the at least
one photodetector 34 positioned in a middle ear cavity to couple optically through a posterior
portion of the eardrum TM and electrode array 32E extending into the cochlea through the round
window RW, as seen a medial view looking from the ear canal into the middle ear cavity
through the eardrum TM. The output assembly 30 is positioned on promontory PR, for example
with an attachment structure 36, such that the at least one photodetector 34 is oriented to receive
light energy transmitted through a posterior portion of the eardrum TM. The position and the

                                                  20
orientation of the at least one photodetector 34 may remain substantially fixed when light energy
is transmitted through the eardrum to stimulate the cochlea with electrode array 32E.
Consequently, the optical coupling, efficiency of transfer of the light energy incident on the at
least photodetector 34 remains substantially constant, such that acoustic distortion due to motion
of the at least one photodetector is substantially inhibited. For example, the at least one
photodetector may comprise at least one photodetector PV, as described above, which is visible
through the eardrum TM such that light can be transmitted from the ear canal EC through the
eardrum TM so as to transmit the power and signal through the eardrum TM with light. For
example, the light energy can be transmitted through a posterior portion of the eardrum, for
example through a posterior/inferior portion, so as to increase coupling efficiency, for example
as described herein below.
[0110] Figure 1B shows input transducer assembly 20 configured to emit a multiplexed optical
signal. The components of the input transducer assembly may be housed in BTE unit or in the
ECM, or a combination thereof. Microphone 22 is coupled to a sound processor. The sound
processor may comprise one or more of many commercially available sound processors. The
sound processor comprises a tangible medium to store instructions of a computer program
embodied therein. The sound processor may comprise or be coupled to a multi-band frequency
to channel converter. The frequency to channel converter can convert frequencies of the audio
signal to filtered sound channels corresponding to locations of the cochlea for electrical
stimulation such that the user perceives the sound of the audio signal. The filter for each
channel may comprise a band pass filter, such that the frequencies of each channel correspond to
a range of frequencies to stimulate a region along a length of the cochlea. The circuitry of in
input assembly may comprise pulse width modulation (hereinafter "PWM") circuitry. The
PWM circuitry can be configured to determine the width of each optical pulse corresponding to
one of the electrodes of the array. The width of the optical pulse can be determined in response
to the frequency of the sound corresponding to the electrode that is coupled to the optical pulse.
For example, the width of the optical pulse can be determined for each of the channels with
Sigma-Delta pulse width modulation, although many pulse with modulation embodiments may
be used. A multiplexer MUX and an emitter can be coupled to the PWM circuitry.
[0111] The emitter comprises at least one light source. The at least one light source emits
pulses of light having a duration determined by the PWM circuitry. The width of the pulse
refers to the duration of the pulse. With serial multiplexing, the at least one light source may
comprise a single light source, and the timing of the pulses is determined by the multiplexer.

                                                  21
With optical multiplexing, the at least one light source comprises a plurality of light sources, for
example at least three light sources. The plurality of light sources can be configured to emit
light pulses substantially simultaneously. Alternatively, the plurality of light sources can be
configured to emit the light pulses sequentially so as to decrease peak power consumption of the
plurality of light sources.
[0112] The emitter is coupled to an optical transmission structure 12. The optical transmission
structure may comprise an optical fiber, a plurality of optical fibers, a window, or an opening in
the ECM. The multiplexed light is transmitted from the optical transmission structure 12 toward
tissue, for example tissue of the eardrum TM, although light can be transmitted through other
tissue, for example bone of openings formed in bone to transmit light.
[0113] Figure 2A shows an input transducer assembly 20 configured to emit a wavelength
multiplexed optical signal. The sound processor can determine the frequencies of the audio
signal. The multi-band filtered audio signal can be converted to channels of the electrode array
and corresponding wavelengths with a frequency to wavelength converter (Freq. to X). The
width of each pulse for each wavelength is determined for a plurality of wavelengths, for
example at least three wavelengths. Although sixteen wavelengths are shown, many more
channels can be stimulated, for example up 32. The plurality of light sources comprises a first
light source configured to emit first wavelengths X1, a second light source configured to emit
second wavelengths X2, a third light source configured to emit third wavelengths X3 and... a
sixteenth light source configured to emit sixteenth wavelengths X1 6. Light from each source is
emitted to an optical multiplexer. The optical multiplexer may comprise many known methods
of optical multiplexing. For example the optical multiplexer may comprise at least one of a
grating, an etalon, a prism, an optical fiber, a waveguide, a nanostructure, or a plurality of
optical fibers.
[0114] The sound processor can be configured in many ways, for example as described above,
and may comprise a plurality of band pass filters BPF to determine the audio signal of each
channel. For example, the multi-band filtered audio signal may comprise a plurality of band
pass filtered audio signals, in which each band pass filtered audio signal has a corresponding
channel, such that the signal transmitted for the channel comprises a band pass filtered channel.
The band pass filter for each channel may comprise one or more of a digital band pass filter or
an analog band pass filter. For example, the sound processor may comprise a tangible medium
having instructions of a computer program embodied thereon so as to bandpass filter the sound

                                                 22
signal to determine the signal for each channel such that each channel comprises a digitally
filtered band of frequencies corresponding to frequencies the channel. The plurality of band
pass filters BPF of the input transducer assembly 20 may comprise a component of the sound
processor such as a subprocessor or subroutine of the sound processor, for example.
Alternatively or in combination, the plurality of bandpass filters BPF may comprise separate
circuitry such as a dedicated processor.
[0115] Figure 2A1 optical pulses comprising separate wavelengths of light of a wavelength
multiplexed optical signal as in Fig. 2A. A first pulse P1 comprises first wavelengths of light
and a first width WI. A Second pulse P2 comprises second wavelengths of light and a second
width. A third pulse P3 comprises third wavelengths of light and a third width. A fourth pulse
P4 comprises fourth wavelengths of light and a fourth width. Additional pulses, for example a
total of 16 or more, can be transmitted. Although the light pulses can be transmitted
simultaneously, the light pulses may be transmitted sequentially so as to decrease peak power
consumption, for example as described with reference to Fig. 3A1 herein below, for example.
[0116] Each of the pulses comprise substantially separate pulses of light such that the pulses can
be separated with the demultiplexer so as to correspond with one electrode of the array, or a pair
of electrodes of the array. The wavelengths of each source may comprise wavelengths of a
laser, in which the wavelengths of the laser correspond to the band width of the laser beam.
[0117] Figure 2A2 shows an optical multiplexer configured to multiplex light from a plurality of
light sources having separate wavelengths as in Fig. 2A and 2A1. Light from the sources can be
emitted toward an optical structure grating, for example, and combined with optical
transmission structure 12. The multiplexed signal can travel along optical transmission structure
12 toward the output assembly 30. The light for each channel of the multiplexed optical signal
can be emitted serially from each source, so as to decrease peak power consumption of the light
sources. For example the first light source can emit a first light pulse of the packet, followed by
the second light source emitting the second light source of the packet until each of the light
sources corresponding to one of the channels has emitted the corresponding pulse width
modulated light signal of the packet. In many embodiments, each light source emits laser light
when the other light sources of the optical multiplexer do not emit light. Thus serial use of the
light sources can ensure that the power storage device can provide sufficient electrical energy to
each of the light sources.

                                                   23
[0118] Figure 2B shows an output transducer assembly configured to couple with an input
transducer assembly as in Fig 2A. The output transducer assembly comprises at least one
detector 34 configured to receive the multiplexed optical signal. The at least one detector may
comprise a plurality of detectors, such as a first photodetector PD 1, a second photodetector PD2,
a third photodetector PD3... and a sixteenth photodetector PD16. Additional or fewer
photodetectors may be used and may comprise many known materials as described above. An
optical multiplexer can be positioned to receive the multiplexed signal beam and separate the
multiplexed optical signal. The optical demultiplexer may comprise many known optical
elements such as prisms, gratings, mirrors, optical fibers, waveguides, nano-structures, etc. as
described above.
[0119] The multiplexed optical signal can be transmitted through tissue. For example, the
multiplexed optical signal can be transmitted through an eardrum TM of the user. Alternatively
or in combination, the multiplexed optical signal can be transmitted through a window WI
formed in the eardrum, or an opening formed in the eardrum. The window can be helpful to
maintain coherence and wavefront properties of the multiplexed optical signal. However, many
embodiments do not include such structures in the eardrum.
[0120] Figure 2C shows an output transducer assembly 30 comprising an optical demultiplexer
comprising optical filters and an array of detectors. The at least one detector 34 may comprise
the array of detectors. The array of detectors comprises a first detector PD 1, a second detector
PD2, a third detector PD3.. .and a sixteenth detector PD 16. Additional or fewer detectors can be
included in the array, for example 32 detectors. The optical multiplexer may comprise optical
filters positioned in front of each detector to filter light transmitted to each detector. The optical
multiplexer may comprise a first optical filter Fl, a second optical filter F2, a third optical filter
F3... and a sixteenth optical filter F16. This configuration can separate the light into channels
transmitted to each detector. For example, each filter can transmit wavelengths of light that are
substantially separate from the wavelengths of light transmitted by the other filters. The array of
electrodes comprises a first electrode El, a second electrode E2, a third electrode E3.. .and a
sixteenth electrode E16. Each of the electrodes may comprise a pair of electrodes, for example
16 pairs of electrodes.
[0121] Each of the detectors is coupled to a corresponding electrode of the electrode array. First
detector PD1 is coupled to first electrode El so as to comprise a first channel. Second detector
PD2 is coupled to second electrode E2 so as to comprise a second channel. Third detector PD3

                                                     24
is coupled to third electrode E3 so as to comprise a third channel. The output assembly may
comprise additional channels. For example, sixteenth detector D16 is coupled to sixteenth
electrode E16 so as to comprise a sixteenth channel. Additional or fewer channels can be
provided.
[0122] The perception of loudness due to electrical stimulation of the cochlea with electrodes
32E can depend on many factors including cochlear location, pulse width (duration) and pulse
height (intensity). For pulses that are 50 us, for example, the current can be as high as 200 uA
for a very loud sound. For a soft sound, only a 10 uA pulse can be sufficient. Increasing the
width of the pulse can decrease the required amplitude of current.
[0123] Photodetectors can be configured to generate over 1 mA of current with a 4 mm2
detector. Examples include a Si detector and an InGaAs detector. Sufficient current can be
generated for multiple electrodes connected to corresponding detectors based on the detector
area, the pulse width, and the efficiency detector and the intensity of the light beam on the
detector. Based on the teaching described herein, a person of ordinary skill in the art can
determine empirically the size of the photo detectors, the intensity and duration of the light
pulses to provide a full spectrum of sound from soft to loud.
[0124] The stimulation of the auditory nerve can be low pass filtered such that the rise time of
each of the pulses is not critical. The encoding of each electrode may comprise one or more of
many types of encoding, for example class-D amplifier encoding.
[0125] The electrode array 32E and at least one photo detector 34 can be configured in many
ways to stimulate the cochlea with monophasic pulses or with bi-phasic pulses. For example,
with 16 electrode pairs configured for bi-phasic pulses, the detector may comprise 16 pairs of
detectors corresponding to 32 detectors. For example, each pair of electrodes can be coupled to
two photodetectors, in which the two photodetectors are coupled to the electrodes with opposite
polarity, such that a first light pulse to the first detector generates a first current between the
electrodes in a first direction and a second light pulse to the second detector generates a second
current between the two electrodes opposite the first current. The circuitry of the electrode array
can be configured to delivery tri-phasic pulses, for example. The tri-phasic pulse may comprise
a first current pulse of a first polarity, a second current pulse of the first polarity, and a third
current pulse of a second negative polarity, in which the electrical charge delivered with the
current pulse and the second current pulse approximate the charge of the third current pulse such

                                                 25
that the total charge delivered with the three pulses is approximately balanced. The at least
biphasic pulses of light can balance the amount of charge transferred so as to decrease charge
accumulation of each of the pairs of the electrodes.
[0126] Figure 2C1 shows circuitry of a channel of the output transducer assembly of Figure 2C
so as to provide at least biphasic pulses in response to a first light pulse comprising a first
wavelength and a second light pulse comprising a second wavelength. The first channel C1 may
comprise and/or correspond to a first pair of photodetectors comprising first photodetector PD1
and second photodetector PD 1, and a first pair of electrodes comprising first electrode El and
second electrode E2. The first photodetector PD1 can be coupled to electrode El and electrode
E2 with a first polarity, and the second photodetector PD2 can be coupled to electrode E l and
electrode E2 with a second polarity opposite the first polarity so as to comprise a bipolar
configuration of the first electrode and the second electrode. The first light pulse P1 of the first
wavelength l can generate current between electrode El and electrode E2 in a first direction,
and the second light pulse P2 of the second wavelength X2 can generate current between
electrode El and electrode E2 in a second direction opposite the first direction. The width of the
light pulses can be sized so as to balance charge between the electrodes and inhibit charge
transfer, for example rectification. Additional channels can be provided with additional
electrodes. For example, 8 channels can be provided with 8 pairs comprising 16 electrodes in a
bipolar configuration, and the current can be generated in response to 16 wavelengths of light
for example. Additional or fewer channels and corresponding electrodes and detectors may be
provided, for example.
[0127] The photo detector array may comprise a first layer having a first array and a second
layer having a second array. First wavelengths of can be absorbed by the first array, and the
second wavelengths of light transmitted through the first array and absorbed by the second
array, such that the combined array of the first array and second array can be decreased.
Examples of detector materials having suitable properties are described in copending U.S. App.
No. 12/486,100 filed on June 17, 2009, entitled, "Optical Electro-Mechanical Hearing Devices
With Combined Power and Signal Architectures", the full disclosure of which is incorporated
herein by reference.
[0128] The stacked arrangement of detector arrays can be positioned on the output transducer
assembly, and can provide greater surface area for each light output signal detected. For
example, the combined surface area of the detectors may be greater than a cross-sectional area

                                                 26
of the ear canal. The first detector array may be sensitive to light comprising wavelength of
about 1 um, and the second detector array can be sensitive to light comprising wavelength of
about 1.5 um. The first detector array may comprise a silicon (hereinafter "Si") detector array
configured to absorb substantially light having wavelengths from about 700 to about 1100 nm,
and configured to transmit substantially light having wavelengths from about 1400 to about
1700 nm, for example from about 1500 to about 1600 nm. For example, the first detector array
can be configured to absorb substantially light at 900 nm. The second detector array may
comprise an Indium Galium Arsenide detector (hereinafter "InGaAs") configured to absorb light
transmitted through the first detector and having wavelengths from about 1400 to about 1700
nm, for example from about 1500 to 1600 nm. The cross sectional area of the detector arrays
can be about 4 mm squared, for example a 2 mm by 2 mm square for each detector array, such
that the total detection area of 8 mm squared exceeds the cross sectional area of 4 mm squared
of the detectors arrays in the middle ear cavity. The detector arrays may comprise circular
detection areas, for example a 2 mm diameter circular detector area. As the middle ear cavity
can be non-circular in cross-section, the detector arrays can be non-circular and rounded, for
example elliptical with a size of 2 mm and 3 mm along the minor and major axes, respectively.
The above detector arrays can be fabricated by many vendors, for example Hamamatsu of Japan
(available on the world wide web at "hamamatsu.com") and NEP corporation.
[0129] The light source and optical multiplexer of the input assembly can be configured in many
ways to provide bandwidths suitable for use with two overlapping detector arrays. The light
source and multiplexer can be combined with known wavelength multiplexing systems suited
for incorporation in accordance with embodiments as described herein, such as components the
EPIC integrated channelizer of the MIT Microphotonics Center and the photonics components
available from Intel. The light source may comprise an integrated optical RF channelizer on
silicon comprising an integrated photonics chip and laser light source. A first light laser source
can be configured to emit light having wavelengths suitable for absorption with the first array,
and the first light source can be coupled with a first modulator to modulate the first light beam
so as to correspond to channels of the first array detector. A second light laser source can be
configured to emit light having wavelengths suitable for transmission through the first array and
absorption with the second array, and the second light source can be coupled with a second
modulator to modulate the light beam so as to correspond to channels of the first array detector.
The modulated light signals can be received by a multimode interferometeric splitter to

                                                 27
demultiplex the transmitted light signal, for example. Transmission through an optical window
or opening of the eardrum can retain integrity of the transmitted light.
[0130] Figure 3A shows an input transducer assembly configured to emit a time multiplexed
optical signal. The multiplexed optical signal XM may comprise the time multiplexed optical
signal, for example a serial multiplexed optical signal. An audio signal 50, for example a sound,
is received by microphone 22. The audio signal comprises an input to the sound processor. The
frequencies of the audio signal can be determined, for example with circuitry as described
above. The frequencies of the audio signal can be used to determine the amount of stimulation
for each electrode of the array, in which each electrode corresponds to a channel. The width of
each optical pulse can be determined with the PWM circuitry. The PWM circuitry is coupled to
a serial multiplexer to multiplex the pulses for each electrode. The serial multiplexed pulses are
emitted from an emitter comprising the at least one light source. The at least one light source
may comprise a single light source, such as an infrared laser diode.
[0131] Figure 3A1 optical pulses comprising a series of pulses of the time multiplexed optical
signal as in Fig. 3A. The multiplexed serial pulses comprise a first pulse P1, a first pulse P1, a
second pulse P2, a third pulse P3...and a sixteenth pulse P16. Each pulse corresponds to one
electrode of the array. An amount of electrical current is determined by a width of the pulse.
First pulse P1 comprises a first width W1. Second pulse P2 comprises a second width. Third
pulse P3 comprises a third width. Sixteenth pulse P16 comprises a sixteenth width. The
multiplexer can be configured to emit packets of pulses, in which each packet comprises pulse
information for each electrode of the array. For example, a packet may comprise sixteen pulses
for the sixteen electrodes of the array. The serial multiplexer can be configured to emit the
pulses of each packet so as to correspond with a predetermined timing and sequence of the
pulses.
[0132] Figure 3A2 shows a clock pulse of the series of optical pulses of the time multiplexed
optical signal as in Fig. 3A. The clock pulse can synchronize the packet with the demultiplexer,
such that the pulses are demultiplexed so as to correspond with the appropriate electrode. For
example, pulse P1 may correspond with electrode El. The clock pulse provide power to the
demultiplexer circuitry.
[0133] Figure 3B shows an output transducer assembly configured for use with an input
transducer assembly as in Fig. 3A. The serial multiplexed optical signal is transmitted through

                                                 28
the eardrum TM. The multiplexed optical signal is received by a photo detector PD1.
Photodetector PD1 is coupled to demultiplexer circuitry D-MUX. The circuitry D-MUX may
comprise a timer and switches such that the multiplexer sequentially couples each electrode to
the detector in accordance with a predetermined sequence such that the detector is coupled to
one of the electrodes when the pulse corresponding to the electrode is incident on detector PD 1.
For example, the pulse sequence may comprise a packet of pulses as described above. The first
pulse of the packet may comprise a clock pulse to power the circuitry and to reset the timer.
The timer can be coupled to the switches of the multiplexer such that a switch corresponding to
one electrode is closed when the optical pulse corresponding to the electrode arrives at the
detector. The timer and switches may comprise low power circuitry, for example CMOS
circuitry, such that the timer and switches can be powered with the clock pulse. This can be
helpful when the audio signal is weak such that the timer and switching circuitry has sufficient
power. Power storage circuitry such as capacitors and super capacitors can be coupled to the
detector PD1 to store energy from the clock pulse with power circuitry (Power). The power
circuitry can be switched with the switching circuitry such that the power storage capacitors are
decoupled from the detector PD 1 when the light pulses for the electrodes arrive at detector PD 1.
[0134] The serial light source and detector components may comprise silicon photonics
components of the MIT Microphotonics Center and the photonics components commercially
available from Intel, as described above.
[0135] In some embodiments, the power circuitry can be coupled to a separate detector PD2.
The separate power and signal can be used to power the timing and switching circuitry.
[0136] Figure 4 shows tri-phasic pulse width modulated current pulses 400 corresponding to a
channel of the electrode array. Each of the channels may comprise a pair of electrodes and the
current pulses can be transmitted between the pair of electrodes corresponding to the channel.
The tri-phasic current pulses 400 may comprise a first positive current pulse 412, a second
positive current pulse 414 and a third negative current pulse 416. The first positive current pulse
412 and the second positive current pulse 410 comprise a positive amplitude to inject current
may comprise a first amplitude and a second amplitude. Alternatively or in combination, the
first positive current pulse 412 and the second positive current pulse 414 may comprise a
substantially similar amplitude substantially different widths. The third negative current pulse
comprises a negative polarity to balance the current and decrease degradation of the electrodes
and tissue near the electrodes. The first positive current pulse and the second positive current

                                                   29
pulse may transfer a first amount of charge and a second amount of charge with the current,
respectively, and the third negative current pulse may transfer a third amount of current so as to
balance the charge of the first pulses and decrease charge build up of the electrodes. As the area
under a current pulse corresponds to the delivered charge of the current pulse, the cumulative
area of the first positive current pulse and second positive current pulse may correspond
substantially to the area of the cumulative area of the third negative pulse.
[0137] The photodetectors and filters can be coupled to the electrodes so as to pass at least
biphasic current between the electrodes. Each of the plurality of channels may correspond to a
pair of electrodes, and a first current can travel between said pair of electrodes in response to a
first width modulated light pulse corresponding to positive current pulse 412 and a second
current corresponding to negative pulse 416may travel between said pair of electrodes in
response to a second width modulated light pulse, as described above with reference to Figure
2C and Figure 2C1, for example. The first width modulated light pulse corresponding to
positive pulse 412 may comprise a first wavelength of light and the second width modulated
light pulse corresponding to negative pulse 416 may comprise a second wavelength of light.
The second current pulse 414 may correspond to a second light pulse having the first
wavelength, for example. The first current is opposite the second current. The first current has
a first amount corresponding to a first width of the first light pulse and the second current has a
second amount corresponding to a second width the second light pulse. The width of the first
light pulse corresponds substantially to the width of the second light pulse so as to inhibit
rectification and balance charge transfer between the first electrode and the second electrode.
[0138] The first light pulse may comprise a first wavelength of light coupled to a first detector,
in which the second detector is coupled to said pair of electrodes. The second light pulse may
comprise a second wavelength of light coupled to a second detector, in which said second
detector is coupled to said pair of electrodes. The first detector is coupled to said pair of
electrodes opposite the second detector. Each channel may correspond to a pair of electrodes
and a first detector coupled to the pair of electrodes opposite a second detector, for example at
least about 8 channels corresponding to 8 pairs of electrodes coupled 16 detectors.
[0139] Figure 5A shows signal to channel conversion with bandpass filtering and pulse width
modulation so as to maintain substantially phase of the audio signal among the channels with
high frequency stimulation of the cochlea. Work in relation to embodiments as described herein
indicates that the cochlea can respond to high frequency electrical stimulation so as to low pass

                                                  30
filter the high frequency stimulation, such that the person can perceive sound based on the
electrical stimulation, for example electrical stimulation having frequencies above the range of
hearing of the patient. For example, with stimulation of high frequencies above about 10 kHz,
for example above about 20 kHz, the cochlea can low pass filter the sound such that the patient
hears the sound with phase of the audio signal. When these high frequencies comprise phase
encoded information of the audio signal, the user can hear the audio signal with the
corresponding phase. The high frequency signal above about 10 kHz, for example above 20
kHz, such as 40 kHz or 100 kHz, may comprise a pulse width modulated signal with amplitude
and phase encoding with high frequencies, and the stimulation of the cochlea with the width
modulated pulses at these high frequencies can result in demodulation of the high frequency
pulse width modulated signal back into an audio band signal corresponding to the frequencies of
the bandpass filtered channel. This demodulation of the high frequency amplitude and phase
encoded signal can maintain both the amplitude and phase of the audio signal perceived by the
user.
[0140] The audio signal 50 corresponding to a sound may comprise many frequencies and can
be input into a bandpass filter BPF. The bandpass filter BPF may provide as output a first
channel comprising first band pass audio signal 51 OA comprising a first range of frequencies, a
second channel comprising a second band pass audio signal 51OB comprising a second range of
frequencies, and an Nth channel comprising an Nth band pass audio signal 51 OA comprising an
Nth range of frequencies. Each of the signals may comprise a substantially similar phase such
that the phase of the BPF output is substantially maintained.
[0141] The audiosignal of each channel is converted to a pulse with modulated signal such that
the phase of the original audio signal 50 is maintained among the channels. First bandpass
audiosignal 510A corresponds to a first series 520A of width modulated pulses. Second
bandpass audiosignal 51OB corresponds to a second series 520B of width modulated pulses.
Nth bandpass audiosignal 51 ON corresponds to an Nth series 520N of width modulated pulses.
Each of the pulses may be determine so as to correspond to a substantially synchronous time
base, such that each of the phase and amplitude of the original signal is maintained. For
example, each of the pulses may be output to a corresponding light source to drive a
corresponding photodetector, as described above. The Nth channel may comprise an eight
channel, a sixteenth channel, a thirty second channel or a sixty fourth channel for example.

                                                   31
[0142] Figure 5B shows a first series of width modulate pulses 520A of the first bandpass
audiosignal 51 0A of the first channel for high frequency stimulation of the cochlea so as to
maintain phase of the audio signal as in Fig. 5A. The pulses may correspond to a synchronous a
time base of 10 us between the leading edge of each pulse. The width of the pulses can vary
based on the amplitude of the first bandpass filtered audio signal 51 OA. The corresponding
frequency of the pulses is about 100 kHz and the pulses are demodulated by the cochlea with
cochlear low pass filtering such that the user perceives sound with phase of the sound
maintained and such that the user can perceive sound localization cues.
[0143] The bandpass filtered signals of the other channels can be processed similarly with
cochlear low pass filtering of the high frequency signal such that the user perceives sound with
phase of the sound maintained for each of the channels and such that the user can perceive
sound localization cues from the combined channels.
[0144] While the pulse width modulated light pulses can be generated in many ways, the speech
processor may comprise digital bandpass filters to output the bandpass filtered signal as an array
for each channel, and the pulse width modulation circuitry can determine a width of each pulse
of each channel based on the output, for example. As the output of the pulse width modulation
circuitry can be digital and stored in the random access memory of the processor, the pulses to
the light source can be delivered so as to maintain substantially the amplitude and phase of the
output pulse modulation signal. For example, the timing and/or phase of the pulses of the signal
can be maintained to within about 100 us for a 10 kHz pulse width modulation signal, and
within about 10 us for a 100 kHz. Although the serial output among the channels may be used
as described above and the timing and/or phase of each of the pulses of the channels may be
shifted slightly relative to each other, the timing and/or phase of the corresponding pulses
among the channels is substantially maintained with the serial output. For example, the
corresponding light pulses of the serial output among the channels can be maintained to within
about 100 us, for example within about 50 us, within about 20 us, or within about 10 us. The
number of channels may comprise 2 channels, 4 channels, 8 channels, 16 channels, 32 channels
or more for example. The frequency of the light pulses of each channel can be above at least
about 10kHz, for example 20 kHz, 40 kHz, 80 kHz, for example. The channels may be
combined having the frequency of the light pulses of each channel as described above, such that
the frequency of the width modulated pulses of the multiplexed optical signal transmitted across
the eardrum may comprise, 40 kHz, 160 kHz, 640 kHz, 1280 kHz, or more, for example. Based
on the teachings described herein, a person of ordinary skill in the art can determine the number

                                                  32
of channels and the timing and/or phase of the pulses to maintain the phase of the audio signal
when the cochlea is stimulated, for example so as to provide sound localization cues and so as to
inhibit distortion.
[0145] Human Eardrum Transmission Experiment
[0146] The below described experiment was conducted to measure transmission of infrared light
through the eardrum and determine arrangements of the input assembly 20 and output assembly
30.
[0147] Objective: To determine the amount of light transmission loss through a human eardrum
at posterior, inferior and anterior positions and the amount of scatter by the eardrum.
[0148] Procedure:
[0149] Figure 6 shows the experimental set up to determine optical transmission through the
tympanic membrane, in accordance with embodiments. A fiber optic coupled laser diode light
source was aligned with a photodiode optical detector. An eardrum was placed in line and the
change in optical output from the photodiode determined. The eardrum is mounted to a x,y,z
translation stage which allows a change to different positions of the eardrum that the light goes
through.
[0150] Materials:
[0151] Light source - 1480 nm laser diode coupled to an optical fiber (250 um diameter, 80 um
core);
[0152] PhotoDiode - 1480 nm photodiode (5.5 mm2);
[0153] Load - RLC electrical circuit equivalent to that of a balanced armature transducer
coupled to a diaphragm, which can be suitable for determining transmission through the
eardrum.
[0154] Collimation optics and a Neutral Density Filter (NE20B);
[0155] DC Voltmeter (Fluke 8060A);

                                                 33
[0156] Translation stages; and
[0157] Human cadaver eardrum with attached malleus (incus and other medial components
removed)
[0158] Results
[0159] No tympanic membrane
[0160] The current was set such that the photodiode was in the saturation region. A neutral
density (ND) filter was used to attenuate the light output to reduced the PD response. The
measurements indicate that the ND filter attenuated the light source by 20.5 dB. This ensured
that all measurements reported are from the linear region.
[0161] The photodiode voltage in response to the collimated light beam without the eardrum
was measured at the beginning of the measurements and at the end of experiment. The
difference was less than 1%.
[0162] With no TM and ND filter, the output in mV was 349. With the ND filer and no TM,
this output decreased to within a range from about 32.9 to 33.1, corresponding to a linear change
of 0.095 and -20.5 dB.
[0163] With tympanic membrane
[0164] Measurements were made at anterior, inferior, and posterior positions of the eardrum.
The eardrum was moved at different locations relative to the photodiode and it's distance X (in
mm) approximated. Table 1 shows the measured voltages corresponding to the different
positions and different eardrum locations.
[0165] Table. 1 Measured photodiode voltages corresponding to transmission loss from the
eardrum.
 x (mm)          0.1              0.5               1               2               3
 Posterior       28 mV            26.6 mV           25.4 mV         23.4 mV         20.6 mV
 Inferior                                           23.6 mV         21.1 mV         17.1 mV

                                                 34
 Anterior                                           21.4 mV         20.2 mV         18.2 mV
[0166] The posterior placement shows the highest voltage for all distances and has values of 28,
26.6, 25.4 23.4 and 20.6 for distances of 0.1, 0.5, 1, 2 and 3 mm, respectively.
[0167] For each eardrum position and location, the optical fiber was adjusted to maximize the
PD voltage. This ensured that the light beam was maximally on the photodiode surface and that
the measured response was due to transmission loss and not due to misalignments.
[0168] Calculations
[0169] The measured voltages were converted to percent transmission loss (hereinafter "TL") as
follows:
                       %TL = ((VNoTM-VwithTM)/VNoTM)*100
where VNoTM is the measured voltage with no tympanic membrane and VWithTM is the
measured voltage with the tympanic membrane
[0170] Table 2 below shows the calculated % Transmission Loss using the above equation.
Table 2. % Transmission loss
x (mm)           0.1              0.5               1               2              3
Posterior        16               20                23              29             38
Inferior                                            29              36             48
Anterior                                            35              39             45
Average                                             29              35             44
[0171] At all locations the posterior placement showed the least transmission loss and values of
16, 20, 23, 29 and 38% at distances of 0.1, 0.5, 1, 2 and 3 mm, respectively.

                                                  35
[0172] With the PD very close to the eardrum (within about 0.1 mm), the TL is about 16%. The
TL could only be measured for the Posterior position.
[0173] Of the three positions of the eardrum, the posterior position is better than the inferior
position by 6-10%, and better than the anterior position by 7-12%.
[0174] As the eardrum is moved away from the PD, the transmission loss increases linearly for
all three positions. The average transmission loss is about 29%, 35%, and 44% averaged across
the three different positions for the 1, 2 and 3 mm locations respectively.
[0175] Experimental Conclusions
[0176] The transmission loss due to the eardrum is lowest at the posterior position (16%). The
loss increases as the photodiode is moved away from the eardrum due to scatter of the
collimated beam by the eardrum. At 3 mm from the eardrum, the average loss was as much as
44%. These data shown the unexpected result that there is more loss due to light scatter at
angles away from the detector surface induced by the eardrum than due to transmission of light
through the eardrum, and the detector and coupler such as a lens can be shaped appropriately so
as to collect transmitted light scattered by the eardrum. These data also show the unexpected
result that light transmission is higher through the posterior portion of the eardrum.
[0177] As the eardrum can move, the detector in a living person should be at least about 0.5 mm
from the eardrum. The data suggest that a detector and/or component such as a lens can be
shaped to fit the eardrum and provide improved transmission, for example shape with one or
more of an inclined surface, a curved surface, and can be positioned within a range from about
0.5 mm to about 2 mm, for example.
[0178] The above data shows that illuminating a portion of the eardrum and placing a detector
near the illuminated portion, for example can achieve transmission coupling efficiency between
the projected light beam and detector of a least about 50% (corresponding to 50% loss), for
example at least about 60% (corresponding to 40% loss). With posterior placement of the
detector and illumination of a portion of the posterior region of the eardrum, the coupling
efficiency can be at least about 70%, for example 80% or more. These unexpectedly high
results for coupling efficiency indicate that illumination of a portion of the eardrum and a
detector sized to the illuminated portion can provide efficiencies of at least about 50%. Also,

                                                  36
the unexpected substantially lower transmission loss for the posterior portion of the eardrum as
compared to each of the inferior and anterior portions indicates that transmission can be
unexpectedly improved with posterior placement when most of the eardrum is illuminated. For
example, the transmission coupling efficiency of the optical fiber to the photodetector can be
improved substantially when the photodetector is positioned in the posterior portion of the
middle ear cavity, for example the inferior posterior portion of the middle ear cavity, and an
optical fiber is positioned in the ear canal without collimation optics such that light is emitted
directly into the ear canal from the end of the optical fiber. Also, the high amount of light
transmission through the eardrum shows that the optically multiplexed light can be transmitted
through the eardrum, and that the channels of sound encoded with the optically multiplexed
signal transmitted through the eardrum can stimulate channels of the cochlea.
[0179] While the exemplary embodiments have been described in some detail, by way of
example and for clarity of understanding, those of skill in the art will recognize that a variety of
modifications, adaptations, and changes may be employed. Hence, the scope of the present
invention should be limited solely by the appended claims and the full scope of the equivalents
thereof.

                                                   37
CLAIMS:
1.     A system to stimulate tissue of a user having a tympanic membrane, the system
comprising:
       a plurality of electrodes configured for placement at least partially within the tissue;
       circuitry configured to receive a signal from a source;
       at least one light source coupled to the circuitry, the at least one light source and the
circuitry configured to transmit through the tympanic membrane a multiplexed optical signal
comprising a plurality of light pulses;
       at least one photo detector sized and shaped to collect a scattered multiplexed optical
signal transmitted through the tympanic membrane, the at least one photodetector and the
plurality of electrodes configured to pass current through the electrodes in response to the
scattered multiplexed optical signal comprising the plurality of light pulses in order to stimulate
the tissue,
       wherein the multiplexed optical signal comprises a plurality of optical channels, each
optical channel of the plurality corresponding to at least one frequency of the sound, and
       wherein the multiplexed optical signal is transmitted through the tympanic membrane of
the user to the at least one photodetector, the at least one photodetector configured to be affixed
to the middle ear and coupled to the plurality of electrodes configured to be positioned at least
partially within the cochlea.
2.     A system to transmit an audio signal to a user having a tympanic membrane, the system
comprising:
       an electrode array comprising a plurality of electrodes configured for placement at least
partially within a cochlea of the user;
       circuitry configured to receive the audio signal from a sound source;
       at least one light source coupled to the circuitry, the at least one light source and the
circuitry configured to transmit through the tympanic membrane a multiplexed optical signal
comprising a plurality of light pulses and comprising the audio signal, wherein the multiplexed
optical signal comprises a plurality of optical channels, each optical channel of the plurality
corresponding to at least one frequency of the audio signal;
       at least one detector sized and shaped to collect a scattered multiplexed optical signal
transmitted through the tympanic membrane and pass current through the electrodes in response
to the scattered multiplexed optical signal comprising the plurality of light pulses in order to
transmit the audio signal,

                                                    38
       wherein the multiplexed optical signal is transmitted through the tympanic membrane of
the user to the at least one detector, the at least one detector configured to be affixed to the
middle ear and coupled to the electrode array configured to be positioned at least partially within
the cochlea.
3.     The system of claim 2, wherein the circuitry is configured to determine widths of a
plurality of light pulses and wherein each light pulse corresponds to an electrode of the array
and a width of said each light pulse corresponds to an amount of current through said
corresponding electrode of the array.
4.     The system of claim 2, wherein the circuitry is configured to determine frequencies of the
audio signal and wherein the frequencies correspond to electrodes of the array and wherein the
circuitry is configured to determine a width of each pulse in response to one or more of the
frequencies.
5.     The system of claim 2, wherein the at least one light source comprises a plurality of light
sources and wherein each light source corresponds to one electrode of the array.
6.     The system of claim 5, wherein each of the plurality of light sources is configured to emit
light comprising wavelengths separated from wavelengths of other light sources of the plurality.
7.     The system of claim 5, wherein the plurality of light sources comprises at least three light
sources and the electrode array comprises at least three electrodes and wherein each of the at
least three light sources corresponds to one electrode of the at least three electrodes of the array.
8.     The system of claim 7, wherein each of the at least three light sources is configured to
emit light comprising wavelengths separated from others of the at least three light sources and
wherein the wavelengths of each source correspond to one electrode of the at least three.
9.     The system of claim 2, wherein the at least one detector comprises a plurality of detectors
and wherein each detector of the plurality corresponds to one electrode of the array.
10.    The system of claim 9, wherein the plurality of light detectors comprises at least three
light detectors and the electrode array comprises at least three electrodes and wherein each of

                                                     39
the at least three light detectors corresponds to one electrode of the at least three electrodes of
the array.
11.     The system of claim 2, further comprising an optical structure configured to receive the
scattered multiplexed optical signal, the optical structure configured for placement in a middle
ear of the user, the optical structure configured to select wavelengths of the scattered
multiplexed optical signal.
12.     The system of claim 11, wherein the said optical structure is sized to pass through an
incision in the tympanic membrane for placement in the middle ear and wherein the electrode
array is sized for placement at least partially inside the cochlea through a round window of the
cochlea.
13.     The system of claim 11, wherein the optical structure comprises at least one of an optical
filter, a grating, an etalon, a plurality of optical fibers, or a prism.
14.     The system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of optical channels corresponds to at least
sixteen channels and said at least one frequency corresponds to at least about sixteen
frequencies.
15.     The system of claim 11, further comprising an elongate optical transmission structure
configured for placement at least partially within an ear canal of the user and wherein the
elongate optical transmission structure is configured to transmit multiplexed optical signal
through the tympanic membrane.
16.     The system of claim 2, wherein the at least one photodetector and the electrode array are
sized to pass through an incision in the tympanic membrane.
17.     The system of claim 2,wherein the multiplexed optical signal comprises a wavelength
multiplexed optical signal, the wavelength multiplexed optical signal comprising a plurality of
wavelengths such that each wavelength corresponds to an electrode of the array.
18.     The system of claim 17, wherein each wavelength of the plurality corresponds to an
electrode of the array.

                                                  40
19.    The system of claim 17, wherein the plurality of wavelengths comprises at least three
wavelengths and wherein the plurality of electrodes comprises at least three electrodes and
wherein each wavelength of the plurality corresponds to one electrode of the at least three
electrodes.
20.    The system of claim 2, wherein the circuitry is configured to transmit a series of the light
pulses corresponding to electrodes of the array.
21.    The system of claim 20, wherein the series of light pulses comprises a plurality of light
pulses and wherein each light pulse of the plurality corresponds to one electrode of the plurality.
22.    The system of claim 21, wherein the plurality of electrodes comprises at least three
electrodes and wherein the series comprises at least three light pulses and wherein each light
pulse of the at least three light pulses corresponds to one electrode of the at least three
electrodes.
23.    The system of claim 20, wherein the series comprises a timing light pulse.
24.    The system of claim 23, wherein the timing light pulse comprises a substantially fixed
width and wherein the timing light pulse comprises energy to power circuitry coupled to the
plurality of electrodes.
25.    The system of claim 23, further comprising switching circuitry coupled to the at least one
detector to couple sequentially each electrode of the plurality to the at least one detector in
response to the timing pulse such that each pulse of the series corresponds to one electrode of
the plurality.
26.    The system of claim 25, wherein the series of pulses comprises a predetermined order and
timing of the pulses and wherein the switching circuitry comprises a timer coupled to switches
to open the switches and close the to correspond with pulses of the series.
27.    The system of claim 25, wherein the series comprises at least three pulses and wherein the
switching circuitry is configured to coupled at least one detector sequentially to each electrode
of the at least three such that each pulse of the series corresponds to one electrode of the
plurality.

                                                  41
28.    The system of claim 2, wherein the electrode array and the at least one detector comprise
non-magnetic materials configured for MRI imaging when implanted in the user.
29.    The system of claim 2, wherein the sound comprises a phase and wherein the optical
signal comprises width modulated light pulses transmitted with a frequency of at least about 10
kHz and wherein each light pulse generates an electrical current within the cochlea such that the
cochlea demodulates the light pulses and the phase of the sound is maintained.
30.    The system of claim 29, wherein the width modulated light pulses comprises a series of
width modulated pulses for each channel and wherein the series of width modulated pulses of
said each channel comprises a frequency of at least 10 kHz to maintain the phase of the sound
when the user hears the sound.
31.    The system of claim 30, wherein the frequency of said each series comprises at least
20 kHz to maintain the phase of the sound when the user hears the sound.
32.    The system of claim 31, wherein the plurality of channels comprises at least eight
channels and the frequency of the width modulated light pulses comprises at least 160 kHz.
33.    The system of claim 30, wherein the light pulses of the series of width modulated pulses
of each channel are combined to form a sequence of packet of pulses, each packet comprising
one pulse from each series.
34.    The system of claim 33, wherein each of the plurality of channels corresponds to a pair of
electrodes and wherein a first current travels between said pair of electrodes in response to a
first width modulated light pulse and a second current travels between said pair of electrodes in
response to a second width modulated light pulse, the first current opposite the second current,
the first current opposite the second current, the first current having a first amount
corresponding to a first width of the first pulse and the second current having a second amount
corresponding to a second width the second pulse, and wherein the width of the first pulse
corresponds to the width of the second pulse so as to inhibit rectification and balance charge
transfer between the first electrode and the second electrode.
35.    The system of claim 34, wherein the first light pulse comprises a first wavelength of light
coupled to a first detector coupled to said pair of electrodes and wherein the second light pulse

                                                 42
comprises a second wavelength of light coupled to a second detector coupled to said pair of
electrodes and wherein the first detector is coupled to the pair opposite the second detector.
36.    The system of claim 1, wherein the multiplexed optical signal comprises an audio signal to
be transmitted to the user.
37.    The system of claim 1, wherein the tympanic membrane acts as a transmission medium for
the transmitted multiplexed optical signal.
38.    The system of claim 1, wherein the multiplexed optical signal is configured to provide
power to the plurality of electrodes in order to stimulate the tissue.
39.    The system of claim 2, wherein the tympanic membrane acts as a transmission medium for
the transmitted multiplexed optical signal.
40.    The system of claim 2, wherein the multiplexed optical signal is configured to provide
power to the plurality of electrodes in order to stimulate tissue of the user.
                                       Earlens Corporation
                    Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
