                                              28
                                         ABSTRACT
         A theft deterrent product may be provided. The theft deterrent product may
comprise a jacket and a core under the jacket. In addition, the theft deterrent product may
include an identification tape under the jacket. The identification tape may comprise a
plurality of indicia located periodically and longitudinally on the identification tape. The
plurality of indicia may respectively correspond to a plurality of unique codes.

                     10/10
                            905
          910                          915
     xxx                           xxx
                 FIG. 9
               1005
     1020                      905
1015                       10
                1025      1025
           1025     1025      1025
                FIG. 10

                                                1
         TRACEABLE AND THEFT DETERRENT RECLAIMABLE PRODUCT
Related Applications
[001]    Under provisions of 35 U.S.C. § 119(e), Applicants claim the benefit of
U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/681,722, filed August 10, 2012, which is incorporated
herein by reference.       In addition, this Application is a continuation-in-part (CIP) of
U.S. Application No. 13/658,852, filed October 24, 2012, which is incorporated herein by
reference.      U.S. Application     No. 13/658,852    is a    continuation-in-part  (CIP)    of
U.S. Application No. 13/281,489, filed October 26, 2011, which is incorporated herein by
reference.      U.S. Application     No. 13/281,489 is a       continuation-in-part  (CIP)    of
U.S. Application No. 12/792,150, filed June 2, 2010, which is incorporated herein by
reference.      U.S. Application     No. 12/792,150    is a    continuation-in-part  (CIP)    of
U.S. Application No. 12/433,440, filed April 30, 2009, which is incorporated herein by
reference.      U.S. Application     No. 12/433,440 is a       continuation-in-part  (CIP)    of
U.S. Application No. 12/269,110, filed November 12, 2008, which issued on July 31, 2012
as U.S. Patent No. 8,234,304, which is incorporated herein by reference. Furthermore,
under provisions of 35 U.S.C. § 119(e), U.S. Application No. 12/269,110 (now US Pat.
No. 8,234,304) claimed the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60/987,566, filed
November 13, 2007, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Copyrights
[002]   All rights, including copyrights, in the material included herein are vested in and the
property of the Applicants. The Applicants retain and reserve all rights in the material
included herein, and grant permission to reproduce the material only in connection with
reproduction of the granted patent and for no other purpose.
Background of the Invention
[003]   Any discussion of the background art throughout the specification should in no way
be considered as an admission that such background art is prior art, nor that such
background art is widely known or forms part of the common general knowledge in the field
in Australia or worldwide.
[004]   All references, including any patents or patent applications, cited in this
specification are hereby incorporated by reference.          No admission is made that any

                                                   2
reference constitutes prior art. The discussion of the references states what their authors
assert, and the Applicants reserve the right to challenge the accuracy and pertinence of the
cited documents.        It will be clearly understood that, although a number of prior art
publications are referred to herein, this reference does not constitute an admission that any
of these documents forms part of the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or
in any other country.
[005]    Due to certain metals' economic value, these metals may be targeted for theft.
While copper may not be considered a precious metal, it does have a high economic value.
 The same can be said for aluminum, though it may be valued less than copper. Electrical
wire and cable may comprise metals such as aluminum and copper. Consequently,
electrical wire and cable may be targeted for theft. For example, a thief may enter a
warehouse storing electrical wire and cable and may steal the stored electrical wire and
cable. As another example, a thief may enter an electrical substation operated by an
electric utility in order to steal any electrical wire and cable used in the electrical substation.
 In the electrical substation example, the thief may target, for example, bare copper ground
wires running throughout the electrical substation. Once stolen, the electrical wire and
cable may be taken to a recycling center and sold as scrap metal. The recycling center's
operator may have no way to distinguish between stolen electrical wire and cable and
legitimate scrap electrical wire and cable in the conventional commercial course.
Summary of the Invention
[006]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one or
more of the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
[007]    Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the words
"comprise", "comprises" and "comprising" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
stated step or element or group of steps or elements but not the exclusion of any other
step or element or group of steps or elements.
[008]    Any one of the terms "including" or "which includes" or "that includes" as used
herein is also an open term that also means including at least the elements/features that
follow the term, but not excluding others. Thus, "including"is synonymous with and means
"comprising".

                                               3
[009]    This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form
that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended
to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter. Nor is this
Summary intended to be used to limit the claimed subject matter's scope.
[010]    A theft deterrent product may be provided. The theft deterrent product may
comprise a jacket and a core under the jacket. In addition, the theft deterrent product may
include an identification tape under the jacket. The identification tape may comprise a
plurality of indicia located periodically and longitudinally on the identification tape. The
plurality of indicia may respectively correspond to a plurality of unique codes.
[011]    Both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description
provide examples and are explanatory only. Accordingly, the foregoing general description
and the following detailed description should not be considered to be restrictive. Further,
features or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example,
embodiments may be directed to various feature combinations and sub-combinations
described in the detailed description.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[012]     It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference
numerals in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
[013]    The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of this
disclosure, illustrate various embodiments of the present invention
[014]    Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present
invention, a preferred embodiment/preferred embodiments of the invention will now be
described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
         FIG. 1A is a diagram illustrating a bare solid conductor;
         FIG. 1B is a diagram illustrating a stranded conductor;
         FIG. 1C is a diagram illustrating a multi-layered conductor;
         FIG. 2 is a block diagram of theft deterrent system;
         FIG. 3 is a flow chart of a method for providing a theft deterrent cable;

                                                4
          FIG. 4 is a block diagram of a product processor;
          FIG. 5 is a diagram illustrating a cable having an indicator;
          FIG. 6 is a diagram illustrating a product having an indicator;
          FIG. 7A is a diagram illustrating a product having an indicator;
          FIG. 7B is a diagram illustrating a product having an indicator;
          FIG. 8 is a diagram illustrating a product having an indicator;
          FIG. 9 shows an identification tape; and
          FIG. 10 shows a cable.
Detailed Description of Embodiments
[015]     The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever
possible, the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following
description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the invention
may be described, modifications, adaptations, and other implementations are possible.
For example, substitutions, additions, or modifications may be made to the elements
illustrated in the drawings, and the methods described herein may be modified by
substituting, reordering, or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly, the
following detailed description does not limit the invention.
[016]     Consistent with embodiments of the invention, a theft deterrent process may be
provided. The process may provide traceability for any products (e.g., electrical wire,
electrical cable, cathodes, etc.) that may be stolen and then recycled. The products may
be metal-based and may have a high scrap monetary value. Products such as copper or
aluminum cable can be bare or covered. Embodiments of the invention may provide, for
example, a process for placing a number of highly tamper resistant traceable indicia on a
product's surface. The indicia may include codes that may be continuously indexed and
may be uniquely specific to the product having the indicia. At the product's sale and
shipment point, the codes may be assigned to a specific order and/or end user. A
computer based user interface and data storage system may allow for traceability at any

                                                5
point after sale by, for example, a scrap dealer, a customer, a law enforcement agency, or
any other third party.
[017]    Embodiments of the invention may include a laser based marking system that may
be able to mark at high line speeds onto, for example, a metal surface. Indicia including
unique codes may be etched by the laser based marking system on the metal surface in
periodic increments that may be spaced by several feet or longer. The code may also be
printed without any spacing. Since the code may change with the product's length, when
the product is later cut to a specific length, the code may help provide a length indication
for the product to a specific order, end user, or designated third party. A computer system
may store the unique traceable code for any desired length of time and may interface with
another computer interface system.         The computer system can be updated as the
product's legitimate ownership changes hands.           This interface can be used by a
designated third party (e.g., scrap dealer, reclaimer, recycler, law enforcement, etc.) at any
time to determine the product's ownership chain.
[018]    An ink based system (e.g., ink jet printers) may be used to print onto a covering or
an indenting metal wheel may be used. A problem with ink on metal surfaces centers
around adhesion. It may not be practical to clean drawing oils or other contaminants from
cables completely prior to marking to improve adhesion. Also, many ink types do not stand
up well to high temperatures or UV exposure over long time periods. Furthermore, when
metals oxidize, ink may not provide an effective visual identification level. An indenting
metal wheel may not be suitable due to manufacturing line speed considerations because
the wheel may need a slow line speed. Also, interstices in many stranded conductors may
not provide enough contact area for an effective indent marking by the wheel. Moreover, it
may be difficult to index a marking wheel (due to mechanical limitations) to provide a
unique indexable and traceable code.
[019]    Embodiments of the invention may provide a process to print (e.g., on a metal
surface) with a laser source, chemical etching method, high temperature/high adhesion ink,
high speed indexing printing wheel, or other processes for providing a highly tamper
resistant traceable code. For example, a laser based printing system may be used to
provide high speed, legibility, tamper resistance, and traceability. The laser system can
have many different laser source types such as YAG and C02.               Furthermore, many
different methods for focusing the intense laser energy on, for example, a metal surface
may be used. Embodiments of the invention may also provide several ways to move a

                                               6
laser energy beam fast enough to print effectively at high line speeds. The print imparted
by the laser beam may provide a highly tamper resistant marking. The laser beam may
burn away metal (or other material) to a desired depth to provide a very long lasting
marking when exposed to environment conditions. Or the marking process may only alter
a surface appearance without physically removing any metal or other material.
Notwithstanding, this type marking may be legible when metal oxidizes and may not be
compromised if the metal is exposed to high temperatures.
[020]    FIG. 1A is a diagram illustrating a bare solid conductor 105. Embodiments of the
invention may provide solid conductor 105 with a plurality of indicia (e.g., a first indicia 110,
a second indicia 115, and a third indicia 120) periodically and longitudinally on bare solid
conductor 105. Bare solid conductor 105 may comprise, but is not limited to, copper or
aluminum.
[021]    FIG. 1B is a diagram illustrating a stranded conductor 125. Embodiments of the
invention may provide stranded conductor 125 with a plurality of indicia (e.g., a fourth
indicia 130 and a fifth indicia 135) periodically and longitudinally on stranded conductor
125. As shown in FIG. 1B, with stranded conductor 125, fourth indicia 130 and fifth indicia
135 may each be placed to respectively fit on a first individual strand 136 and a second
individual strand 137 of stranded conductor 125. In this way, interstices 138 between
stranded conductor 125's individual strands may be avoided by embodiments of the
invention when fourth indicia 130 and a fifth indicia 135 are applied to stranded conductor
125.    Notwithstanding, the indicia may or may not follow individual strand helix.
Embodiments of the inventions may include placing the indicia along an axis parallel to the
conductor axis as shown in FIGS. 1A and 1C. Indicia portions may fall into the interstices,
but may still be visually or otherwise legible.
[022]    FIG. 1C is a diagram illustrating a multi-layered conductor 140. Embodiments of
the invention may provide multi-layered conductor 140 with a plurality of indicia (e.g., a
sixth indicia 145 and a seventh indicia 150) periodically and longitudinally on multi-layered
conductor 140. As shown in FIG. 1C, multi-layered conductor 140 may include an interior
layer 155, a conductor 160, and a jacket 165. Conductor 160 may comprise, but is not
limited to, copper or aluminum. Conductor 160 may be configured in any way including,
but not limited to, stranded or solid. Moreover, multi-layered conductor 140 may not be
limited to conductor 160 and may include more than one conductor.                 Furthermore,
multi-layered conductor 140 may include any number of layers. Any layer of multi-layered

                                               7
conductor 140 may be conductive, semi-conductive, or insulative.               Consistent with
embodiments of the invention, sixth indicia 145 and seventh indicia 150 may be placed on
an exterior of any layer of multi-layered conductor 140. While FIG. 1C shows sixth indicia
145 and seventh indicia being placed on jacket 165, sixth indicia 145 and seventh indicia
may be placed on the exterior of any one or more layers of multi-layered conductor 140.
Moreover, sixth indicia 145 and seventh indicia may be placed on conductor 160 or on any
one or more conductors of multi-layered conductor 140.
[023]    FIG. 2 is a block diagram of theft deterrent system 200. As shown in FIG. 2,
system 200 may include a product processor 205, a first enterprise processor 210, a
network 215, and a reclaimer processor 220.          Other processors (not shown) may be
connected to network 215. System 200's product processor 205 may be descried in more
detail below with respect to FIG. 4.
[024]    Embodiments consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing a
theft deterrent cable. The system may comprise a memory storage for maintaining a
database and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may
be operative to create a plurality of unique codes and to place a plurality of indicia
periodically and longitudinally on the cable. The plurality of indicia may respectively
correspond to the plurality of unique codes. The processing unit may be further operative
to assign, in a database, the plurality of unique codes to an organizational entity. The
organizational entity may comprise a first enterprise. In addition, the processing unit may
be further operative to receive an indication that the cable is to be transferred from the first
enterprise to a second enterprise. Moreover, the processing unit may be operative to
assign in the database, in response to the received indication, the plurality of unique codes
from the organizational entity comprising the first enterprise to the organizational entity
comprising a second enterprise.
[025]    Consistent with embodiments of the present invention, the aforementioned
memories, processing units, and other components may be implemented in a system, such
as theft deterrent system 200 of FIG. 2. Any suitable combination of hardware, software,
and/or firmware may be used to implement the memories, processing units, or other
components. By way of example, the memories, processing units, or other components
may be implemented with product processor 205, first enterprise processor 210, or
reclaimer processor 220 in combination with system 200. The aforementioned system and
processors are exemplary and other systems and processors may comprise the

                                                8
aforementioned memories, processing units, or other components, consistent with
embodiments of the present invention.
[026]     FIG. 3 is a flow chart setting forth the general stages involved in a method 300
consistent with embodiments of the invention for providing a theft deterrent cable. Method
300 may be implemented using product processor 205 as described in more detail below
with respect to FIG. 4. Ways to implement the stages of method 300 will be described in
greater detail below. While embodiments of the invention may be described with an
example product comprising a cable, the invention is not so limited. As described, the
product may comprise any product. For example, the product may comprise an electrical
wire, an electrical cable, a cathode, a solid metal wire clad with another metal (e.g., a
copper clad steel wire, a steel clad copper wire, a tin clad copper wire, a copper clad tin
wire, etc.), a stranded metal wire clad with another metal, a stranded wire in which strands
comprise solid metal wire clad with another metal, a pipe, a conduit, a water line, tubing, or
tubing used for refrigerant in, for example, an air conditioner, a heat pump, refrigerator, or
freezer. The aforementioned are examples and the product may comprise any product
that may be metal-based, that may have a high scrap monetary value, and that may be
likely to be stolen and then recycled. The product may be, for example, copper or
aluminum and may be bare or covered.
[027]     Method 300 may begin at starting block 305 and proceed to stage 310 where
product processor 205 may create a plurality of unique codes. For example, the plurality of
unique codes may comprise any unique sequential number (e.g., alphanumeric) series. In
addition each of the plurality of unique codes may also indicate a date and/or time the
cable was manufactured, a manufacturing line on which the cable manufactured, a license
under which certain rights are granted, a particular specification under which the cable is
manufactured, a linear distance and a plant where the cable was manufactured.
[028]     After the plurality of unique codes are created, a plurality of indicia may be placed
periodically and longitudinally on the cable a predetermined distance apart. The plurality of
indicia may respectively correspond to the plurality of unique codes. Each one of the
plurality of indicia may include a sequential number portion corresponding to a sequential
number that may be incremented by an amount equal to the predetermined distance. For
example, if each of the plurality of indicia are placed one foot apart, the sequential number
portion may be incremented by one. If each of the plurality of indicia are placed the two
feet apart, the sequential number portion may be incremented by two. Notwithstanding,

                                                9
the sequential number portion may indicate a linear distance from a reference point. The
sequential number may be set or reset to zero (or any other value) at a given time
(e.g., Jan. 1 of a given year), when a certain order is completed, or when a certain license
is granted.
[029]    The plurality of indicia may be placed using any unit of measurement (e.g., the
Metric System) and is not limited to the English Measurement System or even specifically
to footage markers within the English Measurement System. Furthermore, each of the
plurality of indicia may be placed longitudinally on the cable at random distances apart
from each other. Regardless of whether they are random or at a predetermined distance,
the indicia may reflect an accurate linear distance for the placement of the indicia in the
cable.
[030]    Consistent with embodiments of the invention, no space may exist between the
indicia. In other words, the plurality of indicia may be continuous with no space between
individual ones of the plurality of indicia. As described above with respect to FIG. 1A,
FIG. 1B, and FIG. 1C, the plurality of indicia may be placed on an exterior of a cable, may
be placed on an exterior of any layer of the cable, or may be placed on an exterior of any
conductor of the cable. Moreover, the plurality of indicia may be placed while the cable is
moving on a production line during manufacture of the cable using, for example, a laser.
Notwithstanding, the plurality of indicia placed on the cable may be visually perceivable by
a person. Moreover, as described above with respect to FIG. 1B, the plurality of indicia
may be placed on an exterior of the conductor when the conductor is stranded. In this
case each one of the plurality of indicia may be place to fit on strands of the stranded
conductor. The aforementioned laser may comprise, but is not limited to, a Yag laser
system manufactured by KBA-Metronic Corporation of Veitshoechheim, Germany.
[031]    Consistent with embodiments of the invention, a number of factors may be
balanced in order to place the plurality of indicia on the cable. For example, the number of
characters in an individual indicia and the time spent writing each character on the cable
verses the line speed at which the cable is being manufactured may be balanced. For
example, for a faster line speed:
         (i)      there may not be enough time to write enough characters to write a whole
                   individual indicia;

                                               10
         (ii)      there may not be enough time to write an individual indicia's characters
                   deeply enough with a laser; or
         (iii)     there may not be enough time to properly write an individual indicia's
                   characters with any writing or etching process.
[032]    Consequently, in order to write individual indicia, the aforementioned line speed
may need to be slowed. Slowing the line speed, however, may be undesirable.
[033]    Consistent with embodiments of the invention, in order to write individual indicia
without slowing the line speed, a number of other ways to write the individual indicia may
be used. For example, each individual indicia within the plurality of indicia may be broken
into two or more pieces and the individual pieces may be alternately placed periodically
and longitudinally on the cable at predetermined distances apart. For example, a first
indicia in the plurality of indicia may be broken into a first piece and a second piece, a
second indicia in the plurality of indicia may be broken into a first piece and a second
piece, and a third indicia in the plurality of indicia may be broken into a first piece and a
second piece.       Then the indicia pieces may be placed sequentially on the cable at
predetermined distances apart as follows:
         the first piece of the first indicia;
         the second piece of the first indicia;
         the first piece of the second indicia;
         the second piece of the second indicia;
         the first piece of the third indicia;
         the second piece of the third indicia, etc.
[034]    By breaking each of the plurality of indicia into at least two pieces, less characters
may be written at given locations periodically and longitudinally on the cable at the
predetermined distances apart. With fewer characters to write at the given locations, more
time may be spent writing each individual character at a given location. Consequently, the
writing quality may be increased. Writing quality may be a function of the depth at which a
laser-written character is written or the amount of ink used to write an ink-written character,
for example.
[035]    Furthermore, as stated above, each individual indicia may comprise a unique code
and a sequential number portion. With respect to the broken pieces example above, the

                                                11
first pieces may comprise the unique codes and the second pieces may comprise a
sequential number portion (e.g., a footage marker).            Consequently, an alternating
arrangement may be provided. In other words, footage markers and unique codes may be
alternated periodically and longitudinally on the cable a predetermined distance apart.
[036]      In addition, the periodic distance at which individual indicia and/or indicia pieces
are placed on the cable may be calculated based on a desired writing quality and the
number of characters to be written for each individual indicia and/or indicia piece at a given
location. For example, for a given line speed and a given number of characters to be
written, the periodic distance between individual indicia and/or indicia pieces may need to
be X. However, if the same writing quality and character number is to be maintained at a
higher line speed, the distance may need to be increased to X+n. Similarly, if the line
speed can be decreased, the distance may be decreased to X-n with a given quality level
being maintained.
[037]     Consistent with embodiments of the invention, each one of the plurality of indicia
may be configured not to interfere with proper termination of the cable. For example, the
indicia may be themselves conductive and may not include paints, varnishes, and other
coverings that may need to be removed before termination. Notwithstanding, the indicia
may be conductive or nonconductive and may be configured to be removed from the
conductor when the cable including the conductor is terminated. For example, the indicia
may be configured to be removed by a technician by brushing the indicia away with a wire
brush.
[038]     Furthermore, the indicia may be "tamper proof". For example, the indicia may be
placed on a conductor, conductors, or on any layer of the cable in such a way that it may
be difficult to be removed by a potential thief. For example, laser etching may be difficult to
be removed by a potential thief. Furthermore, the volume of indicia placed on the cable
may make it impractical for a potential thief to remove all indicia from the cable.
[039]     Moreover, the indicia may not only comprise a sequential number (e.g., that
visually presents itself as sequential), but also a code that may not be a set of numbers at
all (e.g., has no visual appearance as a sequence). The indicia may be a series of letters,
dots, characters, markings of any type (or any combination thereof) that may be generated
by an encryption algorithm. A so encrypted indicia could be decrypted when need be.

                                               12
[040]    Consistent with embodiments of the invention, a indictor or plurality of indicators
may be placed on the product. For example, an indicator may be included with the indicia,
may be placed on the product (e.g., the cable) in addition to the indicia, or may be placed
on the product with no relation to the indicia. The indicator may be placed, for example,
using any of the aforementioned processes for placing the indicia (e.g., a laser source,
chemical etching process, high temperature/high adhesion ink, high speed indexing
printing wheel, etc.). The indicator may comprise a highly visible logo or other insignia type
that may be visible at a distance from the product. The indicator may identify the product
as having a theft deterrent feature. The indicator may comprise, but is not limited to, text,
symbols, a colored stripe, a special color jacket, or color print. In this way, seeing the
indicator may communicate to a potential thief that the product can be traced thus
providing a deterrent to thief. Notwithstanding, the indicator may be placed on any layer or
layers of the cable or on any conductor or conductors of the cable.
[041]    FIG. 5 is a diagram illustrating a cable 505 consistent with embodiments of the
invention. As shown in FIG. 5, cable 505 may comprise, but is not limited to, a stranded
electrical conductor having a center strand 510 and any number of outer strands 515 or
layers stranded around center strand 510. While FIG. 5 shows center strand 510 at the
center of cable 505, embodiments of the invention are not so limited. For example, center
strand 510 may be placed within a layer of strands (not shown) interior to outer strands
515.
[042]    As stated above, indicia may be placed anywhere on any layer or surface on a
product (e.g., a cable) consistent with embodiments of the invention. The indicia may be
placed in such a way that the indicia are not visible from the exterior of the cable. For
example, an indicia 520 may be placed on center strand 510, under outer strands 515. As
shown in FIG. 5, portions of outer strands 515 may need to be removed from center strand
510 in order to expose indicia 520 that would otherwise be covered by one or more of outer
strands 515.
[043]    Indicia 520 may comprise one of a plurality of indicia placed periodically and
longitudinally on center strand 510, under outer strands 515. Because indicia 520 may not
be on an exterior surface of cable 505, indicia 520 may only be visible after some or all of
outer strands 515 are removed.          Accordingly, cable 505 may include an indicator
comprising, for example, a highly visible logo, other insignia type, or any other type of
indicator that may be visible at a distance from cable 505. The indicator may identify cable

                                               13
505 as having a theft deterrent feature. In this way, seeing the indicator may communicate
to a potential thief that cable 505 can be traced, thus providing a deterrent to thief.
Similarly, the indicator may identify cable 505 as having a theft deterrent feature to, for
example, a scrap dealer, a customer, a law enforcement agency, or any other third party.
It may be communicated or otherwise published to the general public, scrap dealers,
customers, law enforcement agencies, or to anyone that the indicator means that a product
bearing the indicator means that the product has a theft deterrent feature.
[044]    As shown in FIG. 5 the indicator, for example, may comprise one or more of outer
strands 515 being different (e.g., visibly different) from the rest of outer strands 515. For
example, one or more outer strands 515 (e.g., a strand 515a) may comprise a tin-coated
copper strand while the remainder of outer strands 515 may comprise copper. In this way,
strand 515a may be shinier than the rest of outer strands 515 and thus visibly different
from the rest of outer strands 515. Also, strand 515a coated with tin may oxidize at a much
slower rate than copper, thus it may create a visual contrast that may last through the life of
cable 505. Consequently, cable 505 may include an indicator that may be visible at a
distance from cable 505 when one or more of outer strands 515 is different (e.g., visibly
different) from the rest of outer strands 515.
[045]    FIG. 6 is a diagram illustrating a product 605. As stated above, product 605 may
comprise, but is not limited to, an electrical conductor. As shown in FIG. 6, a plurality of
indicia (e.g., a first indicia 610 and a second indicia 615, etc.) may be placed periodically
and longitudinally on product 605.
[046]    Product 605 may comprise an outer layer 620 and an inner portion 625. Outer
layer 620 and inner portion 625 may comprise visibly different materials. For example,
outer layer 620 may be made of a material shinier than a material comprising inner portion
625. Specifically, outer layer 620 may be made of tin and inner portion 625 may be made
of copper. Notwithstanding, outer layer 620 and inner portion 625 may comprise any
materials including metal materials (e.g., tin, copper, aluminum, steel, etc.). Outer layer
620 and inner portion 625 may comprise the same or different materials. Moreover, inner
portion 625 may be solid. In another embodiment, inner portion 625 may not be solid, but
may include a longitudinally cylindrical hole (not shown) running from one end of product
605 to the other creating a pipe or conduit.

                                                   14
[047]      In placing the plurality of indicia (e.g., first indicia 610 and second indicia 615, etc.)
periodically and longitudinally on product 605, a laser based marking system may be used.
 Specifically, the plurality of indicia may be etched through outer layer 620 and into inner
portion 625. Consequently, a visual contrast may be created in the symbols comprising the
plurality of indicia. For example, this visual contrast may be due to the outer surface of
outer layer 620 being shinier than the symbols comprising the plurality of indicia, which
may be etched into inner portion 625 comprising a material duller than the outer surface of
outer layer 620.      In other words, because the bottoms of the symbols comprising the
plurality of indicia may be cut into the duller inner portion 625, the symbols comprising the
plurality of indicia may appear duller or flatter than the outer surface of outer layer 620.
[048]     Furthermore, having a shiny outer layer 620 may comprise an indicator that may be
visible at a distance from product 605. This indicator may identify product 605 as having a
theft deterrent feature. In this way, seeing the indicator may communicate to a potential
thief that product 605 can be traced, thus providing a deterrent to thief.
[049]     FIG. 7A is a diagram illustrating a product 705. As shown in FIG. 7A, a plurality of
indicia (e.g., a first indicia 710 and a second indicia 715, etc.) may be placed on product
705. Product 705 may comprise an outer layer 720 and an inner cavity 725. Inner cavity
725 may comprise a longitudinally cylindrical hole running from one end of product 705 to
the other creating, for example, a tube, a pipe, or a conduit. As stated above, product 705
may comprise, but is not limited to, a pipe, a conduit, a water line, tubing, or tubing used for
refrigerant in, for example, an air conditioner, a heat pump, refrigerator, or freezer.
[050]      In placing the plurality of indicia (e.g., first indicia 710 and second indicia 715, etc.)
on product 705, the plurality of indicia may be parallel to a longitudinal axis 730 of product
705 as shown in FIG. 7A (e.g., longitudinally). As shown in FIG. 7B, the plurality of indicia
(e.g., first indicia 710 and second indicia 715, etc.) may be placed on product 705
perpendicular to longitudinal axis 730 of product 705. Furthermore, the plurality of indicia
(e.g., first indicia 710 and second indicia 715, etc.) may be rotated at an angle relative to
longitudinal axis 730 and do not have to be perpendicular or parallel to longitudinal axis
730. Moreover, individual characters comprising first indicia 710 and a second indicia 715
may be rotated at an angle relative to longitudinal axis 730 and do not have to be
perpendicular or parallel to longitudinal axis 730. Regarding spacing between the plurality
of indicia, consistent with embodiments of the invention, the plurality of indicia may be

                                              15
spaced evenly apart (e.g., periodically), at random distances apart, or may have no
spacing between them.
[051]    Consistent with embodiments of the invention, center strand 510 or outer strands
515 (as shown in FIG. 5) may comprise, but not limited to, a structure similar to product
705 of FIG. 7. In other words, center strand 510 or outer strands 515 may comprise an
outer layer and an inner portion. As with product 705, center strand 510's or outer strands
515's outer layer and inner portion may comprise visibly different materials. For example,
the outer layer may be made of a material shinier than a material comprising the inner
portion. Specifically, the outer layer may be made of tin and the inner portion may be
made of copper. Furthermore, indicia (e.g., indicia 520) may be etched through the outer
layer of center strand 510 or outer strands 515 and into the inner portion of center strand
510 or outer strands 515. Consequently, a visual contrast may be created in the symbols
comprising the indicia (e.g., indicia 520).
[052]    FIG. 8 is a diagram illustrating a product 805. Product 805 may comprise, but is
not limited to, an electrical conductor. As shown in FIG. 8, a plurality of indicia (e.g., a first
indicia 810 and a second indicia 815, etc.) may be placed periodically and longitudinally on
product 805.
[053]    Product 805 may comprise an outer layer 820, an inner portion 825, and a center
portion 830. The cost of the material comprising center portion 830 may be cheaper than
the cost of the material comprising inner portion 825. Consequently, the material cost of
the embodiment shown in FIG. 8 may be cheaper than the embodiment shown in FIG. 6.
While FIG. 8 shows product 805 as having three elements (e.g., outer layer 820, inner
portion 825, and center portion 830) product 805 may comprise any number of elements.
[054]    Outer layer 820 and inner portion 825 may comprise visibly different materials. For
example, outer layer 820 may be made of a material shinier than a material comprising
inner portion 825. Specifically, outer layer 820 may be made of tin, inner portion 825 may
be made of copper or steel, and center portion 830 may be made of copper or steel.
Notwithstanding, outer layer 820, inner portion 825, and center portion 830 may be made
of any material including any metal material (e.g., tin, copper, aluminum, steel, etc.). Any
two or more of outer layer 820, inner portion 825, and center portion 830 may be made of
the same or different materials.

                                                  16
[055]     In placing the plurality of indicia (e.g., first indicia 810 and second indicia 815, etc.)
periodically and longitudinally on product 805, a laser based marking system may be used.
 Specifically, the plurality of indicia may be etched through outer layer 820 and into inner
portion 825. Consequently, a visual contrast may be created in the symbols comprising the
plurality of indicia. For example, this visual contrast may be due to the outer surface of
outer layer 820 being shinier than the symbols comprising the plurality of indicia, which
may be etched into inner portion 825 comprising a material duller than the outer surface of
outer layer 820.     In other words, because the bottoms of the symbols comprising the
plurality of indicia may be cut into the duller inner portion 825, the symbols comprising the
plurality of indicia may appear duller or flatter than the outer surface of outer layer 820.
[056]     Furthermore, having a shiny outer layer 820 may comprise an indicator that may be
visible at a distance from product 805. This indicator may identify product 805 as having a
theft deterrent feature. In this way, seeing the indicator may communicate to a potential
thief that product 805 can be traced, thus providing a deterrent to thief.
[057]     Turning back to FIG. 5, consistent with embodiments of the invention, product 605
and/or product 805 may be used in cable 505 as any one or more of center strand 510
and/or outer strands 515 (including strand 515a.) In other words, center strand 510 may
comprise product 605 or product 805. Outer strands 515 may comprise product 605 with
or without indicia (e.g., first indicia 610 and/or second indicia 615) or product 805 with or
without indicia (e.g., first indicia 810 or second indicia 815). Furthermore, strand 515a may
comprise product 605 with or without indicia (e.g., first indicia 610 and/or second indicia
615) or product 805 with or without indicia (e.g., first indicia 810 or second indicia 815).
[058]     FIG. 9 shows an identification tape 905. A plurality of indicia (e.g., a first indicia
910 and a second indicia 915, etc.) may be placed periodically and longitudinally on
identification tape 905 that may, in turn, be included in a product such as a cable, for
example. While FIG. 9 shows identification tape 905 as being flat, embodiments of the
invention are not so limited. For example, identification tape 905 may comprise a rope and
may comprise any shape. In other words, identification tape 905 may comprise any form
of medium capable of carrying the plurality of indicia.
[059]     As stated above, consistent with embodiments of the invention, the plurality of
indicia may be placed (e.g., printed) on identification tape 905 with a laser source, chemical
etching method, high temperature/high adhesion ink, ink jet printer, high speed indexing

                                              17
printing wheel, embossed, or other processes for providing a highly tamper resistant
traceable code. Identification tape 905 may be flexible, conductive, or non-conductive.
Identification tape 905 may comprise metal (e.g., copper), metal foil (e.g., copper foil),
Mylar, PVC, EPR, polyethylene, cotton, polyester, or nylon tape, or any polymer material.
[060]      Identification tape 905 may be included in a product such as a cable 1005 as
shown in FIG. 10. Cable 1005 may comprise a core 1010, a shield 1015, and a jacket
1020.     Cable 1005 may further comprise a binder (not shown) that may be helically
wrapped around core 1010. Core 1010 may comprise a plurality of conductors 1025 that
may be insulated and may be solid or stranded. Cable 1005 may comprise, but is not
limited to, a control cable for agricultural irrigation equipment or electrical substation
equipment. Plurality of conductors 1025 may be used to provide control signals or for
providing energy.
[061]      Cable 1005 may include materials that may need to be removed before other
portions of cable 1005 can be recycled. For example, cable 1005 may include metals
(e.g., copper, aluminum, etc.) that may be valuable enough to cost justify recycling.
Moreover, cable 1005 may include other materials (e.g., insulation) that may need to be
removed before the metals can be in condition for recycling.            In some situations, a
mechanical granulation process, flames or chemicals may be used to remove the other
materials (e.g., insulation). Consequently, identification tape 905 may be constructed in
such a way that identification tape 905 and the plurality of indicia on identification tape 905
may not be destroyed, for example, when the product (e.g., cable 1005) that includes
identification tape 905, has its insulation removed, for example, by a mechanical
granulation process, flames, or chemicals. In other words, identification tape 905 may be
made of a material that is resistant to mechanical damage, flames (heat), or chemicals that
may be used to remove insulation from cables (e.g., cable 1005.) Moreover, the plurality of
indicia may be placed on identification tape 905 in such a way that the plurality of indicia
are still readable after the mechanical granulation process, flames (heat), or chemicals are
used to remove insulation from cable 1005. Identification tape 905, for example, may be
made of metal or any other mechanical damage, flame, or chemical resistant material. The
temperature of heat used to remove insulation from cables (e.g., cable 1005) may be
between 1,OOOcF and 1,900F and may comprise approx imately 1,500cF.
[062]      Ones of the plurality of conductors 1025 may be so small that if the plurality of
indicia were placed on the ones of the plurality of conductors 1025, the plurality of indicia

                                                   18
may be too small to be seen or read by the human eye without magnification. However,
the plurality of indicia (e.g., first indicia 910 and second indicia 915, etc.) placed periodically
and longitudinally on tape 905 may be large enough to be seen and read by the human
eye without magnification.
[063]    Consistent with embodiments of the invention, identification tape 905 may be
substantially parallel to a longitudinal axis of cable 1005 and may be placed between core
1010 and shield 1015 or between shield 1015 and jacket 1020. Consistent with another
embodiment of the invention, identification tape 905 may be fed into a wall of jacket 1020
(e.g., somewhere between the outside and inside). Moreover, identification tape 905 may
also be placed between layers of a two or more layer jacket 1020. Also, identification tape
905 may be applied to an outside surface of jacket 1020 such that it bonds to the outside
surface of jacket 1020.
[064]    Identification tape 905 may comprise an anchoring feature configured to resist a
force applied to identification tape 905 in a direction of a longitudinal axis of cable 1005.
Consequently, if cable 1005 is cut at a cross section exposing identification tape 905, the
anchoring feature may resist an effort to pull identification tape 905 out of cable 1005. The
anchoring feature may cause identification tape 905 to attach to other elements of cable
1005. The anchoring feature may comprise, for example, an adhesive or cleats disposed
on identification tape 905.
[065]    Identification tape 905 may be used as a binder for core 1010 and may be helically
wrapped around core 1010. Furthermore, identification tape 905 may be put in the place of
one of the plurality of conductors 1025 in core 1010. For example, when core 1010 is
constructed, the plurality of conductors 1025 may be pulled from reels and twisted in an
S-Z configuration. During the twisting of core 1010, identification tape 905 may be pulled
into core 1010 as or in the place of one of the plurality of conductors 1025 and twisted into
core 1010 in an S-Z configuration or could be helically applied to the core 1010.
[066]    Furthermore, an indicator may be placed on cable 1005 that may be visible at a
distance from cable 1005. For example, the indicator may be placed on jacket 1020. This
indicator may identify cable 1005 as having a theft deterrent feature. In this way, seeing
the indicator may communicate to a potential thief that cable 1005 can be traced, thus
providing a deterrent to thief. For example, the indicator may comprise a bright jacket color

                                               19
for jacket 1020 or a printed logo or text on jacket 1020. The printed text my comprise
"Traceable".
[067]     Once product processor 205 creates the plurality of unique codes and places the
plurality of indicia periodically and longitudinally on the cable in stage 310, method 300
may continue to stage 320 where product processor 205 may assign, in a database (e.g., a
database 440 as described below with respect to FIG. 4), the plurality of unique codes to
an organizational entity. The organizational entity may comprise a first enterprise. For
example, the first enterprise may comprise, but is not limited to, an enterprise that is to
distribute the cable, an enterprise that is purchasing the cable an enterprise for which the
cable is being manufactured, or an enterprise that is to install the cable.
[068]     After product processor 205 assigns the plurality of unique codes to the
organizational entity in stage 320, method 300 may proceed to stage 330 where product
processor 205 may receive an indication that the cable is to be transferred from the first
enterprise to a second enterprise. For example, using first enterprise processor 210, the
first enterprise may communicate with product processor 205 over network 215. Through
this communication, the first enterprise may indicate that the ownership of a particular
amount of cable is being transferred to the second enterprise. In this communication, the
first enterprise may specify a series of the plurality of unique codes corresponding to the
cable whose ownership is being transferred from the first enterprise to a second enterprise.
[069]     From stage 330, where product processor 205 receives the indication that the
cable is to be transferred from the first enterprise to the second enterprise, method 300
may advance to stage 340 where product processor 205 may assign in database 440, in
response to the received indication, the plurality of unique codes from the organizational
entity comprising the first enterprise to the organizational entity comprising the second
enterprise. For example, the second enterprise may comprise an enterprise purchasing
the cable, an enterprise that is to distribute the cable, an enterprise for which the cable is
being manufactured, and an enterprise that is to install the cable. For example, the first
enterprise may be a cable distributor and the second enterprise may be an entity
purchasing the cable from the cable distributor. In addition, the first enterprise may be and
entity for which the cable is being manufactured and the second enterprise may be an
entity that the first enterprise has contracted with to install the cable. Moreover, the first
enterprise may be an entity for which the cable is being manufactured and the second
enterprise may be an entity purchasing the cable from the first entity.

                                             20
[070]    Once product processor 205 assigns the plurality of unique codes from the first
enterprise to the second enterprise in stage 340, method 300 may continue to stage 350
where product processor 205 may receive an input. For example, the input may be
received from a reclaimer operating reclaimer processor 220.           The reclaimer may
comprise, but is not limited to, an enterprise that recycles materials (e.g., copper or
aluminum).    In this example, the second entity may bring cable to the reclaimer. The
reclaimer may record codes from indicia from the cable brought for recycling. For each
piece of cable, the reclaimer may record a code closest to a first end of the cable and a
code closets to a second end of the cable. Notwithstanding, the reclaimer may record any
one or more codes shown in indicia from the cable brought for recycling. Next, using
reclaimer processor 220, the reclaimer may communicate these recorded code numbers to
product processor 205 through the input.
[071]    After product processor 205 receives the input in stage 350, method 300 may
proceed to stage 360 where product processor 205 may determine if the input corresponds
to any one of the plurality of unique codes. For example, from the received input, product
processor 205 may extract the recorded codes submitted by the reclaimer in the input.
Then the recorded codes from the input may be compared against codes that have been
previously saved in database 440 and assigned to certain organizational entities.
Consequently, product processor 205 may determine that respective matches exist
between one or more of the recorded codes from the input and one or more unique codes
previously saved in database 440.
[072]    From stage 360, where product processor 205 determines if the input corresponds
to any one of the plurality of unique codes, method 300 may advance to stage 370 where
product processor 205 may determine the organizational entity to which the plurality of
unique codes are assigned. For example, product processor 205 may determine that the
recorded codes from the input match codes previously assigned to the second enterprise.
Consequently, product processor 205 may transmit an output to reclaimer processor 220
indicating that the determined organizational entity is the second enterprise. Moreover,
product processor 205 may determine that the recorded codes from the input do not match
codes previously assigned to the second enterprise. Consequently, product processor 205
may transmit the output to reclaimer processor 220 indicating that the determined
organizational entity is not the second enterprise. From the output, the reclaimer is better
able to determine if the cable brought for recycling should be purchased from the entity

                                              21
bringing the cable. Once product processor 205 determines the organizational entity to
which the plurality of unique codes are assigned in stage 370, method 300 may then end at
stage 380.
[073]    FIG. 4 shows product processor 205 of FIG. 2 in more detail. As shown in FIG. 4,
product processor 205 may include a processing unit 425 and a memory 430. Memory 430
may include theft deterrent software module 435 and database 440. First enterprise
processor 210 and reclaimer processor 220 may comprise similar structures. While
executing on processing unit 425, deterrent software module 435 may perform processes
for providing a theft deterrent cable, including, for example, one or more method 300
stages described above with respect to FIG. 3. Furthermore, one or more method 300
stages may be performed by first enterprise processor 210 or reclaimer processor 220.
[074]    Product processor 205, first enterprise processor 210, and reclaimer processor 220
("the processors") included in system 200 may be implemented using a personal computer,
network computer, mainframe, or other similar microcomputer-based workstation. The
processors may though comprise any type of computer operating environment, such as
hand-held devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable
sender electronic devices, minicomputers, mainframe computers, and the like. The
processors may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are
performed by remote processing devices. Furthermore, the processors may comprise a
mobile terminal, such as a smart phone, a cellular telephone, a cellular telephone utilizing
wireless application protocol (WAP), personal digital assistant (PDA), intelligent pager,
portable computer, a hand held computer, a conventional telephone, or a facsimile
machine. The aforementioned systems and devices are exemplary and the processors
may comprise other systems or devices.
[075]    Network 215 may comprise, for example, a local area network (LAN) or a wide
area network (WAN). When a LAN is used as network 215, a network interface located at
any of the processors may be used to interconnect any of the processors. When network
215 is implemented in a WAN networking environment, such as the Internet, the
processors may typically include an internal or external modem (not shown) or other
means for establishing communications over the WAN. Further, in utilizing network 215,
data sent over network 215 may be encrypted to insure data security by using known
encryption/decryption techniques.

                                                22
[076]    In addition to utilizing a wire line communications system as network 215, a
wireless communications system, or a combination of wire line and wireless may be utilized
as network 215 in order to, for example, exchange web pages via the Internet, exchange
e-mails via the Internet, or for utilizing other communications channels. Wireless can be
defined as radio transmission via the airwaves.        However, it may be appreciated that
various other communication techniques can be used to provide wireless transmission,
including infrared line of sight, cellular, microwave, satellite, packet radio, and spread
spectrum radio. The processors in the wireless environment can be any mobile terminal,
such as the mobile terminals described above. Wireless data may include, but is not
limited to, paging, text messaging, e-mail, Internet access and other specialized data
applications specifically excluding or including voice transmission.       For example, the
processors may communicate across a wireless interface such as, for example, a cellular
interface (e.g., general packet radio system (GPRS), enhanced data rates for global
evolution (EDGE), global system for mobile communications (GSM)), a wireless local area
network interface (e.g., WLAN, IEEE 802, Wi-Fi, WiMAX), a Bluetooth interface, another
RF communication interface, and/or an optical interface.
[077]    System 200 may also transmit data by methods and processes other than, or in
combination with, network 215. These methods and processes may include, but are not
limited to, transferring data via, diskette, flash memory sticks, CD ROM, facsimile,
conventional mail, an interactive voice response system (IVR), or via voice over a publicly
switched telephone network.
[078]    Generally, consistent with embodiments of the invention, program modules may
include routines, programs, components, data structures, and other types of structures that
may perform particular tasks or that may implement particular abstract data types.
Moreover, embodiments of the invention may be practiced with other computer system
configurations,      including       hand-held      devices,     multiprocessor    systems,
microprocessor-based or programmable consumer electronics, minicomputers, mainframe
computers, and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed
computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are
linked through a communications network.           In a distributed computing environment,
program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.
[079]    Furthermore, embodiments of the invention may be practiced in an electrical circuit
comprising discrete electronic elements, packaged or integrated electronic chips containing

                                              23
logic gates, a circuit utilizing a microprocessor, or on a single chip containing electronic
elements or microprocessors. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced using
other technologies capable of performing logical operations such as, for example, AND,
OR, and NOT, including but not limited to mechanical, optical, fluidic, and quantum
technologies. In addition, embodiments of the invention may be practiced within a general
purpose computer or in any other circuits or systems.
[080]    Embodiments of the invention, for example, may be implemented as a computer
process (method), a computing system, or as an article of manufacture, such as a
computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product
may be a computer storage media readable by a computer system and encoding a
computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer
program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing
system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer
process. Accordingly, the present invention may be embodied in hardware and/or in
software (including firmware, resident software, micro-code, etc.).        In other words,
embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product
on a computer-usable or computer-readable storage medium having computer-usable or
computer-readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with
an instruction execution system. A computer-usable or computer-readable medium may
be any medium that can contain, store, communicate, propagate, or transport the program
for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system, apparatus, or device.
[081]    The computer-usable or computer-readable medium may be, for example but not
limited to, an electronic, magnetic, optical, electromagnetic, infrared, or semiconductor
system, apparatus, device, or propagation medium.         More specific computer-readable
medium examples (a non-exhaustive list), the computer-readable medium may include the
following:
         an electrical connection having one or more wires;
         a portable computer diskette;
         a random access memory (RAM);
         a read-only memory (ROM);
         an erasable programmable read-only memory (EPROM or Flash memory);
         an optical fiber; and
         a portable compact disc read-only memory (CD-ROM).

                                              24
[082]    Note that the computer-usable or computer-readable medium could even be paper
or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed, as the program can be
electronically captured, via, for instance, optical scanning of the paper or other medium,
then compiled, interpreted, or otherwise processed in a suitable manner, if necessary, and
then stored in a computer memory.
[083]    Embodiments of the present invention, for example, are described above with
reference to block diagrams and/or operational illustrations of methods, systems, and
computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. The functions/acts
noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example, two
blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the
blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order, depending upon the
functionality/acts involved.
[084]    While certain embodiments of the invention have been described, other
embodiments may exist. Furthermore, although embodiments of the present invention
have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage
mediums, data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer-readable
media, such as secondary storage devices, like hard disks, floppy disks, or a CD-ROM, a
carrier wave from the Internet, or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further, the disclosed
methods' stages may be modified in any manner, including by reordering stages and/or
inserting or deleting stages, without departing from the invention.
[085]    While the specification includes examples, the invention's scope is indicated by the
following claims. Furthermore, while the specification has been described in language
specific to structural features and/or methodological acts, the claims are not limited to the
features or acts described above. Rather, the specific features and acts described above
are disclosed as example for embodiments of the invention.

                                              25
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.       A product comprising:
         a jacket;
         a core under the jacket; and
         an identification tape under the jacket, the identification tape comprising a plurality
of indicia located periodically and longitudinally on the identification tape, the plurality of
indicia respectively corresponding to a plurality of unique codes.
2.       The product of Claim 1, wherein the product comprises an electrical cable.
3.       The product of Claim 1, wherein the product comprises a control cable for
agricultural irrigation equipment.
4.       The product of Claim 1, wherein the product comprises a control cable for electrical
substation equipment.
5.       The product of Claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of unique codes has a
corresponding unique portion that is unique to a corresponding portion of the product
adjacent to the corresponding unique portion.
6.       The product of Claim 1, wherein the product further comprises an indicator on the
exterior of the product.
7.       The product of Claim 6, wherein the indicator indicates that the product has a theft
deterrent feature.
8.       The product of Claim 7, wherein the indicator comprises the jacket being a bright
color.
9.       The product of Claim 7, wherein the indicator comprises at least one symbol.
10.      The product of Claim 1, wherein the identification tape is substantially parallel to a
longitudinal axis of the product.
11.      The product of Claim 1, further comprising a shield disposed between the jacket
and the core.

                                             26
 12.      The product of Claim 11, wherein the identification tape is disposed between the
jacket and the shield.
 13.      The product of Claim 11, wherein the identification tape is disposed between the
core and the shield.
 14.      The product of Claim 1, wherein the identification tape comprises a binder around
the core.
 15.      The product of Claim 14, wherein the identification tape is helically wrapped around
the core.
 16.      The product of Claim 1, wherein the identification tape comprises an anchoring
feature configured to resist a force applied to the identification tape in a direction of a
 longitudinal axis of the product.
 17.      The product of Claim 16, wherein anchoring feature comprises an adhesive.
 18.      The product of Claim 16, wherein the anchoring feature comprises cleats disposed
on the identification tape.
 19.      A cable, comprising:
          an identification tape; and
          at least one indicia placed on the identification tape, the at least one indicia
corresponding to a unique code having a unique portion that is unique to a portion of the
cable adjacent to the corresponding unique portion, wherein the at least one indicia is not
visible from an exterior of the cable.
20.       The cable of Claim 19, further comprising an indicator on the exterior of the cable.
21.       The cable of Claim 20, wherein the indicator indicates that the cable has a theft
deterrent feature.
22.       The cable of Claim 21, wherein the indicator comprises the jacket being brightly
colored.
23.       The cable of Claim 21, wherein the indicator comprises at least one symbol.

                                              27
24.       The cable of Claim 20, wherein the cable comprises a control cable for agricultural
irrigation equipment.
25.       The cable of Claim 19, wherein the identification tape is substantially parallel to a
longitudinal axis of the cable.
26.       A cable comprising:
          a jacket having an indicator that indicates that the cable has a theft deterrent
feature;
          a core under the jacket;
          an identification tape under the jacket; and
          at least one indicia placed on the identification tape, the at least one indicia
corresponding to a unique code having a unique portion that is unique to a portion of the
cable adjacent to the corresponding unique portion, wherein the at least one indicia is not
visible from an exterior of the cable.
27.       The cable of Claim 26, wherein the identification tape is substantially parallel to a
longitudinal axis of the cable.
28.       The cable of Claim 26, wherein the identification tape comprises a binder around
the core.
29.       The cable of Claim 26, wherein the identification tape is helically wrapped around
the core.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
