  ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
       The present invention relates to new uses of the aqueous extracts derived
  from Hedysarum polybotrys Hand.-Mazz., Alisma plantago-aquatica (Sam.)
5 Juzep, Momordica charantia L., Eiseniafoetida and the combinations thereof in
  cell culture.  The aqueous extracts disclosed herein is especially useful for
  substituting animal serum in a culture medium, so that the content of animal
  serum in the cell culture medium can be reduced greatly, thereby reducing the
  production cost of cells and reducing the health risk resulted from animal serum.
                                           19

        CELL CULTURE MEDIUMS CONTAINING AQUEOUS EXTRACT
                       DERIVED FROM HERBAL MEDICINES
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5       The present invention relates to aqueous extracts derived from herbal
   medicines, and more particularly, to new compositions of the aqueous extracts
   derived from a single herbal medicine, and the combined aqueous extracts
   derived from two or more herbal medicines, as well as the uses thereof in cell
   culture.
10
   BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
         Fibroblasts exist in many tissues of animal body, for producing extracellular
   matrix and collagen. They are responsible for maintaining the basic structure of
   connective tissues and play a leading part in wound healing.
15       Cultured fibroblasts exhibit the effects of enhancing tissue repair and are
   suitable for a wide range of applications, including acute and chronic wound
   healing,        plastic       surgery         and      reconstruction       operation.
   In terms of wound healing, for example, fibroblasts may be cultured in a
   biodegradable     scaffold   to constitute     a skin substitute.     However,    it is
20 questionable whether such products would stand up to the scrutiny for safety and
   quality inspection.     For instance, the fibroblast preparations should be subject to
   strict scrutiny as to whether the cells are derived from human tissues, whether the
   preparations    are    produced    using    aseptic   processes,  whether    there   is
   contamination, whether the desired activities are maintained after freezing, and
25 whether there is a risk of rejection or virus infection under the circumstance that
   the cells are derived from a non-autologous source. In addition, how to minimize
   the cost and to maximize the product usability are the urgent topics the persons of
                                                1

   related technical fields want to solve.
         In the present medical cosmetology, autologous fibroblasts may be applied
   to human body as tissue filler, replacing the conventional injection of bovine
   collagen which may have a risk of rejection or infection.              In order for
 5 application of fibroblasts in autologous injection, it is imperative to reduce the
   amount of fetal bovine serum (FBS) used in fibroblast               culture without
   compromising the effectiveness of culturing human fibroblasts.           At present,
   fibroblasts are typically cultured in DMEM supplemented with 10% FBS,
   wherein FBS provides the nutrients and growth factors for fibroblast growth.
10 However, some components of FBS may enter the fibroblasts during cell culture,
   raising safety concerns about the risks of rejection, allergy and even disease
   transmission. Therefore, there is a need for a FBS replacement or cell culture
   supplement which can facilitate the growth of fibroblasts.
15 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
         The dermal fibroblasts specialize in producing extracellular matrices, such
   as collagen and elastin, so as to maintain the elasticity and density of skin.
   Under the circumstances that the dermal layer has sufficient fibroblasts to secrete
   collagen, skin wrinkles may be smoothed and skin elasticity may be maintained.
20 Therefore, the quantity and viability of dermal fibroblasts are closely bound up
   with the health, moisture and compactness of skin. The present inventor
   established an in vitro model of primary human dermal fibroblast cell culture
   adapted for screening pharmaceutical ingredients which can enhance the viability
   of fibroblasts, and/or facilitate secretion collagen and/or growth factors from
25 fibroblasts, and/or enhance the antioxidant activity of fibroblasts, and which may
   be useful in manufacture of healthcare products to achieve anti-wrinkle and
   anti-aging effects.
                                             2

        By using the in vitro model to test simple or combined extracts derived from
   certain Chinese herbal medicines, the inventor note that the aqueous extracts
   derived from Hedysarum polybotrys Hand.-Mazz., Alisma plantago-aquatica
   (Sam.) Juzep, Momordica charantiaL. and Eiseniafoetida, either used alone or
 5 in combination, can facilitate the growth of human or animal cells, especially
   fibroblasts, such as human dermal fibroblasts, under an in vitro culture condition
   containing a low content of FBS. Therefore, said aqueous extracts are useful in
   reducing the amount of FBS used in cell culture medium, thereby reducing the
   production cost of animal cells.     Especially, when introduced into a human
10 patient, the fibroblasts produced according to this application offer a reduced
   health risk to the human patient.
        Accordingly, in the first aspect provided herein is a cell culture medium
   supplement comprising:
        an aqueous extract derived from one or more biological species selected
15 from the group consisting of Hedysarum polybotrys Hand.-Mazz., Alisma
   plantago-aquatica(Sam.) Juzep. Momordica charantia L., Eisseniafoetida and
   combinations thereof.
        In the second aspect provided herein is a cell culture medium comprising:
        the aqueous extract described above; and
20      a basal medium supplemented with animal serum at a concentration of
   substantially less than 10% by volume based on the total volume of the cell
   culture medium.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
25      Fig. 1 is a histogram showing the cell viability of fibroblasts using extracts
   derived from individual herbal medicines to culture the fibroblasts for 3 days;
        Fig. 2 is a histogram showing the cell viability of fibroblasts using extracts
                                             3

   derived from individual herbal medicines to culture the fibroblasts for 6 days;
        Fig. 3 is a histogram showing the amounts of collagen secreted from
   fibroblasts using extracts derived from individual herbal medicines to culture the
   fibroblasts for 3 days;
 5      Fig. 4 is a histogram showing the amounts of collagen secreted from
   fibroblasts using extracts derived from individual herbal medicines to culture the
   fibroblasts for 6 days;
        Fig. 5 is a histogram showing the amounts of vascular endothelial growth
   factor (VEGF) secreted from fibroblasts using extracts derived from individual
10 herbal medicines to culture the fibroblasts for 3 days;
        Fig. 6 is a histogram showing the amounts of VEGF secreted from
   fibroblasts using extracts derived from individual herbal medicines to culture the
   fibroblasts for 6 days;
        Fig. 7 is a histogram showing the cell viability of fibroblasts using
15 combined extracts derived from two or more herbal medicines to culture the
   fibroblasts for 3 days;
        Fig. 8 is a histogram showing the cell viability of fibroblasts using
   combined extracts derived from two or more herbal medicines to culture the
   fibroblasts for 6 days;
20      Fig. 9 is a histogram showing the amounts of collagen secreted from
   fibroblasts using combined extracts derived from two or more herbal medicines
   to culture the fibroblasts for 3 days;
        Fig. 10 is a histogram showing the amounts of collagen secreted from
   fibroblasts using combined extracts derived from two or more herbal medicines
25 to culture the fibroblasts for 6 days;
        Fig. 11 is a histogram showing the amounts of VEGF secreted from
   fibroblasts using combined extracts derived from two or more herbal medicines
                                            4

   to culture the fibroblasts for 3 days;
         Fig. 12 is a histogram showing the amounts of VEGF secreted from
   fibroblasts using combined extracts derived from two or more herbal medicines
   to culture the fibroblasts for 6 days;
 5       Fig. 13 are fluorescence microscope images showing the fibroblasts that
   express FSP-1 after treatment with individual extracts derived from herbal
   medicines; and
         Fig. 14 is a histogram showing the percentages of the fibroblasts that
   express FSP- 1 after treatment with individual or combined extracts derived from
10 herbal medicines.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
         This application relates generally to use of traditional herbal medicines,
   including H. polybotrys, A. plantago-aquatica,M. charantia and E. foetida, in
15 cell culture and skin care.
         As used herein, the term "Hedysarum polybotrys Hand.-Mazz.,"               or
   abbreviated as "H. polybotrys," encompasses the newly harvested, unprocessed
   and processed whole plant and plant parts of the botanical species, especially the
   underground part thereof, such as the dried roots thereof commercially available
20 from the traditional herbal medicine distributors.
         The term "Alisma plantago-aquatica(Sam.) Juzep," or abbreviated as "A.
   plantago-aquatica," as       used   herein   encompasses  the  newly    harvested,
   unprocessed and processed whole plant and plant parts of the botanical species,
   especially the underground part thereof, such as the dried rhizomes thereof
25 commercially     available from the traditional herbal medicine       distributors.
   Normally, the rhizome parts were picked in winter when the stem and leaf parts
   began to wither.     The rhizome parts were washed, roasted to dry, trimmed to
                                              5

   remove fibrous roots, re-wetted with water, and then sliced and dried under the
   sun.     In traditional herbal medicine distributors, A. plantago-aquatica is
   typically sold in the form of dried rhizomes processed by stir-frying with bran or
   stir-frying with salty water.
 5       The term "Momordica charantia L." or abbreviated as "M. charantia," as
   used herein encompasses the newly harvested, unprocessed and processed whole
   plant and plant parts of the botanical species, especially the fruit parts thereof.
         The term "Eiseniafoetida," or abbreviated as "E.foetida," as used herein
   encompasses the newly harvested, unprocessed and processed whole worms or
10 worm parts of the animal species, such as the unprocessed whole worms sold as
   fish bait in fishing tackle shops, or the processed whole worms or worm
   segments sold in traditional Chinese medicine distributors. In traditional
   processing, E. foetida is usually caught in summer and autumn, eviscerated and
   washed before solarization or cold drying.       The dried worm bodies are used as
15 medicine directly or after being stir-fried with yellow wine.
         The term "aqueous extract," as used herein, may refer to a composition
   prepared by contacting one or more traditional medicines with an aqueous
   solvent following standard extraction procedures.       The term "derived from" as
   used herein is intended to indicate the traditional medicine(s) from which the
20 aqueous extract is prepared.      Non-limiting examples of the aqueous solvent
   include water, C1 -6 alkanols, C14        alkylene glycols, aqueous      carbohydrate
   solutions, salt solutions thereof, and mixtures thereof.     Desirably, the aqueous
   solvent is selected from water and salt solutions thereof.            The traditional
   medicine(s) may be ground beforehand, and the pressure and temperature during
25 the extraction procedures may be elevated for enhancing the extraction efficiency.
   In a preferred embodiment, the aqueous extract is obtained by extraction with
   deionized water at a high temperature, such as at about 1000 C under ambient
                                               6

   pressure.    The duration of extraction depends on the yield of extraction and
   normally lasts 30 minutes to one day, preferably 1-12 hours, such as 1-3 hours.
   The term "aqueous extract" encompasses crude extracts, prepared by a simple
   aqueous extraction, as well as crude extracts that have been subjected to one or
 5 more separation and/or purification steps, including substantially purified and
   purified active ingredient(s) and concentrates or fractions derived from a crude
   extract by subjecting the crude extract to one or more additional extraction,
   concentration, fractionation, filtration, distillation or other purification step.
   The extract may be in liquid form, such as a solution, concentrate or distillate, or
10 in semi-liquid form, such as a gel.    The aqueous extract can, if appropriate and
   desired, be lyophilized and stored in a sterile ampoule ready for reconstitution by
   the addition of an aqueous solvent, such as sterile water.
         According to this application, the individual aqueous extracts derived from
   H. polybotrys, A. plantago-aquatica,M. charantiaand E.foetida, as well as the
15 combinations thereof, can enhance the growth of human or animal cells,
   especially fibroblasts, such as human dermal fibroblasts, at a low content of FBS,
   indicating that the aqueous extracts may be used as a supplement in animal cell
   culture media, so that the amount of animal serum in the media may be reduced.
   In general, the animal cell culture media are supplemented with 10% to 20%
20 animal serum, so as to provide the proteins, inorganic salts, growth factors,
   hormones and attachment factors for cell growth. The term "animal serum" may
   refer to liquid products derived from non-human animal blood, wherein the blood
   cells, fibrinogen and fibrin are removed.       The animal serum is suitable for
   addition to a culture medium to provide nutrients needed for cell growth. The
25 animal serum includes, but is not limited to, FBS, newborn calf serum, calf
   serum and other animal serums, such as the serum products derived from horse
   and camel.
                                             7

         This application uses primary human dermal fibroblasts as a platform for
   screening aqueous extracts derived from herbal medicines. As shown in
   Examples 1 and 7 below, in comparison to the control group using a basal
   medium supplemented with 0.5% FBS, the basal media contain, in addition to
 5 0.5% FBS, individual or combined aqueous extracts derived from H. polybotrys,
   A. plantago-aquatica,M. charantia and E.foetida can increase the cell numbers
   of fibroblasts by 1.5 times and 1.4-2.4 times on Day 3 and Day 6 of culture,
   respectively, suggesting that said aqueous extracts can enhance the growth of
   fibroblasts.   Example 7 further shows that the individual and combined aqueous
10 extracts disclosed herein, in combination with 0.5% FBS, may achieve a cell
   proliferation rate of  5 0 -6 6 .7% as compared with that obtained using a culture
   medium supplemented with a conventional amount of FBS (10%). Without
   wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that said aqueous extracts not only
   contain the nutrients needed by animal cells, but also include certain components
15 which may stimulate fibroblasts to secrete growth factors, thereby enhancing cell
   proliferation.   Example 12 also evidences that the fibroblasts treated with the
   aqueous extracts disclosed herein will neither change their characteristics nor
   differentiate to mature cells.
         It is worthwhile to note that, as shown in Example 7, when a combined
20 aqueous extract derived from H. polybotrys and E. foetida, a combined aqueous
   extract derived from H. polybotrys, A. plantago-aquatica and M. charantia, a
   combined aqueous extract derived from A. plantago-aquatica,M. charantia and
   E. foetida, a combined aqueous extract derived from H. polybotrys, M. charantia
   and E. foetida, and a combined aqueous extract derived from H. polybotrys, A.
25 plantago-aquatica,M. charantia and E. foetida are used to culture fibroblasts,
   the cells can be proliferated over two times, and these combined extracts exhibit
   higher cell proliferation effects as compared with individual extracts alone.
                                              8

   Without wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that the constituents in the
   five combined extracts provide synergistic effects on cell proliferation. In a more
   preferred embodiment, the aqueous extract is selected from a combined aqueous
   extract derived from H. polybotrys and E. foetida.
 5      Accordingly, this application provides a cell culture medium supplement,
   which comprises an aqueous extract derived from one or more biological species.
   The biological species is selected from the group consisting of H. polybotrys, A.
   plantago-aquatica,M. charantiaand E.foetida.       The term "cell culture medium
   supplement" may refer to a composition adapted for being added to a cell culture
10 medium to assist in maintaining the viability of cells inoculated in the culture
   medium and/or enhancing the proliferation of the cells.      The culture medium
   supplement is adapted to support human or animal cell cultures, preferably
   supporting human or animal fibroblast cultures, such as supporting human
   dermal fibroblast cultures.   Since the functions of the animal serum in a culture
15 medium can be substituted in part or completely by the aqueous extracts
   disclosed herein, the content of the animal serum in the cell culture medium can
   be reduced greatly from the conventional content of 10% to an amount of
   substantially less than 10% by volume, preferably an amount of substantially less
   than 5% by volume, more preferably an amount of substantially less than 1% by
20 volume, such as an amount of about 0.5% by volume, based on the total volume
   of the cell culture medium.
        Therefore, this application further contemplates a cell culture medium
   comprising the cell culture medium supplement described above, and a basal
   medium supplemented with animal serum at a concentration of substantially less
25 than 10% by volume, preferably at a concentration of substantially less than 5%
   by volume, and more preferably at a concentration of substantially less than 1%
   by volume, such as at a concentration of about 0.5% by volume, based on the
                                            9

   total volume of the cell culture medium.
         The term "basal culture medium" as used herein may refer to any
   serum-free liquid culture medium containing inorganic salts, amino acids and
   vitamins usually required to support growth of human or animal cells in vitro.
 5 In some preferred embodiments, the basal culture medium is growth factor-free.
   Examples of the basal culture medium include but are not limited to Basal
   Medium Eagles (BME), Minimum Essential Medium (MEM), Dulbecco's
   Modified Eagle's Medium (DMEM), Nutrient Mixture F-10 (HAM's F-10) and
   Nutrient Mixture F-12 (HAM's F-12).          In a more preferred embodiment, the
10 basal culture medium is DMEM.
         The following embodiments are used only for illustration, not to limit the
   scope of the present invention. The experimental results in various embodiments
   are compared with the control group by Student's t test, #: 0.05 < p < 0.1; *: p <
   0.05.
15 Preparative Example 1: Primary Culture of Human Dermal Fibroblasts
         A skin specimen was obtained with donor's consent. The skin specimen was
   cut into 0.5 to 1 mm3 pieces. Afterwards, the skin pieces were placed in DMEM
   supplemented with FBS, collagenase and dispase, incubated at 370 C for 16-18
   hours, and centrifuged at 1,500 rpm for 5 minutes. The supernatant was removed,
20 and the cells and skin pieces were scattered with FBS-containing DMEM and
   then dispensed in a flask uniformly and incubated at 37 C. The cells were
   passaged when reached 80% confluence and used in the following Examples
   between passage 3 and 6.
   Preparative Example 2: Preparation of Aqueous Extracts
25       H. polybotrys and A. plantago-aquatica were purchased from traditional
   herbal medicine distributors.     E. foetida was purchased from a local fishing
   tackle shop.    M. charantia was purchased from a local fruit and vegetable
                                             10

   market.
         100g of H. polybotrys was added into 500g double distilled water and boiled
   at ambient pressure for 2 hours to generate a suspension of H. polybotrys
   weighted 210g.
 5       100g of A. plantago-aquatica was added into 500g double distilled water
   and boiled at ambient pressure for 2 hours to generate a suspension of A.
   plantago-aquaticaweighed 242g.
         100g of M. charantia fruit was added into 500g 500g double distilled water
   and boiled at ambient pressure for 2 hours to generate a suspension of M.
10 charantiaweighed 150g.
         100g of unprocessed E. foetida was added into 500g double distilled water
   and boiled at ambient pressure for 2 hours to generate a suspension of E.foetida
   weighed 170g.
         The suspensions were filtered through gauze respectively to remove debris.
15 The respective filtrates were collected and centrifuged at 6000 rpm for 30
   minutes.     The respective supernatants were collected and passed through a 0.2
   ptm filter. The resultants filtrates were collected as the stock extracts and stored at
   -20 C.
         In the following Examples, the stock extracts were diluted several fold with
20 the culture medium used in the control group, and the cells were treatment by the
   diluted extracts. For example, H. polybotrys 1OOX refers to the diluted extract
   obtained by diluting the stock solution of H. polybotrys 100-fold with the culture
   medium used in the control group.
   Example 1: Treatment of Cells with Individual Extracts
25       The fibroblasts prepared in Preparative Example 1 was inoculated in a
   96-well culture plate and cultured in DMEM (Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis,
   MO, USA) supplemented with 0.5% FBS (Gibco Co., NY, USA) in the presence
                                              11

   of the respective extracts prepared in Preparative Example 2 for 3 to 6 days. The
   control group was the fibroblasts of Preparative Example 1 cultured in DMEM
   supplemented with either 0.5% or 1.0% FBS. The supernatants and the cells were
   harvested for subsequent analyses.
 5 Example 2: Enhancement Effects of Individual Extracts on Cell Proliferation
        A commercially available XTT analysis kit (Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis
   City, MO, USA) was used to treat the cells obtained in Example 1 according to
   manufacturer'    s instructions.  The O.D. readings of respective wells in the
   culture plate were measured at 450 nm to obtain the cell viability.   Figs. 1 and 2
10 show that the fibroblasts incubated with individual extracts derived from H.
   polybotrys, A. plantago-aquaticaor E. foetida for either 3 or 6 days exhibited a
   significant increase in cell number as comparison to the control group which was
   incubated with 0.5% FBS alone. The proliferation rates of the tested groups on
   Day 3 were about 1.2 times compared with the control group which was
15 incubated with 0.5% FBS alone, whereas the proliferation rates of the tested
   groups on Day 6 exhibited an increase of more than 1.5 times compared with the
   control group. In the case where the fibroblasts were treated with the extract
   derived from M charantia,the cell proliferation was not enhanced until Day 6.
   This example indicates that the four extracts disclosed herein have the capability
20 of enhancing the proliferation of human dermal fibroblasts.
   Example 3: Effects of Individual Extracts on Collagen Secretion from Fibroblasts
        A commercially available human recombinant collagen Type I detection kit
     (Gibco Co., NY, USA; kit No. PRO-479A) was used to treat the supernatants
     obtained in Example 1 according to manufacturer'      s instructions, so that the
25   amounts of collagen secreted from the fibroblasts were obtained.
        Fig.3 shows the amounts of collagen secreted from fibroblasts by using the
   individual extracts derived from herbal medicines to culture the fibroblasts for 3
                                            12

    days.    In comparison to the control group which was incubated with 0.5% FBS
    alone, the extract derived from H. polybotrys significantly facilitated collagen
    secretion at three tested concentrations, and the 200X diluted extract exhibited
    the best effects. The extract derived from A. plantago-aquatica, at 4800X
 5  dilution, enhanced collagen secretion significantly. The extract derived from E.
   foetida, at 4000X and 2000X dilution, stimulated the fibroblasts to secrete
    collagen significantly. However, the extract derived from M. charantia failed to
    stimulate collagen secretion at the tested concentrations. Fig.4 shows the
    amounts of collagen secreted from fibroblasts by using the individual extracts to
10  culture the fibroblasts for 6 days.     Both of H. polybotrys extract at 200X
    dilution and E. foetida extract at 8000X dilution enhanced collagen secretion
    significantly. This example shows that the extracts derived from H. polybotrys or
   E. foetida, in combination with 0.5% FBS, stimulated fibroblasts to secrete
    collagen, and such stimulation effects were superior to that achieved by using
15  1.0% FBS alone.
    Example 4: Effects of Individual Extracts on Secretion of Growth Factors from
    Fibroblasts
          A commercially available VEGF detection kit (R&D Systems Co., MO,
    USA; VEGF Duoset@ ELISA Kit, No. DY293B) was used to treat the
20  supernatants obtained in Example 1 according to manufacturer'      s instructions,
    so that the amounts of VEGF secreted from the fibroblasts were obtained.
          Figs. 5 and 6 show the amounts of VEGF secreted from fibroblasts by using
    the individual extracts derived from herbal medicines to culture the fibroblasts
    for 3 and 6 days.     There is no significant difference between the 0.5% FBS
25  control group and the individual extracts in terms of the VEGF secretion.
          According to Examples 1 to 4 where fibroblasts were cultured in the
    presence of the individual extracts disclosed herein, the H. polybotrys extract at
                                             13

    400X dilution, the E. foetida extract at 2000X dilution, the A. plantago-aquatica
    extract at 4800X dilution, and the M. charantia extract at 2500X dilution,
    exhibited the highest effects. As such, the diluted extracts of H. polybotrys 400X,
   E. foetida 2000X, A. plantago-aquatica4800X and M. charantia2500X are used
 5  in examples below.
    Example 5: Treatment of Cells with Combined Extracts
         The procedure of Example 1 was repeated, except that the diluted extracts of
   H. polybotrys 400X, E. foetida 2000X, A. plantago-aquatica 4800X and M.
    charantia 2500X were used, either individually or in combination, for culturing
10  fibroblasts for 3 to 6 days. The control groups were the fibroblasts of Preparative
    Example 1 cultured in DMEM supplemented with 0.5% or 1.0% FBS in the
    absence of the extracts disclosed herein. The supernatants and cells were
    collected and analyzed separately.
    Example 6: Enhancement Effects of Combined Extracts on Cell Proliferation
15       A commercially available XTT analysis kit (Sigma Chemical Co., St. Louis
    City, MO, USA) was used to treat the cells obtained in Example 5 according to
    manufacturer'    s instructions.  The O.D. readings of respective wells in the
    culture plate were measured at 450 nm to obtain the cell viability.    Figs. 7 and 8
    show that the fibroblasts incubated with either the individual extracts or the
20  combined extracts derived from H. polybotrys, A. plantago-aquatica and E.
   foetida for either 3 or 6 days exhibited a significant increase in cell number as
    comparison to the control groups.      The proliferation rates of the tested groups
    on Day 3 were about 1.5 times compared with the control groups, whereas the
    proliferation rates of the tested groups on Day 6 exhibited an increase of more
25  than 2 times compared with the control groups. This example further shows that
    the enhancement actions of the four diluted extracts did not interfere with one
    another. It is worthwhile to note that as shown in Fig. 8, the combined extracts of
                                              14

   H. polybotrys+E.foetida, H. polybotrys+A. plantago- aquatica+M.charantia,A.
   plantago-aquatica+M.charantia+E.foetida, H. polybotrys+M. charantia+E.
   foetida, and H. polybotrys+A. plantago-aquatica+M.charantia+E.foetida, led to
    an increase in cell proliferation rate of more than 2 folds, and the combined
 5  extracts exhibited higher effects on cell proliferation as compared to individual
    extracts alone. he individual and combined extracts disclosed herein, in
    combination with 0.5% FBS, achieved about 50% to 66.7% stimulatory effects
    relative to the control groups using 5% and 10% FBS.
    Example 7: Effects of Combined Extracts on Collagen Secretion from Fibroblasts
10        A commercially available human recombinant collagen Type I detection kit
    (Gibco Co., NY, USA; kit No. PRO-479A) was used to treat the supernatants
    obtained in Example 5 according to manufacturer'        s instructions, so that the
    amounts of collagen secreted from the fibroblasts were obtained.
          Figs. 9 and 10 show the amounts of collagen secreted from fibroblasts by
15  using the individual and combined extracts disclosed herein to culture the
    fibroblasts for 3 or 6 days.   Compared to the control group using 0.5% FBS, the
    combined extract of H. polybotrys and E. foetida led to an increase in collagen
    secretion by nearly 3 folds, and the enhancement effect thereof was much higher
    than that achieved by 1.0% FBS.
20  Example 8: Effects of Combined Extracts on Secretion of Growth Factors from
    Fibroblasts
          A commercially available VEGF detection kit (R&D Systems Co., MO,
    USA; VEGF Duoset@ ELISA Kit, No. DY293B) was used to treat the
    supernatants obtained in Example 5 according to manufacturer'        s instructions,
25  so that the amounts of VEGF secreted from the fibroblasts were obtained.
          Figs. 11 and 12 show the amounts of VEGF secreted from fibroblasts by
    using the individual and combined extracts disclosed herein to culture the
                                             15

   fibroblasts for 3 or 6 days.  There is no significant difference between the 0.5%
   FBS control group and the individual extracts in terms of the VEGF secretion.
   Example 9: Effects of Extracts on Fibroblast Characteristics
        In order to ensure that the extracts disclosed herein will not change the
 5 properties of fibroblasts, this example used antibody to stain the fibroblasts
   obtained in Example 5, to see if the fibroblast specific protein 1 (FSP-1) is still
   expressed on the cells. As shown in Fig. 13, the fibroblasts incubated with the
   individual extracts disclosed herein for 3 day can express FSP-1. Fig. 14 shows
   that the percentages of FSP-1 expressed on the fibroblasts treated with the
10 individual or combined extracts disclosed herein, which represent the purity of
   the fibroblasts. The results show that the percentages of the fibroblasts that
   expressed FSP-1 in the respective tested groups were over 95%, indicating that
   the individual or combined extracts disclosed herein will not affect the
   characteristics of primary dermal fibroblasts.
15
                                            16

    CLAIMS:
          1. A cell culture medium comprising:
         a cell culture medium supplement, comprising an aqueous extract derived
    from one or more biological species selected from the group consisting of
 5 Hedysarum polybotrys Hand.-Mazz., Alisma plantago-aquatica (Sam.) Juzep.
   Momordica charantiaL., Eisseniafoetida and combinations thereof; and
         a basal medium supplemented with animal serum at a concentration of
    substantially less than 10% by volume based on the total volume of the cell
    culture medium.
10
         2. The cell culture medium according to claim 1, wherein the aqueous
    extract is selected from the group consisting of a combined aqueous extract
    derived from H. polybotrys and E. foetida, a combined aqueous extract derived
    from H. polybotrys, A. plantago-aquaticaand M. charantia, a combined aqueous
15  extract derived from A. plantago-aquatica, M. charantia and E. foetida, a
    combined aqueous extract derived from H. polybotrys, M. charantia and E.
   foetida, and a combined aqueous extract derived from H. polybotrys, A.
   plantago-aquatica,M. charantiaand E. foetida.
20       3. The cell culture medium according to anyone of the preceding claims,
    wherein the aqueous extract is selected from a combined aqueous extract derived
    from H. polybotrys and E. foetida.
         4. The cell culture medium according to anyone of the preceding claims,
25  wherein the basal medium is supplemented with animal serum at a concentration
    of substantially less than 5% by volume based on the total volume of the cell
    culture medium.
                                            17

        5. The cell culture medium according to anyone of the preceding claims,
  wherein the basal medium is supplemented with animal serum at a concentration
  of substantially less than 1% by volume based on the total volume of the cell
5 culture medium.
                                        18

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                        FIGURES
1

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
4

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
6

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
7

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
8

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
9

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
10

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
11

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
12

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
13

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
14

