                                              14
ABSTRACT
The present invention generally relates to a property development assessment method.
The method includes assigning property development constraint levels to parametric
layers for overlaying on a map. A displayed map is overlaid with visual indicators
determined using the development constraint levels. Advantageously, the method may
enable developers to readily assess properties for development when viewing the visual
indicators (e.g. colors) overlaid on the map.

                                        AUSTRALIA
                                   PATENTS ACT 1990
                             COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                                  INNOVATION PATENT
                 A PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT ASSESSMENT TOOL
The following statement is a full description of this invention including the best method
of performing it known to me:

                                                1
A PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT ASSESSMENT TOOL
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]      The present invention generally relates to a property development
assessment tool.
BACKGROUND
[0002]      The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of
the common general knowledge.
[0003]      Property developers acquire and develop real estate to sell at a profit. There
are many parameters that affect development of a property including environmental
factors such as flooding and other regulatory parameters such as zoning restrictions.
The parameters affecting property development are varied and often difficult to
ascertain.
[0004]      Figure 1 shows an interactive mapping tool 100 to assist with property
development assessment. The tool includes a map 102. A user can select individual
parametric layers 104 (e.g. flooding), one by one, for overlaying on the map 102 to
assist in determining property development potential. However, in practice, developers
can be ignorant of the development impact of parameters during assessment, which
ultimately affects their ability to develop a property as envisaged and can result in
selling at a loss.
[0005]      The preferred embodiment provides a tool to improve assessment of
properties for development.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006]      According to one aspect of the present invention, there is provided a property
development assessment method including:
        assigning property development constraint levels to parametric layers for
overlaying on a map; and

                                               2
        displaying the map overlaid with visual indicators determined using the
development constraint levels.
[0007]      Advantageously, the method may enable developers to readily assess
properties for development when viewing the visual indicators (e.g. colors) overlaid on
the map.
[0008]      The visual indicators may reflect grouped constraint levels. The visual
indicators may include colors. One or more of the constraint levels may be conditional.
The visual indicators may be further determined using the coverage of the layers.
[0009]      The method may involve determining an overall property constraint level for
at least one property on the map. The overall property constraint level may relate to
grouped properties. Determination of the overall property constraint level may involve
weighting the property development constraint levels for the property using property
coverage. The average property development constraint levels may be weighted. The
overall property development constraint level may be a maximum of the average,
whether or not rounded.
[00010]     The method may involve the step of generating a report for a property. The
step of generating may involve determining the intersection of boundaries of the
properties with layers. The step of generating may further involve storing the assigned
property development constraint levels of layers for the property in a database. The step
of generating may further involve displaying the property overlaid with visual indicators
corresponding to the property development constraint levels stored in the database.
[00011]     The method may involve providing a listing of the layers associated with the
property. The step of providing may involve selecting the property on the map. The
listing may further include coverage of each layer for the property. The listing may
include a constraint level for each layer of the property.
[00012]     The layers may include layers relating to parameters such as the flooding,
environment, vegetation, noise or other like development constraints.
[00013]     The method may be an online method using the layers which are publicly
available.

                                               3
[00014]     The method may further involve selectively displaying and removing the
visual indicators overlaid on the map. The displayed visual indicators are displayed in
accordance of priority whereby a higher priority visual indicator is displayed on top of
any coinciding lower priority visual indicator on the map. The priority may be determined
using the constraint levels. The visual indicators may be selected and deselected from a
menu.
[00015]     The method may further involve filtering the displayed visual indicators using
the development constraint levels. The filtering may involve filtering grouped constraint
levels. In one embodiment, overlapping visual indicators on the map are cumulative.
[00016]     According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
method for determining an overall property development constraint level with at least
one property on a map, the method involving weighting property development constraint
levels for the property using property coverage.
[00017]     According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
method for generating a property development report for a property, the method
involving determining the intersection of boundaries of the property with parametric
layers for overlaying on a map.
[00018]     According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
property development assessment tool including:
        an assignment tool for assigning property development constraint levels to
parametric layers for overlaying on a map; and
        a display for displaying the map overlaid with visual indicators determined using
the development constraint levels.
[00019]     The property development tool may include an indicator for indicating an
overall property constraint level for at least one property on the map.
[00020]     The property development tool may include a report generator for generating
a development assessment report for a property which is displayed on the display. The
report may include a listing of the layers associated with the property. The report may
include one or more displays of property overlaid with visual indicators corresponding to
individual property development constraint levels.

                                               4
[00021]     Any of the features described herein can be combined in any combination
with any one or more of the other features described herein within the scope of the
invention.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00022]     Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be
discerned from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information
for those skilled in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be
regarded as limiting the scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way.
The Detailed Description will make reference to a number of drawings as follows:
[00023]     Figure 1 is a screenshot of a known interactive mapping tool; and
[00024]     Figure 2 is an development map screenshot of a property development
assessment tool in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[00025]     Figure 3 is a property development assessment report screenshot generated
using the tool of Figure 2;
[00026]     Figure 4 is a priority screenshot generated using the tool of Figure 2; and
[00027]     Figures 5a and 5b show alternative filtering screenshots generated using the
tool of Figure 2.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[00028]     According to an embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a
property development assessment tool 200 as shown in Figure 2. The online tool 200
includes a heat map 202 to assist property developers with rapidly making an
assessment in relation to developing displayed properties.
[00029]     HEAT MAP
[00030]     A background assignment tool (not shown) is provided for assigning
development constraint levels to publicly available parametric layers 104, of the type for
overlaying on an interactive map 102. The parametric layers 104 typically include layers

                                             5
relating to parameters such as flooding, environment, vegetation, noise or other like
development constraints (e.g. risks).
[00031]     The constraint levels range from 1 to 10 in increasing severity. The layers
104 can be aggregated into a database from multiple sources including open data from
local councils. The database stores the parametric layers 104 and associated assigned
constraint levels as indicated by way of example in the following table:
No. Layer                                                       Constraint level
1      ecologicalsignificance_0_12                              6
2      ecologicalsignificance_12_22                             5
3      Om05.00_flood hazard trigger                              10
[00032]     The layers 104 are grouped into risk bands which, in turn, are color coded as
indicated by way of example in the following table:
Constraint level                  Group                            Color
1-3                               low development risk             Green
4-6                               medium development risk          Yellow
7-9                               high development risk            Orange
10                                very development high risk       Red
[00033]     The displayed heat map 202 is overlaid with the colors (i.e. visual indicators)
reflecting the grouped bands of development constraint levels.
[00034]     Advantageously, the tool 200 enables developers to readily assess
properties for development when viewing the colors overlaid on the heat map 202.
Property developers save time in finding suitable land for development and improve
their success rates in acquisitions. Town planners can also use the tool 200 to better
advise their clients and landowners. Other interested parties (valuers, banks, real estate
agents and individual land owners), often with little first hand development experience,
can also obtain easy to understand information relating to the development potential of
undeveloped land . Council and state government can also use the tool 200 in
undertaking broad scale land use planning.
[00035]     DEVELOPABLE LAND INDICATOR

                                              6
[00036]     The property development tool 200 includes a graphical developable land
indicator 204 for indicating an overall property constraint level (e.g. 2) for at least one
selected property 206 on the map 202. Similarly, a user can also group multiple
adjacent properties 206 to determine the overall property constraint level for grouped
properties. The determination of the overall property constraint level is described below
with reference to an example shown in Figure 3.
[00037]     There are three layers holding a risk value as follows:
        Ecological significance 0_12 - risk value 5;
        Ecological significance 12_22 - risk value 5;
        Flood Hazard - risk value 9;
1.      First, the average of coverage is calculated in each risk value group:
        Ecological significance 0_12 - 61% coverage;
        Ecological significance 12_22 - 39% coverage;
        Flood Hazard - 38% coverage;
       The Average for risk level 5 is (61+39) / 2 = 50%;
       The Average for risk level 9 is 38% (single layer).
2.     Then the weight of risk is calculated for specific risk group:
       50% of level 5 = 2.5;
       38% of level 9 = 3.42;
3.     The highest number of those two groups which is 3.42 is then taken;
4.     The highest number is rounded to the nearest integer so that the resultant overall
property constraint level is 3/10 which can then be graphically displayed on the indicator
204.
[00038]     INSTANT REPORTING
[00039]     The property development tool 200 can rapidly generate an automated report
300 for the individual property 206 as shown in Figure 3.

                                               7
[00040]     The report 300 generating involves automatically determining the intersection
of boundaries of the property 206 with the layers 104. The assigned individual property
development constraint levels of layers 104 for the property 206 are automatically
stored in a separate table the database for rapid retrieval when compared with known
reporting systems that take up to days to research.
[00041]     The report 300 displays the property 206 three times (i.e. once fore each
layer 104) overlaid with visual indicators (colored outlines) corresponding to the property
development constraint levels stored in the database. An adjacent listing 302 of the
layers 104 associated with the property 206 are provided. The listing 302 includes
coverage of each layer 104 for the property 206 as well as the grouped overall property
constraint level for the property 206 (e.g. medium risk, high risk, etc).
[00042]     The selected property 206 on a photograph 304 or map is also displayed at
the top of the report 300.
[00043]     PRIORITISING DISPLAYED COLORS ON MAP
[00044]     The property development assessment tool 200 provides a priority screen
shown in Figure 4 for selectively displaying and removing, as required, the colors (i.e.
visual indicators) overlaid on the heat map 202. The selected and displayed colors are
displayed in accordance of priority whereby a higher priority color (associated with
higher constraint levels) is displayed on top of any coinciding lower priority color
(associated with lower constraint levels) on the map 202.
[00045]     A menu 400 is displayed and the user can select the prioritized colors in the
menu 400 to be displayed, or deselect the colors to be removed from display. As
previously indicated in the table above, the priority is determined using the constraint
levels with red having the highest priority and green having the lowest priority. So in the
example of Figure 4, a user can switch on and off each color displayed on the map 202,
but the selected red color with highest priority will always stay on top and overlay the
orange color, regardless if the first color selected was red or orange.
[00046]     FILTER

                                                 8
[00047]     As shown in Figure 5, the property development assessment tool 200 also
provides a filter for filtering the displayed colors on the map 202 using the development
constraint levels. The filtering involves filtering grouped constraint levels. For example
when selected, yellow color is shown on the map 202 for medium development risk
constraint levels between 4 and 6. The filter may be actuated by way of inputted
constraint level 500 (Fig.5a) or checkbox 502 (Fig. 5b).
[00048]     A person skilled in the art will appreciate that many embodiments and
variations can be made without departing from the ambit of the present invention.
[00049]     The preferred embodiment involved generating the heat map 200 from risk
analysis directly, and involved combining individual layers 104 into a combined group of
layers for each constraint level. For example, if layer 1 is defined in the IP dataset as 5
out of 10 (medium impact) the layer is added to the yellow group. In another
embodiment, a heat map is instead generated from new dataset and some layers to
take to account of its coverage. For example, if layer 1 is defined in the IP dataset as 5
out of 10 (medium impact) but its coverage is minimal (say less than 20%), then the
layer is added to the green group (no longer medium impact).
[00050]     In one embodiment, the constraint levels are not grouped into bands so that
there is one color per constraint level to provide finer resolution.
[00051]     The visual indicators typically include colors, but shading or could also be
used.
[00052]     In one embodiment, one or more of the constraint levels can be conditional.
For example, a property with a chicken farm may be high risk whilst the chicken farm is
in operation, although low risk should the chicken farm cease operation.
[00053]     In one embodiment, overlapping colors on the map 200 may be cumulative
whereby, for example, two intersecting yellow portions are added to be displayed as a
red portion.
[00054]     In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language
more or less specific to structural or methodical features. It is to be understood that the
invention is not limited to specific features shown or described since the means herein

                                               9
described comprises preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The invention
is, therefore, claimed in any of its forms or modifications within the proper scope of the
appended claims appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.
[00055]     Reference throughout this specification to 'one embodiment' or 'an
embodiment' means that a particular feature, structure, or characteristic described in
connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
invention. Thus, the appearance of the phrases 'in one embodiment' or 'in an
embodiment' in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all
referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore, the particular features, structures, or
characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more combinations.

                                              10
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A property development assessment tool including:
       an assignment tool for assigning property development constraint levels to
parametric layers for overlaying on a map; and
       a display for displaying the map overlaid with visual indicators determined using
the development constraint levels.
2.     A property development assessment tool as claimed in claim 1, further including
an indicator for indicating an overall property constraint level for at least one property on
the map.
3.     A property development assessment tool as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2,
wherein the property development tool includes a report generator for generating a
development assessment report for a property which is displayed on the display.
4.     A property development assessment tool as claimed in claim 3, wherein the
report includes a listing of the layers associated with the property.
5.     A property development assessment tool as claimed in claim 4, wherein the
report includes one or more displays of the property overlaid with visual indicators
corresponding to property development constraint levels.
6.     A property development assessment method including:
       assigning property development constraint levels to parametric layers for
overlaying on a map; and
       displaying the map overlaid with visual indicators determined using the
development constraint levels.
7.     A property development assessment method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the
visual indicators reflect grouped constraint levels.
8.     A property development assessment method as claimed in claim 6 or claim 7,
wherein the visual indicators include colors.

                                               11
9.      A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 6 to
8, wherein one or more of the constraint levels are conditional.
10.     A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 6 to
9, wherein the visual indicators are further determined using the coverage of the layers.
11.     A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 6 to
9, wherein involving determining an overall property constraint level for at least one
property on the map.
12.     A property development assessment method as claimed in claim 6, wherein the
overall property constraint level relates to grouped properties.
13.     A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 11
or 12, wherein determination of the overall property constraint level involves weighting
the property development constraint levels for the property using property coverage of
the layers.
14.     A property development assessment method as claimed in claims 13, wherein
the property development constraint levels are averaged and then weighted.
15.     A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 11
or 14, wherein the overall property development constraint level is a maximum of the
average, whether or not rounded.
16.     A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 6 to
15, further involving the step of generating a report for a property.
17.     A property development assessment method as claimed in claims 16, wherein
the step of generating involves determining the intersection of boundaries of the
property with layers.
18.     A property development assessment method as claimed in claims 17, wherein
the step of generating further involve storing the assigned property development
constraint levels of layers for the property in a database.

                                               12
19.     A property development assessment method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the
step of generating further involves displaying the property overlaid with visual indicators
corresponding to the property development constraint levels stored in the database.
20.     A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 16
to 19, involving providing a listing of the layers associated with the property.
21.     A property development assessment method as claimed in claim 20, wherein the
step of providing involves selecting the property on the map.
22.     A property development assessment method as claimed in claim 20 or claim 21,
wherein the listing further includes coverage of each layer for the property.
23.     A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 20
to 22, wherein the listing includes a constraint level for each layer of the property.
24.      A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 6
to 23, wherein the layers include layers relating to parameters including flooding,
environment, vegetation, noise or other like development constraints.
25.     A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 6 to
24, wherein the method is performed online using the layers which are publicly
available.
26.     A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 6 to
25, further involving selectively displaying and removing the visual indicators overlaid on
the map.
27.     A property development assessment method as claimed in claim 26, wherein the
displayed visual indicators are displayed in accordance of priority whereby a higher
priority visual indicator is displayed on top of any coinciding lower priority visual
indicator on the map.
28.     A property development assessment method as claimed in claim 27, wherein the
priority is determined using the constraint levels.

                                               13
29.     A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 6 to
28, further involving filtering the displayed visual indicators using the development
constraint levels.
30.     A property development assessment method as claimed in any one of claims 6 to
29, wherein overlapping visual indicators on the map are cumulative.
31.     A method for determining an overall property development constraint level of at
least one property on a map, the method involving weighting property development
constraint levels for the property using property coverage of parametric layers for
overlaying on a map.
32.     A method for generating a property development report for a property, the
method involving determining the intersection of boundaries of the property with
parametric layers for overlaying on a map.
                               Dated this 26th day of March 2018
                                     ORBMAPS PTY LTD
                                        by my attorneys
                                            Cullens
                              Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
