                                              ABSTRACT
A mounting system for a tray deck suitable for a utility vehicle, including two or more channels
substantially parallel with each other, and configured to allow an item to be anchored or otherwise
removably fixed to the two or more channels to mount the item to the tray deck.

L
        LAr
  L III

                                                       1
UTILITY VEHICLE TRAY DECK MULTIPLE CHANNEL APPARATUS, SYSTEM AND
METHOD
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     The present invention relates to decks and tray decks for vehicles, and particularly relates
to decks and tray decks for utility type vehicles.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      Utility vehicles, sometimes referred to as utes, pick-ups or pick-up trucks, typically are
equipped with a tray or tray deck at the rear of the vehicle, which serves to carry loads of various
types.    The loads may include equipment, sand, gravel and various other kinds of items and
materials.
[0003]     Some utility vehicles have a flat area, which may be referred to as a tray, a cargo bed or a
deck.    Other utility vehicles have a flat area which is surrounded by up to four sides to form a
container, which may also be referred to variously as a tray or a cargo bed. The sides may be fixed
or moveable, and may be a combination of fixed and moveable sides. Sometimes the side at the
back is referred to as a tail gate.
[0004]     In this specification, for consistency and ease of understanding, the vehicle will be referred
to as a utility or utility vehicle; the flat area will be referred to as a deck; each of the sides will be
referred to as side gates (front, rear, left and right); and the deck and side gates together (whether
there be one, two, three or four side gates) will be referred to as a tray deck.
[0005]     In some utility vehicles, the sides of the tray deck are fixed in position, the deck and sides
forming what is sometimes referred to as a tub. In other utility vehicles, one or more of the sides
are moveable between open and closed configurations.              In this specification, unless otherwise
indicated, the term side gate will refer to a side of a tray deck, wherein the side gate is moveable at
least between open and closed positions.             Some utility vehicles have side gates which are
detachable. Typically, if a utility vehicle tray deck has a front side (usually adjacent a cab of the
utility vehicle), the front side is in a fixed position, and in this specification the front side may be
referred to as a fixed side or also referred to as a side gate, though it will be understood that the
front side is typically in a fixed position.

                                                       2
[0006]    Typically, a deck or tray deck will be provided with a utility vehicle when sold to a
customer. The type of tray deck is either dictated by the model of the vehicle or there may be a very
limited range of options available from which a customer can select.
[0007]    It is also possible to buy utility vehicles without a deck or tray deck fitted, and the customer
can select a deck or tray deck for their vehicle after purchase, but the customer will have a very
limited range of options for a deck or tray deck.
[0008]    Further, decks and tray decks are typically manufactured or supplied as a single unit, and
can be fitted only to one vehicle model or a very limited range of vehicle models. Such units are
bulky, which causes them to be inconvenient and expensive to transport, for example, form a place
of manufacture to a place where the deck or tray deck is to be fitted to a utility vehicle.
[0009]    Many decks and tray decks are not configurable or may have very limited options for
configuration. A customer may want to include various features to make a deck or tray deck more
suitable for that customer's intended use of the utility vehicle.
[0010]    In many deck systems, there is limited means for attaching items to the deck or side gate of
the tray deck. Some tray deck systems may have a channel for securing items, such as hooks for
straps, however, a single channel provides only one fixing point, which may provide only a small
amount of fixing force to an item. Further, there are some items which may have a large footprint,
so that a single channel provides too limited a means for securing a large footprint item to a surface.
[0011]    It is an object of the present invention to overcome, or at least ameliorate, at least one of
the above-mentioned problems in the prior art, and/or to overcome, or at least ameliorate, at least
one problem in the prior art, which has not been mentioned above and/or to provide at least a
useful alternative to prior art devices, systems and/or methods.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0012]    In one aspect, the present invention provides a mounting system for a tray deck suitable
for a utility vehicle, including two or more channels substantially parallel with each other, and
configured to allow an item to be anchored or otherwise removably fixed to the two or more
channels to mount the item to the tray deck.
[0013]    In another aspect, the present invention provides a mounting system for a tray deck
suitable for a utility vehicle, including two or more channels substantially parallel with each other,
and configured to allow two or more items to be anchored or otherwise removably fixed

                                                     3
respectively to the two or more channels to mount the two or more items to the tray deck, where
the two or more items cooperatively function.
[0014]     In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a method of mounting an item to a
tray deck suitable for a utility vehicle, the method including anchoring or otherwise removably fixing
a first part of the item in a first of two or more channels of the tray deck, and anchoring or otherwise
removably fixing a second part of the item in a second of two or more channels of the tray deck.
[0015]     In yet a further aspect, the present invention provides a method of mounting two or more
items to a tray deck suitable for a utility vehicle, the method including anchoring or otherwise
removably fixing a first part of each of the two or more items, respectively, in two or more parallel
channels of the tray deck, such that the two or more items cooperatively function.
SUMMARY OF SOME OPTIONAL EMBODIMENTS OF THE INVENTION
[0016]      In embodiments, a first channel of the two or more channels is provided on the deck of
the tray deck, and a second channel of the two or more channels is provided on a side gate of the
tray deck.
[0017]     In other embodiments, the first and second channels of the two or more channels are each
located on a side gate of the tray deck. In some such embodiments, the first channel is located on
one side of the side gate, and the second channel is located on an opposing side of the side gate. In
yet other such embodiments, the first and second channels are located on the same side of the side
gate.
[0018]     In yet other embodiments, there may be a third channel in the mounting system.            For
example, a side gate may have a first and second channel located on one side thereof, and a third
channel located on an opposing side of the side gate. This provides a mounting system which allows
anchoring of an item on both sides of the side gate, which may provide for a stronger mounting
means.
[0019]     In some embodiments, the two or more channels in the mounting system have same or
similar cross-sectional profile. In other embodiments, the two or more channels have two or more
different cross-sectional profiles. For example, a side gate with three channels may have two of the
channels with a first cross-sectional profile, and the third channel having a second cross-sectional
profile. Differing cross-sectional profiles allow for a greater variety of anchoring or other removable
fixing means to be employed when using the mounting system.

                                                     4
[0020]    In some example usages of the mounting system and mounting method, multiple parallel
channels are used for mounting one item. In other example usages of the mounting system and
mounting method, multiple channels are used to mount multiple items, where those items
cooperatively function.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0021]     At least one embodiment of the invention will be described with reference to the
following, non-limiting illustrations representing the at least one embodiment of the present
invention, in which:
[0022]    Figure 1 is a perspective view of a section of a side gate from a tray deck system, the
mounting system of the side gate having three channels in accordance with an embodiment of the
present invention;
[0023]    Figure 2 is a reverse perspective view of the side gate section shown in Figure 1 in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0024]    Figure 3 is a side cross-sectional view of the section of side gate shown in Figure 1 and 2 in
accordance with an embodiment of the present invention;
[0025]    Figure 4 is a side cross-sectional view of the section of side gate, with the mounting system
in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention, shown in one example use, and
anchoring a number of separate items;
[0026]    Figure 5 is a rear perspective view of a tray deck system on the back of a utility vehicle
incorporating a mounting system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention,
shown in another example use, and mounting a circular saw;
[0027]    Figure 6 is a rear perspective view of the tray deck system shown in Figure 5, detailing the
mounting system in another example use with a side gate support apparatus; and
[0028]    Figure 7 is an end view of the tray deck system as shown in Figure 6.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SOME EMBODIMENTS
[0029]     Referring to Figure 1, the side gate 100 of a tray deck system from a utility vehicle is
shown, the side gate has a first side 102, which forms an inner side when the side gate is in a closed
position, and a second side 104, which forms an outer side when the side is in a closed position. The

                                                   5
side gate has a mounting system 112 in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention,
including two channel 106, 108 on the inner side 102 of the side gate, and a single channel 110 on
the outer side 104 of the side gate. As can be seen, the two channels 106 and 108 on the inner side
each have a same cross-sectional profile, and the channel 110 on the outer side has a cross-sectional
profile different from the cross-sectional profiles of channels 106 and 108. As such, the depicted
mounting system in this example has three channels.
[0030]     Figure 2 more clearly shows the two channels 106, 108 of the inner side 102 of the side
gate 100. The channels are parallel to each other, and are parallel with the channel 110 located on
the outer side 104 of the side gate.
[0031]    Figure 3 more clearly shows the cross-sectional profiles of each of the channels in the
mounting system 112. The channels 106 and 108 on the inner side 102 have flattened shape cross
sectional profile, and the channel 110 on the outer side 104 has a more rounded shape cross
sectional profile compared with channels 106 and 108.
[0032]    The flattened cross-sectional profiles are suitable for anchoring devices with flattened
bodies for engaging with the channels. The rounded shape of the cross-sectional profile of the
channel 110 in the outer side 104 of the side gate 100, is more suitable for anchoring devices
comprising a larger hook.
[0033]    Figure 4 shows how the mounting system can be used to increase the force applied during
mounting as compared, say, with a mounting system using only one channel. In the example of
Figure 4, three tethering devices are used to secure the side gate in its closed position, which is
perpendicular to the deck 450 (represented by a dotted line) of the tray deck. This amount of
reinforcement may be required where a tray deck is used to carry a heavy load which puts large
amounts of pressure on the side gate, such as a large load of rocks, or sand.
[0034]    One device tethering the side gate 100 using the mounting system 112 is a reinforcement
apparatus 400, formed from a strip of flexible, but un-stretchable material, such as a hard plastic or
metal. The reinforcement apparatus 400 has an anchor 402 on each of its ends (only one end
shown), which fits snugly in the channel 106. Another device tethering the side gate is a strap 404,
which has an anchor 406 on each of its ends (only one end shown), which also fits snugly in the
channel 108. A third reinforcement apparatus is another strap 408, which has a hook 410 on each of
its ends (only one end shown), which attaches into channel 110 on the outer side 104 of the side
gate 100. Although not shown, it will be readily appreciated that the tray deck has an opposing side
gate on the other side of the deck 450, and the anchors 402, 406 and the hook 410 on the other

                                                     6
ends of the tethering devices engage with respective channels in the mounting system of the
opposing side gate. The mounting systems 112 in each of the side gates, having multiple channels
106, 108, 110 are able to operate with the tethering devices to provide a stronger reinforcement of
the side gates to retain their closed position.
[0035]     Figure 5 shows another example use of the mounting system 112, with a tray deck 500.
The tray deck has a deck 502 and four side gates, a right side gate 100A (as seen from the rear view
of the tray deck), a rear side gate 100B, a left side gate 100C and a front side gate 100D. The deck
also has deck sides, with only the right deck side 504A and the rear deck side 504B shown in Figure
5. Each of the side gates has its own mounting system 112, with a channel 110A, 110B, 110C, and
110D respectively located on the outer side 104A, 104B, 104C, and 104D of each gate, and channels
106A, 108A, 106B, 108B, 106C, 108C, 106D, and 108D respectively located on the inner side 102A,
102B, 102C, and 102D of each side gate.
[0036]     In Figure 5, right side gate 100A is lowered into a horizontal position, which is supported by
side gate support apparatus (not shown in Figure 5, but refer to Figures 6 and 7). Side gate 100A has
channels 106A and 108A open in an upwards direction when the side gate is in the horizontal
position. The channels are both used to mount a circular saw 508, which is a device having a
relatively large footprint. The operation of a circular saw is dangerous and requires an adequately
stable fixing point so that the saw does not move during a cutting process. The mounting system
112 provides two channels parallel to each other, which in turn provides a more stable fixing point
for the circular saw than would be provided were the side gate only configured with a single channel
mounting system.
[0037]     Figures 6 and 7 show yet another example of how a multiple channel mounting system
provides advantages.       In this embodiment and example usage, the tray deck has two parallel
channels, with one channel 110A (as previously described) located on the outer side 104A of side
gate 100A. Another channel 506A is provided along the right deck side 504A. Also shown in Figure 6
are side gate support apparatus 508, which assist in retaining the side gate in its horizontal position.
Each side gate support apparatus is provided with a hook to attach onto the channel 506A in the
deck side 504A, and an upward protrusion from the top side of the gate support apparatus, wherein
the protrusion fits snugly into the 110A, thus providing a stable support for the side gate by using
the mounting system of the channels 110A and 506A.
[0038]    Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be

                                                   7
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not
the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
[0039]    The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be taken as an
acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the common general
knowledge.

                                                8
                                            CLAIMS:
1. A mounting system for a tray deck suitable for a utility vehicle, including two or more channels
   substantially parallel with each other, and configured to allow an item to be anchored or
   otherwise removably fixed to the two or more channels to mount the item to the tray deck.
2. A mounting system for a tray deck suitable for a utility vehicle, including two or more channels
   substantially parallel with each other, and configured to allow two or more items to be
   anchored or otherwise removably fixed respectively to the two or more channels to mount the
   two or more items to the tray deck, where the two or more items cooperatively function.
3. A method of mounting an item to a tray deck suitable for a utility vehicle, the method including
   anchoring or otherwise removably fixing a first part of the item in a first of two or more channels
   of the tray deck, and anchoring or otherwise removably fixing a second part of the item in a
   second of two or more channels of the tray deck.
4. A method of mounting two or more items to a tray deck suitable for a utility vehicle, the method
   including anchoring or otherwise removably fixing a first part of each of the two or more items,
   respectively, in two or more parallel channels of the tray deck, such that the two or more items
   cooperatively function.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
