Abstract
A system for permitting the capture of location specific content at a venue, the system being
adapted to receive data including seat location data from patrons at the venue, to identify the
location and, upon demand, provide content to patrons, and receive from patrons and store
content selected with respect to at least the seat location data, the system including a server,
data storage, and network communications apparatus so as to operatively enable the system to
communicate with portable devices associated with patrons at the venue corresponding to the
seat location data.

                                              1
              LOCATION SPECIFIC MULTIMEDIA SYSTEM AND METHOD
Technical Field
[0001]      The present invention relates to the provision of online content relating to a
specific geographical location.
Background of the Invention
[0002]      Many forms of entertainment are provided in specific locations, such as
concert halls and stadiums. These include cultural, sporting, musical and other
performances and spectacles. The same venue will typically host a variety of event
types. Some of the seating may be moveable or repositionable, and some may be only
used for certain types of events. However, a large part of the seating is fixed and
remains in the same position for many years.
[0003]      Many sports stadiums have achieved an iconic stature as institutions in
themselves, for example Wembley stadium, the Melbourne Cricket Ground, and
Fenway Park. Over time, such stadiums come to have a long and rich history
associated with them, so as to achieve a reputation and persona which is greater than
the mere accumulation of events. This can also be the case for cultural venues such as
the Sydney Opera House, Globe theatre and Radio City Music Hall.
[0004]      In many cases, such venues promote their history and heritage, as do the
sports authorities and other users of the venues. This in turn increases the value of the
venue, and also the value of the particular sports or other organisation which becomes
particularly associated with the venue. In some cases, for example iconic baseball and
football teams, the home venue becomes an important part of the persona of the team.
Consequently, enhancing the association between the venue and the patrons serves to
increase the value of the team as well as the venue.
[0005]      Existing schemes use stock footage and photos, and TV footage, to promote
venues, games and events. This may be available online, and some historical
information and statistics may also be available. However, there is considerable scope
to improve and enhance the connection between patrons and the venue, so to provide
an improved experience for the patrons.
[0006]      It is an object of the present invention to provide a system and method for
enhancing the association between patrons and supporters, and venues.

                                             2
[0007]      The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
Summary of the Invention
[0008]      In a first broad form, the present invention provides a facility to provide
multimedia content, whether user derived or otherwise, and associate it with particular
seats at a venue. This may involve the incorporation of a code onto the seat and/or
ticket, to provide a linkage to an internet or network based facility, where a history of
such multimedia content can be accessed, including by reference to the particular seat.
According to one aspect, the present invention provides a system for permitting the
capture of location specific content at a venue, the system being adapted to receive
data including seat location data from patrons at the venue, to identify the location and,
upon demand, provide content to patrons, and receive from patrons and store content
selected with respect to at least the seat location data, the system including a server,
data storage, and network communications apparatus so as to operatively enable the
system to communicate with portable devices associated with patrons at the venue
corresponding to the seat location data.
[0009]      According to another aspect, the present invention provides a method for
allowing the capture of location specific content at a venue, the venue including seat
location information which is readable by patrons, and wherein at least some of the
patrons possess a portable device enabled and operatively adapted to interact with
hardware, including a server, network communications hardware and data storage, and
adapted to access the seat location information, the method including at least the steps
of:
            (a) the server receiving location data from one or more portable devices
associated with patrons at the venue, the data being generated based upon seat
location information read by the portable device; and
            (b) said server then selectively, upon demand, providing content to patrons,
receiving content from patrons, and storing content selected with respect to at least the
seat location data, the system including a server, data storage, and network
communications apparatus so as to operatively enable the system to communicate with
portable devices associated with patrons at the venue corresponding to the seat
location data.

                                                3
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0010]      Illustrative implementations of the present invention will now be described
with reference to the accompanying figures, in which:
            Figure 1 is a screen shot of a home screen of a mobile phone / tablet app;
            Figure 2 is a screen shot of a video being shown on the same app;
            Figure 3 is a screen shot illustrating curated content such as 'featured';
            Figure 4 is a screen shot illustrating content uploading from an app;
            Figure 5 is screen shot illustrating an admin page which allows a venue
operator to monitor and control what user uploaded content is viewable in curated
streams available from a website;
            Figure 6 is a screen shot illustrating the creation and editing of content;
            Figure 7 is a view illustrating the application of a seat code according to the
present invention to the seats in a stadium;
            Figure 8 is a view illustrating the application of a seat code according to the
present invention to an entry ticket;
            Figure 9 is a flow chart for an illustrative hardware system for implementing
the present invention; and
            Figure 10 provides an overview of the arrangement which is contemplated.
Detailed Description of the invention
[0011]      The present invention will be described with reference to the particular
examples illustrated with respect to the accompanying figures. It will be appreciated that
the figures and examples are intended to be illustrative of one implementation of the
present invention, and not limitative of its scope.
[0012]      Each item in society has in effect both a 'virtual' and 'physical' component
which, when combined together, essentially determines its value as measured by a
community or individual. For the purposes of this invention, it is understood that any
virtual worth or value is merely a reflection of a society's estimation of often intangible
aspects that can be especially difficult to quantify, document, collate, or measure. In
addition, many of these virtual elements are often quite fragmented and disparate in
their composition. This is in sharp contrast to the physical component which can be

                                               4
much more easily assessed based upon intrinsic elements, condition, or replacement
costs.
[0013]      It is further understood that these values of the physical elements tend to
depreciate over time based on market forces and societal frameworks. However, the
experience based component or virtual goods in the form of memories and use case
histories have the possibility to accumulate and appreciate over time.
[0014]      For example, an actual baseball used during a professional game has a
small intrinsic value of perhaps $5. Over the course of a game it will typically be
discarded, replaced, or given away as a souvenir within a few minutes or even seconds
of its introduction. This leaves each ball very little time to accumulate any history,
relevance, or virtual worth. However, what happens should the baseball be fortunate
enough to intersect with a star player who hits a record breaking 715th homerun to
become the game's all-time leader? Suddenly, all the history of the sports last 100
years has compressed itself into this moment in time and is transferred in part to this
small baseball thereby hugely increasing its worth at auction. Other so called 'physical
witness' objects related to the moment also now see a huge increase from their intrinsic
value (ticket stubs, the bat, etc.). It is this transference of human experience, unique
context, and history that underlies the ability of a physical item to actually 'appreciate' in
value over time. Implementations of the present invention allow for a synergistic fusion
of all these components in an engaging, efficient, and economical way which has not
been done before. The history and nostalgic value of a specific seat, a team or a
stadium's history can be virtually embedded with a specific location for future
generations to interact with and see.
[0015]      A problematic aspect to existing modes, such as television and the internet at
large, is that they facilitate stay at home 'couch browsing' rather than live contextual
experiences in the real world. Simply having viewed a YouTube video of the Grand
Canyon does not in any sense provide a full substitute for the actual experience of
being there. While on the one hand, the internet is often an excellent introduction to
topics or events outside of one's home or office, it should not act as a substitute for real
world experiences as such assumptions lead to shallow learning and understanding.
The present invention seeks to address this sedentary internet shortcoming by
enhancing live experiences in a personalised and contextual way on site by providing
the best of both the physical and virtual worlds for patrons at live events. It facilitates the
venue operator provide both the actual and virtual experiences for those attending an
event.
[0016]      The term venue operator is intended broadly and may encompass the actual
real estate owner, the lessee, or the temporary operator such as the team or sporting
code, or a visiting opera company or artist. Control and access can be negotiated and

                                               5
agreed as with any other commercial issue. It is envisaged that the arrangements for
(e.g.) a major artist at a small venue may tend to favour control by the artist, whereas a
completely different set of general rules would tend to be imposed by a major, iconic
stadium.
[0017]      The primary implementation of the present invention to be discussed has a
front end which is an app for a smartphone or tablet, and a back end which is an
internet based server, database and associated presentation, communications and
searching software. Of course, it will be understood that the invention could be
implemented using alternative means, for example as a web app, or as a standalone
software product for home PCs and the like. However, the smartphone / tablet app
implementation is preferred, as the image and video captured capabilities of such
devices are a convenient way of capturing content for the purposes of the present
invention, and this approach facilitates rapid and easy adoption by patrons.
[0018]      It will be appreciated that the app is downloaded and/or made operative
subject to terms and conditions of use, so as to govern issues of privacy, data
collection, copyright in images and text, and other related issues.
[0019]      The term 'network' is intended in its broadest sense. It includes public and
private networks, illustratively those applying TCP/IP protocols such as the internet, but
not limited to such networks. They may be local area networks (LANs), wide area
networks (WANs). The physical implementation of such networks may be fixed,
wireless, optical, satellite, mobile or any other suitable form.
[0020]      The term venue will be used throughout the specification and claims to refer
to any venue in which specific seats or positions are assigned and identifiable, for
example sports stadiums, entertainment venues for concerts and the like, opera and
ballet theatres, recital halls, drama and musical theatres, or even in principle smaller
venues such as restaurants, maternity wards, classrooms, nightclubs and the like. The
term is intended to encompass any type of situation to which the present invention could
be applied, including those not specifically mentioned herein.
[0021]      For the purposes of the present implementation, the venue is a baseball
stadium. Each seat in a stadium (or at least a substantial number) has an associated
code. This may be, for example, a QR code, as this readily allows for the code to be
read and to take the user directly to a desired network location. However, other forms of
coding could be used, for example a bar code, other optical or visual code, RFID
device, or a magnetic code. Coding which can be read by an app on a conventional
tablet or smartphone is preferred.

                                               6
[0022]      Alternatively, or in addition, the coding may be provided by a QR code or
barcode on the entry ticket, season ticket, membership card or the like. For the
purposes of this implementation, the coding needs to identify a particular seat, or
conceivably group of seats if co-ticketed.
[0023]      The patron will have, either in advance or at the game, downloaded a
suitable app from an application vendor, or installed it on their tablet smartphone or
other device. For example, for an iPhone@, the app could be downloaded in a
conventional way from the Apple@ App Store, or using similar sites for an Android or
Windows@ based device. This may be a free app, one with a purchase price, or even a
free app plus an option to upgrade to a more fully featured app upon payment of a fee.
[0024]       In general overview, the present implementation allows for patrons to view
and upload content, relevant both to the overall game, to their specific seat or area, and
to receive content which is directed at their location and view. The platform for providing
this content is illustratively controlled by the venue operator. Such a platform could be
hosted by a team DJ, brand, or curator along with guest content created in the moment
by fans or even celebrity attendees who wish to contribute their own perspective of the
live event. Each seat in effect develops its own unique history thereby increasing its
value to new and existing patrons. Over time a set of content relating to the specific seat
can be developed, so that a patron can view messages and content created by, or
relating to, the seat they happen to occupy for the game.
[0025]      This platform also encourages audience engagement and participation. For
example, a fly ball or home run could be captured from many different positions and
angles by patrons, and all filed as 'Billy Smith's Homer in the 8th Inning'. Fans and
commentators can then have access to many more views and angles than is possible
even with multiple camera arrangements. Particular patrons can have the pleasure of
having their footage, attributed to them, shown by the video curator (VJ).
[0026]      Such a platform could have multiple groupings split into a seat component
along with a broader stadium element. Most of the content may only be viewable within
the stadium while scanning a seat, or item's unique code to help emphasize the
importance of time, context, and place in the physical world in which we live. This will
also create further value to viewing a live event in person by providing a personalised
historical context along with an increased communal experience.

                                                7
[0027]       For example, upon check-in to a seat via your smart phone or tablet,
audience members could:
             *. create multimedia content for uploading to their seat and/or view prior
history unique to that seat and its previous occupants along with branded content from
the team or event management;
             *    receive personalised messaging and or liner notes from a team, or a
musical band at a concert. (e.g. happy birthday, history of a song while it's playing,
locker room commentary, or a slide show);
             +    receive promotions for branded          specials,  games,   coupons etc.
customised to each patron's seat and data; and/or
             *    receive premium content which could be segregated based upon class
of ticket, level of app downloaded, loyalty points or any other suitable way. This type of
content may include POV camera from favourite players or managers, audio tracks etc.
This allows for many layers of multimedia commentary by fans and broadcasters alike.
[0028]       In addition to uploading content to one's seat, fans could also upload to a
real-time communal stream of content from all the audience of a stadium that would flow
across the platform much like a live stock ticker. This content could be from that day's
event (or longer time period) or ephemeral and algorithmically rated/commented upon to
determine which material becomes more prominent, featured, or spotlighted. Contests
could be spun from the stream with the winning content displayed in the spotlight.
Content could be additionally uploaded to other social media in which the patron
participates.
[0029]       The present invention may be conveniently implemented using a server
based virtual facility, such as the facility operated by the applicant as FabZing. Details of
the implementation of this system are provided in the applicant's patent application
number WO 20112041827 (US 61/272,545) and US provisional application
number 61/746,774 by J Frank Shaffer. These disclosures are hereby incorporated by
reference. A suitable implementation of a server based, user controlled multimedia
messaging system is the FabZing system, which is available at www.fabzing.com and is
commercially operated by Fabtale Productions Pty Ltd.
[0030]       At Figure 10, the server 92 provides the functional processing, including
connection to stored information, account details, and the like required for the system to
operate.
[0031]       The network 80 includes one or more client processing systems and one or
more server processing systems. In this example, the client processing systems include

                                             8
smartphone devices 82, 84, 86 and personal computers (PCs) 88, 90. The server
processing systems include network servers 92 and 94. The client and server
processing systems 82, 84, 88, 90 and 94 are connected via the internet 96 and the
smartphone 86 is connected to the PC 88.
[0032]     The transfer of information and/or data over the network can be achieved
using wired communications means or wireless communications means. The server
processing systems 92 and 94 can facilitate the transfer of data between the network
and one or more databases, such as database 93.
[0033]     It will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention may be realised over
different networks, such as a MAN (metropolitan area network), WAN (wide area
network) or LAN (local area network). Also, embodiments need not take place over a
network, and the method steps could occur entirely on a client or server processing
system.
[0034]     It will be understood that the server used according to the present invention
may be of conventional type. It may be a real server, or a virtual server distributed over
several actual machines. The user interface via the network can be using any device
capable on the selected network, and which is able to read the code used according to
the implementation of the invention. In the case of a visual code such as a QR code,
this could be a conventional smartphone (e.g. iOS or Android based) with a camera, an
app which can read and interpret a QR code, and internet access via a cellular network
or wireless network such as WiFi. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such
devices are widely available, and so the network and user hardware aspects will not be
further described.
[0035]     Functionally, the applicant's service (which may conveniently be based in the
cloud) allows a user to create rich media content combining audio, text, graphics,
images and video. The electronic documents created using the applicant's software,
known as FabZings, incorporate multiple components to enable the provision of rich,
personalised, user defined content.
[0036]     It will be appreciated that the present invention is capable of being
implemented using different systems, and is not limited in application or scope to the
use of the applicant's Fab Zing system. Other web or network based approaches may
be used, as will be understood by those skilled in the art. Similarly, different types of
GUIs, interface sequences, screen commands and other features can be provided,
notably using approaches to web design that are well known in the field.

                                               9
[0037]       Figure 1 illustrates a screen shot of the SEATZing app, which is used in this
implementation of the present invention. The app provides options, which on the left
side include Create Content, Featured Content and View Seat History. These will be
explained in more detail below. On the top right, a video 'screen in screen' view shows
the baseball ground on the day, for the initial state of the start screen. Below on the right
is an indication of the seat location.
[0038]       At the bottom strip of images representing video feed from other patrons at
the ground, known as a ZingFeed. The images have a caption and an indication of the
party who has pasted the, similar to a Twitter@ feed in principle, so as to provide a
communal feed as discussed above. Clicking or touching particular images causes the
image to be played in a larger screen within screen.
[0039]       Figure 2 shows the screen with a video feed and commentary of the bullpen
in the top right screen. In this example, this has been triggered as part of the general
feed controlled by the VJ. However, this could have been from a ZingFeed item, or as a
result of selecting featured content.
[0040]       View seat history enables the patron to see material relevant to the previous
occupants of the seat. This may be by date, by using a feed strip similar to the
ZingFeed, by an interface similar to YouTube@, or by any suitable mechanism. Certain
popular or interesting messages, perhaps on the basis of rating by previous viewers,
may be displayed first. The patron may be able to select the sort order, for example by
date, most popular, only certain events (e.g. baseball only), notable events at the seat
(for example, a home run ball being caught at that seat), or any other desired
categories. It will be apparent that the appropriate categories will vary with the type of
venue and event.
[0041]       If the patron selects Featured Content, a screen such as figure 3 would be
displayed. This is content selected by the VJ or operator. The selected images may, for
example, be of celebrities, enthusiastic fans, humorous events or anything else deemed
of interest, in addition of course to features which may include game highlights, and the
like.
[0042]       The app may also incorporate features such as a score screen, player
histories and stats, the ability to select views and replays from the commercial feed, and
the ability to select particular commentaries.
[0043]       The patron may wish to add content themselves, which is done by clicking
the Create Content button. Figure 6 illustrates how this may then appear to a user. The
user has already taken a photo or video, for this illustration. It will be appreciated that

                                              10
the app can readily prompt for such content to be taken or selected. Patron content can
be seen, with a facility to add a comment, indicated by 'add message here'.
Conventional tabs allow for a different image or video to be selected, text to be added,
and animations to be added. Conventional tools for adding effect, changing colour,
alignment, font, etc. are also present.
[0044]      Once the content is created, Figure 4 shows that a pop up box asks how the
patron wishes to upload. Uploading to the seat history allows only those who later sit in
the seat to have access, as well of course as administrators. Uploading to the zing
stream allows for anyone with the app at the venue, and possibly those with web
access, to view the content. It is also permission for the venue operator, VJ, etc. to
select and use the content as part of their moderated display. It is presently preferred
that there is an open approach to viewing a seat history, but it is preferred that
contributing to that seat's history would be limited to ticketholders.
[0045]      It can be seen that there are additional options to upload the content to
selected social media sites. Thus, a patron may also show his friends and followers the
content from the game which they have captured. This would also allow a team or
venue to more closely assess and monitor the flow of media content rather than be
subject to the fragmented and porous nature of the internet at large.
[0046]      Figure 9 illustrates schematically the flow of messages and data according to
this implementation. The spectators have a large number of smart phones, tablets, or
other devices 100 adapted to interact with the envisaged system. It will be appreciated
that change and progress are to be expected in such devices, and the present invention
is in no way limited to particular devices or types of devices.
[0047]      The spectator devices 100, via their apps, are adapted to provide a variety of
interactions to the user, as discussed above. User generated media (e.g. videos) are
sent to the media encoder 102, which produces encoded media 111 for storage and
distribution from the media server 103. The stadium cameras 101 similarly provide
media to the media encoder 102.
[0048]      User FabZings 113, generated using the apps on the spectator devices, are
sent to the database server.         It will be appreciated that that media and other
components of the FabZing for playback 112 are provided by the media server 103 and
the database server 104. FabZings may also be generated by the venue operator 105
via their tablet or PC, and sent as stadium FabZings 114 to the database server. The
operator's pc or tablet may also send notifications to all or individual ones of the
spectator devices 100.

                                               11
[0049]      The degree of external access, both to former ticketholders and to the public
at larger, is a matter for control in the discretion of venue operator. Allowing at least
selected content to be available externally to the public would crystallize history and
specific events, within the ongoing control of the venue operator. The operator would
accumulate an incredible depository of layered data consisting of memories, thoughts,
comments, photos, moments, etc. which would forever be embedded into the stadium.
For example, the invention could be implemented as a multi-tiered system, whereby
premium content is available to those at the stadium and a seating chart to those online
that would allow visitors to click on any seat in the diagram and pull up its history. Of
course there would be the standard search measures e.g. by your favourite player's
name, or year, a fan's name or 'foul balls' etc. Much of the history would be archived.
[0050]      It will be appreciated that in the sporting context, additional features and
options can be provided. For example, the audiences at an event could be segregated
by a number of different factors such as team supported, seat location, clothing, or even
beverage consumption. This could lead to a different feed being provided, different
offer, and the like. It will be appreciated that the precise location of the patron is known,
so that they can be altered that, for example, a concessionaire selling brand X beer will
be in your section in 5 minutes, get your money out. The combination of precise location
and willing participation by the patron creates many opportunities to provide a
personalised experience, in an automated way.
[0051]      The nature of the app and the information displayed will of course vary
between sports. In the case of horse racing, for example, the app may include details of
odds and betting markets, history of particular races and horses, and access to writer's
analysis of the race. After each race, video of the race from various viewpoints and
perspectives, conceivably including from the jockey's perspective, may be made
available. In this context, some content may be available to all attendees, and additional
seat based content only to those who have reserved seats. A wider range of material
can be made available to the members, for example.
[0052]      In the context of a sport like cricket, the availability of footage of past events
at or near particular seats is as relevant as it is for baseball. In addition, game specific
features are readily implemented, such as the details of runs and run rates required for
a win, compared to a particular batsman and bowler's historical statistics, can be
provided.
[0053]      Another aspect which can be implemented is the provision of in stadium
surveys and or sentiment measurements that can then be analysed and processed to
determine various causal, direct, or indeterminate relationships between any number of
factors. The app with a very specific seat based connection provides a convenient way
to collect such data in a very specific context.

                                              12
[0054]       Another aspect which could be associated with the coded ticket or seat is
secondary event or peripheral broadcasting so to speak. For some sports, associated
parking lots and 'the hill' at Wimbledon could receive an auxiliary type of platform to
enhance the 'nearby' atmosphere at sold-out events, etc. There could also be a time
segmented platform, for example, a pregame show for those in the parking lot (e.g. at
the Tailgate Party) which is available during the two hours before an event along with
another show that is postgame full of analysis, interviews, and commentary, for
consumption for example during the trip home.
[0055]       The present invention may be advantageously combined with aspects of
product based coding, as disclosed in co-pending application number AU 2013901094,
the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
[0056]       One example of the application of the present invention is to fashion items,
for example clothing, handbags, and shoes, or sporting goods such as shirts, gloves,
balls, etc. A QR code may be incorporated into the item. In one form, the code may be a
clear and obvious statement or part of a logo. It could be included only in a conspicuous
way or in a non-obvious place. Alternatively, the QR code (or some other readable
visual or transparent code) could be concealed within or incorporated into the pattern or
design of the article.
[0057]       The QR code is preferably unique to the article, and a permanent part of the
article. It is preferred that the code remain part of the item, and not be (for example)
merely on a swing tag or the like.
[0058]       When the user reads the code, for example using a smartphone, it directs the
reader to a FabZing server location. The FabZing server will be aware of the code, and
can deal with the contact differently and dynamically. For example, on first contact,
there may be a request to register the item as associated with the purchaser. In this
case, if the item is stolen or not genuine, the server will not progress the session, and
may for example alert authorities.
[0059]       Such coding, for example on selected team merchandise, may be also
provide an ability to create a personalised experience and relationship between a
celebrity or player and a party who purchases a licensed item, which could be any
suitable object such as a garment, game, sporting equipment, or other item. The item
could include an integral code, which allows a connection to a dynamic website
provided by a particular celebrity, team or other individual.
[0060]       Once the purchaser (or gift recipient) receives the item, they are able to read
the code, which takes them first to a registration page. This may require, for example,

                                             13
some proof of purchase, pin, or authentication in addition to merely reading the code.
Alternatively, the proof of purchase may be communicated via the merchant.
 [0061]      The purchaser then includes some personalisation details, for example
 preferred name, birthday, favourite songs (for a performer), or other details as
appropriate. The registered user then has access (by scanning the code) to special
content only available to purchasers so connected. For example, a current season
jersey for a baseball player may give access to the team media, as well as for that
 player along with personalised commentary.
 [0062]      In turn, the fans could upload (potentially moderated by a suitable person)
their own content - personal messages from fans, questions, video shot from the
stands, and so forth. This then creates a potential community of interest for those who
 have bought the current jersey for that player. This may be added to and from the
content created according to the seat based implementation of the present invention.
 [0063]      Use of the seat coding in combination with sporting item or product coding
creates a wide variety of possible synergistic opportunities, only available to those who
 participate in purchase of the appropriate goods and services. For example, this would
 permit a trifecta game whereby fans wearing a team's jersey that scans a 'blue' baseball
can win prizes if they scan a drink with a 'blue' baseball and their seat scan has a 'blue'
 baseball.
 [0064]      It will be apparent that the operation of the present implementation would
allow a large volume of data on patrons' behaviour to be collected. This data,
 particularly over a period a time, in principle enables teams, brands, venues, vendors
and operators to determine very specific arrival and departure times of fans along with
other habits, and to target promotions and events with this knowledge.
 [0065]      In the case of a cultural venue, some of the same information can be
captured, but it is likely that in many cases the patrons would be discouraged from
operating their smartphone or tablets during the performance in a way that is distracting
for other patrons. However, messages and comments could be contributed before and
after the performance, to also provide a body of reviews and opinions on the work. The
text, music or libretto would be provided, together with an audio feed at high quality,
 particular for spoken performances.
 [0066]      It will be appreciated that many possible implementations of the present
 invention are possible, with necessary variations for the type of event and venue, and
with many different additional or alternative features. For example, the present invention
can also be applied to educational facilities. In one implementation in a classroom

                                             14
setting, each student's desk could be coded and act as their hub (with personalised
home page) of a connected group. In another educational implementation, a seat at an
iconic institution, for example in a famous lecture theatre, may be coded to contain
details of previous occupants, events, lectures, etc. People may wish to sit where Max
Planck sat for his undergraduate lectures, for example.
[0067]      In another feature of the invention, multimedia content sent from a seat or
clothing item could in effect have an enhanced personalised form of branding whereby
push notifications, text, or emails are sent to friends stating, 'You have a message sent
from Bob's Yankee hat.' (or 'Sent from David's Box Seat).

                                            15
Claims
1.       A system for permitting the capture of location specific content at a venue, the
system being adapted to receive data including seat location data from patrons at the
venue, to identify the location and, upon demand, provide content to patrons, and
receive from patrons and store content selected with respect to at least the seat location
data, the system including a server, data storage, and network communications
apparatus so as to operatively enable the system to communicate with portable devices
associated with patrons at the venue corresponding to the seat location data.
2.       A system according to claim 1, wherein the seat location data is derived from
reading a code associated with a seat or a ticket.
3.       A system according to claim 2, including a large number of seats in a stadium
having a readable code, so that the code is read, and communicated by a portable
device to said server.
4.       A method for allowing the capture of location specific content at a venue, the
venue including seat location information which is readable by patrons, and wherein at
least some of the patrons possess a portable device enabled and operatively adapted to
interact with hardware, including a server, network communications hardware and data
storage, and adapted to access the seat location information, the method including at
least the steps of:
         (a) the server receiving location data from one or more portable devices
associated with patrons at the venue, the data being generated based upon seat
location information read by the portable device;
         (b) said server then selectively, upon demand, providing content to patrons,
receiving content from patrons, and storing content selected with respect to at least the
seat location data, the system including a server, data storage, and network
communications apparatus so as to operatively enable the system to communicate with
portable devices associated with patrons at the venue corresponding to the seat
location data.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1
                                      1 /9

                                             2/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                         View Seat History
                                                   In thle
                         Featured Content          Spotlight
                          Create Content
              Figure 2

                                                                3/9
<removed-date>                                   FEATURED CONTENT
<removed-apn>
                            JACK WAS HERE                 GAME FACE             COUPLE KISSING
                         Ate 2 hotdogs and left   Great game but will have    The game started off
                          chewing gum under         to spend a week in the    close but ended up a
                               the seat...        shower washing off paint!    romantic comedy
              Figure 3

<removed-date>
                                                                                      Shar fa~ingX   Yur messac X
<removed-apn>
                         ft~~                 g               zing strea
                                                  -d Upload toi
                                                                 SMS~ag      /1~ssg
                                EditTwitter
                 Change font-                                     Align:     ll           8
                                                                           X Remove te xt boxes
              Figure 4

                                                                               5/9
<removed-date>
               4             ]            LO[   fabtale.com/zing/seatzing/                                  C
                                                                             x SEAT...
                    * SEATZing                                                                                               Sign out
                   0.   Search...                           X                            Viewable   Featured    Spotlight   Stream
<removed-apn>
                                    Caught a foul ball
                                    And my kid has a bruise to prove                       6        0              0         8
                                    it!
                                    Two Hall of Famers
                                    Greg Maddox versus his old                             a            0          0         8
                                    teammate Tom Glavine... A
                                    My first glove
                                    Spilled a coke on it... Not a pretty                   8            0          0
                                    picture...
                                    Sat next to pitcher wife
                                    I can see why he has trouble                                                   0         8
                   -                concentrating...
                                    COMES OUT SWINGING
                                    This is the description that would
                                    go along with a Featured zing.
                                                                                                                   0         8
              Figure 5

                                                                  6/9
<removed-date>
                                                                                                        Your messaj     X
<removed-apn>                     Your, mesa                                s her
                ffchange video   add image   add text   animate     preview              IONadd                  page
                   Edit text            A                     A         Eff ect:   6bi            ei
                                                                                                        Page 2          X
                 Change font                                            Ali9"n:
                                                                                   X Remove te xt box
              Figure 6

                                                 7/9
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              Figure 7
                                                                                PIRICF
                                                                          Setin
                          S.ip*.rlbsr- 30, 2011 7:0 5PM               3           __
                         IGEIS BAILLPAIRK in RIRLINI3TON                    Lq=
                                                                            CO~t1
                         ic      ltn~Wdmz TAX
                         Gate.         Seln     Abw    seat   Price   Seat I'
                         .1B             3      3.     1.     2.I
              Figure 8

                                                                8/9
<removed-date>
                                          104                                                       103
                                              Database server                        Media server
                             114
                           Stadium fabZings
<removed-apn>
                 105                            User fabZings
                  Stadium pc/tablet                               fabZing playback         Encoded media
                                                                            112
                106                                    113                                               102
                                                                                             Media encoder
                 Notifications server
                                                                                                        Stadium media
                                        115                                 User generated media
                                                                                         110
                                      Spectator phones/tablets                                  Stadium cameras
                00 1111                               0 0110                  0
                                                                              11                    m
                                                      100                                                 101
              Figure 9

                                          9/9
<removed-date>
                                                            80
                                92
                          93
                                                       94
<removed-apn>
                   82                       Internet                  90
                           84                                    88
                                     86
              Figure 10

