<removed-apn>
AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND GAMES INVOLVING PROGRESSIVE JACKPOTS
An apparatus comprising a network interface and at least one processor for determining that a first
player has played a game; determining a contribution to a first jackpot based on the play of the
game by the first player; preventing access to the jackpot by a plurality of second players playing
game; determining that the first jackpot has been won by the first player based on an action related
to the first player; in response to determining that the first jackpot has been won, presenting, to the
first player, a choice between accepting a payout of an award for winning the jackpot and access to a
second jackpot; receiving a selection of the access to the second jackpot from the first player; and in
response to receiving the selection, providing access to the second jackpot to the second player.

    AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND GAMES INVOLVING PROGRESSIVE JACKPOTS
                                                 FIELD
   [001]    Some embodiments may relate to wagering games.
                                            BACKGROUND
 5 [002]    FIG. 1 shows a block diagram of components for a hand-reading system, according to
   some embodiments;
   [003]    Some games involve placing wagers on one or more events. A portion of money
   placed as a wager from all people that play the game may be pooled together into a jackpot
   known as a progressive.
 0                                 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   [004]    FIG. 1 shows a block diagram of components for a hand-reading system, according to
   some embodiments;
   [005]    FIG. 2 shows an apparatus for playing a game, according to some embodiments;
   [006]    FIG. 3 shows an example method according to some embodiments; and
 5 [007]    FIG. 4 shows another example method according to some embodiments.
                                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [008]    The following sections I - X provide a guide to interpreting the present application.
         I.        Terms
   [009]      The term "product" means any machine, manufacture and / or composition of
 0 matter, unless expressly specified otherwise.
   [0010]     The term "process" means any process, algorithm, method or the like, unless
   expressly specified otherwise.
   [0011]     Each process (whether called a method, algorithm or otherwise) inherently includes
   one or more steps, and therefore all references to a "step" or "steps" of a process have an
25 inherent antecedent basis in the mere recitation of the term 'process' or a like term.
   Accordingly, any reference in a claim to a 'step' or 'steps' of a process has sufficient
   antecedent basis.
   [0012]     The term "invention" and the like mean "the one or more inventions disclosed in
   this application", unless expressly specified otherwise.
30 [0013]     The terms "an embodiment", "embodiment", "embodiments", "the embodiment",
   "the embodiments", "one or more embodiments", "some embodiments", "certain
   embodiments", "one embodiment", "another embodiment" and the like mean "one or more
   (but not all) embodiments of the disclosed invention(s)", unless expressly specified
   otherwise.
                                                 1

   [0014]    The term "variation" of an invention means an embodiment of the invention, unless
   expressly specified otherwise.
   [0015]    A reference to "another embodiment" in describing an embodiment does not imply
   that the referenced embodiment is mutually exclusive with another embodiment (e.g., an
 5 embodiment described before the referenced embodiment), unless expressly specified
   otherwise.
   [0016] The terms "including", "comprising" and variations thereof mean "including but not
   necessarily limited to", unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence
   "the portfolio includes a red widget and a blue widget" means the portfolio includes the red
 0 widget and the blue widget, but may include something else.
   [0017]    The term "consisting of' and variations thereof means "including and limited to",
   unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence "the portfolio consists
   of a red widget and a blue widget" means the portfolio includes the red widget and the blue
   widget, but does not include anything else.
 5 [0018]    The term "compose" and variations thereof means "to make up the constituent parts
   of, component of or member of', unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example,
   the sentence "the red widget and the blue widget compose a portfolio" means the portfolio
   includes the red widget and the blue widget.
   [0019]    The term "exclusively compose" and variations thereof means "to make up
 0 exclusively the constituent parts of, to be the only components of or to be the only members
   of', unless expressly specified otherwise. Thus, for example, the sentence "the red widget
   and the blue widget exclusively compose a portfolio" means the portfolio consists of the red
   widget and the blue widget, and nothing else.
   [0020]    The terms "a", "an" and "the" mean "one or more", unless expressly specified
25 otherwise.
   [0021]    The term "plurality" means "two or more", unless expressly specified otherwise.
   [0022]    The term "herein" means "in the present application, including anything which may
   be incorporated by reference", unless expressly specified otherwise.
   [0023]    The phrase "at least one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things (such
30 as an enumerated list of things) means any combination of one or more of those things, unless
   expressly specified otherwise. For example, the phrase "at least one of a widget, a car and a
   wheel" means either (i) a widget, (ii) a car, (iii) a wheel, (iv) a widget and a car, (v) a widget
   and a wheel, (vi) a car and a wheel, or (vii) a widget, a car and a wheel. The phrase "at least
                                                  2

   one of', when such phrase modifies a plurality of things does not mean "one of each of' the
   plurality of things.
   [0024]    Numerical terms such as "one", "two", etc. when used as cardinal numbers to
   indicate quantity of something (e.g., one widget, two widgets), mean the quantity indicated
 5 by that numerical term, but do not mean at least the quantity indicated by that numerical term.
   For example, the phrase "one widget" does not mean "at least one widget", and therefore the
   phrase "one widget" does not cover, e.g., two widgets.
   [0025]    The phrase "based on" does not mean "based only on", unless expressly specified
   otherwise. In other words, the phrase "based on" describes both "based only on" and "based
 0 at least on". The phrase "based at least on" is equivalent to the phrase "based at least in part
   on".
   [0026]    The term "represent" and like terms are not exclusive, unless expressly specified
   otherwise. For example, the term "represents" does not mean "represents only", unless
   expressly specified otherwise. In other words, the phrase "the data represents a credit card
 5 number" describes both "the data represents only a credit card number" and "the data
   represents a credit card number and the data also represents something else".
   [0027]    The term "whereby" is used herein only to precede a clause or other set of words
   that express only the intended result, objective or consequence of something that is
   previously and explicitly recited. Thus, when the term "whereby" is used in a claim, the
 0 clause or other words that the term "whereby" modifies do not establish specific further
   limitations of the claim or otherwise restricts the meaning or scope of the claim.
   [0028]    The term "e.g." and like terms mean "for example", and thus does not limit the term
   or phrase it explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (e.g.,
   instructions, a data structure) over the Internet", the term "e.g." explains that "instructions"
25 are an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet, and also explains that
   "a data structure" is an example of "data" that the computer may send over the Internet.
   However, both "instructions" and "a data structure" are merely examples of "data", and other
   things besides "instructions" and "a data structure" can be "data".
   [0029]    The term "respective" and like terms mean "taken individually". Thus if two or
30 more things have "respective" characteristics, then each such thing has its own characteristic,
   and these characteristics can be different from each other but need not be. For example, the
   phrase "each of two machines has a respective function" means that the first such machine
   has a function and the second such machine has a function as well. The function of the first
   machine may or may not be the same as the function of the second machine.
                                                  3

   [0030]     The term "i.e." and like terms mean "that is", and thus limits the term or phrase it
   explains. For example, in the sentence "the computer sends data (i.e., instructions) over the
   Internet", the term "i.e." explains that "instructions" are the "data" that the computer sends
   over the Internet.
 5 [0031]     Any given numerical range shall include whole and fractions of numbers within the
   range. For example, the range "1 to 10" shall be interpreted to specifically include whole
   numbers between 1 and 10 (e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, ... 9) and non-whole numbers (e.g., , 1.1, 1.2,
   1.9).
   [0032]     Where two or more terms or phrases are synonymous (e.g., because of an explicit
 0 statement that the terms or phrases are synonymous), instances of one such term / phrase does
   not mean instances of another such term / phrase must have a different meaning. For
   example, where a statement renders the meaning of "including" to be synonymous with
   "including but not limited to", the mere usage of the phrase "including but not limited to"
   does not mean that the term "including" means something other than "including but not
 5 limited to".
         II.        Determining
   [0033]     The term "determining" and grammatical variants thereof (e.g., to determine a price,
   determining a value, determine an object which meets a certain criterion) is used in an
   extremely broad sense. The term "determining" encompasses a wide variety of actions and
 0 therefore "determining" can include calculating, computing, processing, deriving,
   investigating, looking up (e.g., looking up in a table, a database or another data structure),
   ascertaining and the like. Also, "determining" can include receiving (e.g., receiving
   information), accessing (e.g., accessing data in a memory) and the like. Also, "determining"
   can include resolving, selecting, choosing, establishing, and the like.
25 [0034]     The term "determining" does not imply certainty or absolute precision, and
   therefore "determining" can include estimating, extrapolating, predicting, guessing and the
   like.
   [0035]     The term "determining" does not imply that mathematical processing must be
   performed, and does not imply that numerical methods must be used, and does not imply that
30 an algorithm or process is used.
   [0036]     The term "determining" does not imply that any particular device must be used. For
   example, a computer need not necessarily perform the determining.
         III.       Forms of Sentences
                                                   4

   [0037]    Where a limitation of a first claim would cover one of a feature as well as more than
   one of a feature (e.g., a limitation such as "at least one widget" covers one widget as well as
   more than one widget), and where in a second claim that depends on the first claim, the
   second claim uses a definite article "the" to refer to the limitation (e.g., "the widget"), this
 5 does not imply that the first claim covers only one of the feature, and this does not imply that
   the second claim covers only one of the feature (e.g., "the widget" can cover both one widget
   and more than one widget).
   [0038]    When an ordinal number (such as "first", "second", "third" and so on) is used as an
   adjective before a term, that ordinal number is used (unless expressly specified otherwise)
 0 merely to indicate a particular feature, such as to distinguish that particular feature from
   another feature that is described by the same term or by a similar term. For example, a "first
   widget" may be so named merely to distinguish it from, e.g., a "second widget". Thus, the
   mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" does not
   indicate any other relationship between the two widgets, and likewise does not indicate any
 5 other characteristics of either or both widgets. For example, the mere usage of the ordinal
   numbers "first" and "second" before the term "widget" (1) does not indicate that either
   widget comes before or after any other in order or location; (2) does not indicate that either
   widget occurs or acts before or after any other in time; and (3) does not indicate that either
   widget ranks above or below any other, as in importance or quality. In addition, the mere
 0 usage of ordinal numbers does not define a numerical limit to the features identified with the
   ordinal numbers. For example, the mere usage of the ordinal numbers "first" and "second"
   before the term "widget" does not indicate that there must be no more than two widgets.
   [0039]    When a single device, article or other product is described herein, more than one
   device / article (whether or not they cooperate) may alternatively be used in place of the
25 single device / article that is described. Accordingly, the functionality that is described as
   being possessed by a device may alternatively be possessed by more than one device / article
   (whether or not they cooperate).
   [0040]    Similarly, where more than one device, article or other product is described herein
   (whether or not they cooperate), a single device / article may alternatively be used in place of
30 the more than one device or article that is described. For example, a plurality of computer
   based devices may be substituted with a single computer-based device. Accordingly, the
   various functionality that is described as being possessed by more than one device or article
   may alternatively be possessed by a single device / article.
                                                   5

   [0041]     The functionality and / or the features of a single device that is described may be
   alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are described but are not
   explicitly described as having such functionality / features. Thus, other embodiments need
   not include the described device itself, but rather can include the one or more other devices
 5 which would, in those other embodiments, have such functionality / features.
          IV.       Disclosed Examples and Terminology Are Not Limiting
   [0042]     Neither the Title (set forth at the beginning of the first page of the present
   application) nor the Abstract (set forth at the end of the present application) is to be taken as
   limiting in any way as the scope of the disclosed invention(s), is to be used in interpreting the
 0 meaning of any claim or is to be used in limiting the scope of any claim.. An Abstract has
   been included in this application merely because an Abstract is required under 37 C.F.R. §
   1.72(b).
   [0043]     The title of the present application and headings of sections provided in the present
   application are for convenience only, and are not to be taken as limiting the disclosure in any
 5 way.
   [0044]     Numerous embodiments are described in the present application, and are presented
   for illustrative purposes only. The described embodiments are not, and are not intended to be,
   limiting in any sense. The presently disclosed invention(s) are widely applicable to numerous
   embodiments, as is readily apparent from the disclosure. One of ordinary skill in the art will
 0 recognize that the disclosed invention(s) may be practiced with various modifications and
   alterations, such as structural, logical, software, and electrical modifications. Although
   particular features of the disclosed invention(s) may be described with reference to one or
   more particular embodiments and / or drawings, it should be understood that such features are
   not limited to usage in the one or more particular embodiments or drawings with reference to
25 which they are described, unless expressly specified otherwise.
   [0045]     Though an embodiment may be disclosed as including several features, other
   embodiments of the invention may include fewer than all such features. Thus, for example, a
   claim may be directed to less than the entire set of features in a disclosed embodiment, and
   such claim would not include features beyond those features that the claim expressly recites.
30 [0046]     No embodiment of method steps or product elements described in the present
   application constitutes the invention claimed herein, or is essential to the invention claimed
   herein, or is coextensive with the invention claimed herein, except where it is either expressly
   stated to be so in this specification or expressly recited in a claim.
                                                    6

   [0047]     The preambles of the claims that follow recite purposes, benefits and possible uses
   of the claimed invention only and do not limit the claimed invention.
   [0048]     The present disclosure is not a literal description of all embodiments of the
   invention(s). Also, the present disclosure is not a listing of features of the invention(s) which
 5 must be present in all embodiments.
   [0049] All disclosed embodiment are not necessarily covered by the claims (even including
   all pending, amended, issued and canceled claims). In addition, an embodiment may be (but
   need not necessarily be) covered by several claims. Accordingly, where a claim (regardless
   of whether pending, amended, issued or canceled) is directed to a particular embodiment,
 0 such is not evidence that the scope of other claims do not also cover that embodiment.
   [0050]     Devices that are described as in communication with each other need not be in
   continuous communication with each other, unless expressly specified otherwise. On the
   contrary, such devices need only transmit to each other as necessary or desirable, and may
   actually refrain from exchanging data most of the time. For example, a machine in
 5 communication with another machine via the Internet may not transmit data to the other
   machine for long period of time (e.g. weeks at a time). In addition, devices that are in
   communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more
   intermediaries.
   [0051]     A description of an embodiment with several components or features does not imply
 0 that all or even any of such components / features are required. On the contrary, a variety of
   optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of
   the present invention(s). Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no component / feature is
   essential or required.
   [0052]     Although process steps, algorithms or the like may be described or claimed in a
25 particular sequential order, such processes may be configured to work in different orders. In
   other words, any sequence or order of steps that may be explicitly described or claimed does
   not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of
   processes described herein may be performed in any order possible. Further, some steps may
   be performed simultaneously despite being described or implied as occurring non
30 simultaneously (e.g., because one step is described after the other step). Moreover, the
   illustration of a process by its depiction in a drawing does not imply that the illustrated
   process is exclusive of other variations and modifications thereto, does not imply that the
   illustrated process or any of its steps are necessary to the invention(s), and does not imply
   that the illustrated process is preferred.
                                                   7

   [0053]     Although a process may be described as including a plurality of steps, that does not
   imply that all or any of the steps are preferred, essential or required. Various other
   embodiments within the scope of the described invention(s) include other processes that omit
   some or all of the described steps. Unless otherwise specified explicitly, no step is essential
 5 or required.
   [0054]     Although a process may be described singly or without reference to other products
   or methods, in an embodiment the process may interact with other products or methods. For
   example, such interaction may include linking one business model to another business model.
   Such interaction may be provided to enhance the flexibility or desirability of the process.
 0 [0055]     Although a product may be described as including a plurality of components,
   aspects, qualities, characteristics and / or features, that does not indicate that any or all of the
   plurality are preferred, essential or required. Various other embodiments within the scope of
   the described invention(s) include other products that omit some or all of the described
   plurality.
 5 [0056]     An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
   that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive, unless expressly specified otherwise.
   Likewise, an enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
   that any or all of the items are comprehensive of any category, unless expressly specified
   otherwise. For example, the enumerated list "a computer, a laptop, a PDA" does not imply
 0 that any or all of the three items of that list are mutually exclusive and does not imply that
   any or all of the three items of that list are comprehensive of any category.
   [0057]     An enumerated list of items (which may or may not be numbered) does not imply
   that any or all of the items are equivalent to each other or readily substituted for each other.
   [0058]     All embodiments are illustrative, and do not imply that the invention or any
25 embodiments were made or performed, as the case may be.
          V.         Computing
   [0059]     It will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various
   processes described herein may be implemented by, e.g., appropriately programmed general
   purpose computers, special purpose computers and computing devices. Typically a processor
30 (e.g., one or more microprocessors, one or more microcontrollers, one or more digital signal
   processors) will receive instructions (e.g., from a memory or like device), and execute those
   instructions, thereby performing one or more processes defined by those instructions.
   Instructions may be embodied in, e.g., one or more computer programs, one or more scripts.
                                                    8

   [0060]    A "processor" means one or more microprocessors, central processing units (CPUs),
   computing devices, microcontrollers, digital signal processors, or like devices or any
   combination thereof, regardless of the architecture (e.g., chip-level multiprocessing / multi
   core, RISC, CISC, Microprocessor without Interlocked Pipeline Stages, pipelining
 5 configuration, simultaneous multithreading).
   [0061]    Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of an apparatus for
   performing the process. The apparatus that performs the process can include, e.g., a
   processor and those input devices and output devices that are appropriate to perform the
   process.
 0 [0062]    Further, programs that implement such methods (as well as other types of data) may
   be stored and transmitted using a variety of media (e.g., computer readable media) in a
   number of manners. In some embodiments, hard-wired circuitry or custom hardware may be
   used in place of, or in combination with, some or all of the software instructions that can
   implement the processes of various embodiments. Thus, various combinations of hardware
 5 and software may be used instead of software only.
   [0063]    The term "computer-readable medium" refers to any medium, a plurality of the
   same, or a combination of different media, that participate in providing data (e.g.,
   instructions, data structures) which may be read by a computer, a processor or a like device.
   Such a medium may take many forms, including but not limited to, non-volatile media,
 0 volatile media, and transmission media. Non-volatile media include, for example, optical or
   magnetic disks and other persistent memory. Volatile media include dynamic random access
   memory (DRAM), which typically constitutes the main memory. Transmission media
   include coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that comprise a
   system bus coupled to the processor. Transmission media may include or convey acoustic
25 waves, light waves and electromagnetic emissions, such as those generated during radio
   frequency (RF) and infrared (IR) data communications. Common forms of computer
   readable media include, for example, a floppy disk, a flexible disk, hard disk, magnetic tape,
   any other magnetic medium, a CD-ROM, DVD, any other optical medium, punch cards,
   paper tape, any other physical medium with patterns of holes, a RAM, a PROM, an EPROM,
30 a FLASH-EEPROM, any other memory chip or cartridge, a carrier wave as described
   hereinafter, or any other medium from which a computer can read.
   [0064]    Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying data (e.g.
   sequences of instructions) to a processor. For example, data may be (i) delivered from RAM
   to a processor; (ii) carried over a wireless transmission medium; (iii) formatted and / or
                                                   9

   transmitted according to numerous formats, standards or protocols, such as Ethernet (or IEEE
   802.3), SAP, ATP, Bluetooth 0, and TCP/IP, TDMA, CDMA, and 3G; and / or (iv) encrypted
   to ensure privacy or prevent fraud in any of a variety of ways well known in the art.
   [0065]     Thus a description of a process is likewise a description of a computer-readable
 5 medium storing a program for performing the process. The computer-readable medium can
   store (in any appropriate format) those program elements which are appropriate to perform
   the method.
   [0066]     Just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that all the
   described steps are required, embodiments of an apparatus include a computer / computing
 0 device operable to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the described process.
   [0067]     Likewise, just as the description of various steps in a process does not indicate that
   all the described steps are required, embodiments of a computer-readable medium storing a
   program or data structure include a computer-readable medium storing a program that, when
   executed, can cause a processor to perform some (but not necessarily all) of the described
 5 process.
   [0068]     Where databases are described, it will be understood by one of ordinary skill in the
   art that (i) alternative database structures to those described may be readily employed, and (ii)
   other memory structures besides databases may be readily employed. Any illustrations or
   descriptions of any sample databases presented herein are illustrative arrangements for stored
 0 representations of information. Any number of other arrangements may be employed besides
   those suggested by, e.g., tables illustrated in drawings or elsewhere. Similarly, any illustrated
   entries of the databases represent exemplary information only; one of ordinary skill in the art
   will understand that the number and content of the entries can be different from those
   described herein. Further, despite any depiction of the databases as tables, other formats
25 (including relational databases, object-based models and / or distributed databases) could be
   used to store and manipulate the data types described herein. Likewise, object methods or
   behaviors of a database can be used to implement various processes, such as the described
   herein. In addition, the databases may, in a known manner, be stored locally or remotely
   from a device which accesses data in such a database.
30 [0069]     Various embodiments can be configured to work in a network environment
   including a computer that is in communication (e.g., via a communications network) with one
   or more devices. The computer may communicate with the devices directly or indirectly, via
   any wired or wireless medium (e.g. the Internet, LAN, WAN or Ethernet, Token Ring, a
   telephone line, a cable line, a radio channel, an optical communications line, commercial on
                                                   10

   line service providers, bulletin board systems, a satellite communications link, a combination
   of any of the above). Each of the devices may themselves comprise computers or other
   computing devices, such as those based on the Intel@ Pentium@ or CentrinoTM processor,
   that are adapted to communicate with the computer. Any number and type of devices may be
 5 in communication with the computer.
   [0070]     In an embodiment, a server computer or centralized authority may not be necessary
   or desirable. For example, the present invention may, in an embodiment, be practiced on one
   or more devices without a central authority. In such an embodiment, any functions described
   herein as performed by the server computer or data described as stored on the server
 0 computer may instead be performed by or stored on one or more such devices.
   [0071]     Where a process is described, in an embodiment the process may operate without
   any user intervention. In another embodiment, the process includes some human intervention
   (e.g., a step is performed by or with the assistance of a human).
          VI.        Continuing Applications
 5 [0072]     The present disclosure provides, to one of ordinary skill in the art, an enabling
   description of several embodiments and / or inventions. Some of these embodiments and / or
   inventions may not be claimed in the present application, but may nevertheless be claimed in
   one or more continuing applications that claim the benefit of priority of the present
   application.
 0 [0073]     Applicants intend to file additional applications to pursue patents for subject matter
   that has been disclosed and enabled but not claimed in the present application.
          VII.       35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6
   [0074]     In a claim, a limitation of the claim which includes the phrase "means for" or the
   phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, applies to that limitation.
25 [0075]     In a claim, a limitation of the claim which does not include the phrase "means for"
   or the phrase "step for" means that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6 does not apply to that
   limitation, regardless of whether that limitation recites a function without recitation of
   structure, material or acts for performing that function. For example, in a claim, the mere use
   of the phrase "step of' or the phrase "steps of' in referring to one or more steps of the claim
30 or of another claim does not mean that 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, applies to that step(s).
   [0076]     With respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in accordance
   with 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, the corresponding structure, material or acts described in
   the specification, and equivalents thereof, may perform additional functions as well as the
   specified function.
                                                   11

   [0077]    Computers, processors, computing devices and like products are structures that can
   perform a wide variety of functions. Such products can be operable to perform a specified
   function by executing one or more programs, such as a program stored in a memory device of
   that product or in a memory device which that product accesses. Unless expressly specified
 5 otherwise, such a program need not be based on any particular algorithm, such as any
   particular algorithm that might be disclosed in the present application. It is well known to
   one of ordinary skill in the art that a specified function may be implemented via different
   algorithms, and any of a number of different algorithms would be a mere design choice for
   carrying out the specified function.
 0 [0078]    Therefore, with respect to a means or a step for performing a specified function in
   accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112, paragraph 6, structure corresponding to a specified function
   includes any product programmed to perform the specified function. Such structure includes
   programmed products which perform the function, regardless of whether such product is
   programmed with (i) a disclosed algorithm for performing the function, (ii) an algorithm that
 5 is similar to a disclosed algorithm, or (iii) a different algorithm for performing the function.
   [0079] Where there is recited a means for performing a function that is a method, one
   structure for performing this method includes a computing device (e.g., a general purpose
   computer) that is programmed and / or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that
   function.
 0 [0080] Also included is a computing device (e.g., a general purpose computer) that is
   programmed and / or configured with appropriate hardware to perform that function via other
   algorithms as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.
         VIII.      Disclaimer
   [0081]    Numerous references to a particular embodiment do not indicate a disclaimer or
25 disavowal of additional, different embodiments, and similarly references to the description of
   embodiments which all include a particular feature do not indicate a disclaimer or disavowal
   of embodiments which do not include that particular feature. A clear disclaimer or disavowal
   in the present application shall be prefaced by the phrase "does not include" or by the phrase
   "cannot perform".
30       IX.        Incorporation By Reference
   [0082]    Any patent, patent application or other document referred to herein is incorporated
   by reference into this patent application as part of the present disclosure, but only for
   purposes of written description and enablement in accordance with 35 U.S.C. § 112,
   paragraph 1, and should in no way be used to limit, define, or otherwise construe any term of
                                                   12

   would have been ascertainable by a person of ordinary skill in the art. Such person of
   ordinary skill in the art need not have been in any way limited by any embodiments provided
   in the reference
 5 [0083]     Any incorporation by reference does not, in and of itself, imply any endorsement of,
   ratification of or acquiescence in any statements, opinions, arguments or characterizations
   contained in any incorporated patent, patent application or other document, unless explicitly
   specified otherwise in this patent application.
          X.        Prosecution History
 0 [0084]     In interpreting the present application (which includes the claims), one of ordinary
   skill in the art shall refer to the prosecution history of the present application, but not to the
   prosecution history of any other patent or patent application, regardless of whether there are
   other patent applications that are considered related to the present application, and regardless
   of whether there are other patent applications that share a claim of priority with the present
 5 application.
            XI.     Cards
   [0085] Playing cards have been in existence for many years. Although there are many types
   of playing cards that are played in many different types of games, the most common type of
 0 playing cards consists of 52 cards, divided out into four different suits (namely Spades,
   Hearts, Diamonds and Clubs) which are printed or indicated on one side or on the face of
   each card. In the standard deck, each of the four suits of cards consists of 13 cards, numbered
   either two through ten, or lettered A (Ace), K (King),     Q (Queen),  or J (Jack), which is also
   printed or indicated on the face of each card. Each card will thus contain on its face a suit
25 indication along with a number or letter indication. The King, Queen, and Jack usually also
   include some sort of design on the face of the card, and may be referred to as picture cards.
   Other types of playing cards are described herein, but it should be recognized that various
   topics may apply to any, some, and/or all type of playing cards.
   [0086] In some cases, the 52 card standard playing deck also contains a number of extra
30 cards, sometimes referred to as jokers, that may have some use or meaning depending on the
   particular game being played with the deck. For example, if a card game includes the jokers,
   then if a player receives a joker in his "hand" he may use it as any card in the deck. If the
   player has the ten, jack, queen and king of Spades, along with a joker, the player would use
                                                   13

   Spades).
   [0087] Many different games can be played using a standard deck of playing cards. The
   game being played with the standard deck of cards may include other items, such as game
 5 boards, chips, etc., or the game being played may only need the playing card deck itself. In
   most of the games played using a standard deck of cards, a value is assigned to each card.
   The value may differ for different games.
   [0088] Usually, the card value begins with the number two card as the lowest value and
   increases as the numbers increase through ten, followed in order of increasing value with the
 0 Jack, Queen, King and Ace. In some games the Ace may have a lower value than the two,
   and in games where a particular card is determined to be wild, or have any value, that card
   may have the greatest value of all. For example, in card games where deuces, or twos, are
   wild, the player holding a playing card containing a two can use that two as any other card,
   such that a nine and a two would be the equivalent of two nines.
 5 [0089] Further, the four different suits indicated on the cards may have a particular value
   depending on the game. Under game rules where one suit, i.e., Spades, has more value than
   another suit, i.e., Hearts, the seven of Spades may have more value than the seven of Hearts.
   [0090] It is easy to visualize that using the different card quantity and suit values, many
   different games can be played. In certain games, it is the combination of cards that one player
 0 obtains that determines whether or not that player has defeated the other player or players.
   Usually, the more difficult the combination is to obtain, the more value the combination has,
   and the player who obtains the more difficult combination (also taking into account the value
   of the cards) wins the game.
   [0091] For instance in the game of Poker, each player may ultimately receive five cards. The
25 player who obtains three cards having similar numbers on their face, i.e., the four of Hearts,
   four of Diamonds and four of Clubs, will defeat the player having only two cards with the
   same numerical value, i.e., the King of Spades and the King of Hearts. However, the player
   with five cards that all contain Clubs, commonly known as a flush, will defeat the player with
   the same three of a kind described above.
30 [0092] In many instances, a standard deck of playing cards is used to create gaming
   machines. In these gaming machines players insert coins and play certain card games, such as
   poker, using an imitation of standard playing cards on a video screen, in an attempt to win
   back more money than they originally inserted into the machine.
                                                  14

   table games. A table uses a table and a dealer, with the players sitting or standing around the
   table. The players place their bets on the table and the dealer deals the cards to each player.
   The number of cards dealt, or whether the cards are dealt face up or face down, will depend
 5 on the particular table game being played.
   [0094] Further, an imitation or depiction of a standard playing card is used in many handheld
   electronic games, such as poker and blackjack, and in many computer games and Internet
   games. Using a handheld electronic game or a computer terminal that may or may not be
   connected to the Internet, a player receives the imitation playing cards and plays a card game
 0 either against the computer or against other players. Further, many of these games can be
   played on the computer in combination with gambling.
   [0095] Also, there are many game shows that are broadcasted on television that use a deck of
   playing cards in the game play, in which the cards are usually enlarged or shown on a video
   screen or monitor for easy viewing. In these television game shows, the participants play the
 5 card game for prizes or money, usually against each other, with an individual acting as a host
   overseeing the action.
   [0096] Also, there are lottery tickets that players purchase and play by "scratching off" an
   opaque layer to see if they have won money and prizes. The opaque layer prevents the player
   from knowing the results of the lottery ticket prior to purchasing and scratching off the layer.
 0 In some of these lottery tickets, playing cards are used under the opaque layer and the player
   may need to match a number of similar cards in order to win the prizes or money.
           XII.    Rules of Card Games
   Rules of Poker
   [0097] In a basic poker game, which is played with a standard 52-card deck, each player is
25 dealt five cards. All five cards in each player's hand are evaluated as a single hand with the
   presence of various combinations of the cards such as pairs, three-of-a-kind, straight, etc.
   Determining which combinations prevail over other combinations is done by reference to a
   table containing a ranking of the combinations. Rankings in most tables are based on the odds
   of each combination occurring in the player's hand. Regardless of the number of cards in a
30 player's hand, the values assigned to the cards, and the odds, the method of evaluating all five
   cards in a player's hand remain the same.
   [0098] Poker is a popular skill-based card game in which players with fully or partially
   concealed cards make wagers into a central pot. The pot is awarded to the player or players
   with the best combination of cards or to the player who makes an uncalled bet. Poker can also
                                                  15

   other games that use poker hand rankings.
   [0099] Poker is played in a multitude of variations, but most follow the same basic pattern of
   play.
 5 [00100] The right to deal each hand typically rotates among the players and is marked by a
   token called a 'dealer' button or buck. In a casino, a house dealer handles the cards for each
   hand, but a button (typically a white plastic disk) is rotated clockwise among the players to
   indicate a nominal dealer to determine the order of betting.
   [00101] For each hand, one or more players are required to make forced bets to create an
 0 initial stake for which the players will contest. The dealer shuffles the cards, he cuts, and the
   appropriate number of cards are dealt to the players one at a time. Cards may be dealt either
   face-up or face-down, depending on the variant of poker being played. After the initial deal,
   the first of what may be several betting rounds begins. Between rounds, the players' hands
   develop in some way, often by being dealt additional cards or replacing cards previously
 5 dealt. At the end of each round, all bets are gathered into the central pot.
   [00102] At any time during a betting round, if a player makes a bet, opponents are required
   to fold, call or raise. If one player bets and no opponents choose to match the bet, the hand
   ends immediately, the bettor is awarded the pot, no cards are required to be shown, and the
   next hand begins. The ability to win a pot without showing a hand makes bluffing possible.
 0 Bluffing is a primary feature of poker, one that distinguishes it from other vying games and
   from other games that make use of poker hand rankings.
   [00103] At the end of the last betting round, if more than one player remains, there is a
   showdown, in which the players reveal their previously hidden cards and evaluate their
   hands. The player with the best hand according to the poker variant being played wins the
25 pot.
   [00104] The most popular poker variants are as follows:
   [00105] Draw poker
   [00106] Players each receive five -       as in five-card draw - or more cards, all of which are
   hidden. They can then replace one or more of these cards a certain number of times.
30 [00107] Stud poker
   [00108] Players receive cards one at a time, some being displayed to other players at the
   table. The key difference between stud and 'draw' poker is that players are not allowed to
   discard or replace any cards.
   [00109] Community card poker
                                                    16

   face up and shared by all players. Two or four individual cards may be dealt in the most
   popular variations, Texas hold 'em and Omaha hold 'em, respectively.
   Poker Hand Rankings
 5 [00111] Straight flush
   [00112] A straight flush is a poker hand such as Q4 J4 104 94 84, which contains five cards
   in sequence, all of the same suit. Two such hands are compared by their high card in the same
   way as are straights. The low ace rule also applies: 5+ 4+ 3+ 2+ A+ is a 5-high straight flush
   (also known as a "steel wheel"). An ace-high straight flush such as A# K# Q# J# 104 is
 0 known as a royal flush, and is the highest ranking standard poker hand (excluding five of a
   kind).
   [00113] Examples:
           7V 6V 5V 4V 3V beats 54 44 34 24 A4
           J# 104 94 84 74 ties J+ 10+ 9+ 8+ 7+
 5 [00114] Four of a kind
   [00115] Four of a kind, or quads, is a poker hand such as 94 94 9+ 9Y JV, which contains
   four cards of one rank, and an unmatched card. It ranks above a full house and below a
   straight flush. Higher ranking quads defeat lower ranking ones. Between two equal sets of
   four of a kind (possible in wild card and community card games), the kicker determines the
 0 winner.
   [00116] Examples:
            104 10+ 10V 104 5+ ("four tens" or "quad tens") defeats 6+ 6V 64 64 K# ("four
            sixes" or "quad sixes")
            104 10+ 10    104 Q# ("four tens, queen kicker") defeats 104 10+ 10      104 5+ ("four
25         tens with a five")
   [00117] Fullhouse
   [00118] A full house, also known as a boat or a full boat, is a poker hand such as 34 34 3+
   64 6r, which contains three matching cards of one rank, plus two matching cards of another
   rank. It ranks below a four of a kind and above a flush. Between two full houses, the one with
30 the higher ranking set of three wins. If two have the same set of three (possible in wild card
   and community card games), the hand with the higher pair wins. Full houses are described by
   the three of a kind (e.g. Q-Q-Q)  and pair (e.g. 9-9), as in "Queens over nines" (also used to
   describe a two pair), "Queens full of nines" or simply "Queens full".
   [00119] Examples:
                                                 17

           K# K# KV 3+ 34 ("kings full") defeats 34 3V 3+ K# K+ ("threes full")
           QV  Q+ Q#    8V 8# ("queens full of eights") defeats QV    Q+ Q#   5# 5V ("queens full of
           fives")
 5 [00120] Flush
   [00121] A flush is a poker hand such as      Q#  10# 7# 6# 4#, which contains five cards of the
   same suit, not in rank sequence. It ranks above a straight and below a full house. Two flushes
   are compared as if they were high card hands. In other words, the highest ranking card of
   each is compared to determine the winner; if both have the same high card, then the second
 0 highest ranking card is compared, etc. The suits have no value: two flushes with the same five
   ranks of cards are tied. Flushes are described by the highest card, as in "queen-high flush".
   [00122] Examples:
           AV QV 10V 5V 3V ("ace-high flush") defeats K# Q# J# 94 64 ("king-high flush")
           A+ K+ 7+ 6+ 2+ ("flush, ace-king high") defeats AV QV 10V 5V 3V ("flush, ace-queen
 5         high")
           QV 10V 9V 5V 2V ("heart flush") ties Q# 104 94 54 24 ("spade flush")
   [00123] Straight
   [00124] A straight is a poker hand such as     Q#   J# 104 9V 8r, which contains five cards of
   sequential rank, of varying suits. It ranks above three of a kind and below a flush. Two
 0 straights are ranked by comparing the high card of each. Two straights with the same high
   card are of equal value, and split any winnings (straights are the most commonly tied hands
   in poker, especially in community card games). Straights are described by the highest card, as
   in "queen-high straight" or "straight to the queen".
   [00125] A hand such as A# K#        Q+ J#   104 is an ace-high straight, and ranks above a king
25 high straight such as KV Q# JV 10V 9+. But the ace may also be played as a 1-spot in a hand
   such as 54 4+ 3+ 24 A#, called a wheel or five-high straight, which ranks below the six-high
   straight 64 5# 4# 3V 2Y. The ace may not "wrap around", or play both high and low in the
   same hand: 3# 2+ A4 K#      Q#  is not a straight, but just ace-high no pair.
   [00126] Examples:
30         84 74 6V 5V 44 ("eight-high straight") defeats 6+ 54 4+ 3V 2# ("six-high straight")
           84 74 6V 5V 44 ties 8V 7+ 6# 5# 4V
   [00127] Three of a kind
   [00128] Three of a kind, also called trips, set or a prile, is a poker hand such as 2+ 24 2V K#
   64, which contains three cards of the same rank, plus two unmatched cards. It ranks above
                                                  18

   kinds. If two hands have the same rank three of a kind (possible in games with wild cards or
   community cards), the kickers are compared to break the tie.
   [00129] Examples:
 5         84 8V 8+ 54 3# ("three eights") defeats 5# 5V 5+ Q+ 10# ("three fives")
           84 8V 8+ A# 2+ ("three eights, ace kicker") defeats 84 8V 8+ 54 3# ("three eights,
           five kicker")
   [00130] Two pair
   [00131] A poker hand such as JV J# 4# 44 94, which contains two cards of the same rank,
 0 plus two cards of another rank (that match each other but not the first pair), plus one
   unmatched card, is called two pair. It ranks above one pair and below three of a kind.
   Between two hands containing two pair, the higher ranking pair of each is first compared, and
   the higher pair wins. If both have the same top pair, then the second pair of each is compared.
   Finally, if both hands have the same two pairs, the kicker determines the winner. Two pair
 5 are described by the higher pair (e.g., KV K#) and the lower pair (e.g., 94 9+), as in "Kings
   over nines", "Kings and nines" or simply "Kings up".
   [00132] Examples:
           KV K+ 2# 2+ JV ("kings up") defeats J+ J# 104 10# 94 ("jacks up")
           9# 9+ 7+ 74 6V ("nines and sevens") defeats 9V 94 5V 5+ K# ("nines and fives")
 0         44 4# 34 3V K+ ("fours and threes, king kicker") defeats 4V 4+ 3+ 3 104 ("fours and
           threes with a ten")
   [00133] One pair
   [00134] One pair is a poker hand such as 4V 44 K# 10+ 54, which contains two cards of the
   same rank, plus three unmatched cards. It ranks above any high card hand, but below all other
25 poker hands. Higher ranking pairs defeat lower ranking pairs. If two hands have the same
   rank of pair, the non-paired cards in each hand (the kickers) are compared to determine the
   winner.
   [00135] Examples:
           10# 104 64 4V 2V ("pair of tens") defeats 9V 9# AV     Q+ 10+  ("pair of nines")
30         10V 10+ J+ 3V 2# ("tens with jack kicker") defeats 10# 104 64 4V 2V ("tens with six
           kicker")
           2+ 2V 84 5# 4# ("deuces, eight-five-four") defeats 2# 24 8# 5V 3V ("deuces, eight
           five-three")
   [00136] High card
                                                19

   two cards have the same rank, the five cards are not in sequence, and the five cards are not all
   the same suit. It can also be referred to as "nothing" or "garbage," and many other derogatory
   terms. It ranks below all other poker hands. Two such hands are ranked by comparing the
 5 highest ranking card; if those are equal, then the next highest ranking card; if those are equal,
   then the third highest ranking card, etc. No-pair hands are described by the one or two highest
   cards in the hand, such as "king high" or "ace-queen high", or by as many cards as are
   necessary to break a tie.
   [00138] Examples:
 0         A+ 10+ 94 5# 4# ("ace high") defeats K#      Q+ J#  8V 7V ("king high")
           A#   Q#  7+ 5V 2# ("ace-queen") defeats A+ 10+ 94 5# 4# ("ace-ten")
           74 6# 5# 4+ 2V ("seven-six-five-four") defeats 7# 6+ 5+ 3V 2# ("seven-six-five
           three")
   [00139] Decks using a bug
 5 [00140] The use of joker as a bug creates a slight variation of game play. When a joker is
   introduced in standard poker games it functions as a fifth ace, or can be used as a flush or
   straight card (though it can be used as a wild card too). Normally casino draw poker variants
   use a joker, and thus the best possible hand is five of a kind, as in A's A+ A# A4 Joker.
   Rules of Caribbean Stud
 0 [00141] Caribbean Stud TM poker may be played as follows. A player and a dealer are each
   dealt five cards. If the dealer has a poker hand having a value less than Ace-King
   combination or better, the player automatically wins. If the dealer has a poker hand having a
   value of an Ace-King combination or better, then the higher of the player's or the dealer's
   hand wins. If the player wins, he may receive an additional bonus payment depending on the
25 poker rank of his hand. In the commercial play of the game, a side bet is usually required to
   allow a chance at a progressive jackpot. In Caribbean StudTM poker, it is the dealer's hand that
   must qualify. As the dealer's hand is partially concealed during play (usually only one card, at
   most) is displayed to the player before player wagering is complete), the player must always
   be aware that even ranked player hands can lose to a dealer's hand and no bonus will be paid
30 out unless the side bet has been made, and then usually only to hands having a rank of a flush
   or higher.
   Rules of Blackjack
   [00142] Some versions of Blackjack are now described. Blackjack hands are scored
   according to the point total of the cards in the hand. The hand with the highest total wins as
                                                  20

   through 10 have a point value equal to their face value, and face cards (i.e., Jack, Queen and
   King) are worth 10 points. An Ace is worth 11 points unless it would bust a hand, in which
   case it is worth 1 point. Players play against the dealer and win by having a higher point total
 5 no greater than 21. If the player busts, the player loses, even if the dealer also busts. If the
   player and dealer have hands with the same point value, this is called a "push," and neither
   party wins the hand.
   [00143] After the initial bets are placed, the dealer deals the cards, either from one or more,
   but typically two, hand-held decks of cards, or from a "shoe" containing multiple decks of
 0 cards, generally at least four decks of cards, and typically many more. A game in which the
   deck or decks of cards are hand-held is known as a "pitch" game. "Pitch" games are generally
   not played in casinos. When playing with more than one deck, the decks are shuffled together
   in order to make it more difficult to remember which cards have been dealt and which have
   not. The dealer deals two cards to each player and to himself. Typically, one of the dealer's
 5 two cards is dealt face-up so that all players can see it, and the other is face down. The face
   down card is called the "hole card." In a European variation, the "hole card" is dealt after all
   the players' cards are dealt and their hands have been played. The players' cards are dealt face
   up from a shoe and face down if it is a "pitch" game.
   [00144] A two-card hand with a point value of 21 (i.e., an Ace and a face card or a 10) is
 0 called a "Blackjack" or a "natural" and wins automatically. A player with a "natural" is
   conventionally paid 3:2 on his bet, although in 2003 some Las Vegas casinos began paying
   6:5, typically in games with only a single deck.
   [00145] Once the first two cards have been dealt to each player and the dealer, the dealer
   wins automatically if the dealer has a "natural" and the player does not. If the player has a
25 "natural" and the dealer does not, the player automatically wins. If the dealer and player both
   have a "natural," neither party wins the hand.
   [00146] If neither side has a "natural," each player completely plays out their hand; when all
   players have finished, the dealer plays his hand.
   [00147] The playing of the hand typically involves a combination of four possible actions
30 "hitting," "standing," "doubling down," or "splitting" his hand. Often another action called
   "surrendering" is added. To "hit" is to take another card. To "stand" is to take no more cards.
   To "double down" is to double the wager, take precisely one more card and then "stand."
   When a player has identical value cards, such as a pair of 8s, the player can "split" by placing
   an additional wager and playing each card as the first card in two new hands. To "surrender"
                                                 21

   casino games of Blackjack. A player's turn ends if he "stands," "busts" or "doubles down." If
   the player "busts," he loses even if the dealer subsequently busts. This is the house advantage.
   [00148] After all players have played their hands, the dealer then reveals the dealer's hole
 5 card and plays his hand. According to house rules (the prevalent casino rules), the dealer
   must hit until he has a point total of at least 17, regardless of what the players have. In most
   casinos, the dealer must also hit on a "soft" 17 (e.g., an Ace and 6). In a casino, the Blackjack
   table felt is marked to indicate if the dealer hits or stands on a soft 17. If the dealer busts, all
   remaining players win. Bets are normally paid out at odds of 1:1.
 0 [00149] Four of the common rule variations are one card split Aces, early surrender, late
   surrender and double-down restrictions. In the first variation, one card is dealt on each Ace
   and the player's turn is over. In the second, the player has the option to surrender before the
   dealer checks for Blackjack. In the third, the player has the option to surrender after the
   dealer checks for Blackjack. In the fourth, doubling-down is only permitted for certain card
 5 combinations.
        Insurance
   [00150] Insurance is a commonly-offered betting option in which the player can hedge his
   bet by wagering that the dealer will win the hand. If the dealer's "up card" is an Ace, the
   player is offered the option of buying Insurance before the dealer checks his "hole card." If
 0 the player wishes to take Insurance, the player can bet an amount up to half that of his
   original bet. The Insurance bet is placed separately on a special portion of the table, which is
   usually marked with the words "Insurance Pays 2:1." The player buying Insurance is betting
   that the dealer's "hole card" is one with a value of 10 (i.e., a 10, Jack, Queen or King).
   Because the dealer's up card is an Ace, the player who buys Insurance is betting that the
25 dealer has a "natural."
   [00151] If the player originally bets $10 and the dealer shows an Ace, the player can buy
   Insurance by betting up to $5. Suppose the player makes a $5 Insurance bet and the player's
   hand with the two cards dealt to him totals 19. If the dealer's hole card is revealed to be a 10
   after the Insurance betting period is over (the dealer checks for a "natural" before the players
30 play their hands), the player loses his original $10 bet, but he wins the $5 Insurance bet at
   odds of 2:1, winning $10 and therefore breaking even. In the same situation, if the dealer's
   hole card is not one with a value of ten, the player immediately loses his $5 Insurance bet.
   But if the player chooses to stand on 19, and if the dealer's hand has a total value less than 19,
   at the end of the dealer's turn, the player wins his original $10 bet, making a net profit of $5.
                                                   22

   will immediately lose their $5 Insurance bet, and if the dealer's hand has a total value greater
   than the player's at the end of both of their turns, for example the player stood on 19 and the
   dealer ended his turn with 20, the player loses both his original $10 bet and his $5 Insurance
 5 bet.
        Basic Strategy
    [00152] Blackjack players can increase their expected winnings by several means, one of
   which is "basic strategy." "Basic strategy" is simply something that exists as a matter of
   general practice; it has no official sanction. The "basic strategy" determines when to hit and
 0 when to stand, as well as when doubling down or splitting in the best course. Basic strategy is
   based on the player's point total and the dealer's visible card. Under some conditions (e.g.,
   playing with a single deck according to downtown Las Vegas rules) the house advantage over
   a player using basic strategy can be as low as 0.16%. Casinos offering options like surrender
   and double-after-split may be giving the player using basic strategy a statistical advantage
 5 and instead rely on players making mistakes to provide a house advantage.
    [00153] A number of optional rules can benefit a skilled player, for example: if doubling
   down is permitted on any two-card hand other than a natural; if "doubling down" is permitted
   after splitting; if early surrender (forfeiting half the bet against a face or Ace up card before
   the dealer checks for Blackjack) is permitted; if late surrender is permitted; if re-splitting
 0 Aces is permitted (splitting when the player has more than two cards in their hand, and has
   just been dealt a second ace in their hand); if drawing more than one card against a split Ace
   is permitted; if five or more cards with a total no more than 21 is an automatic win (referred
   to as "Charlies").
    [00154] Other optional rules can be detrimental to a skilled player. For example: if a
25  "natural" pays less than 3:2 (e.g., Las Vegas Strip single-deck Blackjack paying out at 6:5 for
   a "natural"); if a hand can only be split once (is re-splitting possible for other than aces); if
   doubling down is restricted to certain totals (e.g., 9 11 or 10 11); if Aces may not be re-split;
   if the rules are those of "no-peek" (or European) Blackjack, according to which the player
   loses hands that have been split or "doubled down" to a dealer who has a "natural'(because
30 the dealer does not check for this automatically winning hand until the players had played
   their hands); if the player loses ties with the dealer, instead of pushing where neither the
   player or the dealer wins and the player retains their original bet.
        Card Counting
                                                   23

   subsequent play, a hand of Blackjack removes those cards from the deck. As cards are
   removed from the deck, the probability of each of the remaining cards being dealt is altered
   (and dealing the same cards becomes impossible). If the remaining cards have an elevated
 5 proportion of 10-value cards and Aces, the player is more likely to be dealt a natural, which is
   to the player's advantage (because the dealer wins even money when the dealer has a natural,
   while the player wins at odds of 3:2 when the player has a natural). If the remaining cards
   have an elevated proportion of low-value cards, such as 4s, 5s and 6s, the player is more
   likely to bust, which is to the dealer's advantage (because if the player busts, the dealer wins
 0 even if the dealer later busts).
   [00156] The house advantage in Blackjack is relatively small at the outset. By keeping track
   of which cards have been dealt, a player can take advantage of the changing proportions of
   the remaining cards by betting higher amounts when there is an elevated proportion of 10
   value cards and Aces and by better lower amounts when there is an elevated proportion of
 5 low-value cards. Over time, the deck will be unfavorable to the player more often than it is
   favorable, but by adjusting the amounts that he bets, the player can overcome that inherent
   disadvantage. The player can also use this information to refine basic strategy. For instance,
   basic strategy calls for hitting on a 16 when the dealer's up card is a 10, but if the player
   knows that the deck has a disproportionately small number of low-value cards remaining, the
 0 odds may be altered in favor of standing on the 16.
   [00157] There are a number of card-counting schemes, all dependent for their efficacy on
   the player's ability to remember either a simplified or detailed tally of the cards that have
   been played. The more detailed the tally, the more accurate it is, but the harder it is to
   remember. Although card counting is not illegal, casinos will eject or ban successful card
25 counters if they are detected.
   [00158] Shuffle tracking is a more obscure, and difficult, method of attempting to shift the
   odds in favor of the player. The player attempts to track groups of cards during the play of a
   multi-deck shoe, follow them through the shuffle, and then looks for the same group to
   reappear from the new shoe, playing and betting accordingly.
30          XIII. Tracking the Action at a Table
   [00159] US patent 6579181 generally describes, "a system for automatically monitoring
   playing and wagering of a game. In one illustrated embodiment, the system includes a card
   deck reader that automatically reads a respective symbol from each card in a deck of cards
   before a first one of the cards is removed from the deck. The symbol identifies a value of the
                                                 24

   bar code, area or matrix code or stacked code. In another aspect, the system does not decode
   the read symbol until the respective card is dealt, to ensure security.
   [00160] "In another aspect, the system can include a chip tray reader that automatically
 5 images the contents of a chip tray. The system periodically determines the number and value
   of chips in the chip tray from the image, and compares the change in contents of the chip tray
   to the outcome of game play to verify that the proper amounts have been paid out and
   collected.
   [00161] "In a further aspect, the system can include a table monitor that automatically
 0 images the activity or events occurring at a gaming table. The system periodically compares
   images of the gaming table to identify wagering, as well as the appearance, removal and
   position of cards and/or other objects on the gaming table. The table monitoring system can
   be unobtrusively located in the chip tray."
   [00162] US patent 6579181 generally describes "a drop box that automatically verifies an
 5 amount and authenticity of a deposit and reconciles the deposit with a change in the contents
   of the chip tray. The drop box can image different portions of the deposited item, selecting
   appropriate lighting and resolutions to examine security features in the deposited item.
   [00163] "In another aspect, the system can employ some, or all of the components to
   monitor the gaming habits of players and the performance of employees. The system can
 0 detect suspect playing and wagering patterns that may be prohibited. The system can also
   identify the win/loss percentage of the players and the dealer, as well as a number of other
   statistically relevant measures. Such measures can provide a casino or other gaming
   establishment with enhanced automated security, and automated real-time accounting. The
   measures can additionally provide a basis for automatically allocating complimentary
25 benefits to the players."
   [00164] Various embodiments include an apparatus, method and system which utilizes a
   card dispensing shoe with scanner and its associated software which enable the card dealer
   when dealing the game from a card dispensing shoe with scanner preferably placed on a
   game table where the twenty-one game to be evaluated by the software is being played, to use
30 one or more keyboard(s) and/or LCD displays coupled to the shoe to identify for the
   computer program the number of the active players' seats, or active players, including the
   dealer's position relative thereto and their active play at the game table during each game
   round dealt from the shoe. These keyboards and LCD displays are also used to enter other
   data relevant to each seat's, or player's, betting and/or decision strategies for each hand
                                                   25

   strategy decisions and betting skills of casino twenty-one, or blackjack players playing the
   game of blackjack during real time. The evaluation software is coupled to a central
   processing unit (CPU) or host computer that is also coupled to the shoe's keyboard(s) and
 5 LCD displays. The dealer using one or more keyboard(s) attached to or carried by the shoe,
   or a keyboard(s) located near the dealer is able to see and record the exact amount bet by each
   player for each hand played for the game to be evaluated. The optical scanner coupled to the
   CPU reads the value of each card dealt to each player's hand(s) and the dealer's hand as each
   card is dealt to a specific hand, seat or position and converts the game card value of each card
 0 dealt from the shoe to the players and the dealer of the game to a card count system value for
   one or more card count systems programmed into the evaluation software. The CPU also
   records each players decision(s) to hit a hand, and the dealer's decision to hit or take another
   card when required by the rules of the game, as the hit card is removed from the shoe. The
   dealer uses one or more of the keyboards and LCD displays carried by the shoe to record
 5 each player's decision(s) to Insure, Surrender, Stand, Double Down, or Split a hand. When
   the dealer has an Ace or a Ten as an up-card, he/she may use one or more of the keyboards to
   prompt the computer system's software, since the dealer's second card, or hole-card, which is
   dealt face down, has been scanned and the game card value thereof has been imported into
   the computer systems software, to instantly inform the dealer, by means of one or more of the
 0 shoe's LCDs, if his/her game cards, or hand total, constitutes a two-card "21" or "Blackjack".
   [00165] In various embodiments, a card playing system for playing a card game which
   includes a card delivery shoe apparatus for use in dealing playing cards to at least one player
   for the playing of the card game comprises, in combination, housing means having a chute
   for supporting at least one deck of playing cards for permitting movement of the playing
25 cards one at a time through the chute, the housing means having an outlet opening that
   permits the playing cards of the deck to be moved one-by-one out of the housing means
   during the play of a card game, card scanning means located within the housing means for
   scanning indicia located on each of the playing cards as each of the playing cards are moved
   out from the chute of the housing means, means for receiving the output of the card scanning
30 means for identifying each of the playing cards received by each player from the shoe, for
   evaluating information relative to each players received playing cards and their values with
   information as to playing tactics used by each player relative to the values of the received
   playing cards, and for combining all of this information for identifying each player's playing
   strategy, and a playing table coupled to the card delivery shoe apparatus and having at least
                                                  26

   playing options to wager upon.
   [00166] In various embodiments, a card playing system for playing a card game which
   includes a card delivery shoe apparatus for use in dealing playing cards to at least one player
 5 for the playing of the card game comprises, in combination, housing means having a chute
   for supporting at least one deck of playing cards for permitting movement of the playing
   cards one at a time through the chute, the housing means having an outlet opening that
   permits the playing cards of the deck to be moved one-by-one out of the housing means
   during the play of a card game, card scanning means located within the housing means for
 0 scanning indicia located on each of the playing cards as each of the playing cards are moved
   out from the chute of the housing means, means for receiving the output of the card scanning
   means for identifying such of the playing cards received by each player from the shoe
   apparatus, for evaluating information relative to each player's received playing cards and their
   values with information as to betting tactics used by each player relative to playing cards
 5 previously dealt out from the shoe apparatus providing card count information, and for
   combining all of this information for identifying each player's card count strategy, and a
   playing table coupled to the card delivery shoe apparatus and having at least one keypad
   means located thereon for permitting the at least one player to select at least one of various
   card playing options to wager upon.
 0 [00167] In various embodiments, a card playing system for playing a card game which
   includes a card delivery shoe apparatus for use in dealing playing cards to at least one player
   for the playing of a card game comprises, in combination, housing means having a chute for
   supporting at least one deck of playing cards for permitting movement of the playing cards
   one at a time through the chute, the housing means having an outlet opening that permits the
25 playing cards of the deck to be moved one-by-one out of the housing means during the play
   of a card game, card scanning means located within the housing means for scanning indicia
   located on each of the playing cards as each of the playing cards are moved out from the
   chute of the housing means, means for receiving the output of the card scanning means for
   identifying each of the playing cards received by each player from the shoe apparatus, for
30 evaluating information relative to each player's received playing cards and their values with
   information as to playing tactics used by each player relative to the values of the received
   playing cards, for combining use of all of this information for identifying each player's
   playing strategy, and for also identifying each player's card count strategy based on each
   player's betting tactics used by each player relative to playing cards previously dealt out from
                                                 27

   delivery shoe apparatus and having at least one keypad means located thereon for permitting
   the at least one player to select at least one of various card playing options to wager upon.
   [00168] In various embodiments, a secure game table system, adapted for multiple sites
 5 under a central control, allows for the monitoring of hands in a progressive live card game. A
   live card game has at least one deck, with each deck having a predetermined number of cards.
   Each game table in the system has a plurality of player positions with or without players at
   each position and a dealer at a dealer position.
   [00169] In one embodiment, for providing additional security, a common identity code is
 0 located on each of the cards in each deck. Each deck has a different common identity code. A
   shuffler is used to shuffle the decks together and the shuffler has a circuit for counting of the
   cards from a previous hand that are inserted into the shuffler for reshuffling. The shuffler
   circuit counts each card inserted and reads the common identity code located on each card.
   The shuffler circuit issues a signal corresponding to the count and the common identity code
 5 read. The game control (e.g., the computer) located at each table receives this signal from the
   shuffler circuit and verifies that no cards have been withdrawn from the hand by a player (or
   the dealer) or that no new cards have been substituted. If the count is not proper or if a game
   card lacks an identity code or an identity code is mismatched, an alarm signal is generated
   indicating that a new deck of cards needs to be used and that the possibility of a breach in the
 0 security of the game has occurred.
   [00170] In yet another embodiment of security, a unique code, such as a bar code, is placed
   on each card and as each card is dealt by the dealer from a shoe, a detector reads the code and
   issues a signal to the game control containing at least the value and the suit of each card dealt
   in the hand. The detector may also read a common identity deck code and issue that as a
25 signal to the game control. The shoe may have an optical scanner for generating an image of
   each card as it is dealt from the shoe by the dealer in a hand. The game control stores this
   information in a memory so that a history of each card dealt from the shoe in a hand is
   recorded.
   [00171] In yet another embodiment of security, an integrated shuffler/shoe obtains an optical
30 image of each card dealt from the shoe for a hand and for each card inserted into the shuffler
   after a hand. These images are delivered to the game control where the images are counted
   and compared. When an irregular count or comparison occurs, an alarm is raised. The
   shuffler and shoe are integrated to provide security between the two units.
                                                  28

   near each of the plurality of player positions for sensing the presence of a game bet. The
   game bet sensor issues a signal counting the tokens placed. It is entirely possible that game
   bet sensors at some player positions do not have bets, and therefore, the game control that is
 5 receptive of these signals identifies which player positions have players placing game bets.
   This information is stored in memory and becomes part of the history of the game.
   [00173] In another embodiment of security, a progressive bet sensor is located at each of the
   plurality of player positions and senses the presence of a progressive bet. The progressive bet
   sensor issues a signal that is received by the game control, which records in memory the
 0 progressive bets being placed at the respective player position sensed. If a progressive bet is
   sensed and a game bet is not, the game control issues an alarm signal indicating improper
   betting. At this point, the game control knows the identity of each player location having
   placed a game bet and, of those player positions having game bets placed, which player
   positions also have a progressive bet. This is stored in memory as part of the history of the
 5 hand.
   [00174] In yet another embodiment of security, a card sensor is located near each player
   position and the dealer position. The card sensor issues a signal for each card received at the
   card sensor. The game control receives this issued signal and correlates those player positions
   having placed a game bet with the received cards. In the event a player position without a
 0 game bet receives a card or a player position with a game bet receives a card out of sequence,
   the game control issues an alarm. This information is added to the history of the game in
   memory, and the history contains the value and suit of each card delivered to each player
   position having a game bet.
   [00175] A progressive jackpot display may be located at each game table and may display
25 one or more jackpot awards for one or more winning combinations of cards. In one
   embodiment of the present invention, the game control at each table has stored in memory the
   winning combinations necessary to win the progressive jackpots. Since the game control
   accurately stores the suit and value of each card received at a particular player position, the
   game control can automatically detect a winning combination and issue an award signal for
30 that player position. The dealer can then verify that that player at that position indeed has the
   correct combination of cards. The game control continuously updates the central control
   interconnected to all other game tables so that the central control can then inform all game
   tables of this win including, if desirable, the name of the winner and the amount won.
                                                  29

   associated progressive jackpot display may receive over a communication link all or part of
   the information stored in each game control.
   [00177] Various embodiments include a card shoe with a device for automatic recognition
 5 and tracking of the value of each gaming card drawn out of the card shoe in a covered way
   (face down).
   [00178] Various embodiments include a gaming table with a device for automatic
   recognition of played or not played boxes (hands), whereby it has to realize multiple bets on
   each hand and the use of insurance lines. Further more, the gaming table may include a
 0 device to recognize automatically the number of cards placed in front of each player and the
   dealer.
   [00179] Various embodiments include the recognition, tracking, and storage of gaming
   chips.
   [00180] In various embodiment, an electronic data processing (EDP) program may process
 5 the value of all bets on each box and associated insurance line, control the sequence of
   delivery of the cards, control the distribution of the gaming cards to each player and the
   dealer, may calculate and compare the total score of each hand and the dealer's, and may
   evaluate the players' wins.
   [00181] Gaming data may then be processed by means of the EDP program and shown
 0 simultaneously to the actual game at a special monitor or display. Same data may be recalled
   later on to monitor the total results whenever requested.
   [00182] Various embodiments include a gaming table and a gaming table cloth arranged on
   the gaming table, the gaming table cloth provided with betting boxes and areas designated for
   placement of the gaming chips and other areas designated for placement of the playing cards,
25 a card shoe for storage of one or more decks of playing cards, this card shoe including means
   for drawing individual ones of the playing cards face down so that a card value imprint on the
   drawn card is not visible to a player of the game of chance, a card recognition means for
   recognizing this card value imprint on the drawn card from the card shoe, this card
   recognition means being located in the card shoe, an occupation detector unit including
30 means for registering a count of gaming chips placed on the designated areas and another
   count of playing cards placed on the other designated areas on the table cloth, this occupation
   detector unit being located under the table cloth and consisting of multiple single detectors
   allocated to each betting box, each area for chips and each other area for playing cards
   respectively, a gaming bet detector for automatic recognition or manual input of gaming bets,
                                                 30

   the rules of the game of chance, means for storing results of the play of the game of chance
   and means for displaying a course of the play of the game of chance and the results from
   electronic signals input from the gaming bet detector, the occupation detector unit and the
 5 card recognition means.
   [00183] According to various embodiments, the card recognition means comprises an optical
   window arranged along a movement path of the card image imprint on the playing card
   drawn from the card shoe; a pulsed light source for illuminating a portion of the drawn
   playing card located opposite the optical window; a CCD image converter for the portion of
 0 the drawn playing card located opposite the optical window; an optical device for deflecting
   and transmitting a reflected image of the card value imprint from the drawn playing card to
   the CCD image converter from that portion of the drawn playing card when the drawn card is
   exactly in a correct drawn position opposite the optical window; and sensor means for
   detecting movement of the drawn card and for providing a correct timing for operation of the
 5 pulsed light source for transmission of the reflected image to the CCD image converter. The
   optical device for deflecting and transmitting the reflected image can comprise a mirror
   arranged to deflect the reflected image to the CCD image converter. Alternatively, the optical
   device for deflecting and transmitting the reflected image comprises a reflecting optical prism
   having two plane surfaces arranged at right angles to each other, one of which covers the
 0 optical window and another of which faces the CCD image converter and comprises a mirror,
   and the pulsed light source is arranged behind the latter plane surface so as to illuminate the
   drawn card when the drawn card is positioned over the optical window. Advantageously the
   sensor means for detecting movement of the drawn card and for providing a correct timing
   comprises a single sensor, preferably either a pressure sensor or a photoelectric threshold
25 device, for sensing a front edge of the drawn card to determine whether or not the drawn card
   is being drawn and to activate the CCD image converter and the pulsed light source when a
   back edge of the drawn card passes the sensor means. Alternatively, the sensor means can
   include two electro-optical sensors, one of which is located beyond a movement path of the
   card image imprint on the drawn playing card and another of which is located in a movement
30 path of the card image imprint on a drawn playing card. The latter electro-optical sensor can
   includes means for activating the pulsed light source by sensing a color trigger when the card
   value imprint passes over the optical window. In preferred embodiments of the card shoe the
   pulsed light source comprises a Xenon lamp.
                                                31

   occupation detector unit each comprise a light sensitive sensor for detection of chips or
   playing cards arranged on the table cloth over the respective single detector. Each single
   detector can be an infrared sensitive photodiode, preferably a silicon photodiode.
 5 Advantageously the single detectors can be arranged in the occupation detector unit so that
   the chips or playing cards placed over them on the table cloth are arrange over at least two
   single detectors.
   [00185] The gaming apparatus may includes automatic means for discriminating colored
   markings or regions on the chips and for producing a bet output signal in accordance with the
 0 colored markings or regions and the number of chips having identical colored markings or
   regions.
   [00186] The gaming bet detector may include automatic means for discriminating between
   chips of different value in the game of chance and means for producing a bet output signal in
   accordance with the different values of the chips when the chips are bet by a player. In
 5 various embodiments the gaming bet detector includes a radio frequency transmitting and
   receiving station and the chips are each provided with a transponder responding to the
   transmitting and receiving station so that the transponder transmits the values of the bet chips
   back to the transmitting and receiving station.
   [00187] The connection between the individual units of the gaming apparatus and the
 0 computer can be either a wireless connection or a cable connection.
           XIV. Following the Bets
   [00188] Various embodiments include a smart card delivery shoe that reads the suit and rank
   of each card before it is delivered to the various positions where cards are to be dealt in the
   play of the casino table card game. The cards are then dealt according to the rules of the game
25 to the required card positions. Different games have diverse card distribution positions,
   different card numbers, and different delivery sequences that the hand identifying system of
   the invention must encompass. For example, in the most complex of card distribution games
   of blackjack, cards are usually dealt one at a time in sequence around a table, one card at a
   time to each player position and then to the dealer position. The one card at a time delivery
30 sequence is again repeated so that each player position and the dealer position have an initial
   hand of exactly two cards. Complexity in hand development is introduced because players
   have essentially unlimited control over additional cards until point value in a hand exceeds a
   count of twenty-one. Players may stand with a count of 2 (two aces) or take a hit with a count
   of 21 if they are so inclined, so the knowledge of the count of a hand is no assurance of what
                                                 32

   play of the game according to the value of the dealer's hand. Small variances such as allowing
   or disallowing a hit on a "soft" seventeen count (e.g., an Ace and a 6) may exist, but the rules
   are otherwise very precise so that the house or dealer cannot exercise any strategy.
 5 [00189] Other cards games may provide equal numbers of cards in batches. Variants of stud
   poker played against a dealer, for example, would usually provide hands of five cards, five at
   a time to each player position and if competing against a dealer, to the dealer position. This
   card hand distribution is quite simple to track as each sequence of five cards removed from
   the dealer shoe is a hand.
 0 [00190] Other games may require cards to be dealt to players and other cards dealt to a flop
   or common card area. The system may also be programmable to cover this alternative if it is
   so desired.
   [00191] Baccarat is closer to blackjack in card sequence of dealing, but has more rigid rules
   as to when hits may be taken by the player and the dealer, and each position may take a
 5 maximum of one card as a hit. The hand identification system of the invention must be able
   to address the needs of identifying hands in each of these types of games and especially must
   be able to identify hands in the most complex situation, the play of blackjack.
   [00192] In various embodiments, where cameras are used to read cards, the light sensitive
   system may be any image capture system, digital or analog, that is capable of identifying the
 0 suit and rank of a card.
   [00193] In various embodiments, a first step in the operation is to provide a set of cards to
   the smart delivery shoe, the cards being those cards that are going to be used in the play of a
   casino table card game. The set of cards (usually one or more decks) is provided in an already
   randomized set, being taken out of a shuffler or having been shuffled by hand. A smart
25 delivery shoe is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/622,321, titled SMART
   DELIVERY SHOE, which application is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.
   Some delivery systems or shoes with reading capability include, but are not limited to those
   disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,750,743; 5,779,546; 5,605,334; 6,361,044; 6,217,447;
   5,941,769; 6,229,536; 6,460,848; 5,722,893; 6,039,650; and 6,126,166. In various
30 embodiments, the cards are read in the smart card delivery shoe, such as one card at a time in
   sequence. Reading cards by edge markings and special codes (as in U.S. Pat. No. 6,460,848)
   may require special encoding and marking of the cards. The entire sequence of cards in the
   set of cards may thus be determined and stored in memory. Memory may be at least in part in
                                                 33

   sequence would then also or solely be stored in the central computer.
   [00194] In various embodiments, the cards are then dealt out of the smart delivery shoe, the
   delivery shoe registering how many cards are removed one-at-a-time. This may be
 5 accomplished by the above identified U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/622321 where cards
   are fed to the dealer removal area one at a time, so only one card can be removed by the
   dealer. As each card is removed, a signal is created indicating that a specific card (of rank and
   suit) has been dealt. The computer and system knows only that a first card has been dealt, and
   it is presumed to go to the first player. The remaining cards are dealt out to players and
 0 dealer. In the play of certain games (e.g., stud variants) where specific numbers of cards are
   known to be dealt to each position, the shoe may be programmed with the number of players
   at any time, so hands can be correlated even before they have been dealt. If the shoe is
   playing a stud variant where each player and the dealer gets three cards (Three Card PokerTM
   game), the system may know in advance of the deal what each player and the dealer will have
 5 as a hand. It is also possible that there be a signal available when the dealer has received
   either his first card (e.g., when cards are dealt in sequence, one-at-a-time) or has received his
   entire hand. The signal may be used to automatically determine the number of player
   positions active on the table at any given time. For example, if in a hand of blackjack the
   dealer receives the sixth card, the system may immediately know that there are five players at
 0 the table. The signal can be given manually (pressing a button at the dealer position or on the
   smart card delivery shoe) or can be provided automatically (a card presence sensor at the
   dealer's position, where a card can be placed over the sensor to provide a signal). Where an
   automatic signal is provided by a sensor, some physical protection of the sensor may be
   provided, such as a shield that would prevent accidental contact with the sensor or blockage
25 of the sensor. An L-shaped cover may be used so a card could be slid under the arm of the L
   parallel to the table surface and cover the sensor under that branch of the L. The signal can
   also be given after all cards for the hand have been delivered, again indicating the number of
   players, For example, when the dealer's two cards are slid under the L-shaped cover to block
   or contact the sensor, the system may know the total number of cards dealt on the hand (e.g.,
30 10 cards), know that the dealer has 2 cards, determine that players therefore have 8 cards, and
   know that each player has 2 cards each, thereby absolutely determining that there are four
   active player positions at the table (10-2=8 and then 8/2=4 players). This automatic
   determination may serve as an alternative to having dealers input the number of players each
                                                  34

   time the number changes.
   [00195] Once all active positions have been dealt to, the system may now know what cards
   are initially present in each player's hand, the dealer's hand, and any flop or common hand.
 5 The system operation may now be simple when no more cards are provided to play the casino
   table game. All hands may then be known and all outcomes may be predicted. The
   complication of additional cards will be addressed with respect to the game of blackjack.
   [00196] After dealing the initial set of two cards per hand, the system may not immediately
   know where each remaining card will be dealt. The system may know what cards are dealt,
 0 however. It is with this knowledge and a subsequent identification of discarded hands that the
   hands and cards from the smart delivery shoe can be reconciled or verified. Each hand is
   already identified by the presence of two specifically known cards. Hands are then played
   according to the rules of the game, and hands are discarded when play of a hand is exhausted.
   A hand is exhausted when 1) there is a blackjack, the hand is paid, and the cards are cleared;
 5 2) a hand breaks with a count over twenty-one and the cards are cleared; and/or a round of the
   game is played to a conclusion, the dealer's hand completed, all wagers are settled, and the
   cards are cleared. As is typically done in a casino to enable reconciling of hands manually,
   cards are picked up in a precise order from the table. The cards are usually cleared from the
   dealer's right to the dealer's left, and the cards at each position comprise the cards in the order
 0 that they were delivered, first card on the bottom, second card over the first card, third card
   over the second card, etc. maintaining the order or a close approximation of the order (e.g.,
   the first two cards may be reversed) is important as the first two cards form an anchor, focus,
   basis, fence, end point or set edge for each hand. For example, if the third player position was
   known to have received the 10 of hearts (10H) and the 9 of spades (9S) for the first two card,
25 and the fourth player was known to receive the 8 of diamonds (8D) and the 3 of clubs (3C)
   for the first two cards, the edges or anchors of the two hands are 9S/10H and 8D/3C. When
   the hands are swept at the conclusion of the game, the cards are sent to a smart discard rack
   (e.g., see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10/622,388, which application is incorporated
   herein by reference in its entirety) and the hand with the 9S/10H was not already exhausted
30 (e.g., broken or busted) and the swept cards consist of 9S, 10H, 8S, 8D and 3C (as read by the
   smart discard rack), the software of the processor may automatically know that the final
   hands in the third and fourth positions were a count of 19 (9S and 10H) for the third hand and
   19 (8D and 3C originally plus the 8S hit) for the fourth hand. The analysis by the software
   specifically identifies the fourth hand as a count of 19 with the specific cards read by the
                                                   35

   the original information collected from the smart delivery shoe. The smart delivery shoe
   information when combined with the smart discard rack information shall confirm the hands
   in each position, even though cards were not uniformly distributed (e.g., player one takes two
 5 hits for a total of four cards, player two takes three hits for a total of five cards, player three
   takes no hit for a total of two cards, player four takes one hit for a total of three cards, and the
   dealer takes two hits for a total of four cards).
   [00197] The dealer's cards may be equally susceptible to analysis in a number of different
   formats. After the last card has been dealt to the last player, a signal may be easily and
 0 imperceptibly generated that the dealer's hand will now become active with possible hits. For
   example, with the sensor described above for sensing the presence of the first dealer card or
   the completion of the dealer's hand, the cards would be removed from beneath the L-shaped
   protective bridge. This type of movement is ordinarily done in blackjack where the dealer has
   at most a single card exposed and one card buried face down. In this case, the removal of the
 5 cards from over the sensor underneath the L-cover to display the hole card is a natural
   movement and then exposes the sensor. This can provide a signal to the central processor that
   the dealer's hand will be receiving all additional cards in that round of the game. The system
   at this point knows the two initial cards in the dealer's hand, knows the values of the next
   sequence of cards, and knows the rules by which a dealer must play. The system knows what
 0 cards the dealer will receive and what the final total of the dealer's hand will be because the
   dealer has no freedom of decision or movement in the play of the dealer's hand. When the
   dealer's hand is placed into the smart discard rack, the discard rack already knows the
   specifics of the dealer's hand even without having to use the first two cards as an anchor or
   basis for the dealer's hand. The cards may be treated in this manner in some embodiments.
25 [00198] When the hands are swept from the table, dealer's hand then players' hands from
   right to left (from the dealer's position or vice-versa if that is the manner of house play), the
   smart discard rack reads the shoes, identifies the anchors for each hand, knows that no hands
   swept at the conclusion can exceed a count of twenty-one, and the computer identifies the
   individual hands and reconciles them with the original data from the smart delivery shoe. The
30 system thereby can identify each hand played and provide system assurance that the hand was
   played fairly and accurately.
   [00199] If a lack of reconciling by the system occurs, a number of events can occur. A signal
   can be given directly to the dealer position, to the pit area, or to a security zone and the cards
   examined to determine the nature and cause of the error and inspect individual cards if
                                                  36

   evaluating dealer efficiency, dealer win/loss events, player efficiency, player win/loss events,
   statistical habits of players, unusual play tactics or meaningful play tactics (e.g., indicative of
   card counting), and the like, the system may file the particular hand in a 'dump' file so that
 5 hand is not used in the statistical analysis, this is to assure that maximum benefits of the
   analysis are not tilted by erroneous or anomalous data.
   [00200] Various embodiments may include date stamping of each card dealt (actual time and
   date defining sequence, with concept of specific identification of sequence identifier possibly
   being unique). The date stamping may also be replaced by specific sequence stamping or
 0 marking, such as a specific hand number, at a specific table, at a specific casino, with a
   specific number of players, etc. The records could indicate variations of indicators in the
   stored memory of the central computer of Lucky 777 Casino, Aug. 19, 1995, 8:12:17 a.m.,
   Table 3, position 3, hand 7S/4D/9S, or simply identify something similar by alphanumeric
   code as L7C-819-95-3-3-073-7S/4D/9S (073 being the 73 d hand dealt). This date stamping
 5 of hands or even cards in memory can be used as an analytical search tool for security and to
   enhance hand identification.
   [00201] FIG. 1 shows a block diagram of the minimum components for the hand-reading
   system on a table 4 of the invention, a smart card-reading delivery shoe 8 with output 14 and
   a smart card-reading discard rack 12 with output 18. Player positions 6 are shown, as is a
 0 dealer's hand position sensor 10 without output port 16.
   [00202] The use of the discard rack acting to reconcile hands returned to the discard rack
   out-of-order (e.g., blackjack or bust) automatically may be advantageous, in some
   embodiments. The software as described above can be programmed to recognize hands
   removed out-of-dealing order on the basis of knowledge of the anchor cards (the first two
25 cards) known to have been dealt to a specific hand. For example, the software will identify
   that when a blackjack was dealt to position three, that hand will be removed, the feed of the
   third hand into the smart card discard tray confirms this, and position three will essentially be
   ignored in future hand resolution. More importantly, when the anchor cards were, for
   example, 9S/5C in the second player position and an exhausted hand of 8D/9S/5C is placed
30 into the smart discard rack, that hand will be identified as the hand from the second player
   position. If two identical hands happen to be dealt in the same round of play, the software
   will merely be alerted (it knows all of the hands) to specifically check the final order of cards
   placed into the smart discard rack to more carefully position the location of that exhausted
   hand. This is merely recognition software implementation once the concept is understood.
                                                   37

   identifies that all further cards are going to the dealer may be useful in defining the edges of
   play between rounds and in identifying the dealer's hand and the end of a round of play.
   When the dealer's cards are deposited and read in the smart discard rack, the central computer
 5 knows that another round of play is to occur and a mark or note may be established that the
   following sequence will be a new round and the analytical cycle may begin all over again.
   [00204] The discard rack indicates that a complete hand has been delivered by absence of
   additional cards in the Discard Rack in-feed tray. When cards are swept from an early
   exhausted hand (blackjack or a break), they are swept one at a time and inserted into the
 0 smart discard rack one at a time. When the smart discard rack in-feed tray is empty, the
   system understands that a complete hand has been identified, and the system can reconcile
   that specific hand with the information from the smart delivery shoe. The system can be
   hooked-up to feed strategy analysis software programs such as the SMI licensed proprietary
   BloodhoundTM analysis program.
 5 [00205] Various embodiments include a casino or cardroom game modified to include a
   progressive jackpot component. During the play of a Twenty-One game, for example, in
   addition to this normal wager, a player will have the option of making an additional wager
   that becomes part of, and makes the player eligible to win, the progressive jackpot. If the
   player's Twenty-One hand comprises a particular, predetermined arrangement of cards, the
 0 player will win all, or part of, the amount showing on the progressive jackpot. This
   progressive jackpot feature is also adaptable to any other casino or cardroom game such as
   Draw Poker, Stud Poker, Lo-Ball Poker or Caribbean StudTM Poker. Various embodiments
   include a gaming table, such as those used for Twenty-One or poker, modified with the
   addition of a coin acceptor that is electronically connected to a progressive jackpot meter.
25 When player drops a coin into the coin acceptor, a light is activated at the player's location
   indicating that he is participating in the progressive jackpot component of the game during
   that hand. At the same time, a signal from the coin acceptor is sent to the progressive meter to
   increment the amount shown on the progressive meter. At the conclusion of the play of each
   hand, the coin acceptor is reset for the next hand. When a player wins all or part of the
30 progressive jackpot, the amount showing on the progressive jackpot meter is reduced by the
   amount won by the player. Any number of gaming tables can be connected to a single
   progressive jackpot meter.
           XV. Card Shufflers
                                                   38

   receiving cards to be shuffled in first and second trays. Sensors detect the presence of cards in
   these trays to automatically initiate a shuffling operation, in which the cards are conveyed
   from the trays to a card mixer, which randomly interleaves the cards delivered to the mixing
 5 mechanism and deposits the interleaved cards in a vertically aligned card compartment.
   [00207] A carriage supporting an ejector is reciprocated back and forth in a vertical direction
   by a reversible linear drive while the cards are being mixed, to constantly move the card
   ejector along the card receiving compartment. The reversible linear drive is preferably
   activated upon activation of the mixing means and operates simultaneously with, but
 0 independently of, the mixing means. When the shuffling operation is terminated, the linear
   drive is deactivated thereby randomly positioning the card ejector at a vertical location along
   the card receiving compartment.
   [00208] A sensor arranged within the card receiving compartment determines if the stack of
   cards has reached at least a predetermined vertical height. After the card ejector has stopped
 5 and, if the sensor in the compartment determines that the stack of cards has reached at least
   the aforesaid predetermined height, a mechanism including a motor drive, is activated to
   move the wedge-shaped card ejector into the card receiving compartment for ejecting a group
   of the cards in the stack, the group selected being determined by the vertical position attained
   by the wedge-shaped card ejector.
 0 [00209] In various embodiments, the card ejector pushes the group of cards engaged by the
   ejector outwardly through the forward open end of the compartment, said group of cards
   being displaced from the remaining cards of the stack, but not being completely or fully
   ejected from the stack.
   [00210] The card ejector, upon reaching the end of its ejection stroke, detected by a
25 microswitch, is withdrawn from the card compartment and returned to its initial position in
   readiness for a subsequent shuffling and card selecting operation.
   [00211] In various embodiments, a technique for randomly selecting the group of cards to be
   ejected from the card compartment utilizes solid state electronic circuit means, which may
   comprise either a group of discrete solid state circuits or a microprocessor, either of which
30 techniques preferably employ a high frequency generator for stepping a N-stage counter
   during the shuffling operation. When the shuffling operation is completed, the stepping of the
   counter is terminated. The output of the counter is converted to a DC signal, which is
   compared against another DC signal representative of the vertical location of the card ejector
   along the card compartment.
                                                  39

   counter with a high frequency generator. The high frequency generator is disconnected from
   the N-stage counter upon termination of the shuffling operation. The N-stage counter is then
   incremented by a very low frequency generator until it reaches its capacity count and resets.
 5 The reciprocating movement of the card ejector is terminated after completion of a time
   interval of random length and extending from the time the high frequency generator is
   disconnected from the N-stage counter to the time that the counter is advanced to its capacity
   count and reset by the low frequency generator, triggering the energization of the
   reciprocating drive, at which time the card ejector carriage coasts to a stop.
 0 [00213] In various embodiments, the card ejector partially ejects a group of cards from the
   stack in the compartment. The partially displaced group of cards is then manually removed
   from the compartment. In another preferred embodiment, the ejector fully ejects the group of
   cards from the compartment, the ejected cards being dropped into a chute, which delivers the
   cards directly to a dealing shoe. The pressure plate of the dealing shoe is initially withdrawn
 5 to a position enabling the cards passing through the delivery shoe to enter directly into the
   dealing shoe, and is thereafter returned to its original position at which it urges the cards
   towards the output end of the dealing shoe.
   [00214] Various embodiments include a method and apparatus for automatically shuffling
   and cutting playing cards and delivering shuffled and cut playing cards to the dispensing shoe
 0 without any human intervention whatsoever once the playing cards are delivered to the
   shuffling apparatus. In addition, the shuffling operation may be performed as soon as the play
   of each game is completed, if desired, and simultaneously with the start of a new game, thus
   totally eliminating the need to shuffle all of the playing cards (which may include six or eight
   decks, for example) at one time. Preferably, the cards played are collected in a "dead box"
25 and are drawn from the dead box when an adequate number of cards have been accumulated
   for shuffling and cutting using the method of the present invention.
   [00215] Various embodiments include a computer controlled shuffling and cutting system
   provided with a housing having at least one transparent wall making the shuffling and card
   delivery mechanism easily visible to all players and floor management in casino applications.
30 The housing is provided with a reciprocally slidable playing card pusher which, in the first
   position, is located outside of said housing. A motor-operated transparent door selectively
   seals and uncovers an opening in the transparent wall to permit the slidably mounted card
   pusher to be moved from its aforementioned first position to a second position inside the
   housing whereupon the slidably mounted card pusher is then withdrawn to the first position,
                                                  40

   vertically and selectively in the upward and downward directions.
   [00216] The motor driven transparent door is lifted to the uncovered position responsive to
   the proper location of the motor driven platform, detected by suitable sensor means, as well
 5 as depression of a foot or hand-operated button accessible to the dealer.
   [00217] The motor driven platform (or "elevator") lifts the stack of playing cards deposited
   therein upwardly toward a shuffling mechanism responsive to removal of the slidably
   mounted card pusher and closure of the transparent door whereupon the playing cards are
   driven by the shuffling mechanism in opposing directions and away from the stack to first
 0 and second card holding magazines positioned on opposing sides of the elevator, said
   shuffling mechanism comprising motor driven rollers rotatable upon a reciprocating
   mounting device, the reciprocating speed and roller rotating speed being adjustable.
   Alternatively, however, the reciprocating and rotating speeds may be fixed; if desired,
   employing motors having fixed output speeds, in place of the stepper motors employed in one
 5 preferred embodiment.
   [00218] Upon completion of a shuffling operation, the platform is lowered and the stacks of
   cards in each of the aforementioned receiving compartments are sequentially pushed back
   onto the moving elevator by suitable motor-driven pushing mechanisms. The order of
   operation of the pushing mechanisms is made random by use of a random numbers generator
 0 employed in the operating computer for controlling the system. These operations can be
   repeated, if desired. Typically, new cards undergo these operations from two to four times.
   [00219] Guide assemblies guide the movement of cards onto the platform, prevent shuffled
   cards from being prematurely returned to the elevator platform and align the cards as they fall
   into the card receiving regions as well as when they are pushed back onto the elevator
25 platform by the motor-driven pushing mechanism.
   [00220] Upon completion of the plurality of shuffling and cutting operations, the platform is
   again lowered, causing the shuffled and cut cards to be moved downwardly toward a movable
   guide plate having an inclined guide surface.
   [00221] As the motor driven elevator moves downwardly between the guide plates, the stack
30 of cards engages the inclined guide surface of a substantially U-shaped secondary block
   member causing the stack to be shifted from a horizontal orientation to a diagonal orientation.
   Substantially simultaneously therewith, a "drawbridge-like" assembly comprised of a pair of
   swingable arms pivotally mounted at their lower ends, are swung downwardly about their
   pivot pin from a vertical orientation to a diagonal orientation and serve as a diagonally
                                                 41

   inclined guide surfaces and onto the draw bridge-like arms and are moved downwardly
   therealong by the U-shaped secondary block member, under control of a stepper motor, to
   move cards toward and ultimately into the dealing shoe.
 5 [00222] A primary block, with a paddle, then moves between the cut-away portion of the U
   shaped secondary block, thus applying forward pressure to the stack of cards. The secondary
   block then retracts to the home position. The paddle is substantially rectangular-shaped and is
   aligned in a diagonal orientation. Upon initial set-up of the system the paddle is positioned
   above the path of movement of cards into the dealing shoe. The secondary block moves the
 0 cut and shuffled cards into the dealing shoe and the paddle is lowered to the path of
   movement of cards toward the dealing shoe and is moved against the rearwardmost card in
   the stack of cards delivered to the dealing shoe. When shuffling and cutting operations are
   performed subsequent to the initial set-up, the paddle rests against the rearwardmost card
   previously delivered to the dealing shoe. The shuffled and cut cards sliding along the guide
 5 surfaces of the diagonally aligned arms of the draw bridge-like mechanism come to rest upon
   the opposite surface of the paddle which serves to isolate the playing cards previously
   delivered to the dispensing shoe, as well as providing a slight pushing force urging the cards
   toward the outlet slot of the dispensing shoe thereby enabling the shuffling and delivering
   operations to be performed simultaneously with the dispensing of playing cards from the
 0 dispensing shoe.
   [00223] After all of the newly shuffled playing cards have been delivered to the rear end of
   the dispensing shoe, by means of the U-shaped secondary block the paddle which is
   sandwiched between two groups of playing cards, is lifted to a position above and displaced
   from the playing cards. A movable paddle mounting assembly is then moved rearwardly by a
25 motor to place the paddle to the rear of the rearmost playing card just delivered to the
   dispensing shoe; and the paddle is lowered to its home position, whereupon the motor
   controlling movement of the paddle assembly is then deenergized enabling the rollingly
   mounted assembly supporting the paddle to move diagonally downwardly as playing cards
   are dispensed from the dispensing shoe to provide a force which is sufficient to urge the
30 playing cards forwardly toward the playing card dispensing slot of the dealing shoe. The
   force acting upon the paddle assembly is the combination of gravity and a force exerted upon
   the paddle assembly by a constant tension spring assembly. Jogging (i.e., "dither") means
   cause the paddle to be jogged or reciprocated in opposing forward and rearward directions at
                                                 42

    stack of playing cards toward the card dispensing slot of the dealing shoe.
    [00224] Upon completion of a game, the cards used in the completed game are typically
   collected by the dealer and placed in a dead box on the table. The collected cards are later
 5 placed within the reciprocally movable card pusher. The dealer has the option of inserting the
   cards within the reciprocally slidable card pusher into the shuffling mechanism or,
   alternatively, and preferably, may postpone a shuffling operation until a greater number of
   cards have been collected upon the reciprocally slidable card pusher. The shuffling and
   delivery operations may be performed as often or as infrequently as the dealer or casino
 0 management may choose. The shuffling and playing card delivery operations are fully
   automatic and are performed without human intervention as soon as cards are inserted within
   the machine on the elevator platform. The cards are always within the unobstructed view of
   the players to enable the players, as well as the dealer, to observe and thereby be assured that
   the shuffling, cutting and card delivery operations are being performed properly and without
 5 jamming and that the equipment is working properly as well. The shuffling and card delivery
   operations do not conflict or interfere with the dispensing of cards from the dispensing shoe,
   thereby permitting these operations to be performed substantially simultaneously, thus
    significantly reducing the amount of time devoted to shuffling and thereby greatly increasing
   the playing time, as well as providing a highly efficient random shuffling and cutting
 0 mechanism.
    [00225] The system may be controlled by a microcomputer programmed to control the
   operations of the card shuffling and cutting system. The computer controls stepper motors
   through motor drive circuits, intelligent controllers and an opto-isolator linking the intelligent
   controllers to the computer. The computer also monitors a plurality of sensors to assure
25 proper operation of each of the mechanisms of the system.
            XVI. Casino Countermeasures
    [00226] Some methods of thwarting card counters include using a large number of decks.
   Shoes containing 6 or 8 decks are common. The more cards there are, the less variation there
   is in the proportions of the remaining cards and the harder it is to count them. The player's
30 advantage can also be reduced by shuffling the cards more frequently, but this reduces the
   amount of time that can be devoting to actual play and therefore reduces the casino profits.
   Some casinos now use shuffling machines, some of which shuffle one set of cards while
   another is in play, while others continuously shuffle the cards. The distractions of the gaming
   floor environment and complimentary alcoholic beverages also act to thwart card counters.
                                                 43

   Blackjack payoff of 6:5, which is more disadvantageous to the player than the standard 3:2
   Blackjack payoff.
           XVII. Video Wagering Games
 5 [00227] Video wagering games are set up to mimic a table game using adaptations of table
   games rules and cards.
   [00228] In one version of video poker the player is allowed to inspect five cards randomly
   chosen by the computer. These cards are displayed on the video screen and the player
   chooses which cards, if any, that he or she wishes to hold. If the player wishes to hold all of
 0 the cards, i.e., stand, he or she presses a STAND button. If the player wishes to hold only
   some of the cards, he or she chooses the cards to be held by pressing HOLD keys located
   directly under each card displayed on the video screen. Pushing a DEAL button after
   choosing the HOLD cards automatically and simultaneously replaces the unchosen cards with
   additional cards which are randomly selected from the remainder of the deck. After the
 5 STAND button is pushed, or the cards are replaced, the final holding is evaluated by the
   game machine's computer and the player is awarded either play credits or a coin payout as
   determined from a payoff table. This payoff table is stored in the machine's computer
   memory and is also displayed on the machine's screen. Hands with higher poker values are
   awarded more credits or coins. Very rare poker hands are awarded payoffs of 800-to-I or
 0 higher.
           XVIII. Apparatus for Playing Over a Communications System
   [00229] FIG. 2 shows apparatus for playing the game. There is a plurality of player units 40
   1 to 40-n which are coupled via a communication system 41, such as the Internet, with a
   game playing system comprising an administration unit 42, a player register 43, and a game
25 unit 45. Each unit 40 is typically a personal computer with a display unit and control means
   (a keyboard and a mouse).
   [00230] When a player logs on to the game playing system, their unit 40 identifies itself to
   the administration unit. The system holds the details of the players in the register 43, which
   contains separate player register units 44-1 to 44-n for all the potential players, i.e., for all the
30 members of the system.
   [00231] Once the player has been identified, the player is assigned to a game unit 45. The
   game unit contains a set of player data units 46-1 to 46-6, a dealer unit 47, a control unit 48,
   and a random dealing unit 49.
                                                 44

   units, as indicated, so that several games can be played at the same time if there are more than
   seven members of the system logged on at the same time. The assignment of a player unit 40
   to a player data unit 46 may be arbitrary or random, depending on which player data units 46
 5 and game units 45 are free. Each player data unit 46 is loaded from the corresponding player
   register unit 44 and also contains essentially the same details as the corresponding player unit
   40, and is in communication with the player unit 40 to keep the contents of the player unit
   and player data unit updated with each other. In addition, the appropriate parts of the contents
   of the other player data units 46 and the dealer unit 47 are passed to the player unit 40 for
 0 display.
   [00233] The logic unit 48 of the game unit 45 steps the game unit through the various stages
   of the play, initiating the dealer actions and awaiting the appropriate responses from the
   player units 40. The random dealing unit 49 deals cards essentially randomly to the dealer
   unit 47 and the player data units 46. At the end of the hand, the logic unit passes the results of
 5 the hand, i.e., the wins and/or losses, to the player data units 46 to inform the players of their
   results. The administrative unit 42 also takes those results and updates the player register
   units 44 accordingly.
   [00234] The player units 40 are arranged to show a display. To identify the player, the
   player's position is highlighted. As play proceeds, so the player selects the various boxes,
 0 enters bets in them, and so on, and the results of those actions are displayed. As the cards are
   dealt, a series of overlapping card symbols is shown in the Bonus box. At the option of the
   player, the cards can be shown in a line below the box, and similarly for the card dealt to the
   dealer. At the end of the hand, a message is displayed informing the player of the results of
   their bets, i.e., the amounts won or lost.
25          XIX.     Alternative Technologies
   [00235] It will be understood that the technologies described herein for making, using, or
   practicing various embodiments are but a subset of the possible technologies that may be
   used for the same or similar purposes. The particular technologies described herein are not to
   be construed as limiting. Rather, various embodiments contemplate alternate technologies
30 for making, using, or practicing various embodiments.
            XX.      References
   [00236] The following patents and patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference
   herein for all purposes: US patent 6,579,181, US patent 6,299,536, US patent 6,093,103, US
                                                  45

   patent 4,515,367, US patent 5,000,453, US patent 7,137,630, and US patent 7,137,629.
            XXI.    Example Embodiments
    [00237] In some embodiments, one or more games may include one or more jackpots. A
 5 jackpot may include an award that may be provided for achieving a particular outcome
   through play of one or more games by one or more players.
    [00238] A jackpot for example may include a highest payout from a game and/or an
   otherwise desirable result. Such a highest payout may be achieved by obtaining a particular
   outcome and/or a rarest outcome in a game. A jackpot may include another type of outcome
 0 other than the highest such as a rare, common large, small, and so on award from a game that
   may occur in response to one or more outcomes. For example, some games may include
   tiered jackpots (e.g., jackpots that get larger as the event that causes the jackpot to be
   awarded becomes rarer).
    [00239] Some non-limiting examples of outcomes that may result in a win of a jackpot may
 5 include slot machine outcomes of a royal flush, slot machine outcomes of all most rare
    symbols, a bad beat jackpot, a multi-wheel roulette outcome of selecting all correct numbers,
   a lottery win, a progressive blackjack bet, a megajackpots win, a millionaires club jackpot, a
   wheel of fortune jackpot, a Regis' cash club jackpot, a mega moolah jackpot, a deal or no
   deal jackpot, a monopoly jackpot, a Indiana Jones and the last crusade jackpot, and so on.
 0 Some more non-limiting examples of outcomes that may result in the win of a jackpot such as
   a progressive jackpot may include a royal flush at a video poker game, and/or five of the most
   valuable symbols (lemons, cherries, alligators, etc) on a slot machine.
    [00240] In some embodiments a jackpot may include an amount of money provided to a
   player in response to an outcome such as an award. Such as an amount of money provided to
25 a player in response to winning a game, an amount of money provided to a player in response
   to a particular hand occurring an a card game, an amount of money provided to a player in
   response to a outcome of a die roll, slot spin, roulette spin, and so on, and/or any other
   amount of money provided in response to any other outcome in any other game as desired. It
    should be recognized that while some embodiments may include providing money other
30 embodiments may include providing any desired benefit to any player as desired (e.g.,
   providing a car, providing, a trip, providing points, crediting an account, giving any prize,
   and so on). Some embodiment may include other awards such as cars, rooms, trips, and so
   on.
                                                  46

   jackpot may include an award that may increase. For example, in some embodiments a
   progressive jackpot may include an amount of money that may increase after a number of
   games are played (e.g., may increase by an amount after each game). In some embodiments,
 5 a progressive jackpot may increase after some amount of time passes (e.g., may increase by
   an amount after each hour passes). A progressive jackpot may increase in response to some
   amount of money being wagered (e.g., may increase by a percentage of each wager). It
    should be recognized that these are no-limiting examples of increases that may be used in
    some embodiments. A progressive jackpot need not be strictly increasing. In some
 0 embodiments, when a progressive jackpot is awarded to a player, the progressive jackpot may
   be reset to an initial state (e.g., 0, some other desired minimum amount). In some
   embodiments, when a progressive jackpot is won, a player may have an choice regarding how
   to proceed as is described elsewhere herein in more detail (e.g., a player may choose to
   accept award money, a player may choose to play for a larger award, etc.). A progressive
 5 jackpot may be funded by player wagers and/or a house in some embodiments (e.g. an initial
   funding amount may be provided from a house and additional funding may be provided by
   wagers).
    [00242] In some embodiments, a funding for a jackpot such as a progressive jackpot may in
   part be based on gaming activity happening prior to the winning of the jackpot. For example
 0 in some embodiment at least a portion of at least some wagers made e.g., by one or more
   players on one or more games, game machines, sports, etc., in one or more venues may be
   added to a progressive jackpot or other jackpot amount. Accordingly, such wagers made may
   at least in part add to an eventual payout received by some player that wins the jackpot. In
    some embodiments, certain wagers may have such funding effect, such as wagers that are
25 eligible to win the jackpot, and others may not. In some embodiments, such wagers may
   have particular characteristics (e.g., be large enough, have enough lines, have a bonus bet,
   have a jackpot bet, have no limit, accept certain rules, and so on). In some embodiments all
   wagers may add to the progressive regardless of characteristic. In some embodiments,
   multiple progressive may be funded in different ways as desired and discussed in more detail
30 elsewhere herein.
    [00243] In some embodiments, an amount of a wager that is contributed to a jackpot may be
   relatively small. For example such an amount may be a small percentage such as 5%, 1%
   and so on. In some embodiments, a casino or other gaming operator may make such a
   contribution rather than taking such a contribution from a wager amount. In some
                                                   47

   activity may include gaming activity. Such activity may include non-gaming activity. For
   example a player making a purchase, a player viewing an ad, a player booking a flight, a
   playing staying in a casino, a player seeing a show, and so on may as desired contribute to a
 5 jackpot. In some embodiments, such a contribution may cause a jackpot win, such an in an
   embodiment with a guaranteed jackpot. It should be recognized that any desired mechanisms
   for jackpot contribution may be used in various embodiments.
    [00244] In some embodiments, play of games, win of games, losses of games outcomes in
   games and so on may contribute to a progress of a jackpot happening in addition to and/or as
 0 an alternative to increasing and/or decreasing an amount of a jackpot. For example, in some
   embodiments, after a number of games played and/or an amount wagered, a jackpot may
   occur and/or become more likely to occur. Such progress may, in some embodiments, be
   considered contributing to a jackpot. In some embodiments, when a progress reaches a
   threshold level a jackpot may be won and/or more likely to be won. In some embodiments,
 5 determinant that a jackpot has been won may be based on a progress towards a jackpot and/or
   an event such as an event related to a game such as a random event in a game, a outcome of a
   game, a happening in a game, and so on.
    [00245] In some embodiments, a jackpot such as a progressive jackpot may be associated
   with one or more entities as desired. For example, a progressive jackpot may be associated
 0 with a plurality of players, a progressive jackpot may be associated with a single player, a
   progressive jackpot may be associated with a single game, a progressive jackpot may be
   associated with a bank of games, a progressive jackpot may be associated with all games in a
   venue, a progressive jackpot may be associated with a type of bet, a progressive jackpot may
   be associated with all bets, and so on in any combination as desired. In some embodiments
25 linking together multiple entities may allow an increase in a jackpot value. For example, in
    some embodiments linking multiple machines that each contribute to a progressive jackpot a
   percentage of each wager made on the machines may allow a progressive jackpot amount to
   increase faster than if only one such machine made such contributions to the progressive
   jackpot.
30  [00246] In some embodiments, a particular bet may be placed to qualify for a jackpot such
   as a progressive jackpot. For example, a max bet amount may be wagered in order for a
   player to qualify to win a particular jackpot. In some embodiments, there may be multiple
   tiers of possible jackpots that may be won based on a performed action such as an amount
   wagered. In some embodiments no extra action may be taken to qualify for a jackpot. In
                                                 48

   qualify to win a jackpot. In some embodiments, only qualifying wagers may contribute to a
   jackpot. In some embodiments, wagers that do not qualify for a jackpot may contribute to the
   jackpot.
 5  [00247] In some embodiments, odds of winning a jackpot, funding elements, odds of
   winning other awards from a game, payout amounts of wins, payout amounts of jackpots,
   cost of wagers, and/or any other element of a game and/or jackpot may be determined by a
   gaming operator (e.g., a casino) as desired to provide a desired gaming experience, a desired
   house edge, and so on.
 0  [00248] In some embodiments, a high value of a jackpot compared to other possible winning
   options may be attractive to players. For example, players may like to know that the game
   they are playing may result in a large payout of money for the player even if the chance of
   winning that amount may be low. In some embodiments an indication of a jackpot value may
   be provided to one or more players. For example, an indication may include a ticker, a meter,
 5 a number and so on. In response to a changing value of a jackpot, an indication may change
   or otherwise be provided.
    [00249] In some embodiments, a jackpot may influence a best strategy of play and/or an
   actual play style of players. For example, a jackpot may influence players to bet more than
   normal for a chance to win the jackpot, to play a game more when the jackpot is high than
 0 when the jackpot is low, and so on.
    [00250] In some embodiments, a jackpot value may impact an optimal strategy for play of a
   game. For example, in some embodiments, when a jackpot is high, some play decisions
   and/or bet amounts that qualify for and/or influence whether a jackpot may be won in a game
   may become more attractive in terms of an expected result than those action when a jackpot
25 is low (e.g., in part because there may be an increase expected value of winnings associate
   with the large jackpot than with the small jackpot).
    [00251] For example, in some games it may be possible for a player to determine an optimal
   and/or otherwise desirous strategy based on expected frequency of outcomes and/or events in
   a game and an expected payout related to those outcomes and/or events. As the payout for a
30 jackpot increases in some embodiments, a point at which one action is more desirous than
   another may change. In some embodiments, a total expected result of playing a game may
   change from an expected loss to a break even and/or an expected benefit to a player when
   playing according to a particular strategy. In some embodiments, jackpot may include a
   jackpot that changes over time and/or has some affect on a desired strategy so that a play of a
                                                49

   least in part based on the value of the jackpot at the particular moment.
   [00252] It may not be possible for a player to determine such expected values in some
   games, such as slot games with unpublished reel information, and so on. It may be possible
 5 to determine such expected values in some games such as video poker games with published
   card information, table games, such as blackjack with published deck and/or shuffling
   information and so on.
   [00253] In some embodiments such effects may result in some situations being
   advantageous for players to play a game and other situations being disadvantageous for
 0 players to play the same game in terms of expected value of play. Some players may be able
   to take advantage of such a situation and play games during the advantageous period but not
   during the disadvantageous period. In some embodiments, a casino or other gaming provider
   may be indifferent to such players because a contribution to the jackpot may be made from
   prior play by other players, so the casino in the long term may still have an expected edge. In
 5 some embodiments, a casino or other gaming provider may prefer that such players not take
   such advantage of the advantageous periods without contributing to the jackpot during a
   disadvantageous period. For example, when a house contributes to a jackpot, such restriction
   may be desired and/or when a casino desires to prevent players from claiming jackpots
   contributed to by other players.
 0 [00254] It is recognized that in some embodiments a player may prefer not to share a chance
   at a jackpot win with other players. For example, some players that only play during
   advantageous period or high jackpot periods may be seen as "swooping in" to steal a jackpot
   that was made large through play by one or more players during a period when play was less
   advantageous and/or disadvantageous. Accordingly, a player may not want to share an
25 ability to win a jackpot with all players.
   [00255] It is recognized that in some embodiments, a jackpot may be used to influence
   decision making of a player. For example, limitations and/or characteristics of a jackpot may
   be designed to have a particular effect on behavior of a player such as encouraging a player to
   continue playing to win a jackpot and/or influence at what levels of a jackpot a player desires
30 to play a game. It is recognized that building a large jackpot quickly from an initial point
   may encourage play of a game and that a jackpot structure may be arraigned to encourage
   early play to build such a jackpot.
   [00256] In some embodiments a process 300 may be performed as illustrated in Figure 3.
   Such a process may be used for example, to encourage players to play during a
                                                 50

   disadvantageous time that another player may win the jackpot.
    [00257] In some embodiments, as indicated at 301, a determination may be made that a first
   player has played a first game. Such a determination may be made in response to a first
 5 player playing a first game. Such a first game may be played during a first time period. Such
   a game may be played on one or more machines tables and so on. In some embodiments, the
   first game may include a plurality of first games. The first games may be played on any
   number of different machines, on a same machine, any number of tables a single table, and so
   on. The first games may be a same game, different games and so on. The first games may be
 0 related to a same jackpot (e.g. feed into a same progressive jackpot). In some embodiments,
   the first player may include any number of first players. Such first players may play any
   number of same and/or different games together and/or separately on same and/or different
   machines. Such games may relate to a same one or more jackpots. The first time may include
   a time when a game play strategy include a disadvantageous expected result to the player
 5 and/or a less advantageous result than another time.
    [00258] In some embodiments, as indicated at 303, a determination of a contribution to a
   first jackpot based on play of the first game by the first player may be made. Such a
   determination may be made in response to the first player playing the first game, in response
   to a determination that the first player played the first game, and so on. Such a contribution
 0 may, for example, include an amount increased in a progressive jackpot. Such a progressive
   jackpot may include a jackpot related to a plurality of game machines, a plurality of games a
   plurality of players, a single player, a single game, a single game machine, and so on. In
    some embodiments, such a contribution may include a contribution towards an award of a
   jackpot. For example in some embodiments in addition to and/or as an alternative to
25 increasing and/or decreasing a jackpot amount, a progress towards an award of the jackpot
   may be changed (e.g., a play counter for a jackpot that is won after some number of plays
   may be incremented). A contribution may include an increase and/or a decrease as desired.
   For example in some embodiments, after some number of games a jackpot may be won, after
    some number of games a jackpot likelihood may increase after some number of games a
30 bonus round may be achieved and so on. A bonus round may be considered a jackpot in
    some embodiments. So playing a game in such embodiments may contribute to the
   occurrence and/or likelihood of the jackpot. It should be recognized that some embodiments
   may include positive contributions, negative contributions, both, neutral contributions, and so
   on as desired. A contribution may include any effect on a jackpot, a likelihood of a jackpot, a
                                                  51

   money added to a jackpot, an effect on an occurrence of a win of a jackpot, and so on.
   [00259] In some embodiments, as indicated at 305, a determination that a first threshold
   associated with the first jackpot has been reached may be made. Such a threshold may
 5 include, for example, a threshold related to an expected value of play of the game. For
   example, such a threshold may include that a negative expected value has become non
   negative. Some embodiments may not include such determination of the threshold and/or
   any other actions. In some embodiments, such a first threshold may include a point at which
   an expected value of game play has any desired characteristic, a point at which progress
 0 towards an occurrence of a jackpot reaches a particular level, and so on.
   [00260] In some embodiments, as indicated at 307, a determination that a second player
   desires to play a second game for a chance to win the first jackpot may be made. Such a
   determination may be made in response to a player making a wager in the game. Such a
   determination may be made in response to a player logging into a game, and so on. In some
 5 embodiments, such a determination may be made after the threshold of 304 has been reached.
   Any number of players may desire to play the game at any time. Any number of players that
   have or have not contributed to a jackpot may desire to play a game.
   [00261] In some embodiments, as indicated at 309, a determination may be made as to
   whether the second player made a contribution related to the jackpot. In some embodiments,
 0 such a determination may include a determination as to whether the player made the
   contribution before the threshold of 304 has reached and/or during any other time. Such a
   determination may be made in response to determining that the player desires to play the
   game. In some embodiments, such a second player may include the first player. Such a
   second player may include any number of second players. In some embodiments, such a
25 determination may be made before the second player is eligible to win the jackpot. In some
   embodiments, such a determination may be made in response to determining that a threshold
   value of the jackpot has been reached. In some embodiments, such a determination may be
   made in response to progress towards a jackpot reaching a threshold level. In some
   embodiments, such a determination may be made in response to a player making a jackpot
30 eligible wager. In some embodiments such a determination may be made in response to an
   expected value of play based on the jackpot reaching a threshold level (e.g. a positive level).
   In some embodiments such a determination may be made after the first time period. For
   example, in some embodiments, when a threshold level of expected win or loss and/or
   expectation with respect to a jackpot reaches a certain level, a determination may be made as
                                                52

   the jackpot in a prior period when the threshold had not been reached. In some embodiments,
   a first period of time may related to a time when any characteristic of related to jackpot and a
   determination may be made in response to such a characteristic changing in any desired way.
 5 Such a determination may be made based on gaming activity of the second player that may be
   determined based on player tracking means, such as player tracking cards, video footage,
   records of game events, and so on.
    [00262] In some embodiments, if a determination is made that the second player did not
   contribute to the jackpot, then the second player may be prevented from accessing the
 0 jackpot, as indicated at 311. It should be recognized that any amount of contribution may be
   used in various embodiments as desired (e.g., a minimum amount, a minimum percentage,
   any amount, etc.) For example such a second player may be prevented from making a wager
   (e.g., any wager, a jackpot qualifying wager), winning a jackpot, playing a game and so on.
   In some embodiments games played by such a player may contribute to a jackpot but not be
 5 eligible for a jackpot. In some embodiments, after the player contributes a threshold amount
   to the jackpot in a second time period the player may be eligible for the jackpot thereafter.
   Some embodiments may include any form of allowing a second player to contribute to the
   first jackpot in order to be granted access to the first jackpot. In some embodiments, the
    second player may contribute to another jackpot that is not at the threshold (e.g., a second
 0 jackpot may be started and any new players may begin to contribute to the new jackpot while
   old players play for the old jackpot). A player may be given access to the second jackpot in
   response to determining that they have not contributed to the first jackpot. A player may
   choose which jackpot to play in relation to. In some embodiments, a player may be required
   to maintain some contribution minimum in order to be eligible for a jackpot. In some
25 embodiments, rather than preventing all access, a partial access may be prevented. For
   example in some embodiments, a player may be eligible for only a portion of the jackpot
   based on an amount of contribution made. As contribution increases, eligibility may
   increase. As contribution decreases eligibility may decrease. In some embodiments, there
   may be tiers of eligibility based on tiers of contribution. In some embodiments, a player may
30 have access, but may contribute at a higher rate than other players that have a higher level of
   prior contribution.
    [00263] In some embodiments, if the second player did contribute to the jackpot, the player
   may be allowed access to the jackpot, as indicated at 313. For example, the player may place
   wagers on the jackpot, may win the jackpot may play a game, and so on. In some
                                                  53

   jackpot. In some embodiments the player may choose to contribute to another jackpot
   instead and/or in addition to the jackpot. In some embodiments, a player may need to
   maintain a level of contribution to maintain this access. In some embodiments, a player may
 5 no longer contribute or may contribute to a lower level after reaching a threshold level of
   contribution and further contribution may be made from a house and/or from players not yet
   at the level of contribution.
    [00264] In some embodiments, such a determination may be made based on various player
   tracking mechanisms. For example, in some embodiments a computing device may track
 0 player wagers based on activity on a gaming device, player tracking cards video footage, and
    so on. In some embodiments a computing device may track jackpot related events such as
   contribution to a jackpot wins of a jackpot and so on based on activity at a gaming machine,
   and so on. In some embodiments, a comparison of these activities may be used to determine
   if a player has contributed to particular jackpot during any desired time period, a contribution
 5 level, and so on.
    [00265] In some embodiments, a player may win the jackpot, as indicated at 315. Such a
   player may be a first player and/or a player for which access to the jackpot has been granted
   (e.g., a player that meets a contribution requirement). In response to winning the jackpot, the
   jackpot may be reset, a new jackpot may be established, and so on. In some embodiments,
 0 the first player may win the jackpot. In some embodiments a second player that was
   determined to have contributed to the jackpot may win the jackpot. In some embodiments a
    second player that had not been determined to contribute to the jackpot but that performed
    some allowed qualifying act (e.g. playing without the chance to win for a time period) may
   win the jackpot.
25  [00266] In some embodiments rather than and/or in addition to preventing a player from
   accessing a jackpot based on any desired events and/or characteristic, a players degree of
   access may be limited based on actions and/or characteristics. For example, in some
   embodiments, a player may be allowed only a percentage of a win of a jackpot based on an
   amount of play by the player during prior time periods. This may encourage players to keep
30 a minimum play towards a jackpot. In some embodiments play or other contributions earned
   may decay over time so that a player may need to contribute to play, a player may need to
   maintain a percentage contribution and so on to get a full win. In some embodiments, an
   advantage may be given to early players (e.g., the amount needed to be contributed to gain
   access may increase over time from the reset of a jackpot). Accordingly players may have an
                                                 54

   characteristics may be used to base access on such as time of play, amount wagered, number
   of plays, amount contributed and so on.
    [00267] It should be recognized that the above process is given as a non-limiting example
 5 only. Various embodiments may include any desired actions in any desired order including
   additional, alternative and/ fewer, more, and so on action compared to process 300.
    [00268] In some embodiments, a process 400 may be performed as illustrated in Figure 4.
   Such a process may allow a person and/or a group of people to contribute and/or otherwise
   control a jackpot. Such a process may encourage such a person and/or group to continue
 0 playing for a particular jackpot. Such a process may protect progress earn related to the
   jackpot for the person and/or group.
    [00269] In some embodiments, as indicated at 401, a determination that a first player has
   played a game may be made. Such a determination may be made in response to a first player
   wagering in a first game. The wager may include any desired number of wagers in any
 5 number of games. The first game may include any number of same and/or different games.
   The games may be games of a same type, different games and so on. In some embodiments,
    such a game may include a game that qualifies for the jackpot as determined by a gaming
   provider. In some embodiments for example, every game played by a person and/or group
   may qualify. In some embodiments only certain games may qualify. Any number and/or
 0 type of games governed by any number of same and/or different rules may be used (e.g.,
   table games, electronic games and so on).
    [00270] In some embodiments, as indicated at 403, may include determining a contribution
   to a first jackpot based on play of the first game. A contribution related to a jackpot may be
   made (e.g., a meter incremented, and so on) in response to such a determination. Such
25 contribution may be based on the wager, game, and/or other activity by a player (e.g., buying
    something, viewing an ad going to a show, staying in a hotel, and so on). Such contribution
   may include a contribution to a jackpot amount, a progress towards an occurrence of a
   jackpot event and so on. In some embodiments, a contribution made may depend on a wager
   amount an outcome of a game, and so on.
30  [00271] In some embodiments, as indicated at 405, a determination that a second player has
   played a second game. Such a determination may be made in response to a second player
   playing a second game. Such play of a second game may have similar affects on a second
   jackpot as play by the first player of the first game. Such play and/or effects may have no
   effect on the other jackpots. Such play may be on a same machine, of a same game, and so on
                                                  55

   Such play by a second player may be prevented from affecting the first jackpot. In such a
   way such a jackpot may be limited to only a particular first player and/or group as desired in
    some embodiments. A first and second jackpot related to same games and different people
 5 may exist at a same time without affecting one another in such a manner.
    [00272] In some embodiments, as indicated at 407, a second player may be prevented from
   accessing the first jackpot. The second player may play the same game as the first player, but
   may nonetheless have no access to the first jackpot. Instead as described, in 405, may have
   access to a second jackpot in some embodiments and/or no jackpot. In some embodiments
 0  such a second player may take some action to gain access to the first jackpot. The second
   player may include any number of second players. In some embodiments, preventing access
   to the first jackpot may include providing access to any number of respective second jackpots
   to any number of second players. Such jackpots may include dedicated jackpots that other
   players do not have access to. In some embodiments, preventing access may be made in
 5 response to and/or include determining that each second player is not the first player and/or
    someone authorized and/or playing in a group with the first player.
    [00273] In some embodiments, as indicated at 409, a determination that the first player has
   won the first jackpot may be made. Such a determination may be made in response to an
   action and/or event in a game. In some embodiments, such a jackpot may be won based on an
 0 action in a game, and/or any other action that may contribute to a jackpot. In some
   embodiments, a jackpot win may be a final win of a highest level jackpot. In such an
   embodiments, the jackpot may be provided to a player. Such a win by the first play may not
   affect a second jackpot associated with the second player.
    [00274] In some embodiments, the jackpot may include an intermediate level jackpot, a final
25 level jackpot, and/or a lone jackpot. In some embodiments, a player may win and/or reach an
   intermediate level jackpot. For example, in some embodiments, a game may be set up to
   have a multiple tiered jackpots based on varied events in the game and/or game play of the
   game. For example, in some embodiments, a first jackpot won may qualify the player to
   continue playing for a second jackpot.
30  [00275] In some embodiments, as indicated at 411, the first player may be given a choice
   between accepting a payout of an award for winning the first jackpot and access to a second
   jackpot (i.e., a different jackpot than the first jackpot and/or a jackpot that a second player is
   given access to).. Such a presenting may be made in response to a determination of a win of
   the first jackpot. Some embodiments may include receiving a selection of a choice. If a
                                                   56

   towards winning of a jackpot etc.) may be reset and the player may be awarded the jackpot as
   indicated at 413. If the player chooses not to take the jackpot, the jackpot may move to a
   next level which may include a large amount of award and the player may be able to continue
 5 playing for the next level of jackpot. A player that selects to have access to the second
   jackpot may be given access to the second jackpot in response to a receipt of the selection as
   indicated at 415. In some embodiments, even with a tiered jackpot system a player may be
   awarded for each level of jackpot won. In some embodiments, a max level of jackpot may
   exist and when the player reaches that level the player may not be provided with the choice
 0 but may provided with the award. Any number of levels of tiers may be used in various
   embodiments.
    [00276] In some embodiments over time, a jackpot amount, and/or other progress related to
   a jackpot may decay. A determination if a player has made a contribution a jackpot in a time
   period may be made. If the player has not, a jackpot may be reset and/or decayed in some
 5 manner. An amount of decay and/or time period may be determined as desired by a gaming
   provider to encourage play. Such decay may continue at any desired rate (e.g. steady
   increasing, etc.) as desired. Accordingly, players may be encouraged to continue playing.
    [00277] In some embodiments, a guaranteed jackpot based on play and/or wager amount
   may be provided. For example, a player may be guaranteed that when a meter, play amount,
 0 won amount, lost amount, and so on reaches a threshold, a jackpot may be won. In some
   embodiments, a range may be used so that the guaranteed win happens at an unknown time
   but in some range of time, play amounts, wins, losses, etc. In some embodiments a
   happening of a win may be random.
    [00278] In some embodiments, a single person may be assigned a jackpot in this manner.
25 Play by the player at games qualifying games purchases, and so on may all contribute as
   desired to a jackpot. The player may be tracked as desired, such as by a credit card, by a
   player card, by video, by login, and so on. In some embodiments, a group, such as a family,
   friends and so on may form a group that all access such a jackpot. For example, a third
   player may be given access to the first jackpot if the third player is part of an allowed group
30 with the first player. In response to receiving a selection to have access to a second jackpot
   after a win of a first jackpot by the first player, a third player may also be given access to the
    second jackpot.
    [00279] In some embodiments, progress related to a jackpot may be transferred from one
   person and/or group to another. Such transfer may be made through an exchange. Such a
                                                   57

   In some embodiments, a system may allow bids and or offers of such jackpots to be placed on
   a system for view and/or matching auctioning, and other sales and/or transfer methods. Such
   a system may facilitate exchange. In some embodiments, such a system may depreciate a
 5 progress in some manner. In some embodiments, such a system may take a commission.
    [00280] In some embodiments, a jackpot such as the guaranteed jackpot may return a
   portion of the players losses to the player when the jackpot is won (e.g., the jackpot may
   include a progressive jackpot funded at least in part by player losses). In some embodiments,
    such a portion may be a majority, most, all, some, a small potion and so on. In some
 0 embodiments, a majority of money made through game play by a house may come not from
   the play when the jackpot is taken into account, but rather from people leaving a game behind
   without winning a next level of jackpot. For example in some embodiments, a player may be
   offered to increase a jackpot tier and take the offer. This may result in the player not taking
   the jackpot award at a lower level. However, before the player reaches a next level of
 5 jackpot, the player may stop playing for the jackpot (e.g., leave a casino, go to work, end a
   vacation, and so on). This may result in the player loosing access to playing the game, the
   jackpot to decay, the player forgetting about the progress and so on. Accordingly, the game
   operator may make money based on the forfeited jackpot progress.
    [00281] It should be recognized that the above process is given as a non-limiting example
 0 only. Various embodiments may include any desired actions in any desired order including
   additional, alternative and/ fewer, more, and so on action compared to process 400.
    [00282] It should be recognized that games, tracking, play, computing, determining, and so
   on may take place on any device as desired. For example, such play may take place on server
   based gaming devices such as mobile gaming devices, kiosk games, computers, and so on.
25 Such play may take place on table games, slots, and so on. Determination may take place
   using player tracking cards used in play at any type of game in any venue, such as a casino.
   Or example, at a table game, a player wagers may be monitored by a camera, by a dealer, and
    so on. Such wagers may be entered into a system that then determines the progress towards
   the jackpot made based on the play. It should be recognized that embodiments may include
30 any type of game in any venue played in any way and any determination made by any entity
   in any way.
          Summary
    [00283] The following should be understood as embodiments, not as claims.
                                                 58

   thereon a plurality of instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to
   perform a method comprising: determining that a first player has played a game; determining
   a contribution to a first jackpot based on the play of the game by the first player; preventing
 5 access to the jackpot by a plurality of second players playing game; determining that the first
   jackpot has been won by the first player based on an action related to the first player; in
   response to determining that the first jackpot has been won, presenting, to the first player, a
   choice between accepting a payout of an award for winning the jackpot and access to a
    second jackpot; receiving a selection of the access to the second jackpot from the first player;
 0 and in response to receiving the selection, providing access to the second jackpot to the
    second player.
    [00285] A.1. The apparatus of claim A, in which preventing access to the first jackpot
   includes providing access to a plurality of respective third jackpots.
    [00286] A.2. The apparatus of claim A, in which preventing access includes determining that
 5 each of the second players are not the first play and preventing access in response to each
    such respective determination.
    [00287] A.3. The apparatus of claim A, in which the game includes a plurality of different
   games governed by a plurality of different rules.
    [00288] A.3.1. The apparatus of claim A.3, in which at least one first game of the plurality
 0 of different games includes a table game and at least one second game of the plurality of
   different games includes an electronic game.
    [00289] A.4. The apparatus of claim A, in which the method further comprises providing
   access to the first jackpot to a third player prior to the first player winning the first jackpot,
   and providing access to the second jackpot to the third player in response to receiving the
25  selection.
    [00290] A.5. The apparatus of claim A, in which the contribution includes an amount of
   money added to the first jackpot.
    [00291] A.5.1. The apparatus of claim A.5, in which the amount of money includes at least
   one of a constant amount, a portion of an amount wagered, a portion of an amount won, and a
30 portion of an amount lost.
    [00292] A.6. The apparatus of claim A, in which the contribution includes an effect on an
   occurrence of the win of the first jackpot.
    [00293] A.7. The apparatus of claim A, in which the contribution includes progress towards
   an occurrence of the win of the first jackpot.
                                                  59

   been won includes determining that a progress towards the first jackpot being was has
   reached a threshold level.
    [00295] A.7.2. The apparatus of claim A.7, in which determining that the first jackpot has
 5 been won includes determining that the first jackpot should be won based at least in part on
   the progress and at least in part on a random event.
    [00296] B. An apparatus comprising: a tangible machine readable medium having stored
   thereon a plurality of instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to
   perform a method comprising: determining that a first player has played a first game;
 0 determining a contribution to a first jackpot based on the play of the first game by the first
   player; determining that a first threshold associated with the first jackpot has been reached;
   determining that a second player desires to play a second game for a chance to win the first
   jackpot after determining that the first threshold has been reached; in response to determining
   that the second player desires to play, determining that the second player has not contributed
 5 a second threshold level to the first jackpot prior to the first threshold being reached; in
   response to determining that the second player has not contributed the second threshold level,
   preventing access to the first jackpot by the second player; determining that a third player
   desires to play a third game for a chance to win the first jackpot after determining that the
   first threshold has been reached; in response to determining that the third player desires to
 0 play, determining that the third player has contributed the second threshold level to the first
   jackpot prior to the first threshold being reached; and in response to determining that the third
   player has contributed the second threshold level, allowing access to the first jackpot by the
   third player;
    [00297] B.1. The apparatus of claim B, in which the second player includes the first player.
25  [00298] B.2. The apparatus of claim B, in which the third player includes the first player.
    [00299] B.3. The apparatus of claim B, in which allowing access includes at least one of
   allowing the third player to play the third game, allowing the third player to make a jackpot
   qualifying wager in the third game, and allowing the third player to win the first jackpot.
    [00300] B.4. The apparatus of claim B, in which preventing access includes at least one of
30 preventing the second player from playing the second game, preventing the second player
   from making a jackpot-qualifying wager in the second game, and preventing the second
   player from winning the first jackpot.
                                                 60

   access to a second jackpot to the second player in response to determining that the second
   player has not contributed the second threshold level.
   [00302] B.6. The apparatus of claim B, in which the method further comprises: allowing the
5  second player to reach the second threshold level and providing the access to the first jackpot
   in response to the second player reaching the second threshold level.
   [00303] B.7. The apparatus of claim B, in which the first threshold includes a point at which
   an amount of a jackpot award influences an expected value of game play such that the
   expected value of the game play changes from being negative to being non-negative.
0  [00304] B.8. The apparatus of claim B, in which the first threshold includes a point at which
   an amount of an expected value of game play includes a desired characteristic.
   [00305] B.9. The apparatus of claim B, in which the first threshold includes a level of
   progress towards a win of the first jackpot.
   [00306] B.10. The apparatus of claim B, in which the contribution includes an amount of
5  money added to the first jackpot.
   [00307] B. 11. The apparatus of claim B, in which the contribution includes an effect on an
   occurrence of the win of the first jackpot.
   [00308] B.12. The apparatus of claim B, in which the contribution includes progress towards
   an occurrence of the win of the first jackpot.
.0
                                                61

                                                   CLAIMS
        What is claimed is:
 1. An apparatus comprising:
        a network interface;
        at least one processor to:
                 determine that a first device has played a type of game that is qualified for
contributing to a first jackpot;
                 determine that a graphical user interface of the first device has transmitted data
indicative of a contribution to the first jackpot based on the play of the game by the first device;
                 prevent access to data indicative of the first jackpot from a plurality of second
devices that are playing the game when the data indicative of the contribution to the first jackpot
is transmitted;
                  provide access to data indicative of at least one separate jackpot to the plurality
of second devices, wherein the at least one separate jackpot is different from the first jackpot;
                 determine that the first jackpot has been won by the first device based on an
action related to the graphical user interface of the first device;
                 in response to determining that the first jackpot has been won, transmit, via the
network interface to the graphical user interface of the first device, data indicative of a choice
between accepting a payout of an award for winning the first jackpot and an ability to continue
playing additional rounds of the game for access to a progressive jackpot;
                 receive, via the network interface, data indicative of a selection of the access to
the progressive jackpot from the graphical user interface of the first device; and
                 in response to receiving the selection, provide access to data indicative of the
progressive jackpot to the graphical user interface of the first device by allowing the first device
to continue playing the additional rounds of the game to contribute to the progressive jackpot.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, in which the at least one separate jackpot includes respective third
jackpots that are each separate for the second devices.
                                                   62

3. The apparatus of claim 1, in which preventing access includes determining that each of the
second devices are not the first device and preventing access in response to each such respective
determination of device identity.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, in which the game includes a plurality of different types of games
governed by a plurality of different rules that are each qualified for contributing to the first
jackpot.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, in which at least one first game of the plurality of different types of
games includes a table game and at least one second game of the plurality of different types of
games includes an electronic game.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, in which the at least one processor is further configured to: provide
access to the first jackpot to a third device prior to the first device winning the first jackpot based
on the third device having contributed greater than a non-zero threshold amount to the first
jackpot, and provide access to the progressive jackpot to the third device in response to receiving
the selection.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, in which the contribution includes an amount of money added to the
first jackpot that exceeds a non-zero threshold amount and qualifies the first device for access to
the first jackpot.
 8. The apparatus of claim 7, in which the amount of money includes at least one of a constant
amount, a portion of an amount wagered, a portion of an amount won, and a portion of an
amount lost.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, in which the contribution includes an effect on an occurrence of the
win of the first jackpot.
                                                   63

10. The apparatus of claim 1, in which the contribution includes progress towards an occurrence
of the win of the first jackpot.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, in which determining that the first jackpot has been won includes
determining that a number of rounds of the game has reached a threshold level, and in which
contributing to the progressive jackpot includes making progress towards the progressive jackpot
by playing a number of rounds of the game to reach a second threshold level that triggers the
progressive jackpot.
12. The apparatus of claim 10, in which determining that the first jackpot has been won includes
determining that the first jackpot should be won based at least in part on the progress and at least
in part on a random event.
13. An apparatus comprising:
         a network interface;
         at least one processor to:
         determine that a first device has played a first type of game that is qualified for
contributing to a first jackpot;
         determine that a graphical user interface of the first device has transmitted data
indicative of a contribution to the first jackpot based on the play of the first game by the first
device;
         determine that a first threshold of contribution by the first device towards the first jackpot
has been reached;
         determine that a second device attempts to gain access to a second game for a chance to
win the first jackpot after determining that the first threshold has been reached and before the
first jackpot is won;
         in response to determining that the second device attempts to gain access, determine that
a graphical user interface of the second device has not transmitted data indicative of at least a
non-zero second threshold level contribution towards the first jackpot by play of the first game
prior to the first threshold being reached;
                                                   64

         in response to determining that the graphical user interface of the second device has not
contributed the second threshold level and that the first threshold of contribution towards the first
jackpot has been reached, prevent access to data indicative of the first jackpot from the second
device and provide access to data indicative of at least one separate jackpot to the second device,
wherein the at least one separate jackpot is different from the first jackpot;
         determine that a third device attempts to gain access to a game for a chance to win the
first jackpot after determining that the first threshold has been reached;
         in response to determining that the third device attempts to gain access, determine that a
graphical user interface of the third device has transmitted data indicative of at least the second
threshold level contribution towards the first jackpot by play of the first game prior to the first
threshold being reached; and
         in response to determining that the third device has contributed the second threshold
level, allow access to the first jackpot by the third device.
 14. The apparatus of claim 13, in which the second device includes the first device.
 15. The apparatus of claim 13, in which the third device includes the first device.
 16. The apparatus of claim 13, in which allowing access includes at least one of allowing the
third device to make a jackpot-qualifying wager and allowing the third device to win the first
jackpot.
 17. The apparatus of claim 13, in which preventing access includes at least one of preventing the
second device from making a jackpot-qualifying wager and preventing the second device from
winning the first jackpot.
 18. The apparatus of claim 13, in which the at least one processor is further configured to:
provide access to a progressive jackpot to the second device in response to determining that the
second device has not contributed the at least the second threshold level towards the first jackpot.
                                                   65

19. The apparatus of claim 13, in which the first threshold includes a point at which an amount of
a jackpot award influences an expected value of game play such that the expected value of the
game play changes from being negative to being non-negative.
20. The apparatus of claim 13, in which the first threshold includes a point at which an amount of
an expected value of game play includes a desired characteristic.
21. The apparatus of claim 13, in which the first threshold includes a level of progress towards a
win of the first jackpot.
22. The apparatus of claim 13, in which the contribution includes an amount of money added to
the first jackpot.
23. The apparatus of claim 13, in which the contribution includes an effect on an occurrence of
the win of the first jackpot.
24. The apparatus of claim 13, in which the contribution includes progress towards an occurrence
of the win of the first jackpot.
25. The apparatus of claim 13, in which the at least one processor is further configured to:
         decay the contribution of the third device over time so that the third device no longer is
allowed to access the first jackpot after an amount of time has passed without contributing an
additional amount towards the first jackpot.
26. The apparatus of claim 13, in which determining that the second device has not contributed at
least the non-zero second threshold level towards the first jackpot includes:
         determining an amount that the second device has contributed towards the first jackpot
and determining that the amount is less than the non-zero threshold level.
                                                 66

27. The apparatus of claim 13, in which contributing towards the first jackpot includes at least
one of providing an amount of money to the first jackpot and providing progress to an award of
the first jackpot.
28. The apparatus of claim 1, in which the at least one processor is further configured to:
         decay the contribution over time.
                                                67

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
