NUCLEAR TRANSPORT MODULATORS AND USES THEREOF
ABSTRACT
The invention generally relates to nuclear transport modulators, e.g. CRM 1 inhibitors, and more
particularly to a compound represented by formula (I):
              (R3)n       3~q,
                                                                  R1()
                               _Y            A       X        N'
                                                  (R4 )m R2
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein the variables are as defined and described
herein. The invention also includes the synthesis and use of a compound of structural formula
(I), or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or composition thereof, e.g., in the treatment,
modulation and/or prevention of physiological conditions associated with CRM 1 activity.

                                                  1
               NUCLEAR TRANSPORT MODULATORS AND USES THEREOF
RELATED APPLICATIONS
         This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>
which in turn is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2012290467 (the national
phase entry of PCT/US2012/048368) and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application
No. 61/513,428, filed 29 July 201 1, U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/513,432, filed 29
July 2011, and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/653,588, filed 31 May 2012. The
contents of the above applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
         Cells from most major human solid and hematologic malignancies exhibit abnormal
cellular localization of a variety of oncogenic proteins, tumor suppressor proteins, and cell
cycle regulators (Cronshaw et al. 2004, Falini et al 2006). For example, certain p53 mutations
lead to localization in the cytoplasm rather than in the nucleus. This results in the loss of
normal growth regulation, despite intact tumor suppressor function. In other tumors, wild
type p53 is sequestered in the cytoplasm or rapidly degraded, again leading to loss of its
suppressor function. Restoration of appropriate nuclear localization of functional p53 protein
can normalize some properties of neoplastic cells (Cai et al. 2008; Hoshino et al. 2008; Lain
et al. 1999a; Lain et al. 1999b; Smart et al. 1999), can restore sensitivity of cancer cells to
DNA damaging agents (Cai et al. 2008), and can lead to regression of established tumors
(Sharpless & DePinho 2007, Xue et al. 2007). Similar data have been obtained for other
tumor suppressor proteins such as forkhead (Turner and Sullivan 2008) and c-Abl (Vignari
and Wang 2001). In addition, abnormal localization of several tumor suppressor and growth
regulatory proteins may be involved in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases (Davis
2007, Nakahara 2009). CRM1 inhibition may provide particularly interesting utility in
familial cancer syndromes (e.g., Li-Fraumeni Syndrome due to loss of one p53 allele,
BRCA1 or 2 cancer syndromes), where specific tumor suppressor proteins (TSP) are deleted
or dysfunctional and where increasing TSP levels by systemic (or local) administration of
CRM1 inhibitors could help restore normal tumor suppressor function.
(16130542 1):GGG

                                                la
          Specific proteins and RNAs are carried into and out of the nucleus by specialized
transport molecules, which are classified as importins if they transport molecules into the
nucleus, and exportins if they transport molecules out of the nucleus (Terry et al. 2007;
Sorokin et al. 2007). Proteins that are transported into or out of the nucleus contain nuclear
(16130542 1):GGG

                                                   -2
   import/localization (NLS) or export (NES) sequences that allow them to interact with the
   relevant transporters. Chromosomal Region Maintenance 1 (Crml or CRM1), which is also
   called exportin- 1 or Xpo 1, is a major exportin.
           Overexpression of Crn 1 has been reported in several tumors, including human
 5 ovarian cancer (Noske et al. 2008), cervical cancer (van der Watt et al. 2009), pancreatic
   cancer (Huang et al. 2009), hepatocellular carcinoma (Pascale et al. 2005) and osteosarcoma
   (Yao et al. 2009) and is independently correlated with poor clinical outcomes in these tumor
   types.
           Inhibition of Crm1 blocks the exodus of tumor suppressor proteins and/or growth
10 regulators such as p53, c-Abl, p21, p27, pRb, BRCA1, IkB, ICp27, E2F4, KLF5, YAPi,
   ZAP, KLF5, HDAC4, HDAC5 or forkhead proteins (e.g., FOXO3a) from the nucleus that are
   associated with gene expression, cell proliferation, angiogenesis and epigenetics. Crml
   inhibitors have been shown to induce apoptosis in cancer cells even in the presence of
   activating oncogenic or growth stimulating signals, while sparing normal (untransformed)
15 cells. Most studies of Crml inhibition have utilized the natural product Crml inhibitor
   Leptomycin B (LMB). LMB itself is highly toxic to neoplastic cells, but poorly tolerated
   with marked gastrointestinal toxicity in animals (Roberts et al. 1986) and humans (Newlands
   et al. 1996). Derivatization of LMB to improve drug-like properties leads to compounds that
   retain antitumor activity and are better tolerated in animal tumor models (Yang et al. 2007,
20 Yang et al. 2008, Mutka et al. 2009). Therefore, nuclear export inhibitors could have
   beneficial effects in neoplastic and other proliferative disorders.
           In addition to tumor suppressor proteins, Crml also exports several key proteins that
   are involved in many inflammatory processes. These include IkB, NF-kB, Cox-2, RXRa,
   Commd1, HIF 1, HMGB 1, FOXO, FOXP and others. The nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kB/rel)
25 family of transcriptional activators, named for the discovery that it drives immunoglobulin
   kappa gene expression, regulate the mRNA expression of variety of genes involved in
   inflammation, proliferation, immunity and cell survival. Under basal conditions, a protein
   inhibitor of NF-kB, called IkB, binds to NF-kB in the nucleus and the complex IkB-NF-kB
   renders the NF-kB transcriptional function inactive. In response to inflammatory stimuli, IkB
30 dissociates from the IkB-NF-kB complex, which releases NF-kB and unmasks its potent
   transcriptional activity. Many signals that activate NF-kB do so by targeting IkB for
   proteolysis (phosphorylation of IkB renders it "marked" for ubiquitination and then
   proteolysis). The nuclear IkBa-NF-kB complex can be exported to the cytoplasm by Crml

                                                   -3
   where it dissociates and NF-kB can be reactivated. Ubiquitinated IkB may also dissociate
   from the NF-kB complex, restoring NF-kB transcriptional activity. Inhibition of Crml
   induced export in human neutrophils and macrophage like cells (U937) by LMB not only
   results in accumulation of transcriptionally inactive, nuclear IkBa-NF-kB complex but also
 5 prevents the initial activation of NF-kB even upon cell stimulation (Ghosh 2008, Huang
   2000). In a different study, treatment with LMB inhibited IL-1P induced NF-kB DNA
   binding (the first step in NF-kB transcriptional activation), IL-8 expression and intercellular
   adhesion molecule expression in pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells (Walsh 2008).
   COMMD 1 is another nuclear inhibitor of both NF-kB and hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF 1)
10 transcriptional activity. Blocking the nuclear export of COMMD1 by inhibiting Crml results
   in increased inhibition of NF-kB and HIF 1 transcriptional activity (Muller 2009).
            Crml also mediates retinoid X receptor a (RXRa) transport. RXRU is highly
   expressed in the liver and plays a central role in regulating bile acid, cholesterol, fatty acid,
   steroid and xenobiotic metabolism and homeostasis. During liver inflammation, nuclear
15 RXRa levels are significantly reduced, mainly due to inflammation-mediated nuclear export
   of RXRa by Crml. LMB is able to prevent IL-1p induced cytoplasmic increase in RXRU
   levels in human liver derived cells (Zimmerman 2006).
            The role of Crml -mediated nuclear export in NF-kB, HIF-l and RXRa signalling
   suggests that blocking nuclear export can be potentially beneficial in many inflammatory
20 processes across multiple tissues and organs including the vasculature (vasculitis, arteritis,
   polymyalgia rheumatic, atherosclerosis), dermatologic (see below), rheumatologic
   (rheumatoid and related arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, spondyloarthropathies, crystal
   arthropathies, systemic lupus erythematosus, mixed connective tissue disease, myositis
   syndromes, dermatomyositis, inclusion body myositis, undifferentiated connective tissue
25 disease, Sjogren's syndrome, scleroderma and overlap syndromes, etc.).
            CRM 1 inhibition affects gene expression by inhibiting/activating a series of
   transcription factors like ICp27, E2F4, KLF5, YAPI, and ZAP.
            Crml inhibition has potential therapeutic effects across many dermatologic
    syndromes including inflammatory dermatoses (atopy, allergic dermatitis, chemical
30  dermatitis, psoriasis), sun-damage (ultraviolet (UV) damage), and infections. CRM1
    inhibition, best studied with LMB, showed minimal effects on normal keratinocytes, and
    exerted anti-inflammatory activity on keratinocytes subjected to UV, TNFa, or other
    inflammatory stimuli (Kobayashi & Shinkai 2005, Kannan & Jaiswal 2006). Crml inhibition

                                                    -4
   also upregulates NRF2 (nuclear factor erythroid-related factor 2) activity, which protects
   keratinocytes (Schafer et al. 2010, Kannan & Jaiswal 2006) and other cell types (Wang et al.
   2009) from oxidative damage. LMB induces apoptosis in keratinocytes infected with
   oncogenic human papillomavirus (HPV) strains such as HPV16, but not in uninfected
 5 keratinocytes (Jolly et al. 2009).
           Crml also mediates the transport of key neuroprotectant proteins that may be useful
   in neurodegenerative diseases including Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease, and
   amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). For example, by (1) forcing nuclear retention of key
   neuroprotective regulators such as NRF2 (Wang 2009), FOXA2 (Kittappa et al. 2007),
10 parking in neuronal cells, and/or (2) inhibiting NFiB transcriptional activity by sequestering
   IKB to the nucleus in glial cells, Crml inhibition could slow or prevent neuronal cell death
   found in these disorders. There is also evidence linking abnormal glial cell proliferation to
   abnormalities in CRMl levels or CRM1 function (Shen 2008).
            Intact nuclear export, primarily mediated through CRM1, is also required for the
15 intact maturation of many viruses. Viruses where nuclear export, and/or CRM1 itself, has
   been implicated in their lifecycle include human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), adenovirus,
   simian retrovirus type 1, Boma disease virus, influenza (usual strains as well as HINI and
   avian H5N1 strains), hepatitis B (HBV) and C (HCV) viruses, human papillomavirus (HPV),
   respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), Dungee, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus,
20 yellow fever virus, West Nile virus, herpes simplex virus (HSV), cytomegalovirus (CMV),
   and Merkel cell polyomavirus (MCV). (Bhuvanakantham 2010, Cohen 2010, Whittaker
    1998). It is anticipated that additional viral infections reliant on intact nuclear export will be
   uncovered in the future.
            The HIV- 1 Rev protein, which traffics through nucleolus and shuttles between the
25 nucleus and cytoplasm, facilitates export of unspliced and singly spliced HIV transcripts
    containing Rev Response Elements (RRE) RNA by the CRM1 export pathway. Inhibition of
   Rev-mediated RNA transport using CRM1 inhibitors such as LMBor PKF050-638 can arrest
   the HIV- 1 transcriptional process, inhibit the production of new HIV- 1 virions, and thereby
    reduce HIV-1 levels (Pollard 1998, Daelemans 2002).
30          Dengue virus (DENV) is the causative agent of the common arthropod-bome viral
    disease, Dengue fever (DF), and its more severe and potentially deadly Dengue hemorrhagic
    fever (DHF). DHF appears to be the result of an over exuberant inflammatory response to
    DENV. NS5 is the largest and most conserved protein of DENV. CRM1 regulates the

                                                   -5
   transport of NS5 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm, where most of the NS5 functions are
   mediated. Inhibition of CRM1-mediated export of NS5 results in altered kinetics of virus
   production and reduces induction of the inflammatory chemokine interleukin-8 (IL-8),
   presenting a new avenue for the treatment of diseases caused by DENV and other medically
 5 important flaviviruses including hepatitis C virus (Rawlinson 2009).
            Other virus-encoded RNA-binding proteins that use CRM 1 to exit the nucleus include
   the HSV type 1 tegument protein (VP 13/14, or hUL47), human CMV protein pp65, the
   SARS Coronavirus ORF 3b Protein, and the RSV matrix (M) protein (Williams 2008,
   Sanchez 2007, Freundt 2009, Ghildyal 2009).
10          Interestingly, many of these viruses are associated with specific types of human
   cancer including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) due to chronic HBV or HCV infection,
   cervical cancer due to HPV, and Merkel cell carcinoma associated with MCV. CRM1
   inhibitors could therefore have beneficial effects on both the viral infectious process as well
    as on the process of neoplastic transformation due to these viruses.
15          CRM1 controls the nuclear localization and therefore activity of multiple DNA
   metabolizing enzymes including histone deacetylases (HDAC), histone acetyltransferases
    (HAT), and histone methyltransferases (HMT). Suppression of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy
    with irreversible CRM1 inhibitors has been demonstrated and is believed to be linked to
    nuclear retention (and activation) of HDAC 5, an enzyme known to suppress a hypertrophic
20  genetic program (Monovich et al. 2009). Thus, CRM1 inhibition may have beneficial effects
    in hypertrophic syndromes, including certain forms of congestive heart failure and
    hypertrophic cardiomyopathies.
            CRM1 has also been linked to other disorders. Leber's disorder, a hereditary disorder
    characterized by degeneration of retinal ganglion cells and visual loss, is associated with
25  inaction of the CRM1 switch (Gupta N 2008), There is also evidence linking
    neurodegenerative disorders to abnormalities in nuclear transport.
             To date, however, small-molecule, drug-like Crm 1 inhibitors for use in vitro and in
    vivo are uncommon.
30   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
             The present invention relates to compounds, or pharmaceutically acceptable salts
    thereof, useful as nuclear transport modulators. The invention also provides
    pharmaceutically acceptable compositions comprising compounds of the present invention

                                                   -6
   and methods of using said compounds and compositions in the treatment of various disorders,
   such as disorders or conditions associated with abnormal cellular responses triggered by
   improper nuclear transport.
            In one embodiment of the invention, the compounds useful as nuclear transport
 5 modulators are represented by formula I:
                                (R3),                                1
                                            B Y       A     X:    N
                                                          (R 4 )m R2   (I)
   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each variable is as defined and
   described herein.
            Another embodiment of the invention is a composition comprising a compound of the
10 invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable
   carrier.
            Yet another embodiment of the invention is a method for treating a disorder
   associated with CRMI activity, the method comprising administering to a subject in need
   thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention, or a
15 pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, or a composition comprising a compound of the
    invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
            Another embodiment of the invention is use of a compound of the invention for
   treating a disorder associated with CRM1 activity in a subject.
             Another embodiment of the invention is use of a compound of the invention for the
20  manufacture of a medicament for treating a disorder associated with CRM1 activity in a
    subject.
             The nuclear transport modulators of the present invention, and pharmaceutically
    acceptable salts and/or compositions thereof, provide excellent in vivo exposure as measured
    by AUC in mouse, rat, dog and monkey, while exhibiting low levels of brain penetration.
25  Therefore, compounds of the present invention, and pharmaceutically acceptable salts and/or
    compositions thereof, are useful for treating a variety of diseases, disorders or conditions,
    associated with abnormal cellular responses triggered by improper nuclear transport, such as
    those diseases, disorders, or conditions described herein. Compounds provided by this
    invention are also useful for the study of nuclear transport modulation in biological and
30  pathological phenomena; the study of intracellular signal transduction pathways mediated by
    kinases; and the comparative evaluation of nuclear transport modulators.

                                                   -7
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
            FIG. 1 is a graph of mean tumor volume as a function of time and shows the effect of
   (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-l -(3,3-difluoroazetidin- 1
 5 yl)prop-2-en-1-one (Compound 1) on tumor volume in a mouse xenograft model of HCT
   116.
            FIG. 2A is images of Western blots and shows the amount of p53, p21, full-length
   (FL) PARP and cleaved PARP, and lamin B in the cytoplasmic fraction of a protein extract
   from HCT- 116 cells at various times before and after treatment with Compound 1.
10          FIG. 2B is images of Western blots and shows the amount of p53, p21, full-length
   (FL) PARP and cleaved PARP, and lamin B in the nuclear fraction of a protein extract from
   HCT- 116 cells at various times before and after treatment with Compound 1.
            FIG. 3A is images of Western blots and shows the amount of pRb, phosphorylated
   pRB (pRbPhos), and lamin B in the cytoplasmic fraction of a protein extract from HCT-116
15 cells at various times before and after treatment with Compound 1.
             FIG. 3B is images of Western blots and shows the amount of pRb, phosphorylated
   pRB (pRbPhos), and lamin B in the nuclear fraction of a protein extract from HCT- 116 cells at
   various times before and after treatment with Compound 1.
             FIG. 4A is a graph of EAE score a function of time and shows the effect of various
20  amounts of Compound 1 on EAE score in the EAE model of multiple sclerosis.
             FIG. 4B is a graph of body weight as a function of time and shows the effect of
    various amounts of Compound 1 on body weight in the EAE model of multiple sclerosis.
             FIG. 5 shows the results of FACS sorting of lymphocytes for a subset of mice at day
    26 of the EAE Model described herein.
25
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
             The novel features of the present invention will become apparent to those of skill in
    the art upon examination of the following detailed description of the invention. It should be
    understood, however, that the detailed description of the invention and the specific examples
30  presented, while indicating certain embodiments of the present invention, are provided for
    illustration purposes only because various changes and modifications within the spirit and
    scope of the invention will become apparent to those of skill in the art from the detailed
    description of the invention and claims that follow.

                                                     -8
   Definitions
            Compounds of this invention include those described generally above, and are further
   illustrated by the classes, subclasses, and species disclosed herein. As used herein, the
 5 following definitions shall apply unless otherwise indicated. For purposes of this invention,
   the chemical elements are identified in accordance with the Periodic Table of the Elements,
   CAS version, Handbook of Chemistry and Physics,         7 5 th Ed. Additionally, general principles
   of organic chemistry are described in "Organic Chemistry", Thomas Sorrell, University
   Science Books, Sausalito: 1999, and "March's Advanced Organic Chemistry",             5 th Ed., Ed.:
10 Smith, M.B. and March, J., John Wiley & Sons, New York: 2001, the entire contents of
   which are hereby incorporated by reference.
            Unless specified otherwise within this specification, the nomenclature used in this
   specification generally follows the examples and rules stated in Nomenclature of Organic
   Chemistry, Sections A, B, C, D, E, F, and H, Pergamon Press, Oxford, 1979, which is
15 incorporated by reference herein for its exemplary chemical structure names and rules on
   naming chemical structures. Optionally, a name of a compound may be generated using a
    chemical naming program: ACD/ChemSketch, Version 5.09/September 2001, Advanced
    Chemistry Development, Inc., Toronto, Canada.
            Compounds of the present invention may have asymmetric centers, chiral axes, and
20  chiral planes (e.g., as described in: E. L. Eliel and S. H. Wilen, Stereo-chemistry of Carbon
    Compounds, John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1994, pages 1119-1190), and occur as
    racemates, racemic mixtures, and as individual diastereomers or enantiomers, with all
    possible isomers and mixtures thereof, including optical isomers, being included in the
    present invention.
25          The term "aliphatic" or "aliphatic group," as used herein, denotes a monovalent
    hydrocarbon radical that is straight-chain (i.e., unbranched), branched, or cyclic (including
    fused, bridged, and spiro-fused polycyclic). An aliphatic group can be saturated or can
    contain one or more units of unsaturation, but is not aromatic. Unless otherwise specified,
    aliphatic groups contain 1-6 carbon atoms. However, in some embodiments, an aliphatic
30  group contains 1-10 or 2-8 carbon atoms. In some embodiments, aliphatic groups contain 1
    4 carbon atoms and, in yet other embodiments, aliphatic groups contain 1-3 carbon atoms.
    Suitable aliphatic groups include, but are not limited to, linear or branched, alkyl, alkenyl,

                                                    -9
   and alkynyl groups, and hybrids thereof such as (cycloalkyl)alkyl, (cycloalkenyl)alkyl or
   (cycloalkyl)alkenyl.
            The term "alkyl," as used herein, means a saturated, straight-chain or branched
   aliphatic group. In one aspect, an alkyl group contains 1-10 or 2-8 carbon atoms. Alkyl
 5 includes, but is not limited to, methyl, ethyl, propyl, iso-propyl, n-butyl, sec-butyl, t-butyl,
   and the like.
            The term "alkenyl," as used herein, means a straight-chain or branched aliphatic
   group having one or more carbon-carbon double bonds (i.e., -CH=CH-). In one aspect, an
   alkenyl group has from two to eight carbon atoms, and includes, for example, and without
10 being limited thereto, ethenyl, 1-propenyl, 1-butenyl and the like. The term "alkenyl"
   encompasses radicals having carbon-carbon double bonds in the "cis" and "trans" or,
   alternatively, the "E" and "Z" configurations. If an alkenyl group includes more than one
   carbon-carbon double bond, each carbon-carbon double bond is independently a cis or trans
   double bond, or a mixture thereof.
15          The term "alkynyl," as used herein, means a straight-chain or branched aliphatic
   radical having one ore more carbon-carbond triple bonds (i.e., -C-C-). In one aspect, an
   alkyl group has from two to eight carbon atoms, and includes, for example, and without being
   limited thereto, 1-propynyl (propargyl), 1 -butynyl and the like.
            The terms "cycloaliphatic," "carbocyclyl," "carbocyclo," and "carbocyclic," used
20 alone or as part of a larger moiety, refer to a saturated or partially unsaturated cyclic aliphatic
   monocyclic or bicyclic ring system, as described herein, having from 3 to 10 members,
   wherein the aliphatic ring system is optionally substituted as defined above and described
   herein. In some embodiments, a cycloaliphatic group has 3-6 carbon atoms. Cycloaliphatic
   groups include, without limitation, cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclopentenyl,
25 cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl, cycloheptyl, cycloheptenyl, cyclooctyl, cyclooctenyl, and
    cyclooctadienyl. The terms "cycloaliphatic," "carbocyclyl," "carbocyclo," and "carbocyclic"
    also include aliphatic rings that are fused to one or more aromatic or nonaromatic rings, such
    as decahydronaphthyl, tetrahydronaphthyl, decalin, or bicyclo [2.2.2] octane.
            The term "cycloalkyl," as used herein, means a saturated cyclic aliphatic monocyclic
30  or bicyclic ring system having from 3-10 members. A cycloalkyl can be optionally
    substituted as described herein. In some embodiments, a cycloalkyl has 3-6 carbons.
            The term "heterocycloalkyl," as used herein, means a saturated or unsaturated
    aliphatic ring system in which at least one carbon atom is replaced with a heteroatom selected

                                                          -10
   from N, S and 0. A heterocycloalkyl can contain one or more rings, which may be attached
   together in a pendent manner or may be fused. In one aspect, a heterocycloalkyl is a three- to
   seven-membered ring system and includes, for example, and without being limited thereto,
   piperidinyl, piperazinyl, pyrrolidinyl, tetrahydrofuranyl and the like.
 5          The term "heteroatom" means one or more of oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen, phosphorus, or
   silicon, and includes any oxidized form of nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus, or silicon; the
   quaternized form of any basic nitrogen; and a substitutable nitrogen of a heterocyclic ring, for
   example N (as in 3,4-dihydro-2H-pyrrolyl), NH (as in pyrrolidinyl) or NR' (as in N
   substituted pyrrolidinyl).
10          The term "unsaturated," as used herein, means that a moiety has one or more units of
   unsaturation.
            The term "alkoxy," as used herein, means -0-alkyl. "Alkoxy" can include a straight
   chained or branched alkyl. In one aspect, "alkoxy" has from one to eight carbon atoms and
   includes, for example, and without being limited thereto, methoxy, ethoxy, propyloxy,
15 isopropyloxy, t-butoxy and the like.
            The term "halo" or "halogen" as used herein means halogen and includes, for
    example, and without being limited thereto, fluoro, chloro, bromo, iodo and the like, in both
    radioactive and non-radioactive forms.
            The term "haloalkyl," as used herein, means an alkyl group that is substituted with
20  one or more halogen atoms. In some embodiments, haloalkyl refers to a perhalogenated alkyl
    group. In some embodiments, haloalkyl refers to an alkyl group which is substituted with
    one or more halogen atoms. Exemplary haloalkyl groups include -CF 3, -CCl 3 , -CF 2CH 3,
    -CH 2CF 3 , -CH 2 (CF 3 )2 , -CF 2 (CF 3)2, and the like.
            The term "alkylene," as used herein, means a bivalent branched or unbranched
25  saturated hydrocarbon radical. In one aspect, "alkylene" has one to eight carbon atoms, and
    includes, for example, and without being limited thereto, methylene, ethylene, n-propylene,
    n-butylene and the like.
            The term "alkenylene," as used herein, means a bivalent branched or unbranched
    hydrocarbon radical having one or more carbon-carbon double bonds (i.e., -CH=CH-). In
30  one aspect, "alkenylene" has two to eight carbon atoms, and includes, for example, and
    without being limited thereto, ethenylene, n-propenylene, n-butenylene and the like.
            The term "alkynylene," as used herein, means a bivalent branched or unbranched
    hydrocarbon radical having one ore more carbon-carbond triple bonds (i.e., -C=C-). In one

                                                   -11
   aspect, "alkynylene" has two to eight carbon atoms, and includes, for example, and without
   being limited thereto, ethynylene, n-propynylene, n-butynylene and the like.
            The term "aryl," alone or in combination, as used herein, means a carbocyclic
   aromatic system containing one or more rings, which may be attached together in a pendent
 5 manner or may be fused. In particular embodiments, aryl is one, two or three rings. In one
   aspect, the aryl has five to twelve ring atoms. The term "aryl" encompasses aromatic radicals
   such as phenyl, naphthyl, tetrahydronaphthyl, indanyl, biphenyl, phenanthryl, anthryl and
   acenaphthyl. An "aryl" group can have 1 to 4 substituents, such as lower alkyl, hydroxyl,
   halo, haloalkyl, nitro, cyano, alkoxy, lower alkylamino and the like.
10          The term "heteroaryl," alone or in combination, as used herein, means an aromatic
   system wherein at least one carbon atom is replaced by a heteroatom selected from N, S and
   0. A heteroaryl can contain one or more rings, which may be attached together in a pendent
   manner or may be fused. In particular embodiments, heteroaryl is one, two or three rings. In
   one aspect, the heteroaryl has five to twelve ring atoms. The term "heteroaryl" encompasses
15 heteroaromatic groups such as triazolyl, imidazolyl, pyrrolyl, pyrazolyl, tetrazolyl, pyridyl,
   pyrimidinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, indolyl, furyl, benzofuryl, thienyl, benzothienyl,
   quinolyl, oxazolyl, oxadiazolyl, isoxazolyl, and the like. A "heteroaryl" group can have 1 to
   4 substituents, such as lower alkyl, hydroxyl, halo, haloalkyl, nitro, cyano, alkoxy, lower
    alkylamino and the like.
20          It is understood that substituents and substitution patterns on the compounds of the
    invention can be selected by one of ordinary skill in the art to provide compounds that are
    chemically stable and that can be readily synthesized by techniques known in the art, as well
    as those methods set forth below. In general, the term "substituted," whether preceded by the
    term "optionally" or not, means that one or more hydrogens of the designated moiety are
25  replaced with a suitable substituent. Unless otherwise indicated, an "optionally substituted
    group" can have a suitable substituent at each substitutable position of the group and, when
    more than one position in any given structure may be substituted with more than one
    substituent selected from a specified group, the substituent can be either the same or different
    at every position. Alternatively, an "optionally substituted group" can be unsubstitued.
30           Combinations of substituents envisioned by this invention are preferably those that
    result in the formation of stable or chemically feasible compounds. If a substituent is itself
    substituted with more than one group, it is understood that these multiple groups can be on
    the same carbon atom or on different carbon atoms, as long as a stable structure results. The

                                                    -12
   term "stable," as used herein, refers to compounds that are not substantially altered when
   subjected to conditions to allow for their production, detection, and, in certain embodiments,
   their recovery, purification, and use for one or more of the purposes disclosed herein.
             Suitable monovalent substituents on a substitutable carbon atom of an "optionally
 5 substituted group" are independently halogen; -(CH 2)oaR0 ; -(CH 2 )OAOR0 ; -O(CH 2 ) 0 -4 R,
   -O-(CH 2 )o_4C(O)OR'; -(CH 2)o-ACH(OR') 2 ; -(CH 2)o4SR0 ; -(CH 2)o-4Ph, which may be
   substituted with R'; -(CH 2)o40(CH2)o1 Ph which may be substituted with R'; -CH=CHPh,
   which may be substituted with R'; -(CH 2)o-40(CH 2)o-1-pyridyl which may be substituted
   with R'; -NO 2 ; -CN; -N 3 ; -(CH 2)o-4N(R) 2 ; -(CH 2)o4N(R)C(O)R; -N(R)C(S)R;
10 -(CH 2)o4N(R0 )C(O)NR 2; -N(R0 )C(S)NR 0 2 ; -(CH 2)o-4N(R 0 )C(O)OR; -N(R 0 )N(R0 )C(O)R;
   -N(R0 )N(R0 )C(O)NR 2; -N(R 0 )N(R)C(O)OR'; -(CH 2)o-4C(O)R; -C(S)R';
   -(CH 2)o-4C(O)OR'; -(CH 2)o-C(O)SR; -(CH 2 )o-4C(O)OSiR           3 ; -(CH 2)o0OC(O)R;
   -OC(O)(CH 2 )o-4SR-, SC(S)SR 0 ; -(CH 2)o-4SC(O)R 0 ; -(CH 2)o-4C(O)NR 2 ; -C(S)NR      0
                                                                                             2;
   -C(S)SR 0 ; -SC(S)SR', -(CH 2)o0OC(O)NR 2; -C(O)N(OR)R 0 ; -C(O)C(O)R 0 ;
15 -C(O)CH 2C(O)R0 ; -C(NOR)R ;-(CH 2)o-4SSR 0 ; -(CH 2)o-4S(O) 2R0 ; -(CH 2)o-4S(0) 2 0R0 ;
   -(CH 2 )o-40S(0) 2 R0 ; -S(O) 2NR0 2 ; -(CH 2)oAS(O)R0 ; -N(R0 )S(O) 2NR0 2 ; -N(R)S(0) 2R;
    -N(OR)R 0 ; -C(NH)NR2; -P(0) 2 R0 ; -P(O)R 2 ; -OP(O)R 2 ; -OP(O)(OR') 2 ; SiR0 3; -(C1
    straight or branched alkylene)O-N(R) 2 ; or -(C 1 - straight or branched
    alkylene)C(O)O-N(R) 2, wherein each R0 may be substituted as defined below and is
20  independently hydrogen, C1-6 aliphatic, -CH 2Ph, -O(CH 2 )o1 Ph, -CH 2 -(5-6 membered
   heteroaryl ring), or a 5-6-membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-4
   heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, or, notwithstanding
   the definition above, two independent occurrences of R0 , taken together with their
    intervening atom(s), form a 3-12-membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl
25  monocyclic or bicyclic ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
    oxygen, and sulfur, which may be substituted as defined below.
              Suitable monovalent substituents on R' (or the ring formed by taking two independent
    occurrences of R' together with their intervening atoms), are independently halogen,
    -(CH 2)o-2R*, -(haloR*), -(CH 2)0-20H, -(CH 2 )o-20R*, -(CH 2 )o-2 CH(OR*)2 ; -O(haloR*), -CN,
30  -N 3 , -(CH 2) o0 2C(O)R*, -(CH 2)0-2 C(O)OH, -(CH 2) 0-2 C(O)OR*, -(CH 2) 0-2 SR*, -(CH 2)o-2 SH,
    -(CH 2 )o-2NH 2, -(CH 2)o-2NHR*, -(CH 2 )o-2NR' 2 , -NO 2 , -SiR* 3, -OSiR* 3 , -C(O)SR*, -(C1
    straight or branched alkylene)C(O)OR*, or -SSR* wherein each R* is unsubstituted or where

                                                     -13
     preceded by "halo" is substituted only with one or more halogens, and is independently
     selected from C1 _4 aliphatic, -CH 2Ph, -O(CH 2)o-1 Ph, or a 5-6-membered saturated, partially
     unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
     oxygen, and sulfur. Suitable divalent substituents on a saturated carbon atom of R' include
 5   =0 and =S.
              Suitable divalent substituents on a saturated carbon atom of an "optionally substituted
     group"     include   the following:    =0, =S,       =NNR* 2, =NNHC(O)R*,         =NNHC(O)OR*,
     =NNHS(O) 2R*,       =NR*, =NOR*,      -O(C(R* 2 ))2- 3 0-, and -S(C(R* 2 ))2- 3 S-, wherein each
     independent occurrence of R* is selected from hydrogen, C1 _6 aliphatic which may be
10 - substituted as defined below, or an unsubstituted 5-6-membered saturated, partially
     unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
     oxygen, and sulfur.      Suitable divalent substituents that are bound to vicinal substitutable
     carbons     of an "optionally substituted" group include: -O(CR* 2 ) 2- 3 0-, wherein each
     independent occurrence of R* is selected from hydrogen, C1- 6 aliphatic which may be
15   substituted as defined below, or an unsubstituted 5-6-membered saturated, partially
     unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
     oxygen, and sulfur.
               Suitable substituents on the aliphatic group of R* include halogen, -R*, -(haloR*),
     -OH, -OR*, -O(haloR*), -CN, -C(O)OH, -C(O)OR*, -NH 2 , -NHR*, -NR*2, and -NO 2 ,
20   wherein each R* is unsubstituted or where preceded by "halo" is substituted only with one or
     more halogens, and is independently CI_4 aliphatic, -CH 2Ph, -O(CH 2)o-1Ph, or a 5-6
     membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently
      selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
               Suitable substituents on a substitutable nitrogen of an "optionally substituted group"
25    include -R,     -NRi 2 , -C(O)Rt, -C(O)ORT,        -C(O)C(O)Rt, -C(O)CH 2C(O)Rt, -S(O) 2 Rt,
      -S(O) 2 NRt 2 , -C(S)NRt 2 ,   -C(NH)NR     2,  and -N(Rt)S(O) 2R;      wherein     each  Rt  is
      independently hydrogen, C1 _ aliphatic which may be substituted as defined below,
      unsubstituted -OPh, or an unsubstituted 5-6-membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or
      aryl ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur,
30    or, notwithstanding the definition above, two independent occurrences of Rt, taken together
      with their intervening atom(s) form an unsubstituted 3-12-membered saturated, partially
      unsaturated, or aryl monocyclic or bicyclic ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently
      selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.

                                                     -14
            Suitable substituents on the aliphatic group of Rt are independently halogen, -R*,
   -(haloR*), -OH, -OR*, -O(haloR*), -CN, -C(O)OH, -C(O)OR*, -NH 2, -NHR*, -NR* 2 , or
   -NO 2 , wherein each R* is unsubstituted or where preceded by "halo" is substituted only with
   one or more halogens, and is independently C 1 _ aliphatic, -CH 2Ph, -O(CH 2)o-1Ph, or a 5-6
 5 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-4 heteroatoms independently
   selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
            As used herein, the term "pharmaceutically acceptable salt" refers to those salts which
   are, within the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the tissues
   of humans and lower animals without undue toxicity, irritation, allergic response and the like,
10 and are commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts
   are well known in the art. For example, S. M. Berge et al., describe pharmaceutically
   acceptable salts in detail in J. Pharmaceutical Sciences, 1977, 66, 1-19, the relevant teachings
   of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Pharmaceutically acceptable
    salts of the compounds of this invention include salts derived from suitable inorganic and
15  organic acids and bases that are compatible with the treatment of patients.
             Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable, nontoxic acid addition salts are salts of an
    amino group formed with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid, hydrobromic acid,
    phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid and perchloric acid or with organic acids such as acetic acid,
    oxalic acid, maleic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, succinic acid or malonic acid or by using
20  other methods used in the art such as ion exchange. Other pharmaceutically acceptable acid
    addition salts include adipate, alginate, ascorbate, aspartate, benzenesulfonate, benzoate,
    bisulfate, borate, butyrate, camphorate, camphorsulfonate, citrate, cyclopentanepropionate,
    digluconate, dodecylsulfate, ethanesulfonate, formate, fumarate, glucoheptonate,
    glycerophosphate, gluconate, hemisulfate, heptanoate, hexanoate, hydroiodide, 2-hydroxy
25  ethanesulfonate, lactobionate, lactate, laurate, lauryl sulfate, malate, maleate, malonate,
    methanesulfonate, 2-naphthalenesulfonate, nicotinate, nitrate, oleate, oxalate, palmitate,
    pamoate, pectinate, persulfate, 3-phenylpropionate, phosphate, pivalate, propionate, stearate,
    succinate, sulfate, tartrate, thiocyanate, p-toluenesulfonate, undecanoate, valerate salts, and
    the like.
30           In some embodiments, exemplary inorganic acids which form suitable salts include,
    but are not limited thereto, hydrochloric, hydrobromic, sulfuric and phosphoric acid and acid
    metal salts such as sodium monohydrogen orthophosphate and potassium hydrogen sulfate.
    Illustrative organic acids which form suitable salts include the mono-, di- and tricarboxylic

                                                    -15
   acids. Illustrative of such acids are, for example, acetic, glycolic, lactic, pyruvic, malonic,
   succinic, glutaric, fumaric, malic, tartaric, citric, ascorbic, maleic, hydroxymaleic, benzoic,
   hydroxybenzoic, phenylacetic, cinnamic, salicylic, 2-phenoxybenzoic, p-toluenesulfonic acid
   and other sulfonic acids such as methanesulfonic acid and 2-hydroxyethanesulfonic acid.
 5 Either the mono- or di-acid salts can be formed, and such salts can exist in either a hydrated,
   solvated or substantially anhydrous form. In general, the acid addition salts of these
   compounds are more soluble in water and various hydrophilic organic solvents, and generally
   demonstrate higher melting points in comparison to their free base forms.
            In some embodiments, acid addition salts of the compounds of formula I are most
10 suitably formed from pharmaceutically acceptable acids, and include, for example, those
   formed with inorganic acids, e.g., hydrochloric, sulfuric or phosphoric acids and organic
   acids e.g. succinic, maleic, acetic or fumaric acid.
            Other non-pharmaceutically acceptable salts, e.g., oxalates can be used, for example,
   in the isolation of compounds of formula I for laboratory use, or for subsequent conversion to
15 a pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt. Also included within the scope of the
   invention are base addition salts (such as sodium, potassium and ammonium salts), solvates
   and hydrates of compounds of the invention. The conversion of a given compound salt to a
   desired compound salt is achieved by applying standard techniques, well known to one
   skilled in the art.
20          A "pharmaceutically acceptable basic addition salt" is any non-toxic organic or
   inorganic base addition salt of the acid compounds represented by formula I, or any of its
   intermediates. Illustrative inorganic bases which form suitable salts include, but are not
   limited thereto, lithium, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium or barium hydroxides.
   Illustrative organic bases which form suitable salts include aliphatic, alicyclic or aromatic
25 organic amines such as methylamine, trimethyl amine and picoline or ammonia. The
   selection of the appropriate salt may be important so that an ester functionality, if any,
   elsewhere in the molecule is not hydrolyzed. The selection criteria for the appropriate salt
   will be known to one skilled in the art.
             Salts derived from appropriate bases include alkali metal, alkaline earth metal,
30  ammonium and N+(CI- 4alkyl) 4 salts. Representative alkali or alkaline earth metal salts
    include sodium, lithium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and the like. Further
   pharmaceutically acceptable salts include, when appropriate, nontoxic ammonium,

                                                   -16
   quaternary ammonium, and amine cations formed using counterions such as halide,
   hydroxide, carboxylate, sulfate, phosphate, nitrate, lower alkyl sulfonate and aryl sulfonate.
            Unless otherwise stated, structures depicted herein are also meant to include all
   isomeric (e.g., enantiomeric, diastereomeric, and geometric (or conformational)) forms of the
 5 structure; for example, the R and S configurations for each asymmetric center, Z and E
   double bond isomers, and Z and E conformational isomers. Therefore, single stereochemical
   isomers as well as enantiomeric, diastereomeric, and geometric (or conformational) mixtures
   of the present compounds are within the scope of the invention. Unless otherwise stated, all
   tautomeric forms of the compounds of the invention are within the scope of the invention.
10          Additionally, unless otherwise stated, structures depicted herein are also meant to
   include compounds that differ only in the presence of one or more isotopically enriched
   atoms. For example, compounds produced by the replacement of a hydrogen with deuterium
                                              14
   or tritium, or of a carbon with a  1C-  or   C-enriched carbon are within the scope of this
   invention. Such compounds are useful, for example, as analytical tools, as probes in
15 biological assays, or as therapeutic agents in accordance with the present invention.
             The term "stereoisomers" is a general term for all isomers of an individual molecule
   that differ only in the orientation of their atoms in space. It includes mirror image isomers
    (enantiomers), geometric (cis/trans) isomers and isomers of compounds with more than one
    chiral center that are not mirror images of one another (diastereomers).
20          The term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" means a non-toxic solvent, dispersant,
    excipient, adjuvant or other material which is mixed with the active ingredient in order to
    permit the formation of a pharmaceutical composition, i.e., a dosage form capable of being
    administered to a patient. One example of such a carrier is pharmaceutically acceptable oil
    typically used for parenteral administration. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are well
25  known in the art.
            When introducing elements disclosed herein, the articles "a," "an," "the," and "said"
    are intended to mean that there are one or more of the elements. The terms "comprising,"
    "having" and "including" are intended to be open-ended and mean that there may be
    additional elements other than the listed elements.
30
    Compounds of the Invention
            One embodiment of the invention is a compound of formula I:

                                                   -17
                                                          qX
                                             B Y       A
                                                         (R4 )m R2
   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
                Ring A is an optionally substituted ring selected from phenyl, an 8-10 membered
           bicyclic aryl ring, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms
 5         independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered
           bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
           oxygen, and sulfur;
                Ring B is an optionally substituted ring selected from a 3-8 membered saturated or
           partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10 membered bicyclic
10         aryl ring, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic
           ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
           sulfur, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms
           independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered
           bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
15         oxygen, and sulfur;
                X is selected from 0, S, N-CN, and NR;
                R is hydrogen or an optionally substituted group selected from C1 .6 aliphatic, 3-8
           membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms
           independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, phenyl, and a 5-6
20         membered heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from
           nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur;
                Y is a covalent bond or an optionally substituted bivalent Ci 4 hydrocarbon group,
           wherein one methylene unit of Y is optionally replaced by -0-, -S-, -N(R )-, -C(O)
            , -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R )-, -N(R 6)C(O)N(R6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)-, -N(R )C(0)0-,
25          -OC(O)N(R 6)-, -S(0)-, -S(0) 2-, -S(0) 2N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)S(0)2-, -OC(O)- or
            C(0)0-;
                each of RI and R2 is independently hydrogen or an optionally substituted group
            selected from C1 .6 aliphatic, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated
            monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10 membered bicyclic aryl ring, a 3-8
30          membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2
            heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, a 5-6

                                           -18
   membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected
   from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl ring
   having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, or:
       R1 and R2 are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a 4-8 membered
 5 saturated, partially unsaturated, or aromatic heterocyclic ring having 1-3 heteroatoms
   independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, wherein the ring formed
   thereby is substituted with -(R 5 )P;
       each of n, m, and p is independently an integer selected from 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4;
       q is an integer selected from 0, 1 and 2;
10     each of R3, R4, and R 5 is independently halogen, -NO 2 , -CN, -N 3 , -L-R6 , or an
   optionally substituted group selected from C1 .6 aliphatic, a 3-8 membered saturated or
   partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10 membered bicyclic
   aryl ring, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic
   ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
15 sulfur, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms
   independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered
   bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
   oxygen, and sulfur, or:
   two R3 groups on Ring B are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a
20     fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-3
       heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur; or:
   two R4 groups on Ring A are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a
       fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-3
       heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur; or:
25 two R' groups on the ring formed by R' and R2 are taken together with their
        intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated,
        or aryl ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
        and sulfur;
        L is a covalent bond or an optionally substituted bivalent C1 -6 hydrocarbon group,
30  wherein one or two methylene units of L is optionally and independently replaced by
    -Cy-, -0-, -S-, -N(R 6)-, -C(O)-, -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)N(R 6 )_
    -N(R 6 )C(O)-, -N(R 6)C(O)O-, -OC(O)N(R6)-, -S(0)-, -S(0) 2 -, -S(O) 2N(R 6)-,
    -N(R 6)S(O) 2-, -OC(O)- or -C(0)O-;

                                                  -19
                -Cy- is an optionally substituted bivalent ring selected from a 3-7 membered
           saturated or partially unsaturated cycloalkylenylene ring, a 4-7-membered saturated or
           partially unsaturated heterocycloalkylene ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently
           selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, phenylene, a 5-6 membered monocyclic
 5         heteroarylene having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
           and sulfur, an 8-10 membered bicyclic arylene, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic
           heteroarylene having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
           and sulfur; and
                each R6 is independently hydrogen or an optionally substituted group selected
10         from C 1 -6 aliphatic, phenyl, a 3-7 membered saturated or partially unsaturated
           carbocyclic ring, an 8-10 membered bicyclic saturated, partially unsaturated or aryl
           carbocyclic ring, a 4-7-membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring
           having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, a
            5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently
15          selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl
            ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
            sulfur; or:
            two R6 on the same nitrogen are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a
                 4-7 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aromatic heterocyclic ring
20               having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
            As described genenerally above, Ring A is an optionally substituted ring selected
   from phenyl, an 8-10 membered bicyclic aryl ring, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl
   ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an
   8-10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from
25 nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
            In some embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted phenyl ring.
            In some embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
   aryl ring. In some embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted naphthyl ring.
            In some embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 5-6 membered monocyclic
30 heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 5-membered heteroaryl

                                                  -20
   ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In
   some embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 5-membered heteroaryl ring having
    1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 5-membered heteroaryl ring having 3
 5 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 5-membered heteroaryl ring having 2
   heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 5-membered heteroaryl ring having 1
   heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring A is an
10 optionally substituted 5-membered heteroaryl ring having 1-3 nitrogen atoms. In some
   embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted group selected from pyrrolyl, furanyl,
   thiophenyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl,
    isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl and thiadiazolyl.
            In some embodiments, Ring A is selected from:
                      N      N-N         N      N-N                NN
15                -       ,                                  H         H and           N
            In some embodiments, Ring A is:
                                                  N'N
                                                     N
            In some embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 6-membered heteroaryl
    ring having 1-4 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 6
20  membered heteroaryl ring having 1-3 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, Ring A is an
    optionally substituted 6-membered heteroaryl ring having 1-2 nitrogen atoms. In some
    embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 6-membered heteroaryl ring having 2
    nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 6-membered
    heteroaryl ring having 1 nitrogen atom. In some embodiments, Ring A is an optionally
25  substituted group selected from pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridizinyl, pyrimidinyl, triazinyl and
    tetrazinyl.
            In some embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted pyridyl ring. In some
     embodiments, Ring A is an optionally substituted 1,6-pyridyl ring. In some embodiments,
    Ring A is:

                                                 -21
           As described generally above, Ring B is an optionally substituted ring selected from a
   3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10
   membered bicyclic aryl ring, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic
 5 heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently
   selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl ring
   having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
            In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated or
10 partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, Ring B is an
   optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some
   embodiments, Ring B is selected from an optionally substituted cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl,
   cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl.
            In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially
15 unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, Ring B is selected from an
   optionally substituted cyclopropenyl, cyclobutenyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclohexenyl,
   cycloheptenyl, cyclooctenyl, cyclohexadienyl and cyclooctadienyl.
            In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted phenyl ring.
            In some embodiments, Ring B is a phenyl ring substituted with one or more groups
20 independently selected from halogen, hydroxy or trifluoromethyl.
            In some embodiments, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more optionally
   substituted methyl groups. In some embodiments, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one
   optionally substituted methyl group. In some embodiments, Ring B is phenyl substituted
   with two optionally substituted methyl groups.
25           In some embodiments, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more methyl groups
    substituted with at least one halogen. In some embodiments, Ring B is phenyl substituted
    with one or more methyl groups substituted with at least two halogens. In some
    embodiments, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more methyl groups substituted with
    three halogens.
30           In some embodiments, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more -CF    3 groups.
    In some embodiments, Ring B is phenyl substituted with two -CF    3 groups.

                                                   -22
            In some embodiments, Ring B is:
    F3C
             CF3
            In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
   aryl ring. In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted naphthyl.
 5          In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated or
   partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently
   selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally
   substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms
   independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring B is
10 an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 2
   heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic
   heterocyclic ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, Ring B is selected from an optionally substituted aziridinyl, oxiranyl, thiiranyl,
15 oxaziridinyl, dioxiranyl, azetidinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, diazetidinyl, dioxetanyl, dithietanyl,
   pyrrolidinyl, oxolanyl, thiolanyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl,
   thiazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl, dioxolanyl, dithiolanyl, piperidinyl, oxanyl, thianyl,
   piperazinyl, morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl, dioxanyl, dithianyl, azepanyl, oxepanyl, thiepanyl
   and homopiperazinyl.
20           In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially
   unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected
   from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring B is selected from an
   optionally substituted azirinyl, oxirenyl, thiirenyl, diazirinyl, azetyl, oxetyl, thietyl, dioxetyl,
   dithietyl, imidazolinyl, pyrazolinyl, oxazolinyl and thiazolinyl.
25           In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 5-6 membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
30 heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic

                                                    -23
   heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur, In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
 5 heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrazolyl,
   imidazolyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl or
   thiadiazolyl.
              In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic
10 heteroaryl ring having 1-4 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally
   substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-3 nitrogen atoms. In some
   embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring
   having 1-2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 6
   membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, Ring
15 B is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1 nitrogen
   atom. In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted pyridinyl, pyrimidinyl,
   pyrizinyl, pyridizinyl, triazinyl or tetrazinyl.
               In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted pyridyl ring. In some
    embodiments, Ring B is a pyridyl ring substituted with one or more optionally substituted
20  C 1 -6 aliphatic groups. In some embodiments, Ring B is a pyridyl ring substituted with one or
    more optionally substituted C 1 4 aliphatic groups. In some embodiments, Ring B is a pyridyl
    ring substituted with one or more optionally substituted C1 2 aliphatic groups. In some
    embodiments, Ring B is a pyridyl ring substituted with one or more optionally substituted
    methyl groups. In some embodiments, Ring B is a pyridyl ring substituted with one or more
25  methyl groups which are further substituted with one or more halogens. In some
    embodiments, Ring B is a pyridyl ring substituted with one or more methyl groups
    substituted with one halogen. In some embodiments, Ring B is a pyridyl ring substituted
    with one or more methyl groups substituted with at least two halogens. In some
    embodiments, Ring B is a pyridyl ring substituted with one or more methyl groups
30  substituted with three halogens. In some embodiments, Ring B is a pyridyl ring substituted
    with one or more -CF      3 groups. In some embodiments, Ring B is a pyridyl ring substituted
    with two -CF     3 groups. In some embodiments, Ring B is:

                                                  -24
    F3C
         N
            CF3
           In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
 5 heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
10 embodiments, Ring B is an optionally substituted benzofuranyl, benzothiophenyl, indolyl,
   indazolyl, benzothiazolyl, benzoxazolyl, benzisoxazolyl, benzimidazolyl, benzotriazolyl,
   azaindolyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl or cinnolinyl.
            As described generally above, X is selected from 0, S, N-CN and NR, wherein R is
   hydrogen or an optionally substituted group selected from C1. 6 aliphatic, 3-8 membered
15 saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently
   selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, phenyl, and a 5-6 membered heteroaryl ring
   having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
            In some embodiments, X is 0.
            In some embodiments, X is S.
20          In some embodiments, X is N-CN.
            In some embodiments, X is NR. More specifically, X is NH. Alternatively, X is
   NCH 3.
            As described generally above, R is hydrogen or an optionally substituted group
    selected from C 1 .6 aliphatic, 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring
25 having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen and sulfur, and a 5-6
   membered heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
    oxygen and sulphur.
            In some embodiments, R is hydrogen.
            In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted C1 .6 aliphatic. In some
30  embodiments, R is optionally substituted C 1 .5 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R is
    optionally substituted C 1 4 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted C1 3

                                                    -25
   aliphatic. In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted C1 2 aliphatic. In some
   embodiments, R is selected from optionally substituted methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl,
   butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl, neopentyl, isopentyl, hexyl, ethenyl, propenyl, butenyl,
   pentenyl, hexenyl and isobutenyl.
 5          In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated or partially
   unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
   oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted 3-8 membered
   saturated heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
   oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted 3-8 membered
10 saturated heterocyclic ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
   oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted 3-8 membered
   saturated heterocyclic ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
   In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted aziridinyl, oxiranyl, thiiranyl, oxaziridinyl,
   dioxiranyl, azetidinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, diazetidinyl, dioxetanyl, dithietanyl, pyrrolidinyl,
15 oxolanyl, thiolanyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl, thiazolidinyl,
   isothiazolidinyl, dioxolanyl, dithiolanyl, piperidinyl, oxanyl, thianyl, piperazinyl,
   morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl, dioxanyl, dithianyl, azepanyl, oxepanyl, thiepanyl or
   homopiperazinyl.
             In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially unsaturated
20 heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially unsaturated
   heterocyclic ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially unsaturated
   heterocyclic ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
25  embodiments, R is optionally substituted azirinyl, oxirenyl, thiirenyl, diazirinyl, azetyl,
    oxetyl, thietyl, dioxetyl, dithietyl, imidazolinyl, pyrazolinyl, oxazolinyl or thiazolinyl.
             In some embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 5-6 membered heteroaryl ring
    having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 5-membered heteroaryl ring having 1-4
30  heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 5-membered heteroaryl ring having 1-3
    heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 5-membered heteroaryl ring having 1-2

                                                   -26
   heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 5-membered heteroaryl ring having 2
   heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 5-membered heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom
 5 selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R is selected from
   optionally substituted pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl, oxazolyl, thiazolyl,
   oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, isoxazolyl, isothiazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl.
            In some embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 6-membered heteroaryl ring
   having 1-4 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 6-membered
10 heteroaryl ring having 1-3 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R is an optionally
   substituted 6-membered heteroaryl ring having 1-2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R
   is an optionally substituted 6-membered heteroaryl ring having 2 nitrogen atoms. In some
   embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 6-membered heteroaryl ring having 1 nitrogen
   atom. In some embodiments, R is selected from optionally substituted pyridinyl, pyrimidinyl,
15 pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, triazinyl and tetrazinyl.
             In some embodiments, X is NH. In some embodiments, X is NCH 3 .
             As described generally above, Y is a covalent bond or an optionally substituted
   bivalent C14 hydrocarbon chain, wherein one methylene unit of Y is optionally replaced by
    0-, -S-, -N(R 6)-, -C(0)-, -C(S)-, -C(0)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6 )C(O)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6 )C(O)-,
20  -N(R 6 )C(0)O-, -OC(O)N(R 6)-, -S(0)-, -S(0)2-, -S(0) 2N(R 6)-, -N(R )S(0)2-, -OC(O)- or
    -C(0)0-.
             In some embodiments, Y is a covalent bond.
              In some embodiments, Y is an optionally substituted bivalent C1 .4 hydrocarbon chain,
    wherein one methylene unit of Y is optionally replaced by -0-, -S-, -N(R 6)-, -C(O)-,
25  -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6 )C(O)N(R6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)-, -N(R)C(0)0-, -OC(O)N(R )_
    -S(0)-, -S(0)2-, -S(0) 2N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)S(0) 2 -, -OC(O)- or -C(0)0-. In some
    embodiments, Y is an optionally substituted bivalent C1. 3 hydrocarbon chain, wherein one
    methylene unit of Y is optionally replaced by -0-, -S-, -N(R6 )-, -C(O)-, -C(S)-,
    -C(O)N(R )-, -N(R 6)C(O)N(R 6)-, -N(R )C(O)-, -N(R 6 )C(0)O-, -OC(O)N(R )-, -S(O)-,
30  -S(0) 2 -, -S(O) 2 N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)S(0) 2-, -OC(0)- or -C(0)0-. In some embodiments, Y is
     an optionally substituted bivalent C1- 2 hydrocarbon chain, wherein one methylene unit of Y is
     optionally replaced by -0-, -S-, -N(R6)-, -C(O)-, -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R6)-, -N(R)C(O)N(R6)

                                                    -27
     -N(R 6)C(O)-, -N(R )C(O)O-, -OC(O)N(R 6)-, -S(O)-, -S(0) 2-, -S(0) 2N(R 6)-,
   -N(R 6)S(O) 2 -, -OC(O)- or -C(O)O-.
             In some embodiments, Y is -0-. In some embodiments, Y is -S-. In some
   embodiments, Y is -N(R 6)-. In some embodiments, Y is -C(O)-. In some embodiments, Y
 5 is -C(O)-.     In some embodiments, Y is -NH-. In some embodiments, Y is -CH 2 0-. In
   some embodiments, Y is -CH 2 S-. In some embodiments, Y is -CH 2N(H)-.
             As described generally above, each of RI and R 2 is independently selected from
   hydrogen or an optionally substituted group selected from C1 -6 aliphatic, a 3-8 membered
   saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10 membered
10 bicyclic aryl ring, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic
   ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, a 5-6
   membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4
   heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
15           In some embodiments, RI and R 2 are each hydrogen. In some embodiments, one of
   R' and R2 is hydrogen.
             In some embodiments, R1 is hydrogen. In some embodiments, R' is optionally
    substituted C1 -6 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R 1 is optionally substituted C 1. 5 aliphatic.
    In some embodiments, R' is optionally substituted C1 4 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R'
20  is optionally substituted C1-3 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R1 is optionally substituted
    C1 -2 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R' is selected from optionally substituted methyl, ethyl,
    propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl, neopentyl, isopentyl, hexyl, ethenyl,
    propenyl, butenyl, pentenyl and hexenyl.
              In some embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted phenyl ring.
25            In some embodiments, R1 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated or
    partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R' is an optionally
    substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R'
    is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring.
    In some embodiments, R1 is selected from optionally substituted cyclopropyl, cyclopropenyl,
30  cyclobutyl, cyclobutenyl, cyclopentyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl,
    cyclohexadienyl, cycloheptyl, cycloheptenyl, cyclohepadienyl, cyclooctyl, cyclooctenyl and
     cyclooctadienyl.

                                                     -28
            In some embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic aryl
   ring. In some embodiments, R 1 is an optionally substituted naphthyl ring.
            In some embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated or
   partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently
 5 selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R' is an optionally
   substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms
   independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R' is an
   optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 2
   heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
[0 embodiments, R1 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic
   heterocyclic ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially unsaturated monocyclic
   heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially
[5 unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 3-8
   membered partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1 heteroatom selected
   from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R' is selected from optionally
    substituted aziridinyl, oxiranyl, thiiranyl, oxaziridinyl, dioxiranyl, azetidinyl, oxetanyl,
20 thietanyl, diazetidinyl, dioxetanyl, dithietanyl, pyrrolidinyl, oxolanyl, thiolanyl,
    imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl, thiazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl,
    dioxolanyl, dithiolanyl, piperidinyl, oxanyl, thianyl, piperazinyl, morpholinyl,
    homopiperazinyl, thiomorpholinyl, dioxanyl, dithianyl, azepanyl, oxepanyl, thiepanyl,
    azirinyl, oxirenyl, thiirenyl, diazirinyl, azetyl, oxetyl, thietyl, dioxetyl, dithietyl, imidazolinyl,
25  pyrazolinyl, oxazolinyl and thiazolinyl.
             In some embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 5-6 membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
30  sulfur. In some embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R 1 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and

                                                   -29
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R1 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
 5 embodiments, R' is selected from optionally substituted pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl,
   imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, oxazolyl, thiazolyl, isoxazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl,
   triazolyl and tetrazolyl.
            In some embodiments, R1 is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-4 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R' is an optionally
[0 substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-3 nitrogen atoms. In some
   embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having
    1-2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 6-membered
   monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R1 is an
    optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1 nitrogen atom. In
15  some embodiments, R' is selected from optionally substituted pyridinyl, pyrimidinyl,
    pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, triazinyl and tetrazinyl.
            In some embodiments, R1 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
20  heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R1 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R' is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
25  embodiments, R1 is selected from optionally substituted indolyl, indazolyl, benzofuranyl,
    benzothiophenyl, benzothiazolyl, benzoxazolyl, benzisoxazolyl, benzimidazolyl,
    benzotriazolyl, azaindolyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl and
    cinnolinyl.
             In some embodiments, R2 is hydrogen. In some embodiments, R2 is optionally
30  substituted C 1-6 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R2 is optionally substituted C 1 .5 aliphatic.
    In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted Ci 4 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R
    is optionally substituted C1 3 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R2 is optionally substituted C1 .
    2 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R2 is selected from optionally substituted methyl, ethyl,

                                                   -30
   propyl, isopropyl, butyl, isobutyl, tert-butyl, pentyl, neopentyl, isopentyl, hexyl, ethenyl,
   propenyl, butenyl, pentenyl and hexenyl.
            In some embodiments, R is an optionally substituted phenyl ring.
            In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated or
 5 partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally
   substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R
   is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring.
   In some embodiments, R 2 is selected from optionally substituted cyclopropyl, cyclopropenyl,
   cyclobutyl, cyclobutenyl, cyclopentyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclohexyl, cyclohexenyl,
[0 cyclohexadienyl, cycloheptyl, cycloheptenyl, cyclohepadienyl, cyclooctyl, cyclooctenyl and
   cyclooctadienyl.
            In some embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic aryl
   ring. In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted naphthyl ring.
            In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated or
 5 partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently
    selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R 2 is an optionally
    substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms
    independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R2 is an
    optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 2
20  heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, R 2 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic
    heterocyclic ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially unsaturated monocyclic
    heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
25  sulfur. In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially
    unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from
    nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted 3-8
    membered partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1 heteroatom selected
    from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R2 is selected from optionally
30  substituted aziridinyl, oxiranyl, thiiranyl, oxaziridinyl, dioxiranyl, azetidinyl, oxetanyl,
    thietanyl, diazetidinyl, dioxetanyl, dithietanyl, pyrrolidinyl, oxolanyl, thiolanyl,
     imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl, thiazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl,
     dioxolanyl, dithiolanyl, piperidinyl, homopiperazinyl, oxanyl, thianyl, piperazinyl,

                                                    -31
   morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl, dioxanyl, dithianyl, azepanyl, oxepanyl, thiepanyl, azirinyl,
   oxirenyl, thiirenyl, diazirinyl, azetyl, oxetyl, thietyl, dioxetyl, dithietyl, imidazolinyl,
   pyrazolinyl, oxazolinyl and thiazolinyl.
           In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted 5-6 membered monocyclic
 5 heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
10 sulfur. In some embodiments, R 2 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R 2 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
15 heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, R2 is selected from optionally substituted pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl,
   imidazolyl, pyrazolyl, oxazolyl, thiazolyl, isoxazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl,
   triazolyl and tetrazolyl.
            In some embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic
                                                                               2
20  heteroaryl ring having 1-4 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R is an optionally
    substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-3 nitrogen atoms. In some
    embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having
    1-2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted 6-membered
    monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R is an
25  optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1 nitrogen atom. In
    some embodiments, R2 is selected from optionally substituted pyridinyl, pyrimidinyl,
    pyrazinyl, pyridazinyl, triazinyl and tetrazinyl.
            In some embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
30  sulfur. In some embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and

                                                  -32
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R2 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, R2 is selected from optionally substituted indolyl, indazolyl, benzofuranyl,
   benzothiophenyl, benzothiazolyl, benzoxazolyl, benzisoxazolyl, benzimidazolyl,
 5 benzotriazolyl, azaindolyl, quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl and
   cinnolinyl.
            As described generally above, R' and R2 are taken together with their intervening
   atoms to form a 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aromatic heterocyclic ring
   having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
 0 embodiments, R1 and R are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a 4-8
   membered saturated heterocyclic ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R' and R2 are taken together with their
   intervening atoms to form a 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring having 1-2
   heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
15 embodiments, RI and R2 are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a 4-8
   membered saturated heterocyclic ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R' and R2 are taken together with their
    intervening atoms to form a 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring having 1 nitrogen
    atom. In some embodiments, RI and R are taken together with their intervening atoms to
20  form a ring selected from azepinyl, azetidinyl, pyrrolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl,
    thiazolidinyl, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, and morpholinyl.
            In some embodiments, the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R , R
    and their intervening atoms is:
               (R5)
25  wherein Rs and p are as defined above and described herein.
            In some embodiments, the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R1, R2
    and their intervening atoms is substituted with one or more halogens. In some such
                                                                                   2
    embodiments, the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R', R and their
     intervening atoms is:
       -N       F
30             F.

                                                    -33
            In some embodiments, R' and R2 are taken together with their intervening atoms to
   form a 4-8 membered partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1-3 heteroatoms
                                                                                             1
   independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R and R2
   are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a 4-8 membered partially unsaturated
 5 heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, RI and R2 are taken together with their intervening atoms to
   form a 4-8 membered partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 2 heteroatoms
                                                                                             1
   independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R and R2
   are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a 4-8 membered partially unsaturated
10 heterocyclic ring having 1 nitrogen atom. In some embodiments, R' and R2 are taken
   together with their intervening atoms to form a ring selected from azetyl, imidazolidinyl,
   pyrazolinyl, oxazolinyl, thiazolinyl, oxazinyl, thiazinyl, azepinyl and diazepinyl.
            In some embodiments, R1 and R2 are taken together with their intervening atoms to
   form a 4-8 membered aromatic heterocyclic ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently
15  selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, RI and W are taken
   together with their intervening atoms to form a 4-8 membered aromatic heterocyclic ring
    having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, R1 and R2 are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a 4-8
    membered aromatic heterocyclic ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from
                                                                      2
20  nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R' and R are taken together with their
    intervening atoms to form a 4-8 membered aromatic heterocyclic ring having 1 nitrogen
    atom. In some embodiments, R' and R2 are taken together with their intervening atoms to
    form a ring selected from pyrrolyl, oxazolyl, thiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, triazolyl and
    tetrazolyl.
25           As described generally above, the ring formed by R' and R2, and their intervening
    atoms is substituted with -(R 5 )p, wherein p is 0-4. As defined above, R is halogen, -NO 2 ,
    -CN, -N 3 , -L-R 6, or an optionally substituted group selected from C1 -6 aliphatic, a 3-8
    membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10
    membered bicyclic aryl ring, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic
30  heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently
    selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl ring
                                                                                                   5
    having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, or two R

                                                   -34
   groups on the ring formed by R' and R2 are taken together with their intervening atoms to
   form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-3
   heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
            In some embodiments, R5 is halogen. In some embodiments, R 5 is fluorine. In some
 5 embodiments, Rs is chlorine. In some embodiments, R5 is bromine. In some embodiments,
   R5 is -NO 2 . In some embodiments, R5 is -CN. In some embodiments, R5 is -N 3 . In some
   embodiments, R is -L-R 6 .
            As defined generally above, each R6 is independently hydrogen or an optionally
   substituted group selected from C1 .6 aliphatic, phenyl, a 3-7 membered saturated or partially
[0 unsaturated carbocyclic ring, an 8-10 membered bicyclic saturated, partially unsaturated or
   aryl carbocyclic ring, a 4-7-membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring
   having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, a 5-6
   membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4
15 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
             In some embodiments, R is hydrogen. In some embodiments, R is optionally
    substituted phenyl. In some embodiments, R 6 is an optionally substituted C 1 .6 aliphatic. In
    some embodiments, R 6 is an optionally substituted C1. 5 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R6
    is an optionally substituted C 14 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally
20  substituted C1 .3 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted C1 -2
    aliphatic.
             In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 3-7 membered saturated or
                                                                       6
    partially unsaturated carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R is an optionally substituted
                                                                          6
    3-7 membered saturated carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R is an optionally
                                                                                                   6
25  substituted 3-7 membered partially unsaturated carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R is
    selected from cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl,
    cyclopropenyl, cyclobutenyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclohexenyl, cycloheptenyl, cyclooctenyl,
    cyclohexadienyl and cyclooctadienyl.
             In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
                                                                                         6
30   saturated, partially unsaturated or aryl carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R is an
     optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic saturated carbocyclic ring. In some
     embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic partially unsaturated

                                                    -35
   carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered
   bicyclic aryl carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R6 is naphthyl.
            In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 4-7-membered saturated or
   partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from
 5 nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R 6 is optionally substituted 4-7
   membered saturated heterocyclic ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is optionally substituted 4-7
   membered saturated heterocyclic ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is optionally substituted 4-7
 0 membered saturated heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is optionally substituted 4-7
   membered saturated heterocyclic ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
   and sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is selected from aziridinyl, oxiranyl, thiiranyl,
   oxaziridinyl, dioxiranyl, azetidinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, diazetidinyl, dioxetanyl, dithietanyl,
[5 pyrrolidinyl, oxolanyl, thiolanyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl,
   thiazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl, dioxolanyl, dithiolanyl, piperidinyl, oxanyl, thianyl,
   piperazinyl, morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl, dioxanyl, dithianyl, azepanyl, oxepanyl, thiepanyl
    and homopiperazinyl.
             In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 4-7-membered partially
20  unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
    oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is optionally substituted 4-7-membered
    partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from
    nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is optionally substituted 4-7
    membered partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently
25  selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is optionally
    substituted 4-7-membered partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1 heteroatom
                                                                                6
    selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R is selected from
    azirinyl, oxirenyl, thiirenyl, diazirinyl, azetyl, oxetyl, thietyl, dioxetyl, dithietyl, imidazolinyl,
    pyrazolinyl, oxazolinyl and thiazolinyl.
30            In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 5-6 membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and

                                                  -36
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
 5 sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, R6 is selected from pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl,
[0 oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl.
            In some embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
[5 sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic
20 heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, R6 is selected from pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridizinyl, pyrimidinyl, triazinyl and
   tetrazinyl.
             In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
25  sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
30  heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, R6 is selected from indolyl, indazolyl, benzofuranyl, benzothiophenyl,
    benzothiazolyl, benzoxazolyl, benzisoxazolyl, benzimidazolyl, benzotriazolyl, azaindolyl,
    quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl and cinnolinyl.

                                                    -37
            In some embodiments, two R6 on the same nitrogen are taken together with their
   intervening atoms to form a 4-7 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aromatic
   heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, two R6 on the same nitrogen are taken together with their
 5 intervening atoms to form a saturated heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently
   selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, two R6 on the same
   nitrogen are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a partially unsaturated
   heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, two R6 on the same nitrogen are taken together with their
 0 intervening atoms to form an aromatic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms
   independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R6 is
    selected from diazirinyl, azetyl, oxetyl, thietyl, dioxetyl, dithietyl, imidazolinyl, pyrazolinyl,
    oxazolinyl, thiazolinyl, azetidinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, diazetidinyl, dioxetanyl, dithietanyl,
    pyrrolidinyl, oxolanyl, thiolanyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl,
 5  thiazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl, dioxolanyl, dithiolanyl, piperidinyl, oxanyl, thianyl,
    piperazinyl, morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl, dioxanyl, dithianyl, pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl,
    pyrazolyl, imidazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl,
    pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridizinyl and pyrimidinyl.
             As defined generally above, each of n, m, and p is independently an integer selected
20  from 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4. In some embodiments, n is 0. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some
    embodiments, n is 2. In some embodiments, n is 3. In some embodiments, n is 4. In some
    embodiments, m is 0. In some embodiments, m is 1. In some embodiments, m is 2. In some
    embodiments, m is 3. In some embodiments, m is 4. In some embodiments, p is 0. In some
    embodiments, p is 1. In some embodiments, p is 2. In some embodiments, p is 3. In some
25   embodiments, p is 4.
             As defined generally above, q is an integer selected from 0, 1 and 2, In some
     embodiments, q is 0. In some embodiments, q is 1. In some embodiments, q is 2.
             As defined generally above, each of R3, R4 , and R5 is independently halogen, -NO 2 ,
     CN, -N 3 , -L-R 6, or an optionally substituted group selected from C1-6 aliphatic, a 3-8
30   membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10
     membered bicyclic aryl ring, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic
     heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
     sulfur, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently

                                                   -38
   selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl ring
   having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
            In some embodiments, R3 is halogen. In some embodiments, R 3 is -NO 2. In some
   embodiments, R 3 is -CN. In some embodiments, R 3 is -N 3.
 5          In some embodiments, R3 is optionally substituted C1-6 aliphatic. In some
   embodiments, R 3 is optionally substituted C1 .5 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R 3 is
   optionally substituted C1 4 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R3 is optionally substituted C1 .3
   aliphatic. In some embodiments, R3 is optionally substituted C1-2 aliphatic. In some
   embodiments, R3 is selected from methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl,
t0 pentyl, neopentyl, isopentyl and hexyl.
            In some embodiments, R3 is -L-R 6 .
            In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted phenyl.
            In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated or
                                                                                     3
   partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R is an optionally
15 substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R3
   is selected from cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl and
   cyclooctyl.
             In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially
                                                                           3
   unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R is selected from
20  cyclopropenyl, cyclobutenyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclohexenyl, cycloheptenyl, cyclooctenyl,
    cyclopentadienyl, cyclohexadienyl, cycloheptadienyl and cyclooctadienyl.
             In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted an 8-10 membered bicyclic aryl
    ring. In some embodiments, R3 is naphthyl.
             In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated
25  monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
    oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered
    saturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from
    nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 3-8
    membered saturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1 heteroatom selected from
30  nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R3 is selected from aziridinyl, oxiranyl,
    thiiranyl, oxaziridinyl, dioxiranyl, azetidinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, diazetidinyl, dioxetanyl,
     dithietanyl, pyrrolidinyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl,
     dioxolanyl, dithiolanyl, oxolanyl, thiolanyl, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, morpholinyl, oxanyl,

                                                    -39
   thianyl, thiomorpholinyl, dioxanyl, dithianyl, azepanyl, oxepanyl, thiepanyl and
   homopiperazinyl.
            In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially
   unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected
 5 from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R3 is selected from azirinyl,
   oxirenyl, thiirenyl, diazirinyl, azetyl, oxetyl, thietyl, dioxetyl, dithietyl, imidazolinyl,
   pyrazolinyl, oxazolinyl and thiazolinyl.
            In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 5-6 membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
 0 sulfur. In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, RW is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
[5 heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
20  embodiments, R3 is selected from pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl,
    oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl.
             In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally
    substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-3 nitrogen atoms. In some
25  embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having
    1-2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 6-membered
    monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R3 is an
    optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1 nitrogen atom. In
    some embodiments, R3 is selected from pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridizinyl, pyrimidinyl,
30  triazinyl and tetrazinyl.
             In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic

                                                   -40
   heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R3 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, RW is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
 5 heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, R3 is selected from indolyl, indazolyl, benzofuranyl, benzothiophenyl,
   benzothiazolyl, benzoxazolyl, benzisoxazolyl, benzimidazolyl, benzotriazolyl, azaindolyl,
   quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl and cinnolinyl.
           In some embodiments, R4 is halogen. In some embodiments, R 4 is -NO 2 . In some
 0 embodiments, R 4 is -CN. In some embodiments, R4 is -N 3 .
           In some embodiments, R is optionally substituted C 1 .6 aliphatic. In some
   embodiments, R is optionally substituted C 1 .5 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R 4 is
   optionally substituted C 1 .4 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R 4 is optionally substituted C 1 .3
   aliphatic. In some embodiments, R4 is optionally substituted C1 -2 aliphatic. In some
 5 embodiments, R4 is selected from methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl,
   pentyl, neopentyl, isopentyl and hexyl.
                                            46
            In some embodiments, R is -L-R.
            In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally substituted phenyl.
            In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated or
 0 partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R is an optionally
   substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R4
   is selected from cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl and
   cyclooctyl.
            In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially
25 unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R4 is selected from
   cyclopropenyl, cyclobutenyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclohexenyl, cycloheptenyl, cyclooctenyl,
   cyclopentadienyl, cyclohexadienyl, cycloheptadienyl and cyclooctadienyl.
            In some embodiments, R 4 is an optionally substituted an 8-10 membered bicyclic aryl
   ring. In some embodiments, R 4 is naphthyl.
30          In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated
   monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
   oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered
   saturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from

                                                    -41
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally substituted 3-8
   membered saturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1 heteroatom selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R4 is selected from aziridinyl, oxiranyl,
   thiiranyl, oxaziridinyl, dioxiranyl, azetidinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, diazetidinyl, dioxetanyl,
 5 dithietanyl, pyrrolidinyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl,
   dioxolanyl, dithiolanyl, oxolanyl, thiolanyl, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, morpholinyl, oxanyl,
   thianyl, thiomorpholinyl, dioxanyl, dithianyl, azepanyl, oxepanyl, thiepanyl and
   homopiperazinyl.
             In some embodiments, R 4 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially
 0 unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected
   from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R4 is selected from azirinyl,
   oxirenyl, thiirenyl, diazirinyl, azetyl, oxetyl, thietyl, dioxetyl, dithietyl, imidazolinyl,
   pyrazolinyl, oxazolinyl and thiazolinyl.
             In some embodiments, R 4 is an optionally substituted 5-6 membered monocyclic
 5 heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R 4 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R 4 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
 0  sulfur. In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
25  heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, R4 is selected from pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl,
    oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl.
              In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally
30  substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-3 nitrogen atoms. In some
    embodiments, R 4 is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having
     1-2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally substituted 6-membered
    monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R4 is an

                                                  -42
   optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1 nitrogen atom. In
   some embodiments, R4 is selected from pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridizinyl, pyrimidinyl,
   triazinyl and tetrazinyl.
            In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
 5 heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R 4 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R4 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
.0  sulfur. In some embodiments, R 4 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, R4 is selected from indolyl, indazolyl, benzofuranyl, benzothiophenyl,
   benzothiazolyl, benzoxazolyl, benzisoxazolyl, benzimidazolyl, benzotriazolyl, azaindolyl,
    quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl and cinnolinyl.
                                                                            5
[5          In some embodiments, R5 is halogen. In some embodiments, R is -NO 2 . In some
    embodiments, R5 is -CN. In some embodiments, R5 is -N 3 .
            In some embodiments, Rs is optionally substituted C 1-6 aliphatic. In some
                                                                                        5
    embodiments, R5 is optionally substituted C1 -5 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R is
    optionally substituted C 14 aliphatic. In some embodiments, R 5 is optionally substituted C1-3
20  aliphatic. In some embodiments, R5 is optionally substituted C1 2 aliphatic. In some
    embodiments, R5 is selected from methyl, ethyl, propyl, isopropyl, butyl, sec-butyl, tert-butyl,
    pentyl, neopentyl, isopentyl and hexyl.
                                      5         6
             In some embodiments, R is -L-R.
             In some embodiments, R 5 is an optionally substituted phenyl.
25           In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated or
    partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R is an optionally
                                                                                                  5
    substituted 3-8 membered saturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R
    is selected from cyclopropyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl, cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl and
    cyclooctyl.
30            In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially
                                                                          5
    unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring. In some embodiments, R is selected from
     cyclopropenyl, cyclobutenyl, cyclopentenyl, cyclohexenyl, cycloheptenyl, cyclooctenyl,
     cyclopentadienyl, cyclohexadienyl, cycloheptadienyl and cyclooctadienyl.

                                                    -43
            In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted an 8-10 membered bicyclic aryl
   ring. In some embodiments, R5 is naphthyl.
            In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered saturated
   monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
 5 oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered
   saturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 3-8
   membered saturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1 heteroatom selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R5 is selected from aziridinyl, oxiranyl,
10 thiiranyl, oxaziridinyl, dioxiranyl, azetidinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, diazetidinyl, dioxetanyl,
    dithietanyl, pyrrolidinyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl, isoxazolidinyl,
    dioxolanyl, dithiolanyl, oxolanyl, thiolanyl, piperidinyl, piperazinyl, morpholinyl, oxanyl,
   thianyl, thiomorpholinyl, dioxanyl, dithianyl, azepanyl, oxepanyl, thiepanyl and
    homopiperazinyl.
15           In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 3-8 membered partially
    unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected
    from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, R5 is selected from azirinyl,
    oxirenyl, thiirenyl, diazirinyl, azetyl, oxetyl, thietyl, dioxetyl, dithietyl, imidazolinyl,
    pyrazolinyl, oxazolinyl and thiazolinyl.
20           In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 5-6 membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
     sulfur. In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
25  heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
     sulfur. In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
     heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
     sulfur. In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
     heteroaryl ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
30   sulfur. In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 5-membered monocyclic
     heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
     embodiments, R5 is selected from pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl,
     oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl.

                                                  -44
            In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-4 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally
   substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-3 nitrogen atoms. In some
   embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having
 5 1-2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 6-membered
   monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 2 nitrogen atoms. In some embodiments, R5 is an
   optionally substituted 6-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1 nitrogen atom. In
   some embodiments, R5 is selected from pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridizinyl, pyrimidinyl,
   triazinyl and tetrazinyl.
 0          In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
   sulfur. In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
   heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
 5 heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur. In some embodiments, R5 is an optionally substituted 8-10 membered bicyclic
    heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, R5 is selected from indolyl, indazolyl, benzofuranyl, benzothiophenyl,
    benzothiazolyl, benzoxazolyl, benzisoxazolyl, benzimidazolyl, benzotriazolyl, azaindolyl,
20  quinolinyl, isoquinolinyl, quinazolinyl, quinoxalinyl and cinnolinyl.
             In some embodiments, two R3 groups on Ring B are taken together with their
    intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring
    having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, two RW groups on Ring B are taken together with their intervening atoms to
25  form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 1-3
    heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
    embodiments, two RW groups on Ring B are taken together with their intervening atoms to
    form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 1 heteroatom
    selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, two R3 groups on Ring B
30  are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated,
    partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 2-3 heteroatoms independently selected from
    nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, two R3 groups on Ring B are taken
    together with their intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially

                                                    -45
   unsaturated, or aryl ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
   and sulfur. In some embodiments, two R3 groups on Ring B are taken together with their
   intervening atoms to form a phenyl ring. In some embodiments, two R3 groups on Ring B are
   taken together with their intervening atoms to form a ring selected from aziridinyl, oxiranyl,
 5 thiiranyl, oxaziridinyl, dioxiranyl, azetidinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, diazetidinyl, dioxetanyl,
   dithietanyl, pyrrolidinyl, oxolanyl, thiolanyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl,
   isoxazolidinyl, thiazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl, dioxolanyl, dithiolanyl, piperidinyl, oxanyl,
   thianyl, piperazinyl, morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl, dioxanyl, dithianyl, azepanyl, oxepanyl,
   thiepanyl, homopiperazinyl, azirinyl, oxirenyl, thiirenyl, diazirinyl, azetyl, oxetyl, thietyl,
 0 dioxetyl, dithietyl, imidazolinyl, pyrazolinyl, oxazolinyl, thiazolinyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl,
   cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl,
   oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl,
   pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridizinyl, pyrimidinyl, triazinyl and tetrazinyl.
            In some embodiments, two R4 groups on Ring A are taken together with their
 5 intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring
   having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
   embodiments, two R4 groups on Ring B are taken together with their intervening atoms to
   form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 1-3
   heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some
 0 embodiments, two R4 groups on Ring B are taken together with their intervening atoms to
   form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 1 heteroatom
    selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, two R4 groups on Ring B
    are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated,
   partially unsaturated, or aryl ring.having 2-3 heteroatoms independently selected from
25  nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, two R 4 groups on Ring B are taken
    together with their intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially
    unsaturated, or aryl ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
    and sulfur. In some embodiments, two R4 groups on Ring B are taken together with their
    intervening atoms to form a phenyl ring. In some embodiments, two R4 groups on Ring B are
30  taken together with their intervening atoms to form a ring selected from aziridinyl, oxiranyl,
    thiiranyl, oxaziridinyl, dioxiranyl, azetidinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, diazetidinyl, dioxetanyl,
    dithietanyl, pyrrolidinyl, oxolanyl, thiolanyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl,
    isoxazolidinyl, thiazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl, dioxolanyl, dithiolanyl, piperidinyl, oxanyl,

                                                    -46
   thianyl, piperazinyl, morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl, dioxanyl, dithianyl, azepanyl, oxepanyl,
   thiepanyl, homopiperazinyl, azirinyl, oxirenyl, thiirenyl, diazirinyl, azetyl, oxetyl, thietyl,
   dioxetyl, dithietyl, imidazolinyl, pyrazolinyl, oxazolinyl, thiazolinyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl,
   cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl,
 5 oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl,
   pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridizinyl, pyrimidinyl, triazinyl and tetrazinyl.
            In some embodiments, two R5 groups on the ring formed by R1 and R2 are taken
   together with their intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially
   unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
[0 oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, two R5 groups on Ring B are taken together with
   their intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl
   ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In
   some embodiments, two R5 groups on Ring B are taken together with their intervening atoms
   to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 1
[5 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, two R5 groups
   on Ring B are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered
    saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 2-3 heteroatoms independently selected
    from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments, two R5 groups on Ring B are taken
   together with their intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially
20  unsaturated, or aryl ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
    and sulfur. In some embodiments, two R5 groups on Ring B are taken together with their
    intervening atoms to form a phenyl ring. In some embodiments, two R5 groups on Ring B are
    taken together with their intervening atoms to form a ring selected from aziridinyl, oxiranyl,
    thiiranyl, oxaziridinyl, dioxiranyl, azetidinyl, oxetanyl, thietanyl, diazetidinyl, dioxetanyl,
25  dithietanyl, pyrrolidinyl, oxolanyl, thiolanyl, imidazolidinyl, pyrazolidinyl, oxazolidinyl,
    isoxazolidinyl, thiazolidinyl, isothiazolidinyl, dioxolanyl, dithiolanyl, piperidinyl, oxanyl,
    thianyl, piperazinyl, morpholinyl, thiomorpholinyl, dioxanyl, dithianyl, azepanyl, oxepanyl,
    thiepanyl, homopiperazinyl, azirinyl, oxirenyl, thiirenyl, diazirinyl, azetyl, oxetyl, thietyl,
    dioxetyl, dithietyl, imidazolinyl, pyrazolinyl, oxazolinyl, thiazolinyl, cyclobutyl, cyclopentyl,
30  cyclohexyl, cycloheptyl, cyclooctyl, pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl,
    oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl,
    pyridinyl, pyrazinyl, pyridizinyl, pyrimidinyl, triazinyl and tetrazinyl.

                                                  -47
            As defined generally above, L is a covalent bond or an optionally substituted bivalent
   C 1 .6 hydrocarbon chain, wherein one or two methylene units of L is optionally and
   independently replaced by -Cy-, -0-, -S-, -N(R )-, -C(O)-, -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R )-,
   -N(R 6)C(0)N(R 6)-, -N(R )C(O)-, -N(R 6)C(0)0-, -OC(O)N(R 6)-, -S(O)-, -S(0) 2-,
 5 -S(0)2N(R 6)-, -N(R)S(0)2-, -OC(O)- or -C(0)0-. In some embodiments, L is a covalent
   bond. In some embodiments, L is an optionally substituted bivalent C1 .6 hydrocarbon chain,
   wherein one or two methylene units of L is optionally and independently replaced by -Cy-,
   -0-, -S-, -N(R6 )-, -C(O)-, -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R 6), -N(R 6)C(O)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)-,
   -N(R6)C(0)0-, -OC(O)N(R)-, -S(O)-, -S(0) 2-, -S(0) 2N(R6)-, -N(R)S(0)2-, -OC(O)- or
 0 -C(0)O-. In some embodiments, L is an optionally substituted bivalent C1 5 hydrocarbon
   chain, wherein one or two methylene units of L is optionally and independently replaced by
   -Cy-, -0-, -S-, -N(R 6)-, -C(O)-, -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R )-, -N(R )C(0)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)-,
   -N(R 6)C(O)O-, -OC(O)N(R 6)-, -S(0)-, -S(0) 2-, -S(0) 2N(R6)-, -N(R 6)S(0)2-, -OC(O)- or
   -C(0)0-. In some embodiments, L is an optionally substituted bivalent C 14 hydrocarbon
[5 chain, wherein one or two methylene units of L is optionally and independently replaced by
    -Cy-, -0-, -S-, -N(R )-, -C(O)-, -C(S)-, -C(0)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)-,
   -N(R 6)C(0)0-, -OC(O)N(R 6)-, -S(0)-, -S(O) 2-, -S(0) 2N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)S(0)2-, -OC(O)- or
   -C(0)0-. In some embodiments, L is an optionally substituted bivalent C1 -3 hydrocarbon
    chain, wherein one or two methylene units of L is optionally and independently replaced by
2O  -Cy-, -0-, -S-, -N(R 6)-, -C(O)-, -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)N(R 6 )-, -N(R 6)C(O)-,
   -N(R )C(0)0-, -OC(O)N(R )-, -S(0)-, -S(0) 2-, -S(0) 2N(R6)-, -N(R )S(0)2-, -OC(O)- or
    -C(0)0-. In some embodiments, L is an optionally substituted bivalent C1- 2 hydrocarbon
    chain, wherein one or two methylene units of L is optionally and independently replaced by
    -Cy-, -0-, -S-, -N(R )-, -C(O)-, -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)-,
25  -N(R 6)C(0)0-, -OC(O)N(R 6)-, -S(0)-, -S(0) 2-, -S(0) 2N(R6)-, -N(R 6)S(O)2-, -OC(O)- or
    -C(0)0-. In some embodiments, L is -Cy-. In some embodiments, L is -0-. In some
    embodiments, L is -S-. In some embodiments, L is -N(R6)-. In some embodiments, L is
    -C(O)-. In some embodiments, L is -C(S)-. In some embodiments, L is -C(O)N(R          6).  In
    some embodiments, L is -N(R6)C(O)N(R6)-.        In some embodiments, L is -N(R6)C(O)-.      In
30  some embodiments, L is -N(R 6)C(0)-.        In some embodiments, L is -OC(O)N(R 6 )-.     In
    some embodiments, L is -S(0)-. In some embodiments, L is -S(0) 2-. In some
    embodiments, L is -S(O)2N(R6)-.     In some embodiments, L is -N(R6)S(0)2-.      In some
    embodiments, L is -OC(O)-. In some embodiments, L is -C(O)O-.

                                                -48
           In some embodiments, L is -CH 2 -Cy-. In some embodiments, L is -CH 2 -0-. In
   some embodiments, L is -CH 2-S-. In some embodiments, L is -CH 2-N(R6)-. In some
   embodiments, L is -CH 2-C(O)-. In some embodiments, L is -CH 2 -C(S)-.         In some
   embodiments, L is -CH 2-C(O)N(R6)-. 'In some embodiments, L is -CH 2 -N(R 6)C(O)N(R 6).
 5 In some embodiments, L is -CH 2-N(R 6)C(O)-. In some embodiments, L is -CH          2
   N(R 6)C(0)O-. In some embodiments, L is -CH 2-OC(O)N(R 6)-. In some embodiments, L is
   -CH 2 -S(O)-.   In some embodiments, L is -CH 2 -S(O) 2 -. In some embodiments, L is -CH     2
   S(O) 2 N(R6)-.   In some embodiments, L is -CH 2 -N(R 6)S(O) 2 -. In some embodiments, L is
   -CH 2 -OC(O)-. In some embodiments, L is -CH 2 -C(0)O-.
 0         In some embodiments, L is -Cy-CH 2-. In some embodiments, L is -O-CH 2-. In
   some embodiments, L is -S-CH2-. In some embodiments, L is -N(R6)-CH27-. In some
   embodiments, L is -C(O)-CH 2-. In some embodiments, L is -C(S)-CH 2-. In some
   embodiments, L is -C(O)N(R6)-CH 2-. In some embodiments, L is -N(R6)C(O)N(R6)-CH              2-.
   In some embodiments, L is -N(R6)C(0)-CH 2-. In some embodiments, L is -N(R 6 )C(O)O
t5 CH2-. In some embodiments, L is -OC(O)N(R 6)-CH 2-. In some embodiments, L is
   -S(O)-CH 2-. In some embodiments, L is -S(0)2-CH 2 -. In some embodiments, L is
   -S(O)2N(R6)-CH 2-. In some embodiments, L is -N(R6)S(O)2-CH         2 -. In some embodiments,
   L is -OC(O)-CH 2-. In some embodiments, L is -C(O)O-CH 2--.
            As defined generally above, -Cy- is an optionally substituted bivalent ring selected
Z0 from a 3-7 membered saturated or partially unsaturated cycloalkylenylene ring, a 4-7
   membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocycloalkylene ring having 1-4
   heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, phenylene, a 5-6
   membered monocyclic heteroarylene having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, an 8-10 membered bicyclic arylene, or an 8-10 membered
25 bicyclic heteroarylene having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
    and sulfur.
            In some embodiments, the present invention provides a compound of formula I-a or I
    b:

                                                 -49
                                                                       R2
                        (R3)o     B                                         R1
                                                     (R 4 )m                   (I-a) or
                                                                     R1
                                                             X       N
                             (R)n          Y       A        q
                                                           4
                                                        (R )m               (I-b),
                                                                                          1 2
   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each of Ring A, Ring B, X, Y, R , R
   R?, R4 , m, n and q is as defined above and described herein.
 5          In some embodiments of formulae I-a and I-b, q is 0. Thus, in some embodiments,
   the present invention provides a compound of formula II-a or II-b:
                                                             X         R1
                                                                    N
                            (R3                                       \
                                    n-BR   Y        A
                                                          (R 4 )m         (II-a) or
                              R3)                                     -N
                                  GB        Y     (A     (x                \R1
                                                             (R 4 )m           (I-b),
    or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each of Ring A, Ring B, X, Y, R, R,
10  R3, R4, m and n is as defined above and described herein.
             In some embodiments of formulae II-a and II-b, Y is a covalent bond. Thus, in some
    embodiments, the present invention provides a compound of formula III-a or Ill-b:

                                                -50
                                                             X        R1
                                                                    N
                                                            -~~       R2
                               (R 3 ) n
                                                          ( R)
                                                         (R(3             (-a)    or
                                                                       /R2
                                            BA                X        \R
                                                           (R 4 )m         (III-b),
   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each of Ring A, Ring B, X, R', R2, R3 ,
   R4, m and n is as defined above and described herein.
 5         In some embodiments of formulae III-a and III-b, X is 0. Accordingly, in some
   embodiments, the present invention provides a compound of formula IV-a or IV-b:
                                                       0           R1
                                                                 N
                                                                  \R2
                          (R 3 ) n5     )
                                                     (R 4 )m          (IV-a) or
                           (R3 )                                  N
                                          BA              0         R
                                                      (R4 )m            (IV-b),
   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each of Ring A, Ring B, R1, R , R,
10 m and n is as defined above and described herein.
            In some embodiments of formulae IV-a and IV-b, Ring A is a 5-membered
   monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
   oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments of formulae IV-a and IV-b, Ring A is a 5
   membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from
15 nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments of formulae IV-a and IV-b, Ring A is a
   5-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments of formulae IV-a and IV-b, Ring A is a
   5-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 2 heteroatoms independently selected from
   nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur. In some embodiments of formulae IV-a and IV-b, Ring A is a

                                                        -51
   5-membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1 heteroatom selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
   and sulfur. In some embodiments of formulae IV-a and IV-b, Ring A is selected from
   pyrrolyl, furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl, thiazolyl,
   isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl, thiadiazolyl, triazolyl and tetrazolyl.
 5          In some embodiments of formulae IV-a and IV-b, Ring A is triazolyl. Accordingly,
   in some embodiments, the present invention provides compounds of formulae V-a, V-b, V-c
   and V-d:
                                          R1
                                        N R2
                      N-N                                              NN               N R1
                                      4                     ((R           /a         )m
    (R3                            (    )m
                          B                                      B
                                                (V-a),                                       (V-b),
                                          R1
                               0
                                         N
                                            R2                                              R2
                                                                                          N,
                                                                         N        N\         R1
                              N
                             /)n                             (  nN             /N 0
         (R
                B          \   )                                  (B\4m
                          (R()m                 (V-c) and                     (R)m              (V-d),
10  or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each of Ring B, R', R2, R , R and n is
    as defined above and described herein and m is 0 or 1.
             In some embodiments of formulae IV-a and IV-b, Ring A is imidazolyl. Accordingly,
    in some embodiments, the present invention provides compounds of formulae V-e, V-f, V-g,
    V-h, V-i and V-j:
                                          R1
                               0          /
                                         N    2                                          R2
                                            R
                                             NN
                          N
                                            1                            N
                                                                             >0
                                                                                        N R1
     (R3N                        (R4 )m                  (R3N                   (R4 )m
                B                                                B
15                                               (V-e),                                       (V-f)

                                                     -52
                            o     O     R1
                                       N R2
                                                                                     N
                   N                                              N            0       R1
  (R3                  NR)       (R4 )m                                       (R4 )m
             B           \41mB4m
                        (R4                  (V-g),                   (R4)                (V-h)
                                                                                       NR
                   N-                                                N            0
      3                    N-(R)m    4                                      N-(R4 )m
      (R)     B            4)(3m
                        (R4 )m                                  B            4)
                                             (V-i) and          B(R)m                        (V-j),
  or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each of Ring B, R1, R2, R3, R4, m and n
  is as defined above and described herein.
5         In some embodiments of formulae IV-a and IV-b, Ring A is pyrazolyl. Accordingly,
  in some embodiments, the present invention provides compounds of formulae V-k, V-1, V-m,
  V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s and V-t:
                                        R1
                                           2
                                       N
                                          RR                               N         N R
                    N-N                                               N>NR0
                                 4
   (R 3)                           )m
                                 4)m                  (R 3)(R
                             (RR                                       /n
              BB
                           r)~            R2 (V-k),                                     R (V-i)
                                           r                                          N
                        N                                               N                R1
                           N                                             \
              BR)               R4)                      R)   B             (R4 )m
                                              (V-rn),                                      (V-n)

                                                 -53
                                  NR
                                                                                  N
                    N                                          N-         0
  (R3                     (R4 )m                 (R3 )                   R4 )m
               B                                           B
                                        (V-o),                                         (V-p)
                                               NN
                                                                                    RR
                         N-(R4)m                                      N (4)m
    (3      )n    ~     N-(
                       NN                        (R 3)n             N-Rr
               B                                           B
                                        (V-q),                                         (V-r),
                                  NR
                                     R2
                                                                                      N\R
                                                                                          1
                                                                               0
   (R 3)            N, N(4)m                         (R 3)         N 'N      (R 4)m
               B               m         (V-s) and                                          (V-t),
                                                                           1         R4 , m and n
  or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each of Ring B, R , R2,
5 is as defined above and described herein.
           In some embodiments of formulae IV-a and IV-b, Ring A is pyrrolyl. Accordingly, in
  some embodiments, the present invention provides compounds of formulae V-u, V-v, V-w,
  V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V-cc and V-dd:
                                    R1
                           o
                          NN     -N    2R
                                                                       N           N R1
        )n((R                                         )/                 (R4 )m
               B                                           B
                                          (V-u),                                         (V-v),

                                          -54
                             NR   0I
           4)                                             4)                 N
         (RRR              )            -   (R1         (R(                        (
       B                                              B
               NNNR0             (V-w),     R2l                                  (V-x),
                     o
(R3)n        B N     (R 4)m               (R3)n       B     N        (R4)m
                                        NN
                                                R2
                                                                        0
                             NR                                                R
 (R3)n       N        (R4 )m              (R 3 )n             N       (R4 )m
                                                                              NR1
                                          NN
       B          \B\
                 (R4 )m           (V-aa),                        (4m(V-bb),
                                   4)m~ ~     (R)m                         )
            B                 B                          R2
                   (R         3
                                              (R--4 )m N
                                                         \R1
                                                         B (V-cc) and
                              3)             N-(R4)mR2
                    (R3n                      (R 4)m
                                                           5 (V-dd),an

                                                  -55
   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein each of Ring B, R1, R2 , R2, R4, m and n
   is as defined above and described herein.
            In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
 5 cc or V-dd, Ring B is optionally substituted phenyl. In some embodiments of formula V-a,
   V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V-k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V
   t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V-cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with
   one or more optionally substituted methyl groups. In some embodiments of formula V-a, V
   b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V-k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t,
 0 V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V-cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with
   one optionally substituted methyl group. In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V
   d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V-k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v,
   V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V-ce or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with two
   optionally substituted methyl groups.
[5           In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
    cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more methyl groups substituted with at
    least one halogen. In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h,
    V-i, V-j, V-k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V
20  aa, V-bb, V-cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more methyl groups
    substituted with at least two halogens. In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d,
    V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V-k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V
    w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V-cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more
    methyl groups substituted with three halogens.
25           In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
    k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
    cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more -CF  3 groups. In some
    embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V-k, V-1, V-m, V
    n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V-cc or V-dd,
30  Ring B is phenyl substituted with two -CF   3 groups.
              In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
     k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
     cc or V-dd, Ring B is:

                                                    -56
    F3C
             CF 3
            In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
   cc or V-dd, R 1 and R2 are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a 4-8
 5 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aromatic heterocyclic ring having 1-3
   heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, wherein the ring
   formed thereby is substituted with -(R)p.
            In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
 0 cc or V-dd, the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R 1 , R2 and their
   intervening atoms is:
         v-    (R5  ,wherein R 5 and p are as defined above and described herein.
            In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
 5 cc or V-dd, the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R1, R2 and their
   intervening atoms is substituted with one or more halogens. In some such embodiments of
   formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V-k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q,
   V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V-cc or V-dd, the 4-8 membered
   saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R 1 , R2 and their intervening atoms is:
     I-N       F
20             F.
            In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
   cc or V-dd, Ring B is optionally substituted phenyl and the 4-8 membered saturated
   heterocyclic ring formed by R 1 , R2 and their intervening atoms is:
25            (R5  P , wherein R5 and p are as defined above and described herein.
            In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
    cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more optionally substituted methyl

                                                   -57
   groups and the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R', R2 and their
   intervening atoms is:
         v     (RS(pwherein R5 and p are as defined above and described herein.
            In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
 5 k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
   cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with two optionally substituted methyl groups and
   the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R', R2 and their intervening atoms
   is:
                    ,wherein R and p are as defined above and described herein.
.0          In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
   cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more methyl groups substituted with at
   least one halogen and the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R1 , R2 and
   their intervening atoms is:
       N5)
[5                  ,
                (Rpwherein    R5 and p are as defined above and described herein.
            In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
    k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
    cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more methyl groups substituted with
    three halogens and the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R1 , R2 and their
20  intervening atoms is:
         N           ,wherein R5 and p are as defined above and described herein.
                (RG-(R
             In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
    k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
    cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more -CF 3 groups and the 4-8
25  membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R1 , R2 and their intervening atoms is:
          v     (RS(pwherein R5 and p are as defined above and described herein.
             In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
    k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V-

                                                  -58
   cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with two -CF 3 groups and the 4-8 membered
   saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R', R2 and their intervening atoms is:
          v    (RS(pwherein R5 and p are as defined above and described herein.
            In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
 5 k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
   cc or V-dd, Ring B is:
     F3C
             CF3   ,and the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R', R2 and their
   intervening atoms is:
          V-(R) ,wherein R and p are as defined above and described herein.
[0          In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
   cc or V-dd, Ring B is optionally substituted phenyl and the 4-8 membered saturated
   heterocyclic ring formed by R1, R2 and their intervening atoms is:
          _IF
        N
            >F.
[5           In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
    cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more optionally substituted methyl
    groups and the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R1, R and their
    intervening atoms is:
     I-N        F
20             F.
             In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
    k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
    cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with two optionally substituted methyl groups and
    the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R1, R2 and their intervening atoms
25  is:
       -N       F

                                                 -59
            In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
   cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more methyl groups substituted with at
   least one halogen and the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R', R2 and
 5 their intervening atoms is:
               F
               F,
            In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
   cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more methyl groups substituted with
t0 three halogens and the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R', R2 and their
   intervening atoms is:
                F
       _N
            >F.
            In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
   k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
[5  cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with one or more -CF 3 groups and the 4-8
    membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R', R2 and their intervening atoms is:
                F
       -N
            >F.
             In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
    k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
20  cc or V-dd, Ring B is phenyl substituted with two -CF 3 groups and the 4-8 membered
    saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R', R2 and their intervening atoms is:
                F
        N
               <F
             In some embodiments of formula V-a, V-b, V-c, V-d, V-e, V-f, V-g, V-h, V-i, V-j, V
    k, V-1, V-m, V-n, V-o, V-p, V-q, V-r, V-s, V-t, V-u, V-v, V-w, V-x, V-y, V-z, V-aa, V-bb, V
25  cc or V-dd, Ring B is:
     F3C
              CF3  , and the 4-8 membered saturated heterocyclic ring formed by R1, R2 and their
    intervening atoms is:

                                                     -60
              F
              F.
          One embodiment of the invention is a compound of formula I, or a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
                 Ring A is an optionally substituted ring selected from phenyl, an 8-10 membered
 5        bicyclic aryl ring, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms
          independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered
          bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
          oxygen, and sulfur;
                 Ring B is an optionally substituted ring selected from a 3-8 membered saturated or
 0        partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10 membered bicyclic
          aryl ring, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic
          ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
          sulfur, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms
          independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered
 5        bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
          oxygen, and sulfur;
                 X is selected from 0, S, N-CN, and NR;
                 R is hydrogen or an optionally substituted group selected from C1.6 aliphatic, 3-8
          membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms
 0        independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, phenyl, and a 5-6
          membered heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from
          nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur;
                 Y is a covalent bond or an optionally substituted bivalent C1 4 hydrocarbon group,
          wherein one methylene unit of Y is optionally replaced by -0-, -S-, -N(R 6)-, -C(O)
25         , -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)-, -N(R 6)C(O)O-,
          -OC(O)N(R 6)_,-S(O)-,        -S(0) 2-, -S(O) 2N(R6)-, -N(R 6 )S(O) 2-, -OC(O)- or
           C(O)O-;
                 each of RI and R2 is independently hydrogen or an optionally substituted group
           selected from C1-6 aliphatic, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated
30        monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10 membered bicyclic aryl ring, a 3-8
          membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2
           heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, a 5-6

                                           -61
   membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected
   from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl ring
   having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, or:
        R1 and R are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a 4-8 membered
 5 saturated, partially unsaturated, or aromatic heterocyclic ring having 1-3 heteroatoms
   independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, wherein the ring formed
   thereby is substituted with -(R 5 )p;
        each of n, m, and p is independently an integer selected from 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4;
        q is an integer selected from 0, 1 and 2;
                                                                                  6
S0      each of R3, R4 , and R5 is independently halogen, -NO 2 , -CN, -N 3 , -L-R , or an
   optionally substituted group selected from C1.6 aliphatic, a 3-8 membered saturated or
   partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10 membered bicyclic
    aryl ring, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic
    ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
[5  sulfur, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms
    independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered
    bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
    oxygen, and sulfur, or:
    two R3 groups on Ring B are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a
20      fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-3
        heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur; or:
    two R4 groups on Ring A are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a
         fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-3
        heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur; or:
25   two R5 groups on the ring formed by RI and R2 are taken together with their
         intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated,
         or aryl ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
         and sulfur;
         L is a covalent bond or an optionally substituted bivalent C1-6 hydrocarbon group,
30   wherein one or two methylene units of L is optionally and independently replaced by
     -Cy-, -0-, -S-, -N(R 6)-, -C(O)-, -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R6)-, -N(R)C(O)N(R6)-,
     -N(R 6)C(O)-, -N(R 6 )C(O)O-, -OC(O)N(R6)-, -S(O)-, -S(0) 2 -, -S(0) 2N(R )-,
     -N(R 6)S(O)2-, -OC(O)- or -C(0)O-;

                                                 -62
               -Cy- is an optionally substituted bivalent ring selected from a 3-7 membered
         saturated or partially unsaturated cycloalkylenylene ring, a 4-7-membered saturated or
         partially unsaturated heterocycloalkylene ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently
         selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, phenylene, a 5-6 membered monocyclic
 5       heteroarylene having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
         and sulfur, an 8-10 membered bicyclic arylene, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic
         heteroarylene having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
          and sulfur; and
                each R6 is independently hydrogen or an optionally substituted group selected
 0        from C 1-6aliphatic, phenyl, a 3-7 membered saturated or partially unsaturated
          carbocyclic ring, an 8-10 membered bicyclic saturated, partially unsaturated or aryl
          carbocyclic ring, a 4-7-membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring
          having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, a
          5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently
.5        selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl
          ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
          sulfur; or:
                two R6 on the same nitrogen are taken together with their intervening atoms to
                form a 4-7 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aromatic heterocyclic
20              ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
                sulfur.
           In one specific embodiment of a compound of formula I, the compound is not a
   compound listed in Table 1A.
25 Table 1A.
                  Compound Structure                                  Compound Name
                         N- N        NH              (Z)-3 -(3 -(3 -chlorophenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1
            Cl              N                                  yl)-N-cyclopentylacrylamide
                          N-N        N                (Z)- 1-(azetidin- 1-yl)-3-(3 -(3-chlorophenyl)
                             />
                  CN         N                            I 11,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one

                                  -63
        Compound Structure                             Compound Name
             N-N        N     F       (Z)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1
                              F       yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1
   C1       S N N
                                                              one
   F3 C                  N     F         (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3
                 N                       methoxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
                                             1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
         OCH 3
               N-N       N     F
   F3 F3C        N   0         F         (Z)- 1-(3,3 -difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)-3 -(3 -(3
                 N
                                        isopropoxy-5 -(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H
                                             1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
            HN           NH           (Z)-3-(5-(3-chlorophenyl)-4H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    C1           N   0     /                        yl)-N-phenylacrylamide
            HN           N             (Z)-3-(5-(3-chlorophenyl)-4H-1,2,4-triazol-3
    CI           NIN 0       s               yl)-N-methyl-N-phenylacrylamide
                      NOO
                               0X
                         HN
                               0
                               0        (E)-tert-butyl (4-(3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H
                     NH                                  1,2,4-triazol- 1
          N-N
                                              yl)acrylamido)phenyl)carbamate
C1         IN

                                              -64
              Compound Structure                                  Compound Name
                                         0
                             0
                                   NH             (E)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1
                    N-N                                yl)-N-(4-methoxyphenyl)acrylamide
               C1     N
                                   NH                      (E)-N-(3-chlorophenyl)-3-(3-(3
                                                         chlorophenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1
                   N-N
       Cl             />                                             yl)acrylamide
                      N
                                         NH2
                             o         -                   (E)-N-(4-aminophenyl)-3-(3-(3
                          -        NH                     chlorophenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1
                    N-N                                              yl)acrylamide
                       N       -
                        IN-N          N            (Z)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
              CI/>0
                          N                            yl)-N-isopropyl-N-methylacrylamide
                                   -F
                       N-N            N            (Z)-3 -(3-(3 -chlorophenyl)- 1H- 1,2,4-triazol- 1
              cj,      I/>       0
           CI             N                             yl)-N-fluoro-N-isopropylacrylamide
          In another specific embodiment of a compound of formula I, the compound is not a
  compound listed in Table 1B.
5 Table 1B.
               Compound Structure                                  Compound Name

                                -65
     Compound Structure                              Compound Name
             N-N       NH           (Z)-3 -(3 -(3 -chlorophenyl)- 1H- 1,2,4-triazol- 1
 C1            N                              yl)-N-cyclopentylacrylamide
             NI-N       N            (Z)- 1-(azetidin- 1-yl)-3 -(3 -(3 -chlorophenyl)
    CIe~        N                        1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                  NN- N    F        (Z)-3 -(3 -(3 -chlorophenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1
                           F         yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1
C         ~. N N
                    0
                                                             one
             N'N       N    F          (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3
F3C            N                       methoxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
                                            1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
       OCH 3
                             FN
             N'N \     N    F
F3 C           N            F           (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3
                                      isopropoxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
                                            1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
           HN          NH            (Z)-3 -(5 -(3 -chlorophenyl)-4H- 1,2,4-triazol-3
 C             N'       /                         yl)-N-phenylacrylamide
           HN          N             (Z)-3 -(5 -(3 -chlorophenyl)-4H- 1,2,4-triazol-3
 CI             N'       /                  yl)-N-methyl-N-phenylacrylamide

                                      -66
       Compound Structure                                Compound Name
                                  0
                            HN
                                  0
                                           (E)-tert-butyl (4-(3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H
                       NH                                  1,2,4-triazol-1
                                                 yl)acrylamido)phenyl)carbamate
          N-N
C           N
                                 0
                     0
                           NH             (E)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
             N-N                               yl)-N-(4-methoxyphenyl)acrylamide
     C1        N
                         O         C1
                    0     NH                      (E)-N-(3-chlorophenyl)-3-(3-(3
                                                                                  1
                                                 chlorophenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol-
            N-N
  C1           N)/                                          yl)acrylamide
               N
                                 NH2
                     o         -                  (E)-N-(4-aminophenyl)-3-(3-(3
                           NH
                    --                           chlorophenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1
             N-N                                            yl)acrylamide
              C1N
                      -/
                N- N          N            (Z)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
        CI ~       />y0
                   N                           yl)-N-isopropyl-N-methylacrylamide

                                             -67
               Compound Structure                                  Compound Name
                            -     I   F
                     N-N            N            (Z)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
              C1      I/>O0
          CI            N                              yl)-N-fluoro-N-isopropylacrylamide
                      N-N            NH2         (Z)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
           CI            N                                           yl)acrylamide
                              0
                                    NH
                     N-N            N            (E)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
                     C/>                                       yl)-N-phenylacrylamide
                       N
                                _\N
                                                                                                  1
                     N-N                         (E)-3 -(3 -(3 -chlorophenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol-
                        />                               yl)-N-methyl-N-phenylacrylamide
                       N
                                0
                                      NH2
                                                                                                  1
                      N-N                         (E)-3 -(3 -(3 -chlorophenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol-
                       N'N                                           yl)acrylamide
                  lN       /
                       N-N             NH2
           F3 C           N       0                           (Z)-3-(3-(3-isopropoxy-5
                                                   (trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1
                                                                     yl)acrylamide
         In another specific embodiment of a compound of formula I, the compound is not a
  compound listed in Table 1C.
5 Table IC.
                Compound Structure                                 Compound Name

                                          -68
            Compound Structure                                   Compound Name
                   N- N        NH2            (Z)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
                     I/>O0
         C1           N                                           yl)acrylamide
                         0
                              NH
                  N'N         N               (E)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
                   CI/>                                      yl)-N-phenylacrylamide
                    N
                                                                                               1
                  N-N           /             (E)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-lH-1,2,4-triazol-
                   Cl/>                               yl)-N-methyl-N-phenylacrylamide
                     N
                           0
                                NH2
                                                                                               1
                    N- N                       (E)-3 -(3 -(3 -chlorophenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol-
                     C/>                                           yl)acrylamide
                       N
                    N'N          NH2
         F3C           N    0                               (Z)-3-(3-(3-isopropoxy-5
                                                (trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1
               0                                                   yl)acrylamide
       Exemplary compounds of the invention are set forth in Table 2.
Table 2. Exemplary compounds of the invention.
Compound                 Structure                                      Name

                                         -69
Compound             Structure                                     Name
                                          F
                        N'N         N      F
                         3   ") O            (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   1     F3C               N                         1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3
                                                difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                 CF3
                                          F
                         N-N               F
                        N N -
                                              (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3
   2F      3 C             N                    fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
                                                   1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                 F
                                          F
                          N         N
                        N' N          N    F  (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3
    3    F3CN                                  hydroxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
                                                   1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                 OH
                                 0
                                    N      F
                        N-N              F    (E)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
    4     F3 C             N                          1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3
                                                 difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                 CF3
                         N-N      N           (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
    5                      N        F                 1 H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(3,3
                    CF3
                                                difluoropiperidin- 1 -yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                             --
                                       F
               F3C       NN      N    F       (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
    6                                                 1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(4,4
                     C                          difluoropiperidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                     CF
                      3

                                               -70
Compound              Structure                                                    Name
                        N--N            N        F
         F3 C                      o                     (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   7                                                     1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3-fluoroazetidin
                                                                        1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                  CF3
              F3C          N         N    O              (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   8N                                                       1 H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(3-hydroxy-3
                    CF3                                      methylazetidin- 1 -yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                          N-N
   9          F3C            N 0            F           (Z)-3-(3-(2,6-bis(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-4
                             N                                   yl)-1 H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(3,3
                   N                                         difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                    CF3
                            N-N         N                (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   10                                                         1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-N-ethyl-N-(1
                     CF3                  N                        (pyridin-3-yl)ethyl)acrylamide
                             N-N ,       NH
                F3C           N/N       N(Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   11                                                            H
                                                                1H-1,2,4-triazol-I-yl)-N-(oxazol-5
                      CF3                 N                              ylmethyl)acrylamide
                                            F
                         HN\          N     F             (Z)-3-(5-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   12         F              N                                      4H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)-1-(3,3
                                                             difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- I-one
                     CF3
                             N-N          NH
               F3C             N     0                    (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   13                                                                1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-((2
                      CF3              N                   methylpyrimidin-5-yl)methyl)acrylamide
                        F3I

                                        -71
Compound          Structure                                      Name
                       N-N         NH
          F3 C                0             (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   14                                          1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-(pyrimidin-5
                                     N                   ylmethyl)acrylamide
                 CF3            N
                                      F
                            O
                                     F
                      N_                                     (E)-3-(6-(3,5
   15    F3 C                               bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)pyridin-2-yl)- 1
                                              (3,3 -difluorocyclobutyl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                CF3
                               -F
                         N      NF
           F3C          N       N F          (Z)-3-(4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   16                   N                    1H-imidazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin
                                                          1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                CF3
                        N-N        N
           F3C            N   0              (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   17                                             1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-N-methyl-N
                                N-N               (pyrimidin-5-ylmethyl)acrylamide
                 CF 3
                        N-N        N
            F3C           N/) 0              (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   18                                           1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-N-methyl-N-((2
                   F3           N N           methylpyrimidin-5-yl)methyl)acrylamide
            F3C        N-N       NH           (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   19                                            1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-(piperidin-3
                 CF3            HN                        ylmethyl)acrylamide

                                        -72
Compound        Structure                                          Name
                                     F
         F3C         N-N       N      F      (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   20                                                 1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-l-(3,3
                                               difluoropyrrolidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
              CF3
                      N-N         NH
         F3C             N
                        /)   0               (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   21                                                1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-(1-(2
               CF3             N               methylpyrimidin-5-yl)ethyl)acrylamide
                       N-N        N
          F3C                0               (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   22                           0           1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-methyl-N-(oxazol
                                    N                     5-ylmethyl)acrylamide
                CF3
                      N-N         N
         F3C             N/) 0                       (Z)-1-(azetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3,5
   23                                           bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H- 1,2,4
                                                      triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
               CF3
                    N-N _ N
         F3C         N) 0                     (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   24                             N             1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3-(pyridin-2
              CF                                    yl)azetidin- 1 -yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                3
                     N-N       N              (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
          F3C          N/; 0                           1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3
   25                             /Ns             ((dimethylamino)methyl)azetidin- 1
               CF3                                          yl)prop-2-en-1-one
          F3C          N-N        NH          (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
    26                                                 1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-((1
               CF  3                N          methylpiperidin-4-yl)methyl)acrylamide

                                            -73
Compound           Structure                                         Name
                                    H
          FC              N         N           (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   27                       N                           1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-((1
                                  CN             methylpiperidin-3-yl)methyl)acrylamide
                  CF 3
          F3C                   NH
                                NHN             (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
                         N'
   28                                           1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1 -yl)-N-(6,7-dihydro-5H
                CF3                                cyclopenta[b]pyridin-5-yl)acrylamide
                        N-N     NH    N-        (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   29                                    N         1H-1 ,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-N-(1 -(pyrazin-2
                 CF3                                          yl)ethyl)acrylamide
           F3C             N-N       NH          (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   30                                                    1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-((1
                   CF 3
                                   /N            methylpyrrolidin-3-yl)methyl)acrylamide
                       N-N     NH    -N          (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   31                    N             N                1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-((2,4
                CF3                             dimethylpyrimidin-5-yl)methyl)acrylamide
                         N-N       N
                          N-N             F                  (Z)-3-(3-(4-chloro-3,5
                            N                       bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
    32F3C
             32
             0                                     triazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1
                  CF  3
                                                               yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                                   -F
                          N-N      N
            F3C            /N  a          F       (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(4
    33                                            hydroxy-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
             HO    /                                1 H-1,2,4-triazol- 1 -yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                   CF3

                                       -74
Compound        Structure                                        Name
                        N-     NCF
                      N        N     F
          F3C                0       F     (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   34                                       1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1
                                                         yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
               CF3
         F3C        N-N        N     F      (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   35                                      1H-pyrazol- 1-yl)-1 -(3,3 -difluoroazetidin- 1
                                                         yl)prop-2-en-1-one
               CF3
                          -          F
         F3C X0 N              N     F      (Z)-3-(5-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   36                 H                     1H-pyrrol-3-yl)-l-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1
                X/                                        yl)prop-2-en-1-one
               CF3
                           -         F
                    N
                               N\
         F3C          N 0            F      (Z)-3-(2-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   37                 H                     1H-imidazol-4-yl)- 1-(3,3 -difluoroazetidin
                                                         1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one
               CF3
                     N-N        N
           F3C         N1 0                 (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   38                                         1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(pyrrolidin-1
                                                          yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                CF3
                    N-N        N(Z)-3             -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
           F3C        N                              1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3
    39                           /NH        ((methylamino)methyl)azetidin- 1-yl)prop
               CF3                                             2-en-i-one

                                          -75
Compound                 Structure                                   Name
                                   D
                           N-N       N       F                 D2-(Z)-3-(3-(3,5
   40    FAC,                N              F     bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
                                                 triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(3,3 -difluoroazetidin- 1
                                                              yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                  CF3
                                 D
                            N-N        F                       D3-(Z)-3-(3-(3,5
               F4            N  o     F           bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
                       41                        triazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1
                      CF3                                     yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                           N-N     N    F
              F3C               O      F       (E)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   42                        N                   1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-3-bromo-1-(3,3
                                                  difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                      CF3
                                       F
                              N    N   F
              F                 O      F                           3-(3-(3,5
                       43                       bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)pyrrolidin- 1
                      73yl)-1                         -(3,3 -difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)propan- 1
                      CF3                                             one
                F             N                 (E)-4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1
   44           F                               (3-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-oxoprop
                                                          1-en-1 -yl)pyrrolidin-2-one
                         F
                   F'    F

                                      -76
Compound       Structure                                         Name
                   N-N )   N OH  OH       (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
         F3C         N 0                     1H-1,2,4-triazol-I-yl)-1-(3-hydroxy-3
   45                        N    /        (pyridin-3 -ylmethyl)azetidin- 1-yl)prop-2
              CF                                               en- I-one
               3
                   N-N           OH        (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
         F3C       I/)                       1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3-hydroxy-3
   46                        N N           (pyrazin-2-ylmethyl)azetidin- 1-yl)prop-2
              CF                                               en-i-one
               3
                           -F
                   N-N      N              (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
         F3C         N                         1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3-fluoro-3
   47I
                              N7           (pyrimidin-5-ylmethyl)azetidin-1-yl)prop
              CF               \ -N                           2-en-i-one
                3
                            -F
                    N-N     N              (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
         F3C         N/1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)--(3-fluoro-3
   48                         N             (pyridin-3-ylmethyl)azetidin-1-yl)prop-2
              CF3                                               en-I-one
                           -F
                    N-N    N               (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
          F3C        N
                     /)  0                     1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3-fluoro-3
   49                               N       (pyrazin-2-ylmethyl)azetidin- 1-yl)prop-2
              CF             N                                  en-I-one
                3
                     N-N         H          (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
         F3C        N/ 0          CF3         1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-i-(3-hydroxy-3
   50                                       (2,2,2-trifluoroethyl)azetidin- I-yl)prop-2
              CF
               3
                                                                en-i-one
                    N-N    N                (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
          F3C       IN 0         CF 3         iH-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-i-(3-hydroxy-3
    51                                     (trifluoromethyl)azetidin- I-yl)prop-2-en- I
              CF 3                                                 one

                                           -77
Compound          Structure                                           Name
         F3C         N-N          N    NH       (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   52                                                    1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(2,6
               CF3                             diazaspiro [3.3]heptan-2-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                      N-          N   OH                         (Z)-1-(3-(3-(3,5
           F3C                                     bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1 H- 1,2,4
   53                     N/
                 53                                  triazol- 1-yl)acryloyl)azetidine-3
                 CF3                                                carbonitrile
                                   N _CN
                      N-NC O                                     (Z)-1-(3-(3-(3,5
   54      F              N                        bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
                 CF3                                  triazol-1 -yl)acryloyl)azetidine-3
                                                                    carbonitrile
                     N-N          N   CO2H                       (Z)-1-(3-(3-(3,5
         F3CIPA         N                          bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- H-1,2,4
   55                                          triazol- 1-yl)acryloyl)azetidine-3 -carboxylic
               CF 3                                                      acid
                     N-N          NH             (Z)-N-(3 -azabicyclo [3:. O]hexan-6-yl)-3
          F3C-        '/)     0
   56                                    C        (3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H
                CF3                                       1,2,4-triazol- 1 -yl)acrylamide
                            N-N   N/   NH2
                     N-N          N              (Z)-N-(3-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexan-6-yl)
   57     F3C           N                        3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H
                CF3                                       1,2,4-triazol- 1 -yl)acrylamide
                      N-N          N                 (Z)-N-(2,6-diazaspiro[3.4]octan-6
          F3C            N      O    bNH                       ylmethyl)-3-(3-(3,5
    58                                             bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
                CF 3
                                                             triazol- 1 -yl)acrylamide

                                                -78
Compound           Structure                                                Name
                       N-N     -     N      F                     (Z)-3-(3-(4-chloro-3,5
          F3 C          I  N                F           bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1 H-1,2,4
   59       ci    -'                                    triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(3,3 -difluoroazetidin- 1
                 CF 3                                                yi)prop-2-en- 1-one
                              CFF
                       N-NC           N
                                      N
                                                    (Z)-1-(3-(aminomethyl)-3-fluoroazetidin-1
                                                    (Z
          F3C
                            N            H2N          yl)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   60
                 CF 3
                                                         1 H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                      N-N          N    F O           (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
          F3C,(               O          O                H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3-fluoro-3-(2
   61            /                                    methoxyacetyl)azetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1
                CF3
                                                                              one
                      N-N      -N       F OH          (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
          F3C                 0
                              O                         1H- 1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(3-fluoro-3 -(2
   62           -                                     hydroxyacetyl)azetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1
                CF3
                                                                              one
                                    N       N         (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
                       N-N                 F                   1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(3
   63     F3 C             N                         ((dimethylamino)methyl)-3-fluoroazetidin
                 CF3                                                1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                            N         N       F
          F3C                    00           F        (Z)-4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1
    64 64                                            (3-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-oxoprop-1
                                                                 en-i -yl)pyrrolidin-2-one
                 CF  3
           F3 C                                        (Z)-3-(2-(2,4-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
    65                      N        N        F        1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1
                  CF 3    /                                          yl)prop-2-en-1-one

                                                 -79
  Compound                    Structure                                      Name
                               N-N     N     OH      (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
      66                                                       1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(4
                        F3C                            hydroxypiperidin- 1 -yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                                      0
                                3  N               F  (3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H- 1,2,4
      67        F3C               N                   triazol- 1-yl)oxiran-2-yl)(3,3-difluoroazetidin- 1
                                                                          yl)methanone
                        CF 3
                                                   F
                                      NN
                F3 C              NN O             F (Z)-3-(5-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
      68                          H                           1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)-1-(3,3
                                                        difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                         CF 3
                                    D    D
                                N-N         N      F                  D3-(Z)-3-(3-(3,5
                 FC               N   D           F     bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
                                                        triazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1
                                                                     yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                         CF 3
         Another embodiment of the invention is a compound represented by structural
  formula (VI):
                                                N-N         R1
                                                             2
                                       R 7/>0               R
                                        1
                                        R         N
                                          CF3                   (VI),
5        or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
             Z is selected from N, CH and C(Cl);
             R1 is hydrogen; and

                                                 -80
            R2 is selected from -CH 2-oxazol-5-yl, -CH 2 -pyrimidin-5-yl,
            -CH 2 -(l-methylpyrrolidin-3-yl), or          NH; or:
            R and R2 are taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are bound to
                                                    NX        NH
        form               H,              NH2,                  , 4-hydroxypiperidin- 1-yl,
 5      pyrrolidiny- 1-yl, or azetidin- l-yl, wherein the pyrrolidiny- 1-yl and azetidin- 1-yl are
        each optionally and independently substituted at the 3-position with up to two
        substituents independently selected from fluoro, -CF 3 , -CH 3, -OH, pyridin-2-yl,
        -CH 2 -N(CH 3) 2, -CH 2-NH-CH 3, -CH 2 -NH2 , -CN, -C(O)-O-CH 3; and
            R7 is selected from fluoro, -OH and -CF 3 .
10          Representative compounds of structural formula VI include:
   Compound                  Structure                                      Name
                                      Wr    N XF F
                                 N' N _
                               F     >   O             (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
      1         F3 0              N                            1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-l-(3,3
                                                          difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                        CF3
                                                  F
                               NNN              XF
                              N N>                      (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3
      2         F3 C              N                      fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-lH
                                                            1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                        F
                                                  F
                                 -CN/>   O              (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3
      3         F3 C              N                     hydroxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
                       I(                                   1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                        OH

                                                  -81
Compound             Structure                                                    Name
                       N-N              N            F
         F3C             N       0                          (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   7                                                        1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-i-(3-fluoroazetidin
                                                                          1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                 CF3
                                   -      OH
             F3C          N    N   N                        (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   8                      N1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-l-(3-hydroxy-3
                   CF3                                          methylazetidin- 1 -yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                         NN           NF
             F3C          N 0                F             (Z)-3-(3-(2,6-bis(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-4
   9
                          N1                                      yl)-iH-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-i-(3,3
                  N                                            difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                    CF3
               F3C           N           NH                 (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   11                                                            1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-N-(oxazol-5
                     CF3                  N                               ylmethyl)acrylamide
                           N-N            NH
              F3C            N      0                        (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   14                                                          1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-(pyrimidin-5
                                                                           ylmethyl)acrylamide
                     CF3              N     N
                                             F
              F3C        N-N         N       F               (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   20                      N                                         1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-i-(3,3
                                                              difluoropyrrolidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- I-one
                    CF3
                          N-N      -N
              F3C           N/0                                     (Z)-1-(azetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3,5
   23                                                           bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
                                                                      triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                     CF3

                                         -82
Compound         Structure                                         Name
                    N-N'       N
         F3C        N-NoN                    (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   24                NN                         1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3-(pyridin-2
               CF                                   yl)azetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                3
                     N-N        N            (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
          F3C          N                               1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3
   25                                N            ((dimethylamino)methyl)azetidin- 1
               CF3                                         yl)prop-2-en-1-one
          F3C          NN          NH        (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   30                    N                            1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-((1
                CF 3
                                   N          methylpyrrolidin-3-yl)methyl)acrylamide
                            -          F
                     N-N/     a        F                 (Z)-3-(3-(4-chloro-3,5
          F3C          N                        bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
            3IX                                 triazol-1-yl)-l-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1
               CF3                                          yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                       N-N         N
           F3C       N    /) 0                (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   38                                            1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(pyrrolidin- 1
                                                            yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                CF3
                     N-N         N            (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
           F3C          N                               1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3
   39                               /NH       ((methylamino)methyl)azetidin- 1-yl)prop
                CF3
                                                                 2-en-I-one

                                           -83
Compound             Structure                                       Name
                                    D
                         N-NF                                  D2-(Z)-3-(3-(3,5
   40    F3 C               N 0             F     bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
                                 D               triazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1
                                                              yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                 CF3
                                   D
                               -     ,  F                       D3-(Z)-3-(3-(3,5
                          N-N        N
              F3C           NX D0       F         bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
   41                       ND
                                                  triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(3,3 -difluoroazetidin- 1
                    CF 3                                      yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                          N-N       N           (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
              F3C          N/ 0        CF3        1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3-hydroxy-3
   51                                          (trifluoromethyl)azetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1
                   CF3                                                 one
                         N-N        N   NH      (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   52                      N                             1 H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(2,6
                   CF3                         diazaspiro [3.3]heptan-2-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                          N'N-      N  OH                       (Z)-1-(3-(3-(3,5
               F3C           N   O                 bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H- 1,2,4
                   53                                 triazol- 1-yl)acryloyl)azetidine-3
                    CF3                                            carbonitrile
                          F N'   N  N  CN                       (Z)-1-(3-(3-(3,5
    54         F3C           N                     bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
                    CF3                               triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)azetidine-3
                                                                   carbonitrile

                                                -84
Compound          Structure                                                 Name
         F3C          N-N         NH                 (Z)-N-(3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexan-6-yl)-3
   56         I                        NH HCI          (3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
                CF3                                           1,2,4-triazol-1 -yl)acrylamide
                      N-N         N         H2       (Z)-N-(3-aminobicyclo[3.1.0]hexan-6-yl)
   57    F3C           N                             3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
                CF3                                           1,2,4-triazol-1 -yl)acrylamide
                      N-N          N                       (Z)-N-(2,6-diazaspiro[3.4]octan-6
         F3C            N     0             NH                      ylmethyl)-3-(3-(3,5
   58                                                   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- H-1,2,4
                CF3                                               triazol- 1 -yl)acrylamide
                        N-N     -    N        F                   (Z)-3-(3-(4-chloro-3,5
          F3C             N     o            F           bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
           c5                                           triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(3,3 -difluoroazetidin- 1
                 CF 3                                                yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                                      -F
         F3C            N-N           N             (Z)- 1 -(3 -(aminomethyl)-3 -fluoroazetidin- 1
   60                                     H2N         yl)-3 -(3 -(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
                 CF 3
                                                          H-1,2,4-triazol- 1 -yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                       N-N  - S/--N      F 0          (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
          F3C                 O           o             1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3-fluoro-3-(2
    61                                                methoxyacetyl)azetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1
                CF3
                                                                               one
                                    N        N        (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
                       N-N                  F                   1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3
    63    FaC   ~         N                          ((dimethylamino)methyl)-3-fluoroazetidin
                 CF3                                                1 -yl)prop-2-en- 1 -one

                                                         -85
Compound                        Structure                                          Name
                    FC-N                    N       OH       (Z)-3 -(3 -(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
     66                                                                1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(4
                         F3C                                   hydroxypiperidin- 1 -yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                                        D     D
                                   N-N             N       F                 D3-(Z)-3-(3-(3,5
     69        F3 C                   N    D
                                            O\            F      bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
                                                                triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(3,3-difluoroazetidin- 1
                                                                            yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                         CF3
         Another embodiment of the invention is a compound represented by any of the
following structural formulas, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
Compound                        Structure                                          Name
                    F3 C           NA'N      NH               (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
     28                              N               N        1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-N-(6,7-dihydro-5H
                             CF3                                 cyclopenta[b]pyridin-5-yl)acrylamide
                                        Br
                                                -F
                                    N-N         N             (E)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
      42            F3C                N                         1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-3-bromo-1-(3,3
                              IC                                 difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
                              CF 3
                                        N              F
                     F3C                   0          F                           3-(3-(3,5
      43                                                     bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)pyrrolidin- 1-yl)
                               le                              1-(3,3 -difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)propan- 1-one
                              CF3

                                                 -86
   Compound                   Structure                                        Name
                                            F
                         F        aN                   (E)-4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1
        44            F"                              (3-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-oxoprop-1
                                                                  en-i -yl)pyrrolidin-2-one
                             ,F
                                   N     N    F
                       F3C           00       F        (Z)-4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1
        64                                            (3-(3,3 -difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)-3-oxoprop- 1
                                                                  en-1 -yl)pyrrolidin-2-one
                            CF3
                                      0
                                                   F
                                 ',N N I'
                                N--                     (3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
        67         F3C             N                    triazol-1-yl)oxiran-2-yl)(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1
                                                                            yl)methanone
                           CF3
   Formulationand Administration
            Another embodiment of the invention is a composition comprising a compound of the
   invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable
 5 carrier, adjuvant, or vehicle. The amount of compound in a composition of the invention is
   an amount that is effective to measurably inhibit CRM1 in a biological sample or in a patient.
   In certain embodiments, a composition of the invention is formulated for administration to a
   patient in need of the composition. In some embodiments, a composition of the invention is
   formulated for oral, intravenous, subcutaneous, intraperitoneal or dermatological
10 administration to a patient in need thereof.
            The term "patient," as used herein, means an animal. In some embodiments, the
   animal is a mammal. In certain embodiments, the patient is a veterinary patient (i.e., a non
   human mammal patient). In some embodiments, the patient is a dog. In other embodiments,
   the patient is a human.

                                                     -87
             "Pharmaceutically or pharmacologically acceptable" includes molecular entities and
    compositions that do not produce an adverse, allergic or other untoward reaction when
    administered to an animal, or a human, as appropriate. For human administration,
    preparations should meet sterility, pyrogenicity, and general safety and purity standards, as
 5  required by FDA Office of Biologics standards.
             The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, adjuvant, or vehicle" refers to a non
    toxic carrier, adjuvant, or vehicle that does not destroy the pharmacological activity of the
    compound with which it is formulated and is nontoxic when administered in doses sufficient
    to deliver a therapeutic amount of the compound. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers,
 0  adjuvants or vehicles that may be used in the compositions of this invention include, but are
    not limited to, ion exchangers, alumina, aluminum stearate, lecithin, serum proteins, such as
    human serum albumin, buffer substances such as phosphates, glycine, sorbic acid, potassium
    sorbate, partial glyceride mixtures of saturated vegetable fatty acids, water, salts or
    electrolytes, such as protamine sulfate, disodium hydrogen phosphate, potassium hydrogen
  5 phosphate, sodium chloride, zinc salts, colloidal silica, magnesium trisilicate, polyvinyl
    pyrrolidone, cellulose-based substances, polyethylene glycol, sodium
    carboxymethylcellulose, polyacrylates, waxes, polyethylene-polyoxypropylene-block
    polymers, polyethylene glycol and wool fat.
              Compositions of the present invention may be administered orally, parenterally
 !0 (including subcutaneous, intramuscular, intravenous and intradermal), by inhalation spray,
    topically, rectally, nasally, buccally, vaginally or via an implanted reservoir. In some
    embodiments, provided compounds or compositions are administrable intravenously and/or
    intraperitoneally.
              The term "parenteral," as used herein, includes subcutaneous, intracutaneous,
25   intravenous, intramuscular, intraocular, intravitreal, intra-articular, intra-arterial, intra
     synovial, intrasternal, intrathecal, intralesional, intrahepatic, intraperitoneal intralesional and
     intracranial injection or infusion techniques. Preferably, the compositions are administered
     orally, subcutaneously, intraperitoneally or intravenously.
              Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention can be orally
30   administered in any orally acceptable dosage form including, but not limited to, capsules,
     tablets, aqueous suspensions, dispersions and solutions. In the case of tablets for oral use,
     carriers commonly used include lactose and corn starch. Lubricating agents, such as
     magnesium stearate, are also typically added. For oral administration in a capsule form,

                                                    -88
    useful diluents include lactose and dried cornstarch. When aqueous suspensions and/or
    emulsions are required for oral use, the active ingredient can be suspended or dissolved in an
    oily phase and combined with emulsifying and/or suspending agents. If desired, certain
    sweetening, flavoring or coloring agents may also be added.
 5           In some embodiments, an oral formulation is formulated for immediate release or
    sustained/delayed release.
             Solid dosage forms for oral administration include capsules, tablets, pills, powders,
    and granules. In such solid dosage forms, the active compound is mixed with at least one
    inert, pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or carrier such as sodium citrate or dicalcium
 0  phosphate and/or a) fillers or extenders such as starches, lactose, sucrose, glucose, mannitol,
    and silicic acid, b) binders, such as carboxymethylcellulose, alginates, gelatin,
    polyvinylpyrrolidinone, sucrose, and acacia, c) humectants such as glycerol, d) disintegrating
    agents such as agar--agar, calcium carbonate, potato or tapioca starch, alginic acid, certain
    silicates, and sodium carbonate, e) solution retarding agents such as paraffin, f) absorption
 5  accelerators such as quaternary ammonium salts, g) wetting agents, such as acetyl alcohol
    and glycerol monostearate, h) absorbents such as kaolin and bentonite clay, and i) lubricants
    such as tale, calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, solid polyethylene glycols, sodium lauryl
    sulfate, and mixtures thereof. In the case of capsules, tablets and pills, the dosage form may
    also comprise buffering agents.
 .O          Compositions suitable for buccal or sublingual administration include tablets,
    lozenges and pastilles, wherein the active ingredient is formulated with a carrier such as sugar
    and acacia, tragacanth, or gelatin and glycerin.
              Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard
    filled gelatin capsules using excipients such as lactose or milk sugar, as well as high
25  molecular weight polyethylene glycols and the like. The solid dosage forms of tablets,
    dragees, capsules, pills, and granules can be prepared with coatings and shells such as enteric
    coatings and other coatings well known in the pharmaceutical formulating art. They may
    optionally contain opacifying agents and can also be of a composition that they release the
    active ingredient(s) only, or preferentially, in a certain part of the intestinal tract, optionally,
30  in a delayed manner. Examples of embedding compositions that can be used include
    polymeric substances and waxes.
             A compound of the invention can also be in micro-encapsulated form with one or
    more excipients, as noted above. In such solid dosage forms, the compound of the invention

                                                    -89
    can be admixed with at least one inert diluent such as sucrose, lactose or starch. Such dosage
    forms can also comprise, as is normal practice, additional substances other than inert diluents,
    e.g., tableting lubricants and other tableting aids such a magnesium stearate and
    microcrystalline cellulose.
 5           Compositions for oral administration may be designed to protect the active ingredient
    against degradation as it passes through the alimentary tract, for example, by an outer coating
    of the formulation on a tablet or capsule.
             In another embodiment, a compound of the invention can be provided in an extended
    (or "delayed" or "sustained") release composition. This delayed-release composition
 0  comprises a compound of the invention in combination with a delayed-release component.
    Such a composition allows targeted release of a provided compound into the lower
    gastrointestinal tract, for example, into the small intestine, the large intestine, the colon
    and/or the rectum. In certain embodiments, the delayed-release composition comprising a
    compound of the invention further comprises an enteric or pH-dependent coating, such as
 5  cellulose acetate phthalates and other phthalates (e.g., polyvinyl acetate phthalate,
    methacrylates (Eudragits)). Alternatively, the delayed-release composition provides
    controlled release to the small intestine and/or colon by the provision of pH sensitive
    methacrylate coatings, pH sensitive polymeric microspheres, or polymers which undergo
    degradation by hydrolysis. The delayed-release composition can be formulated with
 .0 hydrophobic or gelling excipients or coatings. Colonic delivery can further be provided by
    coatings which are digested by bacterial enzymes such as amylose or pectin, by pH
    dependent polymers, by hydrogel plugs swelling with time (Pulsincap), by time-dependent
    hydrogel coatings and/or by acrylic acid linked to azoaromatic bonds coatings.
             In certain embodiments, the delayed-release composition of the present invention
25  comprises hypromellose, microcrystalline cellulose, and a lubricant. The mixture of a
    compound of the invention, hypromellose and microcrystalline cellulose can be formulated
    into a tablet or capsule for oral administration. In certain embodiments, the mixture is
    granulated and pressed into tablets.
             Alternatively, pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention can be
30  administered in the form of suppositories for rectal administration. These can be prepared by
    mixing the compound of the invention with a suitable non-irritating excipient that is solid at
    room temperature but liquid at rectal temperature and, therefore, will melt in the rectum to
    release the drug. Such materials include cocoa butter, beeswax and polyethylene glycols.

                                                   -90
            Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention can also be administered
   topically, especially when the target of treatment includes areas or organs readily accessible
   by topical application, including diseases of the eye, the skin, or the lower intestinal tract.
   Suitable topical formulations are readily prepared for each of these areas or organs.
 5          Topical application for the lower intestinal tract can be effected in a rectal suppository
   formulation (see above) or in a suitable enema formulation. Topically-transdermal patches
   can also be used.
            For other topical applications, the pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of the
   invention can be formulated in a suitable ointment containing the active component
[0 suspended or dissolved in one or more carriers. Carriers for topical administration of
   compounds of this invention include, but are not limited to, mineral oil, liquid petrolatum,
   white petrolatum, propylene glycol, polyoxyethylene, polyoxypropylene compound,
   emulsifying wax and water and penetration enhancers. Alternatively, pharmaceutically
   acceptable compositions of the invention can be formulated in a suitable lotion or cream
[5 containing the active component suspended or dissolved in one or more pharmaceutically
   acceptable carriers. Alternatively, the pharmaceutical composition can be formulated with a
    suitable lotion or cream containing the active compound suspended or dissolved in a carrier
   with suitable emulsifying agents. In some embodiments, suitable carriers include, but are not
    limited to, mineral oil, sorbitan monostearate, polysorbate 60, cetyl esters wax, cetearyl
20  alcohol, 2-octyldodecanol, benzyl alcohol and water. In other embodiments, suitable carriers
    include, but are not limited to, mineral oil, sorbitan monostearate, polysorbate 60, cetyl esters
    wax, cetearyl alcohol, 2-octyldodecanol, benzyl alcohol and water and penetration enhancers.
            For ophthalmic use, pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of the invention can be
    formulated as micronized suspensions in isotonic, pH adjusted sterile saline, or, preferably, as
25  solutions in isotonic, pH adjusted sterile saline, either with or without a preservative such as
    benzylalkonium chloride. Alternatively, for ophthalmic uses, the pharmaceutically
    acceptable compositions can be formulated in an ointment such as petrolatum.
            Pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention can also be administered
    by nasal aerosol or inhalation. Such compositions are prepared according to techniques well
30  known in the art of pharmaceutical formulation and can be prepared as solutions in saline,
    employing benzyl alcohol or other suitable preservatives, absorption promoters to enhance
    bioavailability, fluorocarbons, and/or other conventional solubilizing or dispersing agents.

                                                    -91
             In some embodiments, pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention are
   formulated for oral administration.
             In some embodiments, pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention are
   formulated for intra-peritoneal administration.
 5           In some embodiments, pharmaceutically acceptable compositions of this invention are
   formulated for topical administration.
             The amount of compounds of the present invention that can be combined with the
   carrier materials to produce a composition in a single dosage form will vary depending upon
   the host treated, the particular mode of administration and the activity of the compound
10 employed. Preferably, compositions should be formulated so that a dosage of between 0.01
    100 mg/kg body weight/day of the inhibitor can be administered to a patient receiving the
   composition.
              It should also be understood that a specific dosage and treatment regimen for any
   particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors, including the activity of the specific
15  compound employed, the age, body weight, general health, sex, diet, time of administration,
    rate of excretion, drug combination, the judgment of the treating physician and the severity of
    the particular disease being treated. The amount of a compound of the present invention in
    the composition will also depend upon the particular compound in the composition.
               Other pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, adjuvants and vehicles that can be used in
20  the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention include, but are not limited to, ion
    exchangers, alumina, aluminum stearate, lecithin, self-emulsifying drug delivery systems
    (SEDDS) such as d-ca-tocopherol polyethylene glycol 1000 succinate, surfactants used in
    pharmaceutical dosage forms such as Tweens or other similar polymeric delivery matrices,
    serum proteins, such as human serum albumin, buffer substances such as phosphates, glycine,
25   sorbic acid, potassium sorbate, partial glyceride mixtures of saturated vegetable fatty acids,
    water, salts or electrolytes, such as protamine sulfate, disodium hydrogen phosphate,
    potassium hydrogen phosphate, sodium chloride, zinc salts, colloidal silica, magnesium
     trisilicate, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, cellulose-based substances, polyethylene glycol, sodium
     carboxymethylcellulose, polyacrylates, waxes, polyethylene-polyoxypropylene-block
30   polymers, polyethylene glycol and wool fat. Cyclodextrins such as a-, P-, and y-cyclodextrin,
     or chemically modified derivatives such as hydroxyalkylcyclodextrins, including 2- and 3
     hydroxypropyl- p-cyclodextrins, or other solubilized derivatives can also be advantageously
     used to enhance delivery of compounds described herein.

                                                  -92
            The pharmaceutical compositions of this invention are preferably administered by oral
   administration or by injection. The pharmaceutical compositions of this invention can contain
   any conventional non-toxic pharmaceutically-acceptable carriers, adjuvants or vehicles. In
   some cases, the pH of the formulation can be adjusted with pharmaceutically acceptable
 5 acids, bases or buffers to enhance the stability of the formulated compound or its delivery
   form.
            The pharmaceutical compositions can be in the form of a sterile injectable
   preparation, for example, as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This
   suspension can be formulated according to techniques known in the art using suitable
[0 dispersing or wetting agents (such as, for example, Tween 80) and suspending agents. The
   sterile injectable preparation can also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non
   toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent, for example, as a solution in 1,3-butanediol.
   Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that can be employed are mannitol, water,
   Ringer's solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition, sterile, fixed oils are
15 conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose, any bland
   fixed oil can be employed including synthetic mono- or diglycerides. Fatty acids, such as
   oleic acid and its glyceride derivatives are useful in the preparation of injectables, as are
   natural pharmaceutically-acceptable oils, such as olive oil or castor oil, especially in their
   polyoxyethylated versions. These oil solutions or suspensions can also contain a long-chain
20  alcohol diluent or dispersant, or carboxymethyl cellulose or similar dispersing agents which
    are commonly used in the formulation of pharmaceutically acceptable dosage forms such as
    emulsions and or suspensions. Other commonly used surfactants such as Tweens or Spans
    and/or other similar emulsifying agents or bioavailability enhancers which are commonly
    used in the manufacture of pharmaceutically acceptable solid, liquid, or other dosage forms
25  can also be used for the purposes of formulation.
            When the compositions of this invention comprise a combination of a compound of
    the formulae described herein and one or more additional therapeutic or prophylactic agents,
    both the compound and the additional agent should be present at dosage levels of between
    about 1 to 100%, and more preferably between about 5 to 95% of the dosage normally
30  administered in a monotherapy regimen. The additional agent(s) can be administered
    separately, as part of a multiple dose regimen, from the compounds of this invention.
    Alternatively, the additional agent(s) can be part of a single dosage form, mixed together with
    the compound of this invention in a single composition.

                                                    -93
            The compounds described herein can, for example, be administered by injection,
    intravenously, intraarterially, intraocularly, intravitreally, subdermallym, orally, buccally,
    nasally, transmucosally, topically, in an ophthalmic preparation, or by inhalation, with a
    dosage ranging from about 0.5 to about 100 mg/kg of body weight or, alternatively, in a
  5 dosage ranging from about 1 mg to about 1000 mg/dose, every 4 to 120 hours, or according
    to the requirements of the particular drug. The methods herein contemplate administration of
    an effective amount of a compound of the invention, or a composition thereof, to achieve the
    desired or stated effect. Typically, the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention will be
    administered from about 1 to about 6 times per day or, alternatively, as a continuous infusion.
  0 Such administration can be used as a chronic or acute therapy. The amount of active
    ingredient that can be combined with a carrier material to produce a single dosage form will
    vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. A typical
    preparation will contain from about 5% to about 95% active compound (w/w). Alternatively,
    a preparation can contain from about 20% to about 80% active compound.
  5         Doses lower or higher than those recited above may be required. Specific dosage and
    treatment regimens for any particular patient will depend upon a variety of factors, including
    the activity of the specific compound employed, the age, body weight, general health status,
    sex, diet, time of administration, rate of excretion, drug combination, the severity and course
    of the disease, condition or symptoms, the patient's disposition to the disease, condition or
 !0 symptoms, and the judgment of the treating physician.
            Upon improvement of a patient's condition, a maintenance dose of a compound,
    composition or combination of this invention can be administered, if necessary.
     Subsequently, the dosage or frequency of administration, or both, can be reduced, as a
    function of the symptoms, to a level at which the improved condition is retained when the
25  symptoms have been alleviated to the desired level. Patients may, however, require
    intermittent treatment on a long-term basis upon recurrence of disease symptoms.
     Uses of Compounds and PharmaceuticallyAcceptable Compositions
             Compounds and compositions described herein are generally useful for the inhibition
30  of CRM1 and are, therefore, useful for treating one or more disorders associated with activity
    of CRM1. Thus, in certain embodiments, the present invention provides a method for
    treating a CRM1 -mediated disorder comprising the step of administering to a patient in need
    thereof a compound of the present invention, or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or

                                                      -94
    composition thereof. The compounds and compositions described herein can also be
    administered to cells in culture, e.g., in vitro or ex vivo, or to a subject, e.g., in vivo, to treat,
    prevent, and/or diagnose a variety of disorders, including those described herein below.
             The activity of a compound utilized in this invention as an inhibitor of CRM1 may be
 5  assayed in vitro, in vivo or in a cell line. Detailed conditions for assaying a compound
    utilized in this invention as an inhibitor of CRM 1 are set forth in the Exemplification.
             As used herein, the term "treat" or "treatment" is defined as the application or
    administration of a compound, alone or in combination with a second compound, to a subject,
    e.g., a patient, or application or administration of the compound to an isolated tissue or cell,
 0  e.g., cell line, from a subject, e.g., a patient, who has a disorder (e.g., a disorder as described
    herein), a symptom of a disorder, or a predisposition toward a disorder, in order to cure, heal,
    alleviate, relieve, alter, remedy, ameliorate, improve or affect the disorder, one or more
    symptoms of the disorder or the predisposition toward the disorder (e.g., to prevent at least
    one symptom of the disorder or to delay onset of at least one symptom of the disorder).
 5           As used herein, an amount of a compound effective to treat a disorder, or a
    "therapeutically effective amount" refers to an amount of the compound which is effective,
    upon single or multiple dose administration to a subject or a cell, in curing, alleviating,
    relieving or improving one or more symptoms of a disorder.
             As used herein, an amount of a compound effective to prevent a disorder, or a
 .0 "prophylactically effective amount" of the compound refers to an amount effective, upon
    single- or multiple-dose administration to the subject, in preventing or delaying the onset or
    recurrence of a disorder or one or more symptoms of the disorder.
             As used herein, the term "subject" is intended to include human and non-human
    animals. Exemplary human subjects include a human patient having a disorder, e.g., a
25  disorder described herein or a normal subject. The term "non-human animals" of the
    invention includes all vertebrates, e.g., non-mammals (such as chickens, amphibians, reptiles)
    and mammals, such as non-human primates, domesticated and/or agriculturally useful
    animals, e.g., sheep, cow, pig, etc., and companion animals (dog, cat, horse, etc.).
             As used herein, the term "CRM1-mediated disorder or condition" or "disorder or
30  condition associated with CRM 1 activity" means any disease or other deleterious condition in
    which CRM1 plays a role. Accordingly, another embodiment of the present invention relates
    to treating or lessening the severity of one or more diseases in which CRM1 plays a role.
     Specifically, the present invention relates to a method of treating or lessening the severity of a

                                                    -95
    proliferative disorder, the method comprising administering to a patient in need thereof a
    compound of the invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or composition thereof.
    Other disorders are set forth in detail below.
            In some embodiments, the present invention provides methods of treating a disease
  5 associated with expression or activity of p53, p73, p21, pRB, p27, IKB, NFKB, c-Abl, FOXO
    proteins, COX-2 in a patient, comprising administering to the patient a therapeutically
    effective amount of a compound described herein, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or
    composition thereof. For example, provided herein are methods of treating various cancers in
    mammals (including humans and non-humans), comprising administering to a patient in need
 .0 thereof a compound of the invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Such
    cancers include hematologic malignancies (leukemias, lymphomas, myelomas,
    myelodysplastic and myeloproliferative syndromes) and solid tumors (carcinomas such as
    prostate, breast, lung, colon, pancreatic, renal, ovarian as well as soft tissue and osteo
    sarcomas, and stromal tumors). Breast cancer (BC) can include basal-like breast cancer
 .5 (BLBC), triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) and breast cancer that is both BLBC and
    TNBC. In addition, breast cancer can include invasive or non-invasive ductal or lobular
    carcinoma, tubular, medullary, mucinous, papillary, cribriform carcinoma of the breast, male
    breast cancer, recurrent or metastatic breast cancer, phyllodes tumor of the breast and Paget's
    disease of the nipple.
 20          In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method of treating
    inflammatory disorders in a patient, comprising administering to the patient a compound of
    the invention, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. Such inflammatory disorders
    include rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus, systemic sclerosis, vasculitis syndromes (small,
    medium and large vessel), atherosclerosis, psoriasis and other dermatological inflammatory
25   disorders (such as pemphigous, pemphigoid, allergic dermatitis), and urticarial syndromes.
             In some embodiments, the disorder or condition associated with CRM1 activity is
     muscular dystrophy, arthritis, for example, osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing
     spondilitis, traumatic brain injury, spinal cord injury, sepsis, rheumatic disease, cancer
     atherosclerosis, type 1 diabetes, type 2 diabetes, leptospiriosis renal disease, glaucoma, retinal
30   disease, ageing, headache, pain, complex regional pain syndrome, cardiac hypertrophy,
     musclewasting, catabolic disorders, obesity, fetal growth retardation, hypercholesterolemia,
     heart disease, chronic heart failure, ischemia/reperfusion, stroke, cerebral aneurysm, angina
     pectoris, pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis, acid-induced lung injury, pulmonary

                                                    -96
   hypertension, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, Sjogren's syndrome, hyaline
   membrane disease, kidney disease, glomerular disease, alcoholic liver disease, gut diseases,
   peritoneal endometriosis, skin diseases, nasal sinusitis, mesothelioma, anhidrotic ecodermal
   dysplasia-ID, behcet's disease, incontinentia pigmenti, tuberculosis, asthma, crohn's disease,
 5 colitis, ocular allergy, appendicitis, paget's disease, pancreatitis, periodonitis, endometriosis,
   inflammatory bowel disease, inflammatory lung disease, silica-induced diseases, sleep apnea,
   AIDS, HIV-1, autoimmune diseases, antiphospholipid syndrome, lupus, lupus
   nephritis, familial mediterranean fever, hereditary periodic fever syndrome, psychosocial
   stress diseases, neuropathological diseases, familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy,
[0 inflammatory neuropathy, parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, alzheimer's disease,
   amyotropic lateral sclerosis, huntington's disease, cataracts, or hearing loss.
            In other embodiments, the disorder or condition associated with CRM1 activity is
   head injury, uveitis, inflammatory pain, allergen induced asthma, non-allergen induced
   asthma, glomerular nephritis, ulcerative colitis, necrotizing enterocolitis,
15 hyperimmunoglobulinemia D with recurrent fever (HIDS), TNF receptor associated periodic
   syndrome (TRAPS), cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes, Muckle-Wells syndrome
   (urticaria deafness amyloidosis),familial cold urticaria, neonatal onset multisystem
   inflammatory disease (NOMID), periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis and adenitis
   (PFAPA syndrome), Blau syndrome, pyogenic sterile arthritis, pyoderma gangrenosum,acne
20  (PAPA), deficiency of the interleukin- 1-receptor antagonist (DIRA), subarachnoid
   hemorrhage, polycystic kidney disease, transplant, organ transplant, tissue transplant,
   myelodysplastic syndrome, irritant-induced inflammation, plant irritant-induced
    inflammation, poison ivy/ urushiol oil-induced inflammation, chemical irritant-induced
    inflammation, bee sting-induced inflammation, insect bite-induced inflammation, sunburn,
25  bums, dermatitis, endotoxemia, lung injury, acute respiratory distress syndrome, alcoholic
    hepatitis, or kidney injury caused by parasitic infections.
             In further aspects, the present invention provides a use of a compound of of the
    invention, of a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for the manufacture of a medicament
    for the treatment of a disease associated with expression or activity of p53, p73, p21, pRB,
30  p27, IcB, NFKB, c-Abl, FOXO proteins or COX-2. In some embodiments, the present
    invention provides a use of a compound of of the invention in the manufacture of a
    medicament for the treatment of any of cancer and/or neoplastic disorders, angiogenesis,
    autoimmune disorders, inflammatory disorders and/or diseases, epigenetics, hormonal

                                                   -97
   disorders and/or diseases, viral diseases, neurodegenerative disorders and/or diseases or
   ophthamalogic disorders.
            In some embodiments, the present invention provides a method for inhibiting CRM 1 in a
   biological sample or in a patient, comprising contacting the biological sample with, or
 5 administering to the patient, a pharmaceutically acceptable salt of a compound of the invention,
   or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or composition thereof.
            Neoplastic Disorders
            A compound or composition described herein can be used to treat a neoplastic
10 disorder. A "neoplastic disorder" is a disease or disorder characterized by cells that have the
   capacity for autonomous growth or replication, e.g., an abnormal state or condition
   characterized by proliferative cell growth. Exemplary neoplastic disorders include:
   carcinoma, sarcoma, metastatic disorders, e.g., tumors arising from prostate, brain, bone,
   colon, lung, breast, ovarian, and liver origin, hematopoietic neoplastic disorders, e.g.,
15 leukemias, lymphomas, myeloma and other malignant plasma cell disorders, and metastatic
   tumors. Prevalent cancers include: breast, prostate, colon, lung, liver, and pancreatic cancers.
    Treatment with the compound can be in an amount effective to ameliorate at least one
    symptom of the neoplastic disorder, e.g., reduced cell proliferation, reduced tumor mass, etc.
             The disclosed methods are useful in the prevention and treatment of cancer, including
20  for example, solid tumors, soft tissue tumors, and metastases thereof, as well as in familial
    cancer syndromes such as Li Fraumeni Syndrome, Familial Breast-Ovarian Cancer (BRCA1
    or BRAC2 mutations) Syndromes, and others. The disclosed methods are also useful in
    treating non-solid cancers. Exemplary solid tumors include malignancies (e.g., sarcomas,
    adenocarcinomas, and carcinomas) of the various organ systems, such as those of lung,
25  breast, lymphoid, gastrointestinal (e.g., colon), and genitourinary (e.g., renal, urothelial, or
    testicular tumors) tracts, pharynx, prostate, and ovary. Exemplary adenocarcinomas include
     colorectal cancers, renal-cell carcinoma, liver cancer, non-small cell carcinoma of the lung,
     and cancer of the small intestine.
             Exemplary cancers described by the National Cancer Institute include: Acute
30   Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Adult; Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Childhood; Acute
     Myeloid Leukemia, Adult; Adrenocortical Carcinoma; Adrenocortical Carcinoma,
     Childhood; AIDS-Related Lymphoma; AIDS-Related Malignancies; Anal Cancer;
     Astrocytoma, Childhood Cerebellar; Astrocytoma, Childhood Cerebral; Bile Duct Cancer,

                                               -98
   Extrahepatic; Bladder Cancer; Bladder Cancer, Childhood; Bone Cancer,
   Osteosarcoma/Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma; Brain Stem Glioma, Childhood; Brain
   Tumor, Adult; Brain Tumor, Brain Stem Glioma, Childhood; Brain Tumor, Cerebellar
   Astrocytoma, Childhood; Brain Tumor, Cerebral Astrocytoma/Malignant Glioma, Childhood;
 5 Brain Tumor, Ependymoma, Childhood; Brain Tumor, Medulloblastoma, Childhood; Brain
   Tumor, Supratentorial Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumors, Childhood; Brain Tumor, Visual
   Pathway and Hypothalamic Glioma, Childhood; Brain Tumor, Childhood (Other); Breast
   Cancer; Breast Cancer and Pregnancy; Breast Cancer, Childhood; Breast Cancer, Male;
   Bronchial Adenomas/Carcinoids, Childhood; Carcinoid Tumor, Childhood; Carcinoid
L0 Tumor, Gastrointestinal; Carcinoma, Adrenocortical; Carcinoma, Islet Cell; Carcinoma of
   Unknown Primary; Central Nervous System Lymphoma, Primary; Cerebellar Astrocytoma,
   Childhood; Cerebral Astrocytoma/Malignant Glioma, Childhood; Cervical Cancer;
   Childhood Cancers; Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia; Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia;
   Chronic Myeloproliferative Disorders; Clear Cell Sarcoma of Tendon Sheaths; Colon Cancer;
15 Colorectal Cancer, Childhood; Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphoma; Endometrial Cancer;
   Ependymoma, Childhood; Epithelial Cancer, Ovarian; Esophageal Cancer; Esophageal
   Cancer, Childhood; Ewing's Family of Tumors; Extracranial Germ Cell Tumor, Childhood;
   Extragonadal Germ Cell Tumor; Extrahepatic Bile Duct Cancer; Eye Cancer, Intraocular
   Melanoma; Eye Cancer, Retinoblastoma; Gallbladder Cancer; Gastric (Stomach) Cancer;
20 Gastric (Stomach) Cancer, Childhood; Gastrointestinal Carcinoid Tumor; Germ Cell Tumor,
   Extracranial, Childhood; Germ Cell Tumor, Extragonadal; Germ Cell Tumor, Ovarian;
   Gestational Trophoblastic Tumor; Glioma, Childhood Brain Stem; Glioma, Childhood Visual
   Pathway and Hypothalamic; Hairy Cell Leukemia; Head and Neck Cancer; Hepatocellular
   (Liver) Cancer, Adult (Primary); Hepatocellular (Liver) Cancer, Childhood (Primary);
25 Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Adult; Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Childhood; Hodgkin's Lymphoma
   During Pregnancy; Hypopharyngeal Cancer; Hypothalamic and Visual Pathway Glioma,
    Childhood; Intraocular Melanoma; Islet Cell Carcinoma (Endocrine Pancreas); Kaposi's
    Sarcoma; Kidney Cancer; Laryngeal Cancer; Laryngeal Cancer, Childhood; Leukemia, Acute
    Lymphoblastic, Adult; Leukemia, Acute Lymphoblastic, Childhood; Leukemia, Acute
30  Myeloid, Adult; Leukemia, Acute Myeloid, Childhood; Leukemia, Chronic Lymphocytic;
    Leukemia, Chronic Myelogenous; Leukemia, Hairy Cell; Lip and Oral Cavity Cancer; Liver
    Cancer, Adult (Primary); Liver Cancer, Childhood (Primary); Lung Cancer, Non-Small Cell;
    Lung Cancer, Small Cell; Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Adult Acute; Lymphoblastic Leukemia,

                                               -99
    Childhood Acute; Lymphocytic Leukemia, Chronic; Lymphoma, AIDS- Related;
    Lymphoma, Central Nervous System (Primary); Lymphoma, Cutaneous T-CeIl; Lymphoma,
    Hodgkin's, Adult; Lymphoma, Hodgkin's, Childhood; Lymphoma, Hodgkin's During
    Pregnancy; Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin's, Adult; Lymphoma, Non- Hodgkin's, Childhood;
  5 Lymphoma, Non-Hodgkin's During Pregnancy; Lymphoma, Primary Central Nervous
    System; Macroglobulinemia, Waldenstrom's; Male Breast Cancer; Malignant Mesothelioma,
    Adult; Malignant Mesothelioma, Childhood; Malignant Thymoma; Medulloblastoma,
    Childhood; Melanoma; Melanoma, Intraocular; Merkel Cell Carcinoma; Mesothelioma,
    Malignant; Metastatic Squamous Neck Cancer with Occult Primary; Multiple Endocrine
  o Neoplasia Syndrome, Childhood; Multiple Myeloma/Plasma Cell Neoplasm; Mycosis
    Fungoides; Myclodysplastic Syndromes; Myelogenous Leukemia, Chronic; Myeloid
    Leukemia, Childhood Acute; Myeloma, Multiple; Myeloproliferative Disorders, Chronic;
    Nasal Cavity and Paranasal Sinus Cancer; Nasopharyngeal Cancer; Nasopharyngeal Cancer,
    Childhood; Neuroblastoma; Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Adult; Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma,
 .5 Childhood; Non- Hodgkin's Lymphoma During Pregnancy; Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer;
    Oral Cancer, Childhood; Oral Cavity and Lip Cancer; Oropharyngeal Cancer;
    Osteosarcoma/Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone; Ovarian Cancer, Childhood;
    Ovarian Epithelial Cancer; Ovarian Germ Cell Tumor; Ovarian Low Malignant Potential
    Tumor; Pancreatic Cancer; Pancreatic Cancer, Childhood; Pancreatic Cancer, Islet Cell;
  O Paranasal Sinus and Nasal Cavity Cancer; Parathyroid Cancer; Penile Cancer;
    Pheochromocytoma; Pineal and Supratentorial Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumors,
    Childhood; Pituitary Tumor; Plasma Cell Neoplasm/Multiple Myeloma; Pleuropulmonary
    Blastoma; Pregnancy and Breast Cancer; Pregnancy and Hodgkin's Lymphoma; Pregnancy
    and Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma; Primary Central Nervous System Lymphoma; Primary Liver
25  Cancer, Adult; Primary Liver Cancer, Childhood; Prostate Cancer; Rectal Cancer; Renal Cell
    (Kidney) Cancer; Renal Cell Cancer, Childhood; Renal Pelvis and Ureter, Transitional Cell
    Cancer; Retinoblastoma; Rhabdomyosarcoma, Childhood; Salivary Gland Cancer; Salivary
    Gland Cancer, Childhood; Sarcoma, Ewing's Family of Tumors; Sarcoma, Kaposi's; Sarcoma
    (Osteosarcoma)/Malignant Fibrous Histiocytoma of Bone; Sarcoma, Rhabdomyosarcoma,
30  Childhood; Sarcoma, Soft Tissue, Adult; Sarcoma, Soft Tissue, Childhood; Sezary
    Syndrome; Skin Cancer; Skin Cancer, Childhood; Skin Cancer (Melanoma); Skin Carcinoma,
    Merkel Cell; Small Cell Lung Cancer; Small Intestine Cancer; Soft Tissue Sarcoma, Adult;
    Soft Tissue Sarcoma, Childhood; Squamous Neck Cancer with Occult Primary, Metastatic;

                                                 -100
    Stomach (Gastric) Cancer; Stomach (Gastric) Cancer, Childhood; Supratentorial Primitive
    Neuroectodermal Tumors, Childhood; T- Cell Lymphoma, Cutaneous; Testicular Cancer;
    Thymoma, Childhood; Thymoma, Malignant; Thyroid Cancer; Thyroid Cancer, Childhood;
    Transitional Cell Cancer of the Renal Pelvis and Ureter; Trophoblastic Tumor, Gestational;
  5 Unknown Primary Site, Cancer of, Childhood; Unusual Cancers of Childhood; Ureter and
    Renal Pelvis, Transitional Cell Cancer; Urethral Cancer; Uterine Sarcoma; Vaginal Cancer;
    Visual Pathway and Hypothalamic Glioma, Childhood; Vulvar Cancer; Waldenstrom's Macro
    globulinemia; and Wilms' Tumor. Metastases of the aforementioned cancers can also be
    treated or prevented in accordance with the methods described herein.
  0
            Cancer Combination Therapies
            In some embodiments, a compound described herein is administered together with an
    additional cancer treatment. Exemplary cancer treatments include, for example,
    chemotherapy, targeted therapies such as antibody therapies, kinase inhibitors,
  5 immunotherapy, and hormonal therapy, and anti-angiogenic therapies. Examples of each of
    these treatments are provided below.
            As used herein, the term "combination," "combined," and related terms refer to the
     simultaneous or sequential administration of therapeutic agents in accordance with this
    invention. For example, a compound of the present invention can be administered with
 !0  another therapeutic agent simultaneously or sequentially in separate unit dosage forms or
    together in a single unit dosage form. Accordingly, the present invention provides a single
    unit dosage form comprising a compound of the invention, an additional therapeutic agent,
     and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, adjuvant, or vehicle.
            The amount of both a compound of the invention and additional therapeutic agent (in
25  those compositions which comprise an additional therapeutic agent as described above) that
     can be combined with the carrier materials to produce a single dosage form will vary
     depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. Preferably,
     compositions of this invention should be formulated so that a dosage of between 0.01 - 100
     mg/kg body weight/day of a compound of the invention can be administered.
30
             Chemotherapy
             In some embodiments, a compound described herein is administered with a
     chemotherapy. Chemotherapy is the treatment of cancer with drugs that can destroy cancer

                                                  -101
   cells. "Chemotherapy" usually refers to cytotoxic drugs which affect rapidly dividing cells in
   general, in contrast with targeted therapy. Chemotherapy drugs interfere with cell division in
   various possible ways, e.g., with the duplication of DNA or the separation of newly formed
   chromosomes. Most forms of chemotherapy target all rapidly dividing cells and are not
 5 specific for cancer cells, although some degree of specificity may come from the inability of
   many cancer cells to repair DNA damage, while normal cells generally can.
            Examples of chemotherapeutic agents used in cancer therapy include, for example,
   antimetabolites (e.g., folic acid, purine, and pyrimidine derivatives) and alkylating agents
   (e.g., nitrogen mustards, nitrosoureas, platinum, alkyl sulfonates, hydrazines, triazenes,
10 aziridines, spindle poison, cytotoxic agents, topoisomerase inhibitors and others). Exemplary
   agents include Aclarubicin, Actinomycin, Alitretinon, Altretamine, Aminopterin,
   Aminolevulinic acid, Amrubicin, Amsacrine, Anagrelide, Arsenic trioxide, Asparaginase,
   Atrasentan, Belotecan, Bexarotene, Bendamustine, Bleomycin, Bortezomib, Busulfan,
   Camptothecin, Capecitabine, Carboplatin, Carboquone, Carmofur, Carmustine, Celecoxib,
15 Chlorambucil, Chlormethine, Cisplatin, Cladribine, Clofarabine, Crisantaspase,
   Cyclophosphamide, Cytarabine, Dacarbazine, Dactinomycin, Daunorubicin, Decitabine,
   Demecolcine, Docetaxel, Doxorubicin, Efaproxiral, Elesclomol, Elsamitrucin, Enocitabine,
   Epirubicin, Estramustine, Etoglucid, Etoposide, Floxuridine, Fludarabine, Fluorouracil
   (5FU), Fotemustine, Gemcitabine, Gliadel implants, Hydroxycarbamide, Hydroxyurea,
20 Idarubicin, Ifosfamide, Irinotecan, Irofulven, Ixabepilone, Larotaxel, Leucovorin, Liposomal
    doxorubicin, Liposomal daunorubicin, Lonidamine, Lomustine, Lucanthone, Mannosulfan,
   Masoprocol, Melphalan, Mercaptopurine, Mesna, Methotrexate, Methyl aminolevulinate,
    Mitobronitol, Mitoguazone, Mitotane, Mitomycin, Mitoxantrone, Nedaplatin, Nimustine,
    Oblimersen, Omacetaxine, Ortataxel, Oxaliplatin, Paclitaxel, Pegaspargase, Pemetrexed,
25  Pentostatin, Pirarubicin, Pixantrone, Plicamycin, Porfimer sodium, Prednimustine,
    Procarbazine, Raltitrexed, Ranimustine, Rubitecan, Sapacitabine, Semustine, Sitimagene
    ceradenovec, Strataplatin, Streptozocin, Talaporfin, Tegafur-uracil, Temoporfin,
    Temozolomide, Teniposide, Tesetaxel, Testolactone, Tetranitrate, Thiotepa, Tiazofurine,
    Tioguanine, Tipifarnib, Topotecan, Trabectedin, Triaziquone, Triethylenemelamine,
30  Triplatin, Tretinoin, Treosulfan, Trofosfamide, Uramustine, Valrubicin, Verteporfin,
    Vinblastine, Vincristine, Vindesine, Vinflunine, Vinorelbine, Vorinostat, Zorubicin, and
    other cytostatic or cytotoxic agents described herein.

                                                   -102
           Because some drugs work better together than alone, two or more drugs are often
   given at the same time. Often, two or more chemotherapy agents are used as combination
   chemotherapy. In some embodiments, the chemotherapy agents (including combination
   chemotherapy) can be used in combination with a compound described herein.
 5
           Targeted therapy
           Targeted therapy constitutes the use of agents specific for the deregulated proteins of
   cancer cells. Small molecule targeted therapy drugs are generally inhibitors of enzymatic
   domains on mutated, overexpressed, or otherwise critical proteins within a cancer cell.
[0 Prominent examples are the tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as axitinib, bosutinib, cediranib,
   desatinib, erolotinib, imatinib, gefitinib, lapatinib, lestaurtinib, nilotinib, semaxanib,
   sorafenib, sunitinib, and vandetanib, and also cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors such as
   alvocidib and seliciclib. Monoclonal antibody therapy is another strategy in which the
   therapeutic agent is an antibody which specifically binds to a protein on the surface of the
15 cancer cells. Examples include the anti-HER2/neu antibody trastuzumab (Herceptin@)
   typically used in breast cancer, and the anti-CD20 antibody rituximab and tositumomab
   typically used in a variety of B-cell malignancies. Other exemplary antibodies include
   cetuximab, panitumumab, trastuzumab, alemtuzumab, bevacizumab, edrecolomab, and
   gemtuzumab. Exemplary fusion proteins include aflibercept and denileukin diftitox. In some
20 embodiments, targeted therapy can be used in combination with a compound described
   herein, e.g., Gleevec (Vignari and Wang 2001).
            Targeted therapy can also involve small peptides as "homing devices" which can bind
   to cell surface receptors or affected extracellular matrix surrounding a tumor. Radionuclides
    which are attached to these peptides (e.g., RGDs) eventually kill the cancer cell if the nuclide
25  decays in the vicinity of the cell. An example of such therapy includes BEXXAR.
            Angiogenesis
            Compounds and methods described herein may be used to treat or prevent a disease or
    disorder associated with angiogenesis. Diseases associated with angiogenesis include cancer,
30  cardiovascular disease and macular degeneration.
            Angiogenesis is the physiological process involving the growth of new blood vessels
    from pre-existing vessels. Angiogenesis is a normal and vital process in growth and
    development, as well as in wound healing and in granulation tissue. However, it is also a

                                                    -103
   fundamental step in the transition of tumors from a dormant state to a malignant one.
   Angiogenesis may be a target for combating diseases characterized by either poor
   vascularisation or abnormal vasculature.
            Application of specific compounds that may inhibit or induce the creation of new
 5 blood vessels in the body may help combat such diseases. The presence of blood vessels
   where there should be none may affect the mechanical properties of a tissue, increasing the
   likelihood of failure. The absence of blood vessels in a repairing or otherwise metabolically
   active tissue may inhibit repair or other essential functions. Several diseases, such as
   ischemic chronic wounds, are the result of failure or insufficient blood vessel formation and
[0 may be treated by a local expansion of blood vessels, thus bringing new nutrients to the site,
   facilitating repair. Other diseases, such as age-related macular degeneration, may be created
   by a local expansion of blood vessels, interfering with normal physiological processes.
            Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has been demonstrated to be a major
   contributor to angiogenesis, increasing the number of capillaries in a given network.
[5 Upregulation of VEGF is a major component of the physiological response to exercise and its
   role in angiogenesis is suspected to be a possible treatment in vascular injuries. In vitro
    studies clearly demonstrate that VEGF is a potent stimulator of angiogenesis because, in the
    presence of this growth factor, plated endothelial cells will proliferate and migrate, eventually
    forming tube structures resembling capillaries.
20          Tumors induce blood vessel growth (angiogenesis) by secreting various growth
    factors (e.g., VEGF). Growth factors such as bFGF and VEGF can induce capillary growth
    into the tumor, which some researchers suspect supply required nutrients, allowing for tumor
    expansion.
             Angiogenesis represents an excellent therapeutic target for the treatment of
25  cardiovascular disease. It is a potent, physiological process that underlies the natural manner
    in which our bodies respond to a diminution of blood supply to vital organs, namely the
    production of new collateral vessels to overcome the ischemic insult.
             Overexpression of VEGF causes increased permeability in blood vessels in addition
    to stimulating angiogenesis. In wet macular degeneration, VEGF causes proliferation of
30  capillaries into the retina. Since the increase in angiogenesis also causes edema, blood and
    other retinal fluids leak into the retina, causing loss of vision.
             Anti-angiogenic therapy can include kinase inhibitors targeting vascular endothelial
     growth factor (VEGF) such as sunitinib, sorafenib, or monoclonal antibodies or receptor

                                                   -104
   "decoys" to VEGF or VEGF receptor including bevacizumab or VEGF-Trap, or thalidomide
   or its analogs (lenalidomide, pomalidomide), or agents targeting non-VEGF angiogenic
   targets such as fibroblast growth factor (FGF), angiopoietins, or angiostatin or endostatin.
 5          Epigenetics
             Compounds and methods described herein may be used to treat or prevent a disease or
   disorder associated with epigenetics. Epigenetics is the study of heritable changes in
   phenotype or gene expression caused by mechanisms other than changes in the underlying
   DNA sequence. One example of epigenetic changes in eukaryotic biology is the process of
10 cellular differentiation. During morphogenesis, stem cells become the various cell lines of the
   embryo which in turn become fully differentiated cells. In other words, a single fertilized egg
   cell changes into the many cell types including neurons, muscle cells, epithelium, blood
   vessels etc. as it continues to divide. It does so by activating some genes while inhibiting
    others.
15           Epigenetic changes are preserved when cells divide. Most epigenetic changes only
    occur within the course of one individual organism's lifetime, but, if a mutation in the DNA
    has been caused in sperm or egg cell that results in fertilization, then some epigenetic changes
    are inherited from one generation to the next. Specific epigenetic processes include
    paramutation, bookmarking, imprinting, gene silencing, X chromosome inactivation, position
20  effect, reprogramming, transvection, maternal effects, the progress of carcinogenesis, many
    effects of teratogens, regulation of histone modifications and heterochromatin, and technical
    limitations affecting parthenogenesis and cloning.
             Exemplary diseases associated with epigenetics include ATR-syndrome, fragile X
    syndrome, ICF syndrome, Angelman's syndrome, Prader-Wills syndrome, BWS, Rett
25  syndrome, a-thalassaemia, cancer, leukemia, Rubinstein-Taybi syndrome and Coffin-Lowry
    syndrome.
             The first human disease to be linked to epigenetics was cancer. Researchers found that
    diseased tissue from patients with colorectal cancer had less DNA methylation than normal
    tissue from the same patients. Because methylated genes are typically turned off, loss of
30  DNA methylation can cause abnormally high gene activation by altering the arrangement of
     chromatin. On the other hand, too much methylation can undo the work of protective tumor
     suppressor genes.

                                                   -105
             DNA methylation occurs at CpG sites, and a majority of CpG cytosines are
    methylated in mammals. However, there are stretches of DNA near promoter regions that
    have higher concentrations of CpG sites (known as CpG islands) that are free of methylation
    in normal cells. These CpG islands become excessively methylated in cancer cells, thereby
  5 causing genes that should not be silenced to turn off. This abnormality is the trademark
    epigenetic change that occurs in tumors and happens early in the development of cancer.
    Hypermethylation of CpG islands can cause tumors by shutting off tumor-suppressor genes.
    In fact, these types of changes may be more common in human cancer than DNA sequence
    mutations.
 .0          Furthermore, although epigenetic changes do not alter the sequence of DNA, they can
    cause mutations. About half of the genes that cause familial or inherited forms of cancer are
    turned off by methylation. Most of these genes normally suppress tumor formation and help
    repair DNA, including 06-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT), MLH1 cyclin
    dependent kinase inhibitor 2B (CDKN2B), and RASSF1A. For example, hypermethylation of
 -5 the promoter of MGMT causes the number of G-to-A mutations to increase.
             Hypermethylation can also lead to instability of microsatellites, which are repeated
    sequences of DNA. Microsatellites are common in normal individuals, and they usually
    consist of repeats of the dinucleotide CA. Too much methylation of the promoter of the DNA
    repair gene MLH1 can make a microsatellite unstable and lengthen or shorten it.
 !0 Microsatellite instability has been linked to many cancers, including colorectal, endometrial,
    ovarian, and gastric cancers.
             Fragile X syndrome is the most frequently inherited mental disability, particularly in
    males. Both sexes can be affected by this condition, but because males only have one X
    chromosome, one fragile X will impact them more severely. Indeed, fragile X syndrome
25  occurs in approximately 1 in 4,000 males and 1 in 8,000 females. People with this syndrome
    have severe intellectual disabilities, delayed verbal development, and "autistic-like" behavior.
             Fragile X syndrome gets its name from the way the part of the X chromosome that
    contains the gene abnormality looks under a microscope; it usually appears as if it is hanging
    by a thread and easily breakable. The syndrome is caused by an abnormality in the FMR1
30  (fragile X mental retardation 1) gene. People who do not have fragile X syndrome have 6 to
     50 repeats of the trinucleotide CGG in their FMR1 gene. However, individuals with over 200
    repeats have a full mutation, and they usually show symptoms of the syndrome. Too many
     CGGs cause the CpG islands at the promoter region of the FMR1 gene to become

                                                 -106
   methylated; normally, they are not. This methylation turns the gene off, stopping the FMR1
   gene from producing an important protein called fragile X mental retardation protein. Loss of
   this specific protein causes fragile X syndrome. Although a lot of attention has been given to
   the CGG expansion mutation as the cause of fragile X, the epigenetic change associated with
 5 FMR1 methylation is the real syndrome culprit.
            Fragile X syndrome is not the only disorder associated with mental retardation that
   involves epigenetic changes. Other such conditions include Rubenstein-Taybi, Coffin-Lowry,
   Prader-Willi, Angelman, Beckwith-Wiedemann, ATR-X, and Rett syndromes.
            Epigenetic therapies include inhibitors of enzymes controlling epigenetic
 0 modifications, specifically DNA methyltransferases and histone deacetylases, which have
   shown promising anti-tumorigenic effects for some malignancies, as well as antisense
   oligonucloetides and siRNA.
            Immunotherapy
L5          In some embodiments, a compound described herein is administered with an
   immunotherapy. Cancer immunotherapy refers to a diverse set of therapeutic strategies
   designed to induce the patient's own immune system to fight the tumor. Contemporary
   methods for generating an immune response against tumors include intravesicular BCG
    immunotherapy for superficial bladder cancer, prostate cancer vaccine Provenge, and use of
20  interferons and other cytokines to induce an immune response in renal cell carcinoma and
    melanoma patients.
            Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation can be considered a form of
    immunotherapy, since the donor's immune cells will often attack the tumor in a graft-versus
    tumor effect. In some embodiments, the immunotherapy agents can be used in combination
25  with a compound described herein.
            Hormonal therapy
             In some embodiments, a compound described herein is administered with a hormonal
    therapy. The growth of some cancers can be inhibited by providing or blocking certain
30  hormones. Common examples of hormone-sensitive tumors include certain types of breast
    and prostate cancers, as well as certain types of leukemia which respond to certain
    retinoids/retinoic acids. Removing or blocking estrogen or testosterone is often an important
    additional treatment. In certain cancers, administration of hormone agonists, such as

                                                     -107
   progestogens may be therapeutically beneficial. In some embodiments, the hormonal therapy
   agents can be used in combination with a compound described herein.
            Inflammation andAutoimmune Disease
 5          The compounds and methods described herein may be used to treat or prevent a
   disease or disorder associated with inflammation, particularly in humans and other mammals.
   A compound described herein may be administered prior to the onset of, at, or after the
   initiation of inflammation. When used prophylactically, the compounds are preferably
   provided in advance of any inflammatory response or symptom. Administration of the
 0 compounds can prevent or attenuate inflammatory responses or symptoms. Exemplary
   inflammatory conditions include, for example, multiple sclerosis, rheumatoid arthritis,
   psoriatic arthritis, degenerative joint disease, spondouloarthropathies, other seronegative
   inflammatory arthridities, polymyalgia rheumatica, various vasculidities (e.g., giant cell
   arteritis, ANCA+ vasculitis), gouty arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, juvenile arthritis,
 5 juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, osteoporosis, diabetes (e.g., insulin dependent
   diabetes mellitus or juvenile onset diabetes), menstrual cramps, cystic fibrosis, inflammatory
   bowel disease, irritable bowel syndrome, Crohn's disease, mucous colitis, ulcerative colitis,
    gastritis, esophagitis, pancreatitis, peritonitis, Alzheimer's disease, shock, ankylosing
    spondylitis, gastritis, conjunctivitis, pancreatis (acute or chronic), multiple organ injury
 0  syndrome (e.g., secondary to septicemia or trauma), myocardial infarction, atherosclerosis,
    stroke, reperfusion injury (e.g., due to cardiopulmonary bypass or kidney dialysis), acute
    glomerulonephritis, thermal injury (i.e., sunburn), necrotizing enterocolitis, granulocyte
    transfusion associated syndrome, and/or Sjogren's syndrome. Exemplary inflammatory
    conditions of the skin include, for example, eczema, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis,
25  urticaria, schleroderma, psoriasis, and dermatosis with acute inflammatory components.
             In another embodiment, a compound or method described herein may be used to treat
    or prevent allergies and respiratory conditions, including asthma, bronchitis, pulmonary
    fibrosis, allergic rhinitis, oxygen toxicity, emphysema, chronic bronchitis, acute respiratory
    distress syndrome, and any chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The compounds
30  may be used to treat chronic hepatitis infection, including hepatitis B and hepatitis C.
             Additionally, a compound or method described herein may be used to treat
    autoimmune diseases and/or inflammation associated with autoinimune diseases, such as
    organ-tissue autoimmune diseases (e.g., Raynaud's syndrome), scleroderma, myasthenia

                                                  -108
   gravis, transplant rejection, endotoxin shock, sepsis, psoriasis, eczema, dermatitis, multiple
   sclerosis, autoimmune thyroiditis, uveitis, systemic lupus erythematosis, Addison's disease,
   autoimmune polyglandular disease (also known as autoimmune polyglandular syndrome),
   and Grave's disease.
 5          In a particular embodiment, the compounds described herein can be used to treat
   multiple sclerosis. In a specific aspect, the compound used to treat multiple sclerosis is
   Compound 1: (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-l-(3,3
   difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one).
 0          Combination therapy
            In certain embodiments, a compound described herein may be administered alone or
   in combination with other compounds useful for treating or preventing inflammation.
   Exemplary anti-inflammatory agents include, for example, steroids (e.g., Cortisol, cortisone,
   fludrocortisone, prednisone, 6 [alpha] -methylprednisone, triamcinolone, betamethasone or
[5 dexamethasone), nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDS (e.g., aspirin,
   acetaminophen, tolmetin, ibuprofen, mefenamic acid, piroxicam, nabumetone, rofecoxib,
   celecoxib, etodolac or nimesulide). In another embodiment, the other therapeutic agent is an
   antibiotic (e.g., vancomycin, penicillin, amoxicillin, ampicillin, cefotaxime, ceftriaxone,
   cefixime, rifampinmetronidazole, doxycycline or streptomycin). In another embodiment, the
20  other therapeutic agent is a PDE4 inhibitor (e.g., roflumilast or rolipram). In another
    embodiment, the other therapeutic agent is an antihistamine (e.g., cyclizine, hydroxyzine,
   promethazine or diphenhydramine). In another embodiment, the other therapeutic agent is an
    anti-malarial (e.g., artemisinin, artemether, artsunate, chloroquine phosphate, mefloquine
    hydrochloride, doxycycline hyclate, proguanil hydrochloride, atovaquone or halofantrine). In
25  one embodiment, the other compound is drotrecogin alfa.
             Further examples of anti-inflammatory agents include, for example, aceclofenac,
    acemetacin, e-acetamidocaproic acid, acetaminophen, acetaminosalol, acetanilide,
    acetylsalicylic acid, S-adenosylmethionine, alclofenac, alclometasone, alfentanil, algestone,
    allylprodine, alminoprofen, aloxiprin, alphaprodine, aluminum bis(acetylsalicylate),
30  amcinonide, amfenac, aminochlorthenoxazin, 3-amino-4- hydroxybutyric acid, 2-amino-4
    picoline, aminopropylon, aminopyrine, amixetrine, ammonium salicylate, ampiroxicam,
    amtolmetin guacil, anileridine, antipyrine, antrafenine, apazone, beclomethasone, bendazac,
    benorylate, benoxaprofen, benzpiperylon, benzydamine, benzylmorphine, bermoprofen,

                                                 -109
   betamethasone, betamethasone- 17-valerate, bezitramide, [alpha] -bisabolol, bromfenac, p
   bromoacetanilide, 5-bromosalicylic acid acetate, bromosaligenin, bucetin, bucloxic acid,
   bucolome, budesonide, bufexamac, bumadizon, buprenorphine, butacetin, butibufen,
   butorphanol, carbamazepine, carbiphene, caiprofen, carsalam, chlorobutanol,
 5 chloroprednisone, chlorthenoxazin, choline salicylate, cinchophen, cinmetacin, ciramadol,
   clidanac, clobetasol, clocortolone, clometacin, clonitazene, clonixin, clopirac, cloprednol,
   clove, codeine, codeine methyl bromide, codeine phosphate, codeine sulfate, cortisone,
   cortivazol, cropropamide, crotethamide, cyclazocine, deflazacort, dehydrotestosterone,
   desomorphine, desonide, desoximetasone, dexamethasone, dexamethasone-21- isonicotinate,
L0 dexoxadrol, dextromoramide, dextropropoxyphene, deoxycorticosterone, dezocine,
   diampromide, diamorphone, diclofenac, difenamizole, difenpiramide, diflorasone,
   diflucortolone, diflunisal, difluprednate, dihydrocodeine, dihydrocodeinone enol acetate,
   dihydromorphine, dihydroxyaluminum acetylsalicylate, dimenoxadol, dimepheptanol,
   dimethylthiambutene, dioxaphetyl butyrate, dipipanone, diprocetyl, dipyrone, ditazol,
[5 droxicam, emorfazone, enfenamic acid, enoxolone, epirizole, eptazocine, etersalate,
   ethenzamide, ethoheptazine, ethoxazene, ethylmethylthiambutene, ethylmorphine, etodolac,
   etofenamate, etonitazene, eugenol, felbinac, fenbufen, fenclozic acid, fendosal, fenoprofen,
   fentanyl, fentiazac, fepradinol, feprazone, floctafenine, fluazacort, flucloronide, flufenamic
   acid, flumethasone, flunisolide, flunixin, flunoxaprofen, fluocinolone acetonide, fluocinonide,
20 fluocinolone acetonide, fluocortin butyl, fluocoitolone, fluoresone, fluorometholone,
   fluperolone, flupirtine, fluprednidene, fluprednisolone, fluproquazone, flurandrenolide,
   flurbiprofen, fluticasone, formocortal, fosfosal, gentisic acid, glafenine, glucametacin, glycol
   salicylate, guaiazulene, halcinonide, halobetasol, halometasone, haloprednone, heroin,
   hydrocodone, hydro cortamate, hydrocortisone, hydrocortisone acetate, hydrocortisone
25 succinate, hydrocortisone hemisuccinate, hydrocortisone 21 -lysinate, hydrocortisone
   cypionate, hydromorphone, hydroxypethidine, ibufenac, ibuprofen, ibuproxam, imidazole
   salicylate, indomethacin, indoprofen, isofezolac, isoflupredone, isoflupredone acetate,
   isoladol, isomethadone, isonixin, isoxepac, isoxicam, ketobemidone, ketoprofen, ketorolac, p
   lactophenetide, lefetamine, levallorphan, levorphanol, levophenacyl-morphan, lofentanil,
30 lonazolac, lornoxicam, loxoprofen, lysine acetylsalicylate, mazipredone, meclofenamic acid,
   medrysone, mefenamic acid, meloxicam, meperidine, meprednisone, meptazinol,
   mesalamine, metazocine, methadone, methotrimeprazine, methylprednisolone,
   methylprednisolone acetate, methylprednisolone sodium succinate, methylprednisolone

                                                   -110
   suleptnate, metiazinic acid, metofoline, metopon, mofebutazone, mofezolac, mometasone,
   morazone, morphine, morphine hydrochloride, morphine sulfate, morpholine salicylate,
   myrophine, nabumetone, nalbuphine, nalorphine, 1-naphthyl salicylate, naproxen, narceine,
   nefopam, nicomorphine, nifenazone, niflumic acid, nimesulide, 5'-nitro-2'
 5 propoxyacetanilide,norlevorphanol, normethadone, normorphine, norpipanone, olsalazine,
   opium, oxaceprol, oxametacine, oxaprozin, oxycodone, oxymorphone, oxyphenbutazone,
   papaveretum, paramethasone, paranyline, parsalmide, pentazocine, perisoxal, phenacetin,
   phenadoxone, phenazocine, phenazopyridine hydrochloride, phenocoll, phenoperidine,
   phenopyrazone, phenomorphan, phenyl acetylsalicylate, phenylbutazone, phenyl salicylate,
[0 phenyramidol, piketoprofen, piminodine, pipebuzone, piperylone, pirazolac, piritramide,
   piroxicam, pirprofen, pranoprofen, prednicarbate, prednisolone, prednisone, prednival,
   prednylidene, proglumetacin, proheptazine, promedol, propacetamol, properidine, propiram,
   propoxyphene, propyphenazone, proquazone, protizinic acid, proxazole, ramifenazone,
   remifentanil, rimazolium metilsulfate, salacetamide, salicin, salicylamide, salicylamide o
[5 acetic acid, salicylic acid, salicylsulfuric acid, salsalate, salverine, simetride, sufentanil,
   sulfasalazine, sulindac, superoxide dismutase, suprofen, suxibuzone, talniflumate, tenidap,
   tenoxicam, terofenamate, tetrandrine, thiazolinobutazone, tiaprofenic acid, tiaramide, tilidine,
   tinoridine, tixocortol, tolfenamic acid, tolmetin, tramadol, triamcinolone, triamcinolone
   acetonide, tropesin, viminol, xenbucin, ximoprofen, zaltoprofen and zomepirac.
20         In one embodiment, a compound described herein may be administered with a
   selective COX-2 inhibitor for treating or preventing inflammation. Exemplary selective
   COX-2 inhibitors include, for example, deracoxib, parecoxib, celecoxib, valdecoxib,
   rofecoxib, etoricoxib, and lumiracoxib.
           In some embodiments, a provided compound is administered in combination with an
25 anthracycline or a Topo II inhibitor. In certain embodiments, a provided compound is
   administered in combination with Doxorubicin (Dox). In certain embodiments, a provided
   compound is administered in combination with bortezomib (and more broadly including
   carfilzomib). It was surprisingly found that a provided compound in combination with Dox
   or bortezomib resulted in a synergystic effect (i.e., more than additive).
30
            Viral infections
            Compounds and methods described herein may be used to treat or prevent a disease or
   disorder associated with a viral infection, particularly in humans and other mammals. A

                                                     -111
   compound described herein may be administered prior to the onset of, at, or after the
   initiation of viral infection. When used prophylactically, the compounds are preferably
   provided in advance of any viral infection or symptom thereof.
            Exemplary viral diseases include acute febrile pharyngitis, pharyngoconjunctival
 5 fever, epidemic keratoconjunctivitis, infantile gastroenteritis, Coxsackie infections, infectious
   mononucleosis, Burkitt lymphoma, acute hepatitis, chronic hepatitis, hepatic cirrhosis,
   hepatocellular carcinoma, primary HSV-1 infection (e.g., gingivostomatitis in children,
   tonsillitis and pharyngitis in adults, keratoconjunctivitis), latent HSV-1 infection (e.g., herpes
   labialis and cold sores), primary HSV-2 infection, latent HSV-2 infection, aseptic meningitis,
10 infectious mononucleosis, Cytomegalic inclusion disease, Kaposi's sarcoma, multicentric
   Castleman disease, primary effusion lymphoma, AIDS, influenza, Reye syndrome, measles,
   postinfectious encephalomyelitis, Mumps, hyperplastic epithelial lesions (e.g., common, flat,
   plantar and anogenital warts, laryngeal papillomas, epidermodysplasia verruciformis),
    cervical carcinoma, squamous cell carcinomas, croup, pneumonia, bronchiolitis, common
15  cold, Poliomyelitis, Rabies, influenza-like syndrome, severe bronchiolitis with pneumonia,
    German measles, congenital rubella, Varicella, and herpes zoster.
             Exemplary viral pathogens include Adenovirus, Coxsackievirus, Dengue virus,
    Encephalitis Virus, Epstein-Barr virus, Hepatitis A virus, Hepatitis B virus, Hepatitis C virus,
    Herpes simplex virus type 1, Herpes simplex virus type 2, cytomegalovirus, Human
20  herpesvirus type 8, Human immunodeficiency virus, Influenza virus, measles virus, Mumps
    virus, Human papillomavirus, Parainfluenza virus, Poliovirus, Rabies virus, Respiratory
    syncytial virus, Rubella virus, Varicella-zoster virus, West Nile virus, Dungee, and Yellow
    fever virus. Viral pathogens may also include viruses that cause resistant viral infections.
             Antiviral drugs are a class of medications used specifically for treating viral
25  infections. Antiviral action generally falls into one of three mechanisms: interference with
    the ability of a virus to infiltrate a target cell (e.g., amantadine, rimantadine and pleconaril),
    inhibition of the synthesis of virus (e.g., nucleoside analogues, e.g., acyclovir and zidovudine
    (AZT), and inhibition of the release of virus (e.g., zanamivir and oseltamivir).
30           Ophthamology
             Compounds and methods described herein may be used to treat or prevent an
     ophthamology disorder. Exemplary ophthamology disorders include macular edema
     (diabetic and nondiabetic macular edema), age related macular degeneration wet and dry

                                                    -112
   forms, aged disciform macular degeneration, cystoid macular edema, palpebral edema, retina
   edema, diabetic retinopathy, chorioretinopathy, neovascular maculopathy, neovascular
   glaucoma, uveitis, iritis, retinal vasculitis, endophthalmitis, panophthalmitis, metastatic
   ophthalmia, choroiditis, retinal pigment epithelitis, conjunctivitis, cyclitis, scleritis,
 5 episcleritis, optic neuritis, retrobulbar optic neuritis, keratitis, blepharitis, exudative retinal
   detachment, corneal ulcer, conjunctival ulcer, chronic nummular keratitis, ophthalmic disease
   associated with hypoxia or ischemia, retinopathy of prematurity, proliferative diabetic
   retinopathy, polypoidal choroidal vasculopathy, retinal angiomatous proliferation, retinal
   artery occlusion, retinal vein occlusion, Coats' disease, familial exudative vitreoretinopathy,
10 pulseless disease (Takayasu's disease), Eales disease, antiphospholipid antibody syndrome,
   leukemic retinopathy, blood hyperviscosity syndrome, macroglobulinemia, interferon
   associated retinopathy, hypertensive retinopathy, radiation retinopathy, corneal epithelial
   stem cell deficiency and cataract.
15          Neurodegenerativedisease
            Neurodegeneration is the umbrella term for the progressive loss of structure or
   function of neurons, including death of neurons. Many neurodegenerative diseases including
   Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, and Huntington's occur as a result of neurodegenerative processes.
   As research progresses, many similarities appear which relate these diseases to one another
20  on a sub-cellular level. Discovering these similarities offers hope for therapeutic advances
   that could ameliorate many diseases simultaneously. There are many parallels between
    different neurodegenerative disorders including atypical protein assemblies as well as
    induced cell death.
            Alzheimer's disease is characterized by loss of neurons and synapses in the cerebral
25  cortex and certain subcortical regions. This loss results in gross atrophy of the affected
    regions, including degeneration in the temporal lobe and parietal lobe, and parts of the frontal
    cortex and cingulate gyrus.
            Huntington's disease causes astrogliosis and loss of medium spiny neurons. Areas of
    the brain are affected according to their structure and the types of neurons they contain,
30  reducing in size as they cumulatively lose cells. The areas affected are mainly in the striatum,
    but also the frontal and temporal cortices. The striatum's subthalamic nuclei send control
    signals to the globus pallidus, which initiates and modulates motion. The weaker signals from
    subthalamic nuclei thus cause reduced initiation and modulation of movement, resulting in

                                                 -113
   the characteristic movements of the disorder. Exemplary treatments for Huntington's disease
   include tetrabenazine, neuroleptics, benzodiazepines, amantadine, remacemide, valproic acid,
   selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), mirtazapine and antipsychotics.
            The mechanism by which the brain cells in Parkinson's are lost may consist of an
 5 abnormal accumulation of the protein alpha-synuclein bound to ubiquitin in the damaged
   cells. The alpha-synuclein-ubiquitin complex cannot be directed to the proteosome. This
   protein accumulation forms proteinaceous cytoplasmic inclusions called Lewy bodies. The
   latest research on pathogenesis of disease has shown that the death of dopaminergic neurons
   by alpha-synuclein is due to a defect in the machinery that transports proteins between two
L0 major cellular organelles -  the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the Golgi apparatus. Certain
   proteins like Rabl may reverse this defect caused by alpha-synuclein in animal models.
   Exemplary Parkinson's disease therapies include levodopa, dopamine agonists such as
   include bromocriptine, pergolide, pramipexole, ropinirole, piribedil, cabergoline,
   apomorphine and lisuride, dopa decarboxylate inhibitors, MAO-B inhibitors such as
15 selegilene and rasagilene, anticholinergics and amantadine.
            Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS/Lou Gehrig's Disease) is a disease in which
   motor neurons are selectively targeted for degeneration. Exemplary ALS therapies include
   riluzole, baclofen, diazepam, trihexyphenidyl and amitriptyline.
            Other exemplary neurodegenerative therapeutics include antisense oligonucleotides
20 and stem cells.
            Other disorders
            Compounds and compositions described herein may also be used to treat disorders of
   abnormal tissue growth and fibrosis including dilative cardiomyopathy, hypertrophic
25 cardiomyopathy, restrictive cardiomyopathy, pulmonary fibrosis, hepatic fibrosis,
   glomerulonephritis, and other renal disorders.
            The above disclosure generally describes the present invention. A more complete
   understanding can be obtained by reference to the following specific Examples. These
   Examples are described solely for purposes of illustration and are not intended to limit the
30  scope of the invention. Changes in form and substitution of equivalents are contemplated as
    circumstances may suggest or render expedient. Although specific terms have been employed
   herein, such terms are intended in a descriptive sense and not for purposes of limitation.

                                              -114
   EXEMPLIFICATION
   Abbreviations
   atm           Atmosphere
   aq.           Aqueous
 5 BINAP         2,2'-bis(diphenylphosphino)- 1,1 '-binaphthyl
   Boc           tert-butoxycarbonyl
   CDI           N,N'-Carbonyldiimidazole
   DCC           N,N-Dicyclohexylcarbodiimide
   DCM           Dichloromethane
[0 DBU           Diaza(1,3)bicyclo[5.4.0]undecane
   DEA           N,N-Diisopropyl ethylamine
   DIBAL-H        Diisobutylaluminium hydride
   DIC           N,N'-Diisopropylcarbodiimide
   DMAP          N,N-Dimethyl-4-aminopyridine
15 DMF           Dimethylformamide
   DMSO          Dimethylsulfoxide
   DPPF          Diphenylphosphinoferrocene
   EA            Ethyl acetate
   EDCI        N-[3-(dimethylamino)propyl]-N'-ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride
20 EDC          1-Ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)carbodiimide
   Et 2 0         Diethylether
   EtOAc          Ethyl acetate
   EtOH           Ethanol
   EtI            lodoethane
25 Et             Ethyl
   Fmoc           9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl
   h              hour(s)
   HetAr          Heteroaryl
   HOBt           N-Hydroxybenzotriazole
30 HBTU           O-(Benzotriazol- 1-yl)-N,N,N',N'-tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate
   HPLC           High performance liquid chromatography
   LAH            Lithium aluminium hydride
   LCMS           HPLC mass spec

                                                 -115
   MCPBA           m-Chlorbenzoic acid
   MeCN            Acetonitrile
   MeOH           Methanol
   min             Minutes
 5 Mel             lodomethane
   MeMgC1          Methyl magnesium chloride
   Me              Methyl
   n-BuLi          1-Butyllithium
   NaOAc           Sodium acetate
[0 NMR             Nuclear magnetic resonance
   NMP             N-Methyl pyrrolidinone
   nBuLi           1-Butyl lithium
   o.n.            Over night
   RBF             Round-bottomed flask
[5 RT, rt, r.t.    Room temperature
   T3P             Propylphosphonic anhydride (available from Archimica)
   TEA             Triethylamine
   THF            Tetrahydrofurane
   nBu             normal Butyl
20 OMs             Mesylate or methane sulfonate ester
   OTs             Tosylate, toluene sulfonate or 4-methylbenzene sulfonate ester
   PCC             Pyridinium chlorochromate
   PPTS            Pyridinium p-toluenesulfonate
   TBAF            Tetrabutylammonium fluoride
25 pTsOH           p-Toluenesulfonic acid
   SPE              Solid phase extraction (usually containing silica gel for mini-chromatography)
   sat.             Saturated
   GP              Protecting group
   mins            minutes
30          Throughout the following description of such processes it is to be understood that,
   where appropriate, suitable protecting groups will be added to, and subsequently removed
   from, the various reactants and intermediates in a manner that will be readily understood by
   one skilled in the art of organic synthesis. Conventional procedures for using such protecting

                                                    -116
   groups as well as examples of suitable protecting groups are described, for example, in
   "Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis", T.W. Green, P.G.M. Wuts, Wiley-Interscience,
   New York, (1999). It is also to be understood that a transformation of a group or substituent
   into another group or substituent by chemical manipulation can be conducted on any
 5 intermediate or final product on the synthetic path toward the final product, in which the
   possible type of transformation is limited only by inherent incompatibility of other
   functionalities carried by the molecule at that stage to the conditions or reagents employed in
   the transformation. Such inherent incompatibilities, and ways to circumvent them by
   carrying out appropriate transformations and synthetic steps in a suitable order, will be
[0 readily understood to the one skilled in the art of organic synthesis. Examples of
   transformations are given below, and it is to be understood that the described transformations
   are not limited only to the generic groups or substituents for which the transformations are
   exemplified. References and descriptions on other suitable transformations are given in
   "Comprehensive Organic Transformations - A Guide to Functional Group Preparations" R.
[5  C. Larock, VHC Publishers, Inc. (1989). References and descriptions of other suitable
   reactions are described in textbooks of organic chemistry, for example, "Advanced Organic
    Chemistry", March, 4th ed. McGraw Hill (1992) or, "Organic Synthesis", Smith, McGraw
    Hill, (1994). Techniques for purification of intermediates and final products include for
    example, straight and reversed phase chromatography on column or rotating plate,
20  recrystallisation, distillation and liquid-liquid or solid-liquid extraction, which will be readily
    understood by the one skilled in the art. The definitions of substituents and groups are as in
    formula I except where defined differently. The term "room temperature" and "ambient
    temperature" shall mean, unless otherwise specified, a temperature between 16 and 25 'C.
    The term "reflux" shall mean, unless otherwise stated, in reference to an employed solvent a
25  temperature at or above the boiling point of named solvent.
            Synthesis of common intermediate 4
            Synthesis of 3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzothioamide (1):
                                                                             S
                           F3 C          CN   NaSH /MgCI 2       F3C            NH 2
                                                 Step 1
                                   CF3                                  CF3
                                                                        (1)
30           A 3-neck round-bottom flask was charged with a solution 3,5-

                                                 -117
   bis(trifluoromethyl)benzonitrile (200 g, 1.0 eq) in DMF (1 L), to which was added NaSH
   (123.7 g, 2.0 eq.) and MgCl 2 (186.7 g, 1 eq.). The reaction mixture was stirred at ambien
   temperature for 2-3 h before being poured in to ice water slurry (10 L) and extracted with
   EtOAc (3 x 1 L). The combined organic layers were washed with brine (3 x 100 mL),
 5 dried over anhydrous Na2 SO4 , filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford
   205 g (90% yield) of crude desired thioamide (1), used as such in the subsequent step.
            Synthesis of 3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole     (2):
                                    S                                        N'NH
                                    S3C       N2 H4 .H 20                    N-N
                       F3C   ~        NH2      HCOOH           F3 C            N
                                               Step 2
                              CF3                                      CF3
                               (1)                                     (2)
            A solution of 3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzothioamide (1) (205.65 g) in DMF (1.03
10 L) was treated with hydrazine hydrate (73.16 mL, 2.0 eq). The reaction mixture was stirred at
    ambient temperature for 1 h. before being treated with formic acid (1.03 L). The reaction
   mixture was refluxed at 90 'C for 2-3 h then allowed to cool down to ambient temperature,
    poured into saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate (7 L) and extracted with EtOAc (3 x
    1L), The combined organic layers were washed with brine (3 x 500 mL), dried over
15  anhydrous Na 2 SO4 , filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 180 g of
    crude compound. This crude material was washed with petroleum ether (3 x 500 mL) ,
    filtered and dried well to afford 160 grams (75% yield) of triazole (2) obtained as a pale
    yellow solid.
20           Synthesis of (Z)-isopropyl 3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
    1-yl)acrylate (3):
                                N'NH             ONN                   I/;7    0 0
                                 / />
                  F3 C             N      i               F3 C           N
                          CF3                                   CF3
                             (2)                                         (3)
             A 3-neck round-bottom flask was charged with a solution of 3-(3,5
    bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole (2) (160 g, 1.0 eq.) in DMF (960 mL). The
25  solution was treated DABCO (127.74 g, 2 eq.) and stirred for 30 min before being treated

                                                  -118
   with (Z)-isopropyl 3-iodoacrylate (1 50.32g, 1.1 eq.). After 1 hm the reaction mixture was
   poured into ice water slurry (5 L) and extracted with EtOAc (3 x 1 L) . The combined
   organic layers were washed with brine (3 x 100 mL), dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 ,
   filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 250 g of crude compound.
 5 Purification by column chromatography (silica gel, eluting with EtOAc/hexane) afforded
   138 g (61% yield) of pure isopropyl ester (3).
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
   yl)acrylic acid (4):
                             N-N                                             N-N       OH
                F3C             N               LOH            F3C               N
                       CF3                                             CF3
l0                            (3)                                            (4)
            A 3-neck round-botom flask was charged with a solution of (Z)-isopropyl 3-(3-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-lH-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylate (3) (130 g, 1.0 eq.) in THF (1.3 L)
    and treated with a solution of LiOH (69.3 g, 5 eq) in water (1.3 L). The reaction mixture was
    stirred at ambient temperature for 3-4 h before being diluted with 400 mL water, acidified
15  (pH= 2-3) with dilute aqueous HCl and extracted with EtOAc (3 x 1 L). The combined
    organic layers were washed with brine, dried over anhydrous Na2 SO 4 and concentrated
    under reduced pressure to afford 110 g (94% yield) of desired compound (4); Z/E ratio=
    90.0/8.2 by LCMS.
             Synthesis of (Z)-3-iodoacrylic acid (la):
                                      OH             Nal                  OH
                                   0              Step 1a          1   0
20                                                                   (1a)
             A solution of propiolic acid (50.0 g, 1.0 eq) in acetic acid (500 mL,), was treated with
    sodium iodide (213.97 g, 2.0 eq). The reaction mixture was refluxed at 100 C for 2-3 h then
    cooled down to ambient temperature, poured into ice water (5.0 L), neutralized with
     saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted with EtOAc (3 x 1 L). The combined
25  organic layers were washed with brine (3 x 1 L), dried over MgSO 4 , filtered, and
     concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 90.0 g of crude compound which was

                                                  -119
   purified by column chromatography (silica gel, elution with MeOH:CH 2 Cl 2) affording 56.0 g
   (39.7% yield) of pure carboxylic acid (la).
   Example 1
 5          Synthesis of (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-iodoprop-2-en-1-one        (2a):
                                                                             F
                                 OH                                            F
                                                                      r   N
                                               HCI HN            1      O
                                                           F
                                                         F
            A solution of (Z)-3-iodoacrylic acid (la) (2.75 g, 1.0 eq.) in CH 2 Cl 2 (25.0 mL) was
   cooled to 0 0C and sequentially treated with DIPEA (1.96 g , 1.1 eq), HATU (5.78 g, 1.1 eq)
   and 3,3-difluoroazetidine hydrochloride (1.98 g, 1.1 eq). The reaction mixture was stirred at
10 0 C for 2-3 hr before being filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressire affording 3.5
   g of crude compound. Purification by column chromatography (silica gel, elution with
   EtOAc/hexane) afforded 1.89 g of pure desired compound. Yield (49.87 %). Mass: (ES+)
   273.8 (M+1).
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1
15 (3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:
                                                    F                                         F
                         N-NH                   N      F                    N'N          N    F
           F3C,'           N           1    O                   3C            N
                   CF3                                                  CF3
            A solution of 3-(3-(difluoromethyl)-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole (2)
    (1.5 g, 1.0 eq.) in DMF (9.0 mL) was treated with DABCO (1.19 g, 2.0 eq) and stirred for 30
    mins before being treated (Z)- 1-(3,3 -difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)-3 -iodoprop-2-en- 1-one (2a) (1.60
20  g, 1.1 eq). The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 2-3 hr then poured in
    to ice water (90 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (3 x 50 mL). The combined organic layers
    were washed with brine (3 x 50 mL), dried over MgSO 4 , filtered, and concentrated under
    reduced pressure to afford 2.0 g of crude amide. (cis isomer: 71.1%, trans isomer:
     15.87%). Purification by column chromatography (silica gel, eluting with EtOAC/hexane)
25  afforded 500 mg of pure desired amide (22.0% yield):
            1H  NMR (CDCl 3 ): 6 9.63 (s, 1H), 7.95-7.65 (in, 3H), 7.24-7.27 (d, J=10.8Hz, 1H),

                                                        -120
   5.66-5.69 (d, J=10.8 Hz, 1H), 4.46-4.59 (in, 4H). LCMS for C1 6HioF 8N4 0: [M+H]*=
   427.27; found 427.29, RT: 3.03 min (98.17%).
            (E)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-l-(3,3
   difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:              'H NMR (CDC13 ): 6 9.18 (s, 1H), 8.59 (s, 2H),
 5 8.32 (s, 1H), 8.24-8.27 (d, J=13.6 Hz, 1H), 6.80-6.84 (d, J=13.6 Hz, 1H), 4.83-4.88 (in,
   2H), 4.40-4.46 (in, 2H). LCMS for C16HioF 8N4 0: [M+H]*                    = 427.27; found 427.34, RT:
   3.13 min (100%).
            Alternative synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
   triazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:
                                                                                                    F
                                        OH       F                                   NN              F
                          NN                     F         NH                       N
           F3C              IN                              -  ,F   FC                IN
                                              EDC, HOBt, DIPEA
[0                  CF 3                                                       CF 3
            A solution of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic
   acid (33.0 g, 1.0 eq.) in CH 2 Cl 2 (660 mL) was cooled to 0 0C and then treated sequentially
   with HOBT (17.27 g, 1.2 eq), EDC.HCl (27.029 g, 1.5 eq.),3,3-difluoroazetidine
   hydrochloride (14.61 g, 1.2 eq.) and DIPEA (24.31 mL, 1.5 eq). The reaction mixture was
15 stirred at 0 C for 1.15 hr before being quenched with 1 L water and extracted with EtOAc
   (3 x 500 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with brine, dried over
   anhydrous NaS 04 and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 35 g of crude
   compound. Purification by column chromatography (silica gel, eluting with MeOH:CH 2 Cl 2)
   afforded pure desired amide (15 g, 37% yield):
20           (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-(trifluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1
   yl)prop-2-en-1-one: 'H NMR(CDCl 3):6 9.63 (s, 111), 7.95-7.65 (in, 3H), 7.24-7.27 (d,
    J=10.8 Hz, 1H), 5.66-5.69 (d, J=10.8 Hz, 111), 4.46-4.59 (in, 4H). LCMS for C16HioF 8N40:
    [M+H]* 427.27; found 427.29, RT: 3.027 (98.17%).
25  Example 2
                                                                    F      NH
                                                                                                          F
               N-N       ONN                                    OH  F        .HCI                      NF
                                 UOH     F3 C                0     HOBt / EDC.HCI                N
                                                                                               NC-
     F3C                                                              DIPEA           F3 0N
         3       N
                                 Step 1                                Step 2
           F                                   F   (1)                                      F

                                                    -121
             Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
   yl)acrylic acid (1):
                                N-N                                         N-N       OH
                  F3C                                 LiOH     F3C                O
                                                      Step 1
                          F                                            F  (1)
             A solution of (Z)-isopropyl 3-(3-(3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
 5 triazol-1-yl)acrylate (0.400 g, 1.0 eq.) in THF (5 mL) and water (5 mL,) was treated with
   LiOH (0.097 g, 2.0 eq.). The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 2-3 hrs, quenched with
   ice cold water (10 mL), acidified to pH 1-2 with diute aqueous HCI and extracted with
   EtOAc (3 x 25 mL). The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous Na2 SO 4 and
    concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 150 mg (42% yield) desired carboxylic acid,
LO used in the subsequent step. Mass: (ES+) 302.19 (M+1).
             Synthesis of (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3-fluoro-5
    (trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:
                                          F      NH                                          F
                        N-N        OH     F        HCI                      N-N        N     F
                         / /   0        HOBt / EDC.HCI                             0
         F3C              N                  DIPEA              F3C       -    N
                  IC                         Step 2
                  F   (1)                                              F
             A 25-mL flask was charged with (Z)-3-(3-(3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
15   1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (1) (0.150 g, 1.0 eq) followed by dichloromethane (3 mL)
    before being treated sequentially with DIPEA (0.102mL, 1.2 eq) , EDC.HCl (0.143 g, 1.5 eq),
     3,3-difluoroazetidine hydrochloride (0.077 g, 1.2 eq) and HOBT (0.091 g, 1.2eq) at 0 'C.
     The reaction mixture was stirred at 0   0 C for 1 hr., diluted with.water (5mL) and extracted
     with dichloromethane (3 x 5 mL). Drying over Na 2 SO 4 and concentration under reduced
20   pressure aforded 0.150 g of crude compound. (Cis 49 %: Trans 42 %). Purification by
     column chromatography (silica gel, eluting with MeOH/CH 2Cl 2 ) afforded pure desired
     amide (0.025 g; 13% yield):
              (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3-fluoro-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
     1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:     'H NMR (400MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 9.6 (s, 1H), 7.40-8.37 (in,
25   3H), 7.22-7.25 (d, J=10.8 Hz, 1H), 5.64-5.67 (d, J=10.8 Hz, 1H), 4.46-4.59 (in, 4H). LCMS

                                                      -122
   for C 15HioF 6N 4 0 [M+H]+ 377.26 found 377.24 at RT 2.79 min purity (92.79%). Mass:
   (ES+) 377.2 (M+1).
   Example 3
                                                                   F>'N      H                        F
                N-N                                 N-N        OH F           HCI             NN    N F
                                                     N0          HOBt / EDC.HCI               N   O
     FC                0        LiOH    F3 0                     _______               F
                  N                                   N               DIPEA                     N
                                Step 1                                 Step 2
            OH                                 OH                                         OH
 5                                              (1)
             Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3-hydroxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
   yl)acrylic acid (1):
                                                                                  N'N        OH
                              N-N                       Step-I   F3C                  N
                F3C             N                       LiOH
                                                                           OH
                         OH                                                       (I
                   Molecular Weight: 341.29                        Molecular Weig ht: 299.21
                          V-211
             A solution of (Z)-isopropyl 3-(3-(3-hydroxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
10  triazol- 1-yl)acrylate (4 g, 1.0 eq.) in THF (40 mL) and water (40 mL) was treated with LiOH
    (1.92 g, 4 eq.). The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 2-3 hrs then quenched with acidic
    ice-water slurry (300 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (3 x 250 mL). The combined organic
    layers were washed with dil HCI solution (50 mL), dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO4 and
    concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 3 g of crude compound. The resulting crude
15  off-white compound was used as such in the following step. Yield: 85.5%. Mass: (ES+)
    299.92 (M+1).
              Synthesis of (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3-hydroxy-5
                                                                     2 -en-1-one     (2):
     (trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)prop-
                                             F      NH                                            F
                                   ->,       F        HO
                          NN           OH           NHCI
                           /      0
                                  O       HOBt / EDC.HCI                              /
            F3C              N                 DIPEA             F3C                  N
                                               Step 2
                    OH                                                      OH
                     (1)

                                                   -123
            A cold (0 C) solution of (Z)-3-(3-(3-hydroxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
   triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (1) (1.5 g, 1.0 eq) in 30 ml of CH 2 Cl 2 was treated sequentially with
   DIPEA (0.78 g, 1.2 eq), EDC.HCl (01.15 g, 1.2 eq), 3,3-difluoroazetidine hydrochloride
   (0.78 g, 1.2 eq) and HOBt (0.92 g, 1.2 eq). The reaction mixture was stirred at 0      0 C for 3-4
 5 hrs before being concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.5 g of crude compound.
   (trans isomer was not observed during reaction). The crude reaction mixture was purified by
   column chromatography affording pure desired amide (0.5 g). Yield: 26.7%:
            (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3-hydroxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
   1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:       'H NMR (400MHz, CDCl3 ) 6 10.53 (1H, D 2 0
10 exchangeable), 9.17 (s, 1H), 7.14-7.71 (in, 3H), 7.41-7.43 (d, J=10.4 Hz, 1H), 5.92-5.95 (d,
   J=10.4 Hz, 1H), 4.41-4.49 (in, 4H). LCMS for C1 5H11F5N4 0 2 [M+H]* 375.27; found 375.24
   at RT 2.44 min, purity (97.03%). Mass: (ES+) 375.2 (M+1).
   Example 5
15          Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-l
    (3,3-difluoropiperidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:
                                                                                             F
                                                HN       F                                     FF
                        N'N          OH     HC                               N-N         N       F
          F>C              N                HI                 F3C             N
                                              EDCI/HOBT
                  CF3      (4)CF3
            A cold (0 C) solution of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
    1-yl)acrylic acid (4) (1.0 g, 1.0 eq.) in CH 2 Cl 2 (20 mL) was treated sequentially with EDC
20  HCl (0.656 g, 1.2 eq.), 3,3-difluoropiperidine hydrochloride (0.540 g,1.2), DIPEA (435 mg,
    1.2 eq) and HOBT (25.92 g, 1.2 eq.). The clear reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C for 1.5 -2
    h then quenched with 50 mL ice-water slurry and extracted with CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 25 mL). The
    combined organic layers were washed with brine, dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 and
    concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.70 g of crude compound. No trans
25  compound was formed as confirmed by LCMS and 1H NMR. Purification by column
    chromatography afforded 0.20 g of material that was further recrystallized/triturated using
    ether: petroleum ether to remove aliphatic impurity affording 0.180 g (14.1% yield) of
    desired pure compound.
             (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3-

                                                   -124
   difluoropiperidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:        H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13 ) 6 8.739 (s, 1H), 7.94
   8.59 (in, 3H), 7.13-7.15 (d, J=10.4 Hz, 1H), 5.99-6.016 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 3.95-4.01 (t, 1H),
   3.68-3.77 (in, 2H), 3.56-3.53 (t, 1H), 2.11-2.05 (in, 2H), 1.77-1.89 (in, 2H). LCMS for
   Ci 8H 14F8N 40 [M+H]* 455.33; found 455.07 at RT 3.82 min, purity (98.64%).
 5
   Example 6
                    N'N          OH                                        N-N          N       F
       F3C           / N                  T3P, DIPEA          F3 0                0
                                                                                  O             F
                                        _   _   _    _    _                  N
                                          HN
                                                       F           F3 C
               CF3
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1
   (4,4-difluoropiperidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:
10          A cold (0 'C) solution of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
   l-yl)acrylic acid (4) (0.500 g, 1.0 eq.) in CH 2 Cl 2 (20 mL).was treated sequentially with EDC
   HCl (0.409 g, 1.5 eq.), 4,4-difluoropiperidine hydrochloride (0.269 g,1.2), DIPEA (0.220 g,
   1.2 eq) and HOBT (0.261 g, 1.2 eq.). The clear reaction mixture was stirred at 0 0C for 1.5-2
   h then quenched with 50 mL ice-water slurry. The aqueous layer was extracted with
15 CH 2 Cl 2 (2 x 25 mL) and the combined organic layers were washed with brine, dried over
   anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.60 g of crude
   compound. Purification by preparative TLC (eluting with MeOH/CH 2Cl 2) afforded 0.090 g
   compound which was further triturated using ether: petroleum ether to remove aliphatic
   impurity affording 0.06 g pure compound. Yield: 9.28%.
20          (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(4,4
   difluoropiperidin-1-yI)prop-2-en-1-one: 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.705 (s, 1H), 8.557
    (s, 2H), 7.950 (s, 1H), 7.111-7.136 (d, J=10.0 Hz, 1H), 5.998-6.024 (d, J=10.8 Hz, 1H),
    3.886-3.916 (t, 2H), 3.654-3.683 (t, 2H), 2.055-2.152 (in, 2H), 1.940-2.035 (in, 2H). LCMS
   for Ci 8H 15FsN 40 [M+H]* 455.33; found 455.38 at RT 3.057 min purity (99.77%).
25
   Example 7

                                                    -125
                                             HCI
                        N-N           OH       HNNF                           -N         N       F
          FJC              /> O                                  F3C           />  O
           F3               N              HOBT, EDC HCI                        N
                                             DIPEA, OC
                   CF 3                                                CF 3
             Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3
    fluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:
             To a stirred solution of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
  5 yl)acrylic acid (4) (0.500 g, 1 eq.) dichloromethane (10 mL, 20 V) in 3 necked 100 mL
    round-bottomed flask equipped with nitrogen bubbler HOBT (0.19 g, 1.2 eq.), EDC.HC
    (0.41 g, 1.5 eq.) and DIPEA (0.27 g, 1.5 eq.) were added at 0 'C. After 1 hr, the reaction
    mixture was quenched with water (50 ml) and extracted with dichloromethane (3 x 30 mL).
    The combined organic layers were washed with brine (50 mL), dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4
  0 and concentrated under reduced pressure affording 0.25 g crude titled compound.
    Purification by flash chromatography (eluting with EtOAc/hexane) afforded 0.03 g of pure
    titled compound.
              (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3
    fluoroazetidin-1-yI)prop-2-en-1-one: 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 9.76 (s, 1H), 8.62 (s,
 t5 2H), 7.94 (s, 1H), 7.21-7.24 (d, J=10.8 Hz, 1H), 5.65-5.68 (d, J=10.8 Hz, 1H), 5.45-5.48 (m,
     1H), 5.31-5.34 (m, 1H), 4.44-4.56 (m, 4H), 4.23-4.43 (m, 2H). LCMS for Ci 6 H1 1F7N 4 0
     [M+H]* 409.28; found 409.38 at RT 2.963 min purity (96.03%).
    Example 8
                                             HCI
                                              HN       OH                                       OH
                        N'N          OH                                     N-N         N
         F3 C                   0                               F3C            N    0O
               3C     ~    NN
                                                                       CF3
20                CF3
              Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3
    hydroxy-3-methylazetidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one:
              In a 25 mL 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with nitrogen inlet, (Z)-3-(3-(3,5
    bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1 -yl)acrylic acid (4) (0.250 g, 1.0 eq.) was

                                                 -126
   charged along with dichloromethane (5.0 mL, 20 V). The reaction mixture was cooled to 00 C
   and then added HOBT (0.119 g, 1.1 eq.) followed by EDC HCl (0.149 g, 1.1 eq.) and 3
   methyl azetidin-3-ol HCl (0.096 g g,1.1 eq.). DIPEA (0.101 g, 1.1 eq) was added to this
   reaction mixture dropwise at the same temperature. The clear reaction mixture was stirred at
 5 0 C for 1.5 h. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis on silica gel
   with 10% methanol in dichloromethane as mobile phase and visualization with UV.
   Reaction mixture was quenched in 20 mL ice-water slurry. Organic layer was separated
   and aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane (2x10 mL) to ensure complete
   extraction. The organic layer was washed with brine solution and dried over anhydrous
 0 Na 2 SO4 and concentrated by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure (35 'C, 20 mm Hg)
   to afford 0.280 g of crude compound. (cis: 61.9%, trans: 16.46%)
           The crude reaction mixture was purified by column chromatography using 60/120
   mesh silica and methanol: dichloromethane as mobile phase. The column was packed in
   dichloromethane and started eluting in MeOH in gradient manner starting with fraction
 5 collection (500 mL fractions). The compound started eluting from 0.2 - 2.0 % methanol in
   dichloromethane. Fractions containing such TLC profile were collected together to obtain
   pure compound 90 mg. Yield: 30.1%.
           (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3-hydroxy-3
   methylazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-one:      1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.39 (s, 1H), 8.55 (s,
!0 2H), 8.301 (s, 1H), 7.37-7.40 (d, J=10.4 Hz, 1H), 5.95-5.98 (d, J=10.0 Hz, 1H), 5.69 (s, 1H),
   3.90 (s, 2H), 3.78-3.85 (in, 2H), 1.32 (s, 3H). LCMS for C17 H14 F6N4 0 2 [M+H]*: 420.31;
   found 421.4 at RT 2.665 min purity (99.54%).

                                                          -127
   Example 9
                                                                               -N-SEMSE
                          Bis pinacolatodiborane                             N                           NN SEM
                              [Ir(OMe)(COD)] 2     F3C        N    CF 3 Br       N                       N
        F 3C     N   CF 3
                                    dtbpy        ,                                       ,  F3C          / N
                                    Step 1                               Pd(PPh 3)4 , K2CO 3     N
                                                              B,             Step 2
                                                          o'     0O                                 CF3
                                                                                                    (2)
                                                             (1)
                                                                                         Dioxane HCI     Step 3
                                                   -                  1/        N     <                  N-NH
                                          N-N           N       FF         0            F    F3C             /
                           F 3C             N      O                                                       N
                                            N                         DMF, DABCO                  N
                                  N                                       Step 4                    CF 3
                                    CF 3                                                            (3)
             Synthesis of 4-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)-2,6
   bis(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (1):
                                                Bis pinacolatodiborane
                           F3 C      N     CF 3     [Ir(OMe)(COD)] 2         F3 C      N     CF 3
                                                           dtbpy
                                                           Step I
 5
             In a 10 mL seal tube, bispinacolatodiborane (0.146 g, 0.5eq), DTBPY (0.0015 g,
    0.005eq) and [Ir(OMe)(COD)]2 (0.0019 g, 0.0025eq) was dissolved in 5 mL dry hexane
    under N 2 atmosphere. This reaction mixture was stirred for 10 min at RT to give dark red
    solution. 3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (0.250 g, 1 eq.) was charged in seal tube. Seal tube
10  was closed and heated at 50 'C for 6 h. Reaction completion was monitored on TLC using
    ethyl acetate:hexane(1:9) as mobile phase. The reaction mixture was quenched into the ice
    water slurry (50 mL) and was extracted with ethyl acetate (3x50 mL). Organic layer was
    washed with brine solution (3x50 mL). The organic layer was dried using anhydrous sodium
    sulfate, filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the 0.40 g crude titled
15  compound. This crude material was directly used for next step without purification.
              Synthesis of 2,6-bis(trifluoromethyl)-4-(1-((2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxy)methyl)-1H
    1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)pyridine (2):

                                                   -128
                                               N-N-SEM                       SEM
                        F3 C    N    CF 3 Br      N                       N>
                                                          ,F  3C         /N
                                          Pd(PPh 3 )4 , K2CO3    N
                               0B              Step 2
                              O' O                                 CF3
            In a 10 mL seal tube, 4-(4,4,5,5-tetramethyl-1,3,2-dioxaborolan-2-yl)-2,6
   bis(trifluoromethyl)pyridine(l) (0.395 g, 1 eq.) was dissolved in DME (5 mL), then 3-bromo
   1-((2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxy)methyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole (0.323 g, 1 eq.) and K 2 C0   3  (0.480 g, 3
 5 eq.) in water (1 mL) was added. Mixture was degassed by purging nitrogen for lh. Tetrakis
   (0.067 g, 0.05 eq.) was added in the reaction mixture and seal tube was heated at 90 'C for 18
   h. Reaction completion was monitored on TLC using ethyl acetate:hexane (2:8) as mobile
   phase The reaction mixture was quenched into the ice-water solution (50 mL) and was
   extracted with ethyl acetate (3x50 mL). Organic layer was washed with brine solution (3x50
[0 mL). The organic layer was dried using anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated
   under reduced pressure to provide the 0.30 g crude compound. The compound was purified
   by column chromatography using ethyl acetate/n-hexane as mobile phase. Compound was
   eluted out at 8% ethylaetate in hexane to afford (intermediate-2) 0.150 g. Yield: 31.0%.
            Synthesis of 4-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)-2,6-bis(trifluoromethyl)pyridine       (3):
                                        SEM
                                    N-N                                       N-NH
                      F3C            i /)                                       N3
                                      N        Dioxane HCI       F3C
                            N                                        N/
                                                  Step 3
15                             CF3                                      CF 3
            In a 10 mL seal tube, 2,6-bis(trifluoromethyl)-4-(1-((2-(trimethylsilyl)ethoxy)methyl)
    1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)pyridine (2) (0.15 g, 1 eq.) was dissolved in dioxane HCl (5 mL) and
   seal tube was heated to 60 'C for 6 h. Reaction completion was monitored on TLC using
   ethyl acetate:hexane (5:5) as mobile phase. The reaction mixture was quenched into the ice
20 water NaHCO 3 solution (50 mL) and was extracted with ethyl acetate (3x50 mL). Organic
   layer was washed with brine solution (3x50 mL). The organic layer was dried using
   anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to provide the
   0.3 g of crude compound. The compound was purified by column chromatography using
   ethyl acetate/hexane as mobile phase. Compound was eluted out at 30% ethyl acetate in

                                                   -129
   hexane to afford 4-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)-2,6-bis(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (3) 0.060g. Yield:
   58.4%.
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(2,6-bis(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-4-yl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)
   1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one:
                                                                                         F
                                    N-HF                                   N-N      N      F
               F3C             N                       F    F3 C              N
                    N~                   DMF, DABCO
                      CF 3                    Step 4                CF 3
 5
            In a 3-neck 50 mL round-bottomed flask, 4-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)-2,6
   bis(trifluoromethyl)pyridine (3) (0.060 g, 1 eq.) and (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3
   iodoprop-2-en-1-one (0.064 g, 1.leq) was dissolved in DMF (2 mL). DABCO (0.047 g, 2eq.)
   was added at RT. Reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at RT. Reaction completion was
10 monitored on TLC using MeOH:dichloromethane (0.25:9.75) as mobile phase. The reaction
   mixture was quenched into the ice-water slurry (50 mL) and was extracted with ethyl acetate
   (3x25 mL). Organic layer was washed with brine solution (3x25 mL). The organic layer was
   dried using anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to
   provide the 0.70 g crude compound which was purified by preparative TLC using 2.5%
15 methanol in dichloromethane as mobile phase to afford 0.011 g (12%) title compound.
             (Z)-3-(3-(2,6-bis(trifluoromethyl)pyridin-4-yl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-l-(3,3
   difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one: 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 8 9.768 (s,1H), 8.590
   (s,2H), 7.268-7.295 (d, J=10.8, 1H), 5.732-5.759 (d, J =10.8 Hz, 1H), 4.56-4.62 (t, 2H), 4.46
   4.52 (t, 2H). LCMS for C15H9F8N 5 0 [M+H] 427.25 found 428.5 at 2.901 min purity (
20 95.46%).
   Example 10
             Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
    ethyl-N-(1-(pyridin-3-yl)ethyl)acrylamide:
                  N-N        OH            H           HOBt / EDC.HCI               N'N      N
                          F    0           N                             F            />O0      0\
     F3 C                O                 N                DIPEA        F3 C         N
                                 +         IN               Step 1
                     N
25           CF3                                                                CF3

                                                   -130
            In a 3-neck 50 mL round-bottomed flask, (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.2 g, 1.0 eq..) was dissolved in dichloromethane(15 mL)
   at 00 C under N 2 atmosphere. To this reaction DIPEA (0.088 g, 1.2 eq.), EDC.HCl (0.131 g,
   1.2 eq.) and N-ethyl-1-(pyridin-3-yl)ethanamine (0.102g, 1.2 eq.) was added followed by
 5 HOBt (0.104 g, 1.2 eq.). Reaction mixture was stirred at 20 'C for 1 h. The progress of the
   reaction was followed by TLC analysis on silica gel with 10% methanol: dichloromethane
   as mobile phase and visualization with UV, SM Rf= 0.15 and Product Rf= 0.40. Reaction
   was stirred for 3-4 h and yellow reaction mixture was evaporated on rotary evaporator
   under reduced pressure to afford 0.4 g of crude compound.
10          The crude reaction mixture was purified by column chromatography using silica
   60/120 using methanol: dichloromethane as mobile phase. The column (2 x 10 cm) was
   packed in dichloromethane and started eluting in Methanol in gradient manner starting with
   fraction collection (25 mL fractions) from 1.5 %to 2.5 % methanol in dichloromethane.
   Compound started eluting with 1.5 % methanol in dichloromethane. Fraction containing such
15 TLC profile was collected together to obtain pure compound (0.006 g). Yield: 3%.
            (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-ethyl-N-(1
   (pyridin-3-yl)ethyl)aerylamide: 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.04 (s, 1H), 7.3 8-8.73 (in,
   7H), 8.19-8.22 (d, J=12.4, 1H), 6.01-6.04 (d, J =12.8 Hz, 111), 4.77-4.79 (d, 1H), 3.29-3.46
   (in, 2H), 1.79-1.81 (d, 3H),1.24-1.27(t, 3H). LCMS for C2 2 H19 F6N 5 0 [M+H]* 483.4 found
20 484.55 at 3.283 min purity (91.38%).
   Example 11
                                                       N
                      N'N          OH       H2 N       0                  N-N         NH
        FFC           J       O                              F3 C           />
                        N                   EDC/HOBT                         N              O
                CF3                                                 CF3
             Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
25 (oxazol-5-ylmethyl)acrylamide: In a 25 mL 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with
   nitrogen inlet, (Z)-3-(3-(3,5 -bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid
   (4) (0.250 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in dichloromethane (5.0 mL, 20 V).The reaction mixture
   was cooled to 0 'C and then added HOBT (0.119 g, 1.1 eq.) followed by EDC HCl (0.150 g,
    1.1 eq.) and oxazol-5-ylmethanamine HCl (0.143 g,1.1 eq.). DIPEA (0.101 g, 1.1 eq) was

                                                -131
   added to this reaction mixture dropwise at the same temperature. The clear reaction mixture
   was stirred at 0 C for 1.5 h. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis on
   silica gel with 5 % methanol in dichloromethane as mobile phase and visualization with
   UV.
 5         Reaction mixture was quenched in ice-water slurry (20 mL). Organic layer was
   separated and aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane (2x1 OmL) to ensure
   complete extraction. The organic layer was washed with brine solution and dried over
   anhydrous Na 2 SO4 and concentrated by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure (35 'C,
   20 mm Hg) to afford 0.280 g of crude compound (cis: 30.71 %;trans: 28.02 %).
[0         The crude reaction mixture was purified by column chromatography using 60/120
   mesh silica and Methanol: dichloromethane as mobile phase. The column was packed in
   dichloromethane and started eluting in MeOH in gradient manner starting with fraction
   collection (500 mL fractions). The compound started eluting from 0.2 -2.0 % Methanol in
   dichloromethane. Fractions containing such TLC profile were collected together to obtain 90
[5 mg of compound cis and trans mixture. (cis: 57.86 %; trans: 52.49 %).
           The mixture was purified by Prep TLC using 5% methanol: dichloromethane as
   mobile phase. Fractions containing such TLC profile were collected together to obtain 15 mg
   of compound pure compound. (4.88% Yield).
           (Z)-3-(3(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-(oxazol-5
20 ylmethyl) acrylamide: 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.62(s, 1H), 9.05 (s, 1H), 8.53 (s,
   2H), 8.30 (s,2H), 7.41-7.44 (d, J=10.4Hz, 1H), 7.07 (s,1H), 5.95-5.98 (d, J=10.8 Hz, 1H),
   4.47-4.48 (d, 2H). LCMS for C, 7H,1 F6N50 2 [M+H] +:431.28 found 432.39 at RT 2.822 min
   purity (95.52%).

                                                   -132
   Example 12
                                               S          O    O_ 0                 HN          OH
      F3C          CN             F3C            NH                     F3C             N-N O
                          NaSH                       2      Hydrazine                   N
              CF3         Step 1                             Step 2
                     C3CF                  3                                   CF3
                                         (1)                                    (2)
                                                                      H      F       Step 3
                                                                           F
                                                                      EDC/HOBT
                                                                                              F
                                                                          HN \          N     F
                                                              F3C            NN O
                                                                      CF3
           Synthesis of (Z)-3-(5-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-4H-1,2,4-triazol-3
   yl)acrylic acid (2):
                                                        O              HN\          OH
                    FSC                     0-
                     F3             NH2                    F3C            N'
                                    N        Hydrazine
 5                           CF3                Step 2            CF3
           In a 3-neck 100 mL round-bottomed flask, 3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzothioamide
   (0.564 g, 1 eq.) was dissolved in DMF (5 mL, 10 Vol), then hydrazine hydrate (0.123 g, 1.2
   eq.) was added at 0 'C. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT till all SM consumed and
   converted in to polar hydrazine adduct. Preserve sample from this reaction mass for TLC. At
10 last Maleic anhydride (0.242 g mL, 1.2 eq.) was added at 0 'C. Then reaction mixture was
   stirred at RT till all hydrazine adduct consumed and converted in to uncyclised intermediate.
   Again preserve this uncyclised intermediate sample for TLC. Reaction mixture was heated at
   80 'C for 6 h. Reaction completion was monitored on TLC using MeOH: dichloromethane
   (2:8) as mobile phase and uncyclised intermediate as a SM. The reaction mixture was
15 quenched into the ice-water solution (100 mL) and was extracted with ethyl acetate
   (3x5OmL). Organic layer was washed with brine solution (3x5OmL). The organic layer was
   dried using anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to
   provide the 0.51 g crude compound. This crude compound was dissolved in minimum

                                                  -133
   amount of diethyl ether. This solution was stirred at -5 'C and precipitated compound filtered
   and washed with chilled diethylether to give 0.150 g (20%) pure (Z)-3-(5-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-4H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)acrylic acid.
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(5-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-4H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)-1
 5 (3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:
                                                                                          F
                         HN\          OH HN        F                   HN           N     F
                  F3           N   0                                         N____0
             F3C            N'                  F          F3C             N
                                          EDC/HOBT
                     CF3                     Step 3                CF3
            In a 3-neck 50 mL round-bottomed flask, (Z)-3-(5-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
   4H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)acrylic acid (2) (0.065 g, 1 eq.), 3,3-difluoroazetidine HCl (0.028 g, 1.2
   eq.) and EDC. HCl (0.042 g, 1.2 eq.) was dissolved in dichloromethane (5 mL). DIPEA
10 (0.028 g, 1.2 eq.) was added at -5 'C followed by HOBt (0.033 g, 1.2 eq.) added at same
   temperature. Reaction was maintained at this temp for 1h. Reaction completion was
   monitored on TLC using MeOH: dichloromethane (0.5:9.5) as mobile phase. The reaction
   mixture was quenched into the ice-water slurry (50 mL) and was extracted with ethyl acetate
   (3x20 mL). Organic layer was washed with brine solution (3x25 mL). The organic layer was
15 dried using anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to
   provide the 0.80 g crude compound which was purified by column chromatography using
   ethylacetate and hexane as mobile phase. Product was eluted in 35 % ethylacetate in hexane
   to afford 0.055 g (78%) title compound.
            (Z)-3-(5-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-4H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)-1-(3,3
20  difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:      'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 14.826 (s, 1H, D2 0
    exchangeable), 8.557 (s,2H), 8.259 (s,1H), 6.847-6.877 (d, J=12, 1H), 6.445-6.476 (d, J
   =12.4 Hz, 1H), 4.611 (in, 2H), 4.480 (in, 2H). LCMS for C16HioF 8N4 0 [M+H]*426.26 found
    427.3 at 3.303 min purity (99.83%).

                                                   -134
   Example 13
                                                  -N
                     N-N         OH     H2 N                           N-N        NH        N
      F/>O               >                                 F3 C          /N                 N>
        3               N                  T3P/DIPEA                      N                 N
              CF3        4                                       CF3
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
   ((2-methylpyrimidin-5-yl)methyl)acrylamide: In a 25 mL 3N round-bottomed flask
 5 equipped with nitrogen inlet, (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
   yl)acrylic acid (4) (0.1 g, 1.0 eq.) was charged along with dichloromethane (5.0 mL, 50 V)
   and ethyl acetate (5.0 mL, 50 V). The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C and then added
   T3P (50% in ethyl acetate) (0.214 g, 1.2 eq.) followed by DIPEA (0.073 g, 2.0 eq.) and (2
   methylpyrimidin-5-yl) methananmine (0.038 g, 1. leq.). The clear reaction mixture was
10 stirred at 0 0 C for 30 min. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis on
   silica gel with 10 % Methanol in dichloromethane as mobile phase and visualization with
   UV. Reaction mixture was quenched in 30 mL ice-water slurry. Organic layer was
   separated and aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane (2x20 mL) to ensure
   complete extraction. The organic layer was washed with brine solution and dried over
15 anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated by rotary evaporation under reduced pressure (35 'C,
   20 mm Hg) to afford 0.129 g of crude compound. (cis: 81.98 %; trans: not detected;
   unreacted SM: 13.95 %).
            The crude reaction mixture was purified by column chromatography using 60/120
   mesh silica and methanol: dichloromethane as mobile phase. The column was packed in
20 dichloromethane and started eluting in MeOH in gradient manner starting with fraction
   collection (500 mL fractions). The compound started eluting from 0.2 % to 4.0 % methanol
   in dichloromethane. Fractions containing such TLC profile were collected together to obtain
   65 mg of pure compound. Yield: 50.38%.
            (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-(2-methylpyrimidin-5
25 yl)acrylamide: 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.57 (s, 1H), 9.12 (s, 1H), 8.62 (s, 2H), 8.55
    (s, 2H), 7.41-7.43 (d, J=10.4Hz, 1H), 5.98-6.01 (d, J=10.4 Hz, 1H), 4.38-4.39 (d, 2H). LCMS
    for C19H14F6N 6O [M+H] +:456.34 found 457.39 at RT 2.725 min purity (99.81%).

                                                   -135
    Example 14
             Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
    (pyrimidin-5-ylmethyl)acrylamide:
                                                                                        NH       N
                    N-N         OH        NH2                                           NH
      F3C            />O                                       F3C             N                  N
                      N                A       T3P, DIPEA
                                      N   N       DCM
              CF3                                                     CF3
  5          In a 50 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with nitrogen inlet, (Z)-3-(3-(3,5
    bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)acrylic acid (0.2 g, 1.0 eq.) was charged
    along with dichloromethane (5 mL, 1OV). The reaction mixture was cooled to -20 'C and
    then added pyrimidine-5-ylmethanamine (0.075 g,1.2 eq), T3P (50% in EtOAc) (0.4 mL, 1.2
    eq) followed by DIPEA (0.2 ml, 2 eq) dropwise into the reaction mixture. The reaction
 [0 mixture was stirred at -20 'C for another 30 min. The progress of the reaction was followed
    by TLC analysis on silica gel with 5% Methanol in dichloromethane as mobile phase and
    visualization with UV. Reaction mixture was concentrated by rotary evaporation (25 'C, 20
    mm Hg) to afford crude compound. The crude reaction mixture was purified by column
    chromatography using 60/120 mesh silica and methanol: dichloromethane as mobile phase.
 [5 The column was packed in dichloromethane and started eluting in MeOH in gradient manner
    starting with fraction collections (500 mL fractions). The compound started eluting from 4
    % methanol in dichloromethane. Fractions containing such TLC profile were collected
    together to obtain pure compound 0.2 g. Yield: 80%.
             (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-1-yl)-N-(pyrimidine
20  5-yl)methyl)acrylamide: 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 = 9.58 (s, 1H), 9.07 (s, 2H), 8.76 (s,
    2H), 8.50 (s, 2H), 8.28 (s, 1H), 7.44-7.41 (d, J = 10.4 Hz, 1H), 6.02-5.99 (d, J = 10.4 Hz, 1H),
    4.45- 4.43 (d, J= 5.6 Hz, 2H). LCMS (%):100 %.

                                                          -136
   Example 15
                      OH
          F3C    N    BH                                    Pd(dppf)Cl2.DCM        F3C                   -O
                         OH           Br     NNIO         1,2-dimethoxyethane                       N
                                       +                         Stepi1
                 CF3                        (1a)                                   F3C
                                                                            HO
                                                                                          OH      Step 2
                                                                               piperidine
                                                 N"""F                  F        pyridine                  0O
                                                                N       FOHHN
                     F3C                                F               F          F3C
                         /   \    N-                           EDCI/HOBT               /   \        N
                     F3C                                          Step 3           F3 C
                                                                                              (2)
                            Intemediate _1a synthesis
                                    Br      N     Br                                  Br      N
                                                               Step 1a
                                                              n-BuLi   DMF
                                                                                             (1a)
            Synthesis of 6-bromopicolinaldehyde (la):
                      Br       N    Br               Step 1a                Br      N
                                                   n-BuLi     DMF                              O
 5          A three necked 100 mL round-bottomed flask with magnetic stirring, an immersion
   thermometer, and an addition funnel was charged with THF (30 mL) and cooled to -78 0C. n
   butyllithium (1.35 g, 21.10 mmol) was carefully added to the reaction maintaining an internal
   temperature of -70 0C. After the addition of 2,6-dibromopyridine (5.0 g, 21.10 mmol),the
   resulting dark green solution was stirred for 15 min, then neat DMF (2.31 g, 31.66 mmol)
10 was added over a period of 30 seconds. The reaction mass was stirred for 15 min at -70'C.
   The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC analysis on silica gel with ethyl
   acetate:hexane (3:7) as mobile phase. Reaction mixture was poured into saturated NH 4 C1
   (50 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (3x50 mL). The combined organic layers were washed
   with brine solution (3x50 mL), dried over MgSO 4 , filtered, and concentrated by rotary
15 evaporation to afford 5.0 g of crude compound which was purified by chromatography.
   Product elute at 3% ethyl acetate in hexane to give 1.5 g of pure product (Yield 38.4 %).
            Synthesis of 6-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)picolinaldehyde:

                                                  -137
                  OH
      F3C                                             Pd(dppf)C1 2 .DCM        F3 C             -O
                     OH            Br  N"      "O    1,2-dimethoxyethane                  N
                               +:r                          Stepi1
             CF 3
                                                                               F3C
           In a 35 mL, microwave vial, 3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenylboronic acid (2.0 g, 7.7
   mmol) and 6-bromopicolinaldehyde (la) (1.44 g, 7.7 mmol) dissolved in 1,2
   dimethoxyethane (20 mL) was treated with a solution of K 2 C0       3 (3.22 g, 23.3mmol) in water
 5 at room temperature. Pd(dppf)C12 .dichloromethane was added to reaction mass and charged
   in microwave for 30 min at 90'C. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC
   analysis on silica gel with ethyl acetate:hexane (3:7) as mobile phase. Reaction mixture
   was poured into water (50 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (3x20 mL). The combined
   organic layers were washed with brine solution (3x50 mL), dried over MgSO 4 , filtered,
10 and concentrated by rotary evaporation to afford 2.5 g of Crude compound which was
   purified by chromatography. Product elute at 4% ethyl acetate in hexane to give 1.2 g of pure
   product. (Yield 48.38 %).
           Synthesis of (E)-3-(6-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)pyridin-2-yl)acrylic        acid:
                                                                                    0
                                                                                       OH
                F3C                -O   HO            OH     F3C
                            N-               0    0                         N
                F3C                            Step 2        F3C
15         In a 35 mL, microwave vial, 6-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)picolinaldehyde (1)
   (0.3 g, 0.93 mmol) and malonic acid (0.097 g, 0.93 mmol) was dissolved in ethanol.
   Piperidine (2-3 drops) was added in reaction in microwave for 20 min at 90 'C. The progress
   of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis on silica gel with 10% MeOH
   dichloromethane as mobile phase. Reaction mixture was poured into water (15 mL) and
20 extracted with EtOAc (3x20 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with brine
   solution (3x50 mL), dried over MgSO 4 , filtered, and concentrated by rotary evaporation to
   afford 0.4 g of crude compound which was used for next step without further
   purification.
           Synthesis of (E)-3-(6-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)pyridin-2-yl)-1-(3,3
25  difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:

                                                  -138
                               OHN                   F                           O          F
                                    OH               F                               N
          F3C                               EDCI/HOBT       F3C                -            F
                       N-                ___N
                                              Step 3
          F3C                                               F3 C
            In a 50-mL round-bottomed flask Intermediate 2 (0.4 g, 1.1 mmol) and 3,3
   difluoroazetidine hydrochloride (0.17 g, 1.3 mmol ) was dissolved in dichloromethane (20
   mL). Propylphosphonic anhydride (0.42g, 1.3 mmol), DIPEA (0.28 g, 2.2 mmol) was added
 5 at room temperature and stirred reaction mixture for 30 min.             The progress of the
   reaction was followed by TLC analysis on silica gel with 0.5 % Methanol:dichloromethane
   as mobile phase and visualization with U. V light, reaction mixture was quenched into ice
   water slurry, filter it, compound was extracted in dichloromethane, dried over Na 2 SO 4,
   filtered, and concentrated by rotary evaporation (28 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 0.5 g of a
[0 solid crude, The purification done by Flash chromatography and product elute at neat
   dichloromethane to afford pure compound 0.030 g yield (6.2 %).
            (E)-3-(6-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)pyridin-2-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1
   yl)prop-2-en-1-one: IH NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 8.55(S, 2H), 7.97(s, 1H), 7.89-7.93(t,
   1H), 7.81-7.83(d, 2H), 7.75-7.79 (d, J=15.2,1H), 7.45-7.47(d, 1H), 7.18-7.22(d, J=15.2,
[5 1H), 4.68-4.70 (t, 2H), 4.50-4.53(t,2H) LCMS for C19H12 F8N20 [M+H] 436.3 found 437.39
   at RT 3.34 min purity (93.47%).

                                                   -139
   Example 16
                                   H                                 0
               OH                  N                      NH            O                     N      0
    F3C        tB                1/>                    1/,>                   F3C            N
                                                                                              N>
                  'OH        I     N       F3C            N      TEAMDC        FCNO
                        Pd(dppf)Cl 2.DCM                           Step 2
          CF3               1,4-Dioxane          CF3                                   CF3
                               Step 1             (1)                                    (2)
                                                                                    LiOH     Step 3
                                               F         HIHN         F
                                 N       N                                                 N      OH
                  FC                  O                 EDC, HOBt, DIPEA   F3C            N
                   3C            N                                         F              N
                                                              Step 4
                        CF3                                                      CF3
                                                                                   (3)
           Synthesis of 4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-imidazole          (1):
                                                           H
                                     OH                   N                       NH
                      F3C               OH          I     N        F3C    ,       N
                                               Pd(dppf)C12 .DCM
                              CF 3                1,4-Dioxane             CF 3
                                                      Step 1
 5         In a 35 mL, microwave vial, 3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenylboronic acid (2.5 g, 9.69
   mmol) and 4-lodo-1H-imidazole (2.068 g, 10.66 mmol) was dissolved in 1,4-dioxane (18
   mL). To this reaction mixture aq. solution of NaHCO 3 (1.628 g, 19.38 mmol) was added at
   room temperature. The reaction mixture was degassed for 30 min and
   Pd(dppf)C12 .dichloromethane (0.791 g 0.1 eq.) was charged in microwave for 16 h at 90'C.
10 The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC using methanol: dichloromethane
   (0.5:9.5) as mobile phase. Reaction mixture was poured into water (50 mL) and filtered
   through celite bed. The filtrate was extracted with EtOAc (3x20 mL). The combined
   organic layers was washed with brine solution (3x50 mL), dried over MgSO4 , filtered, and
   concentrated under reduced pressure using rotary evaporator to afford 2.5 g of crude
15 compound which was purified by column chromatography. Compound was eluted at 40%
   ethylacetate in hexane to give 0.640 g of pure product (Yield 23.61 %). The same batch was
   repeated with same quantities of chemicals to give 0.781 g of pure product (Yield 28.78 %).

                                                   -140
            Synthesis of (Z)-isopropyl 3-(4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-imidazol-1
   yl)acrylate (2):
                                  NH             O                      N        O
                                                           F3C        /      0
                  F33 C           N       TEA ,MDC                      N
                                            Step 2
                          CF3                                    CF3
            In a 100 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with nitrogen inlet, thermometer
 5 pocket and stopper, 4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-imidazole (1) (1.1g, 1.0 eq.) was
   dissolved in dichloromethane (20 mL, 19V) the reaction mixture was cooled to 0 'C. To this
   reaction mixture TEA (0.709 mL, 1.3 eq.) followed by Isopropyl acrylate (0.571 g, 1.3 eq.)
   was added at 0 'C and reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. The progress of the reaction
   was followed by TLC analysis on silica gel with 20% Ethyl acetate-n-Hexane as mobile
10 phase. Reaction mixture was poured into water (50 mL). The filtrate was extracted with
   EtOAc (3x20 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with brine solution (3x50
   mL), dried over MgS04, filtered, and concentrated by rotary evaporation to afford 1.2 g of
   Crude compound which was purified by column chromatography. Product elute at 4% ethyl
   acetate in hexane to give 1.0 g of crude product (Cis 39 %+Trans 56 %) (Yield 65.35 %).
15           Synthesis of (Z)-3-(4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-imidazol-1-yl)acrylic
    acid (3):
                                N        ON                                           OH
                F3C           / N    O                         F3C                O
                                                                             NOH
                                                    Step 3
                        CF 3                                         CF 3
             In a 50 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with nitrogen inlet, thermometer
    pocket and stopper, (Z)-isopropyl 3-(4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-imidazol-1
20  yl)acrylate (2) (1.0 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in THF: H2 0 (20 mL, 1:1, 20V) . To this
    reaction mixture LiOH.H20 (0.535 g, 5.0 eq.) was added at 0 'C. This reaction mixture was
    stirred for 3-4 h and progress of the reaction was followed by TLC using 20% ethyl
    acetate/n-hexane as mobile phase. Reaction mixture was acidified using dilute HCl. The
    reaction mixture was extracted with EtOAc (3x20 mL). The combined organic layers was
25  washed with brine solution (3x50 mL), dried over MgSO 4 , filtered, and concentrated

                                                   -141
   under reduced pressure by rotary evaporation to afford 0.4 g of crude compound which
   was used for next step without purification.
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-imidazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3
   difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:
                                                                                               F
                             N
                               /OH     HC
                                            HN
                                                      F3
                                                                              //>OF
                                                                                         N    F
                            0/>O                      F        F3 C     '--,I   N
      F3 C
           FCNN
                                        EDC, HOBt, DIPEA
 5            OF 3                              Step 4                CF 3
            In a 50 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with nitrogen inlet, thermometer
   pocket, stopper, (Z)-3-(4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-imidazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (3)
   (0.4 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in dichloromethane (8 mL, 20V) and reaction mixture was
   cooled to 0 'C. To this reaction mixture HOBT (0.209 g, 1.2 eq.), Difluroazitidine HCl
[0 (0.177 g, 1.2 eq.) and EDC.HCl (0.328 g, 1.5 eq.) was added at 00 C. To this reaction mixture
   DIPEA (0.177 g, 1.2 eq.) was added dropwise at 00 C. The progress of the reaction was
   followed by TLC using 5% Methanol-dichloromethane as mobile phase. Reaction mixture
   was poured into water (50 mL) and compound was extracted with EtOAc (3x20 mL). The
   combined organic layer was washed with brine solution (3x50 mL), dried over MgSO 4 ,
[5 filtered, and concentrated by rotary evaporation to afford 0.420 g of Crude compound was
   purified by column chromatography. Compound was eluted at 0.5-0.6% methanol in
   dichloromethane to give 0.05 g of pure product (Yield 10.41 %).
            (Z)-3-(4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-imidazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3
   difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:       'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 8.57 (s, 1H), 8.27 (s,
20 2H), 8.06 (s, 1H), 7.78 (s, 1H), 6.94-6.91 (d, J=12,1H), 5.47-5.45 (d, J=8,1H), 4.58-4.45(m,
   4H). LCMS for C17 H,,F 8 N 30 [M+H]* found 281.34 at RT 2.54 min purity (99.13%).
   Example 17
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
25 methyl-N-(pyrimidin-5-ylmethyl)acrylamide:

                                                   -142
                                                                           -      /
                    N-N,         N                                    N-N        N
      F3C                                 N              F3C                               N
                                                                                           N/>
                       N                    (i) NaH, THF                N
                                             (ii) CH3 I
               CF3                                              CF3
            In a 50 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with nitrogen inlet, (Z)-3-(3-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-(pyrimidin-5-ylmethyl)acrylamide
   (0.05 g, 1.0 eq.) was charged along with THF (5 mL, 5V).The reaction mixture was cooled to
 5 -20 'C and sodium hydride (60% in mineral oil) was added (0.051 g, 1.1 eq.), . Reaction
   mixture was allowed to stir for 1 h. Methyl Iodide (0.01 8g, 1.1) was added into the reaction
   mixture and stirred at -20 'C for 1 h. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC
   analysis on silica gel with 5% Methanol in dichloromethane as mobile phase and
   visualization with UV. Reaction mixture was quenched in water (50 mL) and extracted
10 with EtOAc (50x2). The organic layer was washed with brine solution, dried over Na2 SO         4
   and concentrated by rotary evaporation (25 'C, 20 mm Hg) to afford 0.060 g of Crude
   compound. The crude reaction mixture was purified by column chromatography using 60/120
   mesh silica and Methanol: dichloromethane as mobile phase. The column was packed in
   dichloromethane and started eluting in MeOH in gradient manner starting with fraction
15 collection (500 mL fractions). The compound started eluting from 4 % Methanol in
   dichloromethane. Fractions containing such TLC profile were collected together to obtain
   pure compound 0.015 g Yield (30%).
            (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-1-yl)-N-methyl-N
   (pyrimidine-5-ylmethyl)acrylamide: 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 = 9.04-8.99 (d, J= 21.6
20 Hz, 2H), 8.77-8.71 (d, J= 24 Hz, 2H), 8.46 (s, 1H), 8.39 (s, 1H), 8.29 (s, 1H), 7.42-7.38 (in,
   1H), 6.37-6.35, 6.31-6.28 (d, J= 10 Hz, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 4.68- 4.61 (d, J= 28 Hz, 2H), 2.99
   2.96 (d, J= 14 Hz, 3H). LCMS for C19H14F6N6 0 [M+H]* 456.3 found 457.44 at RT 2.59 min
   purity (94.12%). Compound was observed as rotamers as confirmed by NMR.

                                                -143
   Example 18
                                                            H
                                    H   0                   N
                                            Na(BH 3)CN
                                    N   N     Step1         N   TN
                                                                (1)
                                                                                         -CN
                                OH                                        -N      N         N
                    N-N
                       F/>                N          T3 P   F3C
      F3 C     'N     N                             MD
                                                    MDC
                           + N/ H-N       N          Step 2
              CF 3                                                   CF 3
           Synthesis of N-methyl-1-(2-methylpyrimidin-5-yl)methanamine (1):
                                                                 H
                                      H   0
                                                  H2s
                                                   2N '
                                                              ,
                                              Na(BH 3 )CN
                                      N TN       Step1           N T   N
                                                                   (1)
 5         In a three necked 100 mL round-bottomed flask equipped with magnetic stirring, an
   immersion thermometer, and nitrogen bubbler was charged 5-pyrimidine carboxaldehyd-2
   methyl (1 g, 0.0082 mol.) in methanol (10 mL) and cooled to 0 'C. Methyl amine (20.5 mL,
   0.0409 mol.) and acetic acid (2.4 mL, 0.0409 mol.) was added to the reaction maintaining an
   0 'C. The resulting dark yellow solution was stirred for 2 h. Sodium cyanoborohydride (2.05
10 g, 0.0328 mol.) was added over a period of 10 min. The reaction mass was stirred for 2-3 h at
   RT. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC analysis on silica gel with
   methanol: dichloromethane (0.5:9.5) with TEA (1%) as mobile phase. Which shows that
   starting material was consumed after 3 hr. stirring at RT. Solvent was remove under reduce
   pressure, residue quenched by water and extracted with EtOAc (3x50 mL). The combined
15 organic layers were washed with brine solution (3x15 mL), dried over Sodium sulfate,
   filtered, and concentrated by rotary evaporation to afford 0.5 g of crude compound.The
   crude material was subjected to column purification using Silica 60/120 as a stationary
   phase and dichloromethane: methanol as mobile phase. The column was packed in

                                                   -144
   dichloromethane and started eluting in methanol in gradient manner starting with fraction
   collection from 0.5.0 % to 3.0 % methanol in dichloromethane with 1% TEA. Compound
   started eluting with 2.5 % methanol in dichloromethane with 1% TEA. Fraction containing
   such TLC profile was collected together to obtain compound 200 mg of pure product. (Yield
 5 17.78%).
             Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
             methyl-N-((2-methylpyrimidin-5-yl)methyl)acrylamide:
                                                                                              -N
                                                                          N-N          N        N
                   N-N
    F3C             /      ON                         T3 P   F3C             N
           |          N                               MDC                    N
                         +     H-N        N           Step2
              CF3                                                    CF3
             In a 25 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with nitrogen inlet, N-methyl-1-(2
10 methylpyrimidin-5-yl)methanamine (1) (0.1 g, 1.0 eq.) and (Z)-3-(3-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H- 1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)acrylic acid (0.178 g, 0.7 eq.) was charged
   along with dichloromethane (2 mL, 10 V).The reaction mixture was cooled to -20 'C and
   then added T3P (50% in EtOAc) (0.550 mL, 1.2 eq.) followed by DIPEA (0.250 mL, 2 eq.)
   was added to reaction mixture. The clear reaction mixture was stirred at -20 'C for 30 min.
15 The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis on silica gel with 5%
   Methanol in dichloromethane as mobile phase and visualization with UV, which shows
   that starting material was consumed after 30 min stirring at -30 'C. Reaction mixture was
   diluted by dichloromethane wash with water (2x 10 mL), organic layer dried over sodium
   sulfate and concentrated by rotary evaporation (25 'C, 20 mm Hg) to afford crude compound
20 (0.2 g). The crude reaction mixture was purified by column chromatography using 60/120
   mesh silica and methanol: dichloromethane as mobile phase. The column was packed in
   dichloromethane and started eluting in MeOH in gradient manner starting with fraction
   collection (500 mL fractions). The compound started eluting from 2 % methanol in
   dichloromethane. Fractions containing such TLC profile were collected together to obtain
25 pure compound 0.01 g Yield (4.19%).
             (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-methyl-N-((2
    methylpyrimidin-5-yl)methyl)acrylamide: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl3) 6 9.02 (s, 1H),
    8.65 (s, 2H), 8.52-8.59 (m, 3H), 7.15-7.17 (d, J=10.8 Hz, 1H), 6.02-6.04 (d, J=10.4 Hz,

                                                  -145
   1H), 4.69 (s, 2H), 3.07(s, 3H), 2.75 (s, 3H). LCMS for C2 0H16 F6N60 [M+H]* 470.4 found
   471.20 at RT 4.215 min purity (91.16 %).
   Example 19
                       N-NH           2N                                          NN
    F3 C          N' N                            T3P,DIPEA,   F3C          N-N0        H
                                       NStep
                                       Bo~          S9
                                                         1                    N (1)            oc
                                 Boc' N
             CF3                                                     F3C
                                                                            TFA
                                                                            MDC       Step 2
                                                                            N-N          N
                                                                F3C                  0H
                                                                               N              N
                                                                                              H
                                                                      F3C
 5
            Synthesis of (Z)-tert-butyl 3-((3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
            triazol-1-yl)acrylamido)methyl)piperidine-1-carboxylate        (1):
                               OH
       F3 Cs         N                             T3P,DIPEA,    F3 C         N          H    N
                                   +                   MDC                     NoN
                                   Boc'N             Step 1                      (1)
               CF3                                                    F3 C
            In a 50 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
10 1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.2 g, 1.0 eq.) and tert-butyl-3-(aminomethyl)piperidine-1
   carboxylate (0.134 g) was dissolved in dichloromethane (5.0 mL) and T3P (50%)(0.453 g)
   was added. DIPEA (0. 147g) was added under nitrogen atmosphere. The progress of the
   reaction was followed by TLC analysis on TLC with 5% methanol: dichloromethane as
   mobile phase and visualization with U.V light. Reaction mixture was concentrated by
15 rotary evaporation (40 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 0.35 g of a white solid. The resulting crude
   compound was purified by column chromatography using silica 60/120 and methanol:
   dichloromethane as mobile phase. The colun was packed in dichloromethane and started
   eluting in methanol in gradient manner starting with fraction collection from 2-4 % methanol
   in dichloromethane. Compound started eluting with 3 % methanol in dichloromethane.

                                                   -146
   Fraction containing such TLC profile was collected together to obtain compound (230 mg)
   yield 80%.
            (Z)-tert-butyl-3-((3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
   yl)acrylamido)methyl)piperidine-1-carboxylate:          1H NMR (400MHz, DMSO) 5: 9.61 (s,
 5 1H), 8.52-8.57 (q, 3H), 8.28(s, 111), 7.37-7.39 (d, J=10.4Hz, 1H), 5.95-5.97 (d, J=10.4Hz,
   1H), 3.74-3.87 (br. s, 2H), 3.06 (s, 2H), 2.67-2.77 (in, 1H), 1.46 (brs, 2H), 1.31 (s, 9H).
   LCMS for C24 H27 F6N 50 3 [M+H]* 547.49 found 548.6 at RT 3.51 min purity (96.47%).
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
   (piperidin-3-ylmethyl)acrylamide:
                   N-N          NH                                 F3C           N-N         NH
    F3C                 \  O              Boc         TFA MDC                      N
                /N                                      Step 2                         HN
          F3C                                                           F3C
10
            In a 25 mL single neck round-bottomed flask (Z)-tert-butyl 3-((3-(3-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)acrylamido)methyl)piperidine- 1
   carboxylate (1) (0.1 g) was dissolved in dichloromethane (5 mL) and TFA (1.0 mL) dissolved
   in dichloromethane added dropwise. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC on
15 silica gel in 10 % methanol in dichloromethane as a mobile phase in UV visualization.
   Reaction mixture was concentrated by rotary evaporation (40 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford
   0.12 g of compound. The resulting crude compound was purified by 'SAEx' column
   chromatography. Fraction collected together to obtain compound (40 mg) yield 49%.
             (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-(piperidin-3
20 ylmethyl)acrylamide 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6: 9.69 (s, 1H), 8.61 (s, 2H), 7.94 (s,
    1H), 7.13-7.16 (d, J = 10.8Hz, 1H), 6.55 (s 1H), 5.66-5.68 (d, J= 10.8Hz, 1H), 3.23-3.37
    (in, 2H), 2.98-3.10 (in, 2H), 2.58-2.65 (t, 1H), 2.40-2.45 (t, 1H), 1.68-1.80 (in, 2H), 1.43
    1.54 (in, 1H), 1.15-1.29 (in, lH). LCMS for C19H19F6N 50 [M+H]+ 447.38 found 448.44 at
   RT 3.13 min purity (99.12%).
25

                                                  -147
    Example 20
                                                        F
                                                HN        F                                      F
                           N-N         OH                  HCi                N-N          N       F
             F>C           1      O                         N    F3 C          JN
                             N                   EDCI, HOBT                      N
                                                   DIPEA
                     CF3                                                CF3
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1
    (3,3-difluoropyrrolidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one: In a 100 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask
  5 equipped with nitrogen inlet, (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1 H-1,2,4-triazol
    1-yl)acrylic acid (4) (lg, 1.0 eq.) was charged in dichloromethane (20 mL, 20 V). The
    reaction mixture was cooled to 0 0C. HOBT (0.461 g, 1.2 eq.), EDC.HCl (0.819 g, 1.5 eq.),
    3,3-Difluoropyrrolidine hydrochloride (0.490 g, 1.2) and DIPEA (0.731 mL, 1.5 eq.) was
    added to the reaction mixture. The clear reaction mixture was stirred at 00 C for 1.5 h. The
 [0 progress of the reaction was followed by TLC using 5% methanol in dichloromethane as
    mobile phase and visualization with UV. Reaction mixture was quenched in water(50 mL).
    Organic layer was separated and aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane (20 x
    2). The combined organic layer was washed with brine solution, dried over Na2 SO 4 and
    concentrated by rotary evaporation (25 'C, 20 mm Hg) to afford 0.67 g of crude compound.
 [5 The crude compound was purified by column chromatography using 60/120 mesh silica and
    methanol: dichloromethane as mobile phase. The column was packed in dichloromethane
    and started eluting in MeOH in gradient manner starting with fraction collection (25 mL
    fractions). The compound started eluting from 0.9 % to 1.0% methanol in dichloromethane.
    Fractions containing such TLC profile were collected together to obtain pure compound
20  0.115 g Yield (9.2%).
            (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-L-(3,3
    difluoropyrrolidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one: IH NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 9.25-9.30 (d, 1H),
    8.59 (s, 2H), 7.94 (s, 1H), 7.17-7.28 (m, J=10.8 Hz, 1H), 5.82-5.91 (m, J=10.8 Hz, 1H), 3.78
    4.00 (m, 4H), 2.41-2.54 (m, 2H); LCMS for C17 H 12 F8N4 0 [M+H]* 440.29 found 441.39 at
25  RT 2.982 min purity (99.75 %).

                                                 -148
   Example 21
                                                                           O    H                 HO
           0          Step-1     N                        Step-2           0;        Step-3
    Br                               N     NC
              OH      PoCl3                 2BF4                           N    N    MeMgBr        N   N
                      DMF              (                H2 N    NH HCI           (3)                    (4)
                      NaBF 4           (2)
                                                                           Diphenyl phosphoric azide  Step-4
                                                                  H2N                             N3
                                                                                    H2 ,Pd/C
                                                                           N
                                                                     N ... N         Step-5        N-.N
                                                                  (6)                            (5)
                      N-N      OH      H2N                                         N-N        NH
         F3 C           N>   O                        Step-6,        F3C              N     O
                                              |N    -  T3P
                                                                                      N        //
                                         N -. N       DiPEA                                    N
                 CF3                                   DCM                    CF3
   Synthesis of Intermediate-2
                                              Step-1                    +
                                    Br                      N          N-
                                      OH      PoCI3                  N    2BF 4
                                               NaBF 4
                                                                 (2)
 5           In a 250-mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with thermometer pocket fitted
   with nitrogen inlet and a rubber septum, DMF (40 mL, 14.67 eq.) was cool to -10 C and
                                                                                          0
   POCl 3 (10.58 mL, 3.21 eq.) was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C for 3 h. To
   this reaction mixture bromo acetic acid (5 g, 1 eq.) was added at 00 C. Resulting reaction
   mixture was stirred for 6 h at 85-90*C. After completion of 6 h stirring, DMF was removed
10 by high vacuum distillation. Dark red residue was observed, residue was cool down to room
   temperature and sodium tetrafluoro borate was added in to the residue and exotherm was
   observed. Reaction mass was cooled using ice bath. The solid residue (6.5 g) was observed
   which was filtered and used for next step directly.

                                                   -149
           Synthesis of Intermediate-3
                                                     0   H
                        +--+           Step-2
                           2BF4                      NN- N
                                     H2N     NH HCI       (3)
                   (2)                      Molecular Weight: 122.12
               Molecular
              Weight: 183.3
           In a 100-mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with thermometer pocket fitted
   with water condenser, nitrogen inlet and a rubber septum, vinamidium salt (5.65 g, 0.5 eq.)
 5 and acetamidine HCJ (3 g, 1 eq) was dissolved in ethanol (30 mL) and sodium ethoxide was
   added, resulting reaction mixture was stirred at reflux for 2-3 h, The progress of the reaction
   was followed by TLC analysis on silica gel with 70% ethyl acetate-Hexane as mobile
   phase which shows that starting material was consumed after 3 h. Solvent was removed
   under reduce pressure to give crude mass which was dissolved in water, and compound
10 was extracted by ethyl acetate. Combined organic layer were dried over sodium sulfate and
   distilled under reduce pressure to obtain crude material. The crude material was subjected
   to column purification using Silica 60/120 as a stationary phase and hexane: ethyl acetate
   as mobile phase. The column was packed in hexane and started eluting in Ethylacetate in
   gradient manner starting with fraction collection from 20-24 % ethyl acetate in hexane.
15 Compound started eluting with 22 % ethyl acetate in hexane. Fraction containing such TLC
   profile was collected together to obtain compound 700 mg.
            Synthesis of Intermediate-4
                                        O     H                 HO
                                              I   Step-3          O
                                        N     N   MeMgBr          NT N
                                           (3)                       (4)
                                Molecular Weight: 122.1  Molecular Weight: 138.2
            In a 50 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with thermometer pocket fitted
20 with nitrogen inlet and a rubber septum, Intermediate-3 (1.0 g, 1.0 eq.) was added methyl
   magnesium bromide (2.47 mL, 1.0 eq.) at -30'C. Resulting reaction mixture was stirred at
    30'C. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis on silica gel with 70%
   EtOAc-hexane as mobile phase which shows that little starting material was observed after
    30 min stirring, reaction was stirred again for 1 h at 00 C temperature. Reaction was

                                                   -150
   quenched by cold water, extracted by ethyl acetate, dried over sodium sulfate and distilled
   under reduce pressure to obtain crude material. The crude material was subjected to
   column purification by using silica (60-120 mesh size) as stationary phase and Ethyl
   acetate: Hexane as mobile phase. Required compound eluted at 25% ethyl acetate:hexane.
 5 Fraction containing such TLC profile was collected together to obtain compound 1.5 g yield
   (82.41%); LCMS (%): Retention Time: 4.532 min. (84.82 %) (M+H)* 139.
           Synthesis of Intermediate-5
                                HO
                                                                 HN N'NN
                                               Step-4
                                  Ns N             DCU                   N    N
                                          Diphenyl phosphoric azide         | (5)
                                      (4)
                        Molecular Weight: 138.17            Molecular Weight: 164.19
           In a 25 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with thermometer pocket fitted
10 with nitrogen inlet and a rubber septum, Intermediate-4 (0.25 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in
   toluene (5 mL). To this reaction mixture diphenyl phosphoryl azide (0.87 mL, 2.4 eq.) and
   DBU (0.65 mL, 2.4 eq.) was added at 00 C temperature. Resulting reaction mixture was
   stirred at 00 C for 30 min at RT for 3-4 h. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC
   analysis on silica gel with 70% EtOAc- hexane as mobile phase which shows that starting
15 material was consumed after 4 h. Reaction was quenched into ice cold water, extracted by
   ethyl acetate (50 x 3 mL). Combined organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and
   concentrated under reduce pressure to give crude compound. Crude compound was
   subjected to column chromatography using ethyl acetate: hexane as mobile phase.
   Compound was eluted in 30% ethyl acetate in hexane. Fractions containing such TLC
20 profile was collected together to obtain compound 0.14 g yield (29.7%); LCMS (%):
   Retention Time: 2.454 min (14.35 %), (M+H)+ 164.
            Synthesis of Intermediate-6
                                 HNN,-N                            H 2N
                                                      Step-5
                                        N    N        H 2,Pd/C        N-    N
                                             (5)                        T(6)
                            Molecular Weight: 164.19        Molecular Weight: 137.18
            In a 25 mL, single neck round-bottomed flask equipped with rubber septum,
25 Intermediate-5 (0140 g), palladium carbon(0.07 g) was suspended in methanol (2 mL) and H2

                                                 -151
   was purged into it. Resulting reaction mixture was stirred at RT. The progress of the reaction
   was followed by TLC analysis on silica gel with 5% Methanol- dichloromethane and
   ammonia atmosphere as mobile phase which shows that starting material was consumed
   after 15 h. Reaction was Filter through Celite Bed, filtrate was concentrated under reduce
 5 pressure to give crude (0.19 g). The crude material was subjected to column purification
   using silica as stationary phase and MeOH: dichloromethane with 1% of TEA as mobile
   phase. Required compound eluted in 2% MeOH: dichloromethane with 1% TEA as mobile
   phase. Fraction containing such TLC profile was collected together to obtain compound 0.09
   g yield (76.9%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO): 6=8.73 (s, 2H), 5.72 (Broad singlet, 2H D20
10 exchangeable), 4.187-4.23 (quartet, 2H), 2.6 (s, 3H), 1.38-1.4 (d, 3H); LCMS (%): LC-MS
   Retention time: 5.457 min (1.2 %) (M+H) + 138.
                 N-          OH         NH 2                                -N         NH    N
                  F3 )0F                                      3C             N               \N
                    N                        T3P,DIPEA
                             I      N~       DCM
           CF 3                                                      CF 3
           In a 250 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with nitrogen inlet, Intermediate 1
15 (0.19 g, 1.0 eq.) was charged along with dichloromethane (5 mL, 10 V).The reaction mixture
   was cooled to -20 'C and then added 1-(5-methylpyrimidine-2-yl)ethanamine (0.09 g,1.2 eq.),
   T3P(50% in EtOAc) (0.2 mL, 1.2 eq.) followed by DIPEA (0.18 mL, 2 eq.) was added into
   the reaction mixture. The clear reaction mixture was stirred at -20 'C for 30 min. The
   progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis on silica gel with 5% Methanol in
20 dichloromethane as mobile phase and visualization with UV. Reaction mixture was
   concentrated by rotary evaporation (25 'C, 20 mm Hg) to afford Crude compound. The crude
   reaction mixture was purified by column chromatography using 60/120 mesh silica and
   methanol: dichloromethane as mobile phase. The column was packed in dichloromethane
   and started eluting in MeOH in gradient manner starting with fraction collection (500 mL
25 fractions). The compound started eluting from 5 % Methanol in dichloromethane. Fractions
   containing such TLC profile were collected together to obtain pure compound 0.5 gm Yield
   (20%).
           (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole-1-yl)-N-(1-(5
   methylpyrimidine-2-yl)ethyl)acrylamide; 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 = 9.48 (s, 1H),
30 9.01-8.99 (d, J = 8 Hz, 1H), 8.64 (s, 2H), 8.47 (s, 2H), 8.28 (s, 1H), 7.42-7.39 (d, J = 10.4 Hz,

                                                   -152
    1H), 6.01-5.99 (d, J = 10.4 Hz, 1H), 5.058 (in, 1H), 2.53 (s, 3H), 1.44-1.42 (d, J = 7.2 Hz,
    3H) LCMS for C2 0Hi 6N 6F 6 0 [M+H]+ 470.35 found 471.49 at RT 2.775 min purity 97.3 8%.
    Example 22
  5          Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
    methyl-N-(oxazol-5-ylmethyl)acrylamide:
                   N-N          NH       N                                    N'N        N        N
                    / N/>    O0                   NaH             F
     F3C
     F3C                                 N         eTI           F3 C           N
                                                 Mel, THF
              CF3                                                       CF3
             (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-Bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-methyl-N-(oxazol
    5-yl methyl)acrylamide (0.15 g, 0.34 mmol) was dissolved in THF (30 mL). The reaction
 [0 mixture was cooled to 0 'C; NaH (0.012 g, 0.52 mmol) was added and the reaction mixture
    was stirred for 0.5 h. Methyl iodide (1.5 mL) was added dropwise at the same temperature.
    The clear reaction mixture was further stirred at 0 'C for 1.5 h. Reaction mixture was
    partitioned in 20 mL ice-water and extracted with DCM (3 x 50 mL). The combined
    organic layers were washed with saturated brine and dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 and
 [5 concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.180 g of crude product, which was purified
    by column chromatography (0-2% methanol:DCM) to give 15 mg of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5
    bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-methyl-N-(oxazol-5-ylmethyl)
    acrylamide (Yield: 9.6%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6) 6= 9.01 (s, 1H); 8.61 (s, 1H);
    8.48 (s, 1H); 8.39 (s, 1H); 8.30 (s,1H); 8.07 (s,1H);7.38-7.41 (d, J=10 Hz, 1H); 6.99 (s,1H);
20  6.23-6.26 (d, J=10 Hz, 1H); 4.72 (s,1H); 4.62(s,1H);3.02(s,3H) LCMS for C18H14 F6N 50 2
    [M+H] +: 446.32 found 446.03 (retention time: 3.432 min).
    Example 23
                                      OH                              N-N
                         N-N
          F3C             /                              F3 C           N
                            N                                 11
                                        HOBt EDC.HCI
                                            DIPEA              CF3
                  CF3
                                           HN:1

                                                    -153
            In a 100 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with nitrogen inlet, Intermediate- 4
   (Ig, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in dichloromethane (20 mL, 20 V). The reaction mixture was
   cooled to 00 C. HOBT (0.461 g, 1.2 eq.), EDC.HCl (0.819 g, 1.5 eq.), azetidine (0.195 g, 1.2
   eq.) and DIPEA (0.731 mL, 1.5 eq.) was added to the reaction mixture, and the clear reaction
 5 mixture was stirred at 00 C for 1.5 h. The progress of reaction was monitored by TLC using
   5% methanol in dichloromethane as mobile phase and visualization with UV. The reaction
   mixture was quenched in 50 mL water, the dichloromethane layer separated, and aqueous
   layer extracted with dichloromethane (20 x 2). The combined organic layer was washed
   with brine solution, dried over Na 2 SO4 and concentrated under reduced pressure by rotary
10 evaporation (25 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 0.980 g of crude compound. The crude compound
   was purified by column chromatography using 60/120 mesh silica and methanol:
   dichloromethane as the mobile phase. The column was packed in dichloromethane and
   elutied with MeOH in a gradient manner. The compound started eluting from 0.9-1.0%
   methanol in dichloromethane. Fractions containing the requiredTLC profile were collected
15 together to obtain pure compound 0.225 gm Yield (20.25%).
             (Z)-1-(azetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3,  5-bis (trifluoromethyl) phenyl)-1H-1, 2, 4-triazol-1
   yl) prop-2-en-1-one 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 9.87 (s, 1H), 8.62 (s, 2H), 7.93 (s, 1H),
   7.18-7.20 (d, J=10.8 Hz, 1H), 5.65-5.68 (d, J=10.8 Hz, 1H), 4.26-4.30(t, 2H), 4.16-4.20 (t,
   2H), 2.34-2.42(m, 2H); LCMS for Ci 6 H12 F6N4 0 [M+H]* 390.28 found 391.39 at RT 2.935
20 min purity (100%).
   Example 24
                       N-N         OH                                                        N
        F3 C
                           >13/O             Step-5        F3 CN-N     N-N         N        /E
                                                                    /    N
                                                      NH          /
                 CF 3 (4)                    N (5A)     2HCL   F3 C         V-324
         Molecular Weight: 351.2          T3P,DIPEA                   Molecular Weight: 467.4
                                            DCM
             In a 50-mi, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with a nitrogen inlet and a rubber
25 septum, Intermediate-4 (acid) was suspended in dichloromethane (5 mL). Intermediate-5a &
   DIPEA and T3P (50% in ethyl acetate) was added at -20'C, and the reaction stirred at the
   same temperature for 50-60 min. Progress of the reaction was followed by TLC using 30%
   acetone- hexane as mobile phase. The reaction mixture was then concentrated under

                                                -154
   vacuum at 30 C at 20mbar, and the resulting crude compound purified by flash
   chromatography using hexane & Acetone as mobile phase. The crude compound mixture
   was eluted out at 15-20% acetone-hexane to afford a semi-pure compound with purity
   55.91% (Yield: 200 mg); LCMS: m/z 468.03 (M+1). This semi-pure compound was
 5 further purified by flash chromatography using same solvent ratio to afford 100 mg, which
   was further purified by preparative TLC using 30% Acetone- hexane as mobile phase
   affording 14mg of product (Yield 15%). 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 , ppm) 6 = 9.63
   (s, 1H); 8.63-8.60 (t, 1H); 8.53 (s, 2H); 8.29 (s, 1H ); 7.39-7.37 (d, J=10.4 Hz, 1H);
   6.01-5.99 (d, J=10.4 Hz, 1H); 5.46-5.44 (d, J=5.5 Hz, 1H); 3.82 - 3.77 (in, 2H) 3.63
10 3.59 (in, 2H): LCMS calcd for C2 1H 16F 6N 5 0 [M+H]* 468.13, found: 468.3 (retention time
   3.719 min).
   Example 25
                 N'N         OH
    F3C      >     N>NN-                                                                N
                                HC                               F3C           /    0         N
            FF C                HCIH N             T3P                         N         N
            CF3                                    DMF
                                                   DIPEA
                                                                     F3C
15          In a 50-mL 3-neck round-bottomed flask under nitrogen atmosphere (Z)-3-(3-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl) phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.529 g, 0.91 eq.) & 1
   (azetidin-3-yl)-N,N- dimethyl methanamine hydrochloride (0.250 g, 1.Oeq) were dissolved in
   DMF(10 mL, 15 Vol). Then T3P (1.055 g, 1.0 eq.) followed by DIPEA (0.748g, 3.5 eq.)
   were added slowly and the reaction mixture stirred at 00 C for 30-45 min. The Completion
20 of the reaction was confirmed by TLC using 5% Methanol in dichloromethane with
   ammonia atmosphere as mobile phase. The reaction mixture was quenched into ice water
   slurry extracted with ethylacetate and the aqueous layer washed with ethylacetate (100
   mLX2). The combined organic extracts were dried over Na 2 SO4, filtered and concentrated
   by rotary evaporation (40 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford an off-white semisolid (0.490 g). The
25 product was purified by Prep.TLC using 4% methanol and dichloromethane with ammonia
   atmosphere to afford 30 ing compound (4.0%).
            (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3
   ((dimethylamino)methyl) azetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one: 'H NMR (400 MHz DMSO) 6
   9.80-9.84(d, J=17.6Hz, 1H),8.62(s, 2H), 7.93(s, 1H), 7.19-7.22 (d, J=10.4, 1H), 5.63-5.67

                                                 -155
   (d, J=10.8, 1H), 4.30-4.35 (t, 1H), 4.21-4.26 (t,1H), 3.89-3.93 (q, 1H), 3.76-3.80 (q, 1H),
   2.84-2.87 (q, 1H),2.50-2.61 (in, 2H),2.24 (s, 6H); LCMS for C19H19 F6N5 0 [M+H] + 447.38
   found 448.05 at RT 3.77 min purity (84.74%).
 5 Example 26
                  N-N        OH                                                        _     N
                                                                                             N
                      / 0               NH2
    F3C           N-N        ONH                                        N-N        NH
                                                            F3C
             CF3                      N      T3p,DIPEA,MDC
                                                                F3 C
            In a 50 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask under a nitrogen atmosphere, (Z)-3-(3-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (Intermediate-4) (0.200 g, 1.0
   eq.) and (1-methylpiperidin-4-yl)methanamine (0.073 g, 1 eq.) were suspended in
10 dichloromethane (10.0 mL) and T3P(50%)(0.432 g, 1.2 eq.) added maintaining the temp at
   40 0 C, followed by DIPEA (0.147g, 2.Oeq.) . The progress of the reaction was followed by
   TLC analysis on TLC with 5% Methanol: dichloromethane with ammonia atmosphere as
   mobile phase and visualization with UV light. The reaction mixture was concentrated by
   rotary evaporation (35 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 0.250 g of an oil. The resulting crude
15 compound was purified by Preparative TLC using Methanol: dichloromethane (5:5) as
   mobile phase with ammonia atmosphere, affording 40 mg (yield-15%) pure compound; (Z)
   3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-((1-methylpiperidin-4
   yl)methyl)acrylamide: 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 ,9.59 (s, 1H), 8.52(s, 2H), 8.46-8.49
   (t, 1H), 8.29(s, 1H), 7.35-7.37 (d, J=10.4Hz,1H), 5.95-5.98(d, J=10.4Hz,1H),3.03-3.06 (in,
20 2H), 2.67-2.70(m, 2H), 2.09 (s, 3H), 1.69-1.74(m, 2H), 1.56-1.59(m, 2H), 1.07-1.17(m,
   2H); LCMS for C 2 0H2 1F 6N 5 0 [M+H]* 461.4 found 462.5 at RT 3.69 min purity (94.3 1%).
   Example 27
                  N-N        OH
                         O                                      N-N       NH       N
    F3 C            N                       ,     F3 C          /     0O
                                T3P, DIPEA
             CF 3             H2 N                      F3C
                                        N
                                                      I                                5

                                                 -156
             In a 50 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask under nitrogen atmosphere, intermediate 4
   (acid) (0.100 g, 1.0 eq.) and (1-methylpiperidin -3-yl)methanamine (0.036 g, 1.0 eq.) were
   suspended in dichloromethane (10.0 mL) then T3P(50%)(0.216 g, 1.2 eq.) and DIPEA
   (0.073 g, 2.0 eq.) were added at -40'C . The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC
 5 analysis on TLC with 5% Methanol: dichloromethane with ammonia atmosphere as
   mobile phase and visualization with UV light. The reaction mixture was concentrated by
   rotary evaporation (35 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 0.120 g of an oil. The resulting crude
   compound was purified by Preparative TLC using Methanol: dichloromethane (5:5) as
   mobile phase with ammonia atmosphere, affording 11 mg (yield-15%) pure compound; (Z)
10 3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-((1-methylpiperidin-3
   yl)methyl)acrylamide: IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 ,9.72 (s, 1H), 8.61(s, 2H), 7.94(s,
   1H), 7.14-7.16 (d, J=10.8 Hz,1H), 5.66-5.68(d, J=10.8 Hz,1H),3.71-3.76 (in, 2H), 3.31(m,
   2H), 2.73-2.79 (in, 2H), 2.26(s, 3H) 2.02(m, 1H), 1.87(m, 2H), 1.73(m, 2H) LCMS for
   C 2 0H2 1F 6N 5O [M+H] t 461.4 found 462.5 at RT 3.81 min purity (88.64%).
15
   Example 28
             Synthesis of (Z)-6,7-dihydro-5H-cyclopenta[bipyridin-5-one oxime
                                 O                            HO\
                                         NH2OH.HCI
                          (N)N
             In a 100-mL, 3N round-bottomed flask 6,7-dihydro-5H-cyclopenta[b]pyridin-5-one
20 (2.0 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in EtOH (24.0 mL) and H20 (6.0 mL) at RT. Then Sodium
   acetate trihydrate (8.175 g, 4.0 eq.) and Hydroxyl amine hydrochloride (4.174 g, 4.0 eq.)
   were added at the same temperature. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC
   analysis on TLC with 5% Methanol: dichloromethane with ammonia atmosphere as
   mobile phase and visualization with U.V light. The reaction mixture was quenched in 50
25 mL water and extracted by dichloromethane. Organic layer was concentrated by rotary
   evaporation (35 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 2.10 g of crude compound which was used in the
   next step without purification.
             Synthesis of 6,7-dihydro-5H-cyclopenta[blpyridin-5-amine

                                                 -157
                                 HO
                                    N                            NH2
                                              NaBH4
           In a 50 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask Intermediate Step (1) (1.0 g, 1.0 eq.) was
   dissolved in MeOH (15.0 mL, 15 V) at RT. Nickel Chloride Hexahydrate (0.010 g) was
   added at same temperature to this reaction mixture. The reaction mixture was cooled to
 5 40 0 C and NaBH4 (2.5 g, 10.0 eq.) was added at the same temperature in portions over 30
   min. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis on TLC with 5%
   Methanol: dichloromethane with ammonia atmosphere as mobile phase and visualization
   with U.V light. The reaction mixture was quenched in 50 mL water and extracted by Ethyl
   acetate. The organic phase was concentrated by rotary evaporation (35 'C, 20 mmHg) to
10 afford 0.64g of crude compound which was used in the next step without purification.
                                               NH 2
                                                                           -  H
                 N-N         OH                                    N-N        N
    F3 C           N                                    F3C                             N
                                     T3P ,DIPEA
            CF 3                                             CF 3
           In a 100 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with nitrogen inlet, the acid (0.327
   g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in dichloromethane (20 mL). To this reaction mixture (1 a) (0.150 g,
15 1.2 eq.) was added and the reaction mixture cooled to -70 0 C. T3P (Propyl phosponic
   anhydride) (0.665mL, 1.2 eq.) was added dropwise followed by DIPEA (0.318 mL, 2.0). The
   progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis on silica gel with 5% Methanol:
   dichloromethane with ammonia atmosphere as mobile phase and visualization with UV
   light. The reaction mixture was quenched in 50 mL water and extracted by
20 dichloromethane. The organic layer was concentrated by rotary evaporation (35 'C, 20
   mmHg) to afford 0.3 69 g of crude compound which was purified by column
   chromatography. The product eluted at 0.6% Methanol in dichloromethane to give 0.017 g of
   pure product. (Yield 3.90 %); (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
   yl)-N-(6,7-dihydro-5H-cyclopenta[b]pyridin-5-yl)acrylamide:       'H NMR (400 MHz,

                                                 -158
   DMSO) 6 9.61(s, 1H), 9.03-9.01(d, 1H), 8.54 (s, 2H), 8.49-8.47 (d, 1H), 8.307 (s, 1H),
   8.02-8.00 (d, 1H), 8.19-8.18 (m,1H), 7.45-7.42 (d, J=10.4Hz,1H), 5.97-5.45 (d, J=10.4
   Hz,1H), 5.53-5.47 (in, 1H), 3.12-3.03 (in, 1H), 2.50-2.28 (in, 2H), 2.03-2.02 (in, 1H).
   LCMS for C2 jH15F6N 50 [M+H]* found 480.44 at RT 3.21 min. purity (95.48%).
 5
   Example 29
            Synthesis of 1-(pyrazin-2-yl)ethanamine
                        0     -N                            H2 N     -N
                             N              CH 3 COONH 4,           N
                                            NaBH 3CN
           To a 3-necked 100 mL round-bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirrer, and
10 immersion thermometer, 1-(pyrazin-2-yl)ethanone (1.Og, 1.0 eq.), and MeOH (30 mL), was
   added ammonium acetate (6.31 g, 10 eq.) at room temperature. To this reaction mixture
   sodium cyanoborohydride (0.360 g, 0.7 eq.) was added, and the reaction mass stirred
   overnight at room temperature. The progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC
   analysis on silica gel with MeOH:dichloromethane (2.5%) as mobile phase and
15 visualization with UV, SM Rf=0.70 and product Rf=0.20. The reaction mixture was
   concentrated and poured into water(100 mL) and basifed (PH= 13) using aqueous NaOH
   solution. The resulting mixture was extracted with dichloromethane (2x 100 mL) and the
   combined organic layers were washed with brine solution (2x50 mL), dried over MgSO 4 ,
   filtered, and concentrated by rotary evaporation to afford 0.3 g of desired amine Yield:
20 30%.
                       N-N       O H2N            N                N-N         NH      N
         F3C                HO                         F3C
                                                       F CN        ~      0
                      S N                            NN 3                            N
                                      T3 P, DIPEA
                 CF 3                                      F3C
            In a 100 mL 3-neck round bottom flask equipped with septum, nitrogen bubbler and
   thermometer pocket, intermediate-lA (0.300 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in dichloromethane (20
   mL). A second portion of Intermediate-1A (0.126 g, 1.2 eq.) was added and the reaction
25 mixture cooled to -60'C. To this reaction mixture T3 P (Propyl Phosphonic anhydride) (0.60
   mL, 1.2 eq.) and DIPEA (0.29mL, 2.0 eq.) were added at the same temperature, and the

                                                  -159
   mixture stirred for 30 min. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis on
   silica gel with 5% MeOH: dichloromethane as mobile phase and visualization with UV, SM
   Rf=0.20 and product Rf=0.50.The reaction mixture was then poured into water (100 mL) and
   extracted with dichloromethane (2X100 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with
 5 brine solution (2X5OmL), dried over anhydrous MgSO 4 , filtered, and concentrated by rotary
   evaporation (25'C, 20mmHg) to afford the crude compound which was purified by column
   chromatography (diameter: 2.5 cm) using silica 60/120 and MeOH: dichloromethane as
   mobile phase. Column purification was started with 0.5 % MeOH in dichloromethane upto
   2.0% MeOH in dichloromethane. The desired product started eluting in 1.5 %methanol.
10 Fractions containing the compound were distilled using rotary evaporation at 40 'C / 250 mm
   Hg to obtain 0.2 g of pure compound.Yield:5 1.4%; (Z)-3-(3-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-(1-(pyrazin-2-yl)ethyl)acrylamide:
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6,9.52 (s, 1H), 8.28-9.13 (in, 6H), 7.40-7.42 (d,
   J=10.4Hz,1H), 6.04-6.07(d, J=10.4Hz,1H),5.12-5.19 (in, 1H), 1.46-1.47 (d, 3H); LCMS for
15 C19H 14F6N 60 [M+H]* 456.3 found 457.44 at RT 2.894 min purity (99.91%).
   Example 30
       F3C         NH                                                    NN        NH
                          / jN-                              F3C        JJI/>O
       F3 C                                          PYBROP
                                                    ,DIPEA,DMF
                                                                   CF 3
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
20 -((1-methylpyrrolidin-3-yl)methyl)acrylamide:
            In a 50 mL 3N round-bottomed flask, (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
   1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.100 g, 1.0 eq) and (1-methylpyrolidin-3-yl)methanamine
   (0.035g, 1.1eq) was dissolved in DMF (10 mL) and PYBROP(0.140 g, 1.1 eq.) with DIPEA
   (0.073mg, 2.0 eq.) was added under nitrogen atmosphere. The progress of the reaction was
25 followed by TLC analysis on silica gel with 0.5% Methanol:dichloromethane with
   ammonia atmosphere as mobile phase and visualization with UV light. The reaction
   mixture was quenched into ice water and compound was extracted by Ethylacetate (25x3
   mL), dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated by rotary evaporation (25
   'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 0.232 g of solid crude. Purification was achieved via column
30 chromatography in dichloromethane and Methanol. Compound started eluting at 10%

                                                  -160
   methanol in dichloromethane with ammonia. Fractions containing compound was distilled
   out using rotary evaporation at 25 'C, 20 mmHg to afford 98.0 mg of pure compound. Yield
   77%; (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-((1
   methylpyrrolidin-3-yl)methyl)acrylamide:'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.83 (s, 1H),
 5 8.61-8.65 (d, J=12.4Hz, 2H), 7.93 (s, 1H), 7.31-7.15(d, J=10.8Hz, 1H), 5.69-5.71 (d,
   J=10.8Hz, 1H), 3.34-3.43 (in, 2H), 2.87-2.91 (in, 1H), 2.63-2.65 (d, J=9.2Hz, 1H), 2.41
   2.54 (in, 2H),2.73(s, 3H), 2.05-2.1 1(m, 2H),1.71(s, 1H), LCMS for C1 9H19F6N50 [M+H]+
   447.24 found 448.26 at RT 6.50 min purity (89.08%).
10 Example 31
                         N-N        OH                                      N-N       NH
       F3 C                   O             T3P, DIPEA        F3C            /     o
                                                                                   O>
                                                    NH2                             N
                  CF 3                                            F3C
                                               N
             In a 50 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask, Intermediate 4 (0.2 g, 1.0 eq.) was added to
   dichloromethane:ethylacetate (25.0 mL, 1:1). (2,4-dimethylpyrimidin-5-yl)methanamine
   (0.078 g, 1 eq.) was then added at -40'C. T3P (50% ethyl acetate) (0.432 g, 1.2 eq.) and
15 DIPEA (0.147 g, 2.0 eq.) were added simultaneously at the same temperature, and the
   reaction mixture stirred for 30 min at -40'C. The progress of the reaction was monitored
   by TLC using 5% methanol: dichloromethane with ammonia atmosphere as mobile phase
   and visualization with U.V light. The reaction mixture was concentrated by rotary
   evaporation (35 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 0.270 g of an oil. The resulting crude mixture was
20 purified by column chromatography using dichloromethane:methanol as a mobile phase, the
   compound eluted at 4% methanol in dichloromethane. The compound containing fractions
   were concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 80 mg (yield-29.85%) of pure compound.
             (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-((2,4
   dimethylpyrimidin-5-yl)methyl)acrylamide:'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 ,9.57 (s, 1H),
25 8.91-8.94 (t, 1H), 8.51 (s, 2H), 8.43 (s, 1H), 8.29 (s, 1H), 7.40-7.42 (d, J=10.4Hz, 1H),
   5.98-6.01 (d, J=10.4, 1H), 4.37-4.38 (d, J=5.6 Hz, 2H), 3.35 (s, 3H), 2.50 (s, 3H); LCMS
   for C 2 0H 1 6F 6N 6 0 [M+H]* 470.37 found 471.25 at RT 2.69 min purity (99.89%).

                                                   -161
   Example 32
             Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(4-chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
    1-yl)-l -(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                                                                                              F
                            N-NH                                           N-N          N     F
              F3C             N            DABCO              F3C            N
               CI                       IF                     CI
                     CF3                     O          F            CF3
 5           In a 50 mL, 3N round-bottomed flask equipped with nitrogen inlet, Intermediate-3
   (0.1 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in DMF (5 mL). To this reaction mixture DABCO (0.071g, 2
   eq.) was added and stirred for 30 min. Then (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-iodoprop-2
   en-I-one (0.095 g, 1.1eq.) was added, and the reaction mixture stirred at room temperature
   for 5 h. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC using dichloromethane:
10 methanol (9.5:0.5) mobile phase and visualization with UV. The reaction mixture was
   poured into ice water (50 mL), then extracted with EtOAc (3X15 mL). The combined
   organic layers were washed with brine solution, (20 mL), dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and
   concentrated by rotary evaporation (25 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 0.150 g of crude
   compound which was purified by preparative TLC obtain pure compound 0.004g yield
15 (3%).
             (Z)-3-(3-(4-chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3
   difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one:       'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 8 = 9.32 (s, IH), 8.46
   (s, 1H), 8.32 (s, 1H), 7.47-7.49 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 6.00-5.04 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 4.55
   4.58 (m, 2H), 4.33-4.36 (m, 2H) LCMS for C16H9 C1F8N 40 [M+H]*: 460.7, Found: 461.14,
20 Purity 98.77 % at 2.99 min retention time
   Example 35
                              -NH               N     F              NN           N
                F3C                                    F F3C                 0
                                      THF,NAH
                       CF 3                                     CF 3
             In a 25 ml sealed tube NaH (0.064 g, 1.5 eq.) was suspended in THF (10 mL) and
25 then cooled to 0 0 C. To this mixture, a solution of intermediate 3 (0.3 g, 1.0 eq.) in THF was
   added dropwise at 00 C and then the mixture was heated under reflux at 80'C for 2 h. The

                                                 -162
   progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis using 10% ethyl acetate in hexane
    as mobile phase. The reaction mixture was then concentrated and resulted mass extracted
   with ethyl acetate (2X 15 OmL). The combined organic layers were washed with brine
    solution (2X100 mL), dried over anhydrous Na2 SO4 , filtered, and concentrated by rotary
 5 evaporation (40'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 0.43 g of crude mixture. The mixture was purified by
   column chromatography using ethyl acetate in hexane. The compound eluted in 25%ethyl
   acetate hexane., and the cis product was isolated via preparative TLC using a mobile phase
   consisting of 10% acetone in hexane. The pure product obtained was 0.016 g; (Z)-3-(3-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-pyrazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1
10 one: 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3) 6 ,8.78-8.79 (d, J=2.4,1H), 8.28 (s, 2H), 7.19-7.22 (d,
   J=10.8Hz, 1H), 6.81-6.82 (d, J=2.4, 1H), 5.44-5.47 (d, J=10.8Hz, 1H), 4.44-4.51 (in, 4H);
   LCMS for C17 Hr 1F8N3 0 [M+1]* 425.28 found 426.09 at RT 3.202 min. purity (22.42%).
   Example 40
                                                                           F
                          HO     D                                      F
                            ON                                                      D
                             N-N
                  F              /   D           T3 P, DCM                      N-N
                    3C          N                        F                        N
                                                 HN                 F3/                D
                                                         F          FC             N
                                                  .HCI
                        CF3
15                                                                        CF3
            In a 25 mL 3-neck round bottom flask equipped with septum, Nitrogen bubbler and
   thermometer pocket, intermediate-1 (acid) (0.080 g, 1.0 eq.) and dichloromethane (6.0 mL)
   were added. Then 3,3-difluoroazetidine.HCl (0.0.035 g, 1.2 eq.) was added and the reaction
   mixture cooled to -60'C. To this mixture, T 3P (Propyl Phosphonic anhydride) (0.161 ml, 1.2
20 eq.), and DIPEA (0.077 ml, 2.0 eq.) were added at the same temperature, and the resulting
   mixture stirred for lh. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis using 5%
   MeOH: dichloromethane as mobile phase and visualization with UV', SM Rf= 0.20 and
   product Rf= 0.70.The reaction mixture was then poured into D2 0 (10 mL) and extracted with
   dichloromethane (2X20 ml). The combined organic layers were dried over anhydrous
25 MgSO 4 , filtered and concentrated by rotary evaporation (25'C, 20 mmHg) to afford a crude
   compound which was purified by column chromatography using silica 60/120 and MeOH:

                                                   -163
   dichloromethane as mobile phase. Column purification was started with 1.5 % MeOH in
   dichloromethane upto 2.0% MeOH in dichloromethane. The desired product started eluting in
   1.5 % methanol and the fractions containing compound were distilled using a rotary
   evaporation at 40 *C / 250 mm Hg to obtain 0.020 g of pure compound.Yield:20%. 'H NMR
 5 (400MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 9.63-9.66(d, J=10.8Hz, 1H), 8.61(s, 2H), 7.95(s,1H), 7.24-7.27(t,
   J=4.4Hz,1H),5.67-5.69(d, J=10.8Hz, 1H ), 4.46-4.60(m, 4H); LCMS for Chemical Formula:
   Ci 6 H8 D2F8N 4 0 [M+H]* 428.28 found 429.14 at RT 2.992 min purity (98.62%).
   Example 43
                      CN                                                        CN   0
         F3C                                              Step-1    F3C                O
                               +      Br                   Se
                 CF3                                    NaHMDS/THF         CF3 (1)
                                                                                       COC12.6H20
                                                                              Step-2   NaBH4
                                                                                       MeOH
                                    F                              NH                          NH
                     N       N                       F3C                        F3 C              0
                                     F                                 Step-3
    F3C                  0            -.,Step-411aI
        F3C                                DABCO                       LAH, THF
                                           DMF              CF3                        CF3
            CF3                    I         N                (3)                       (2)
10                                                 F
            Synthesis of Intermediate (1)
                       CN
                                                                                 CN  0
          F3 C                   +                         Step-1   F3C   10
                                 +      Br      O
                  CF3                         0          NaHMDS / THF
                               C3CF                                           3   (1
            In a 100-mL, 3N RBF equipped with nitrogen inlet, a Thermometer pocket and
15 stopper, 3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)-phenylacetonitrile (1.4 mL, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in THF
   (20 mL, 10V). The reaction mixture was cooled to -78'C. NaHMDS (35% in THF) (4.34 mL,
   1.05 eq.) was added dropwise in this reaction mixture. After completion of addition reaction

                                                  -164
   mixture was brought to 100 C and stirred for 15 min. Again this reaction mixture was cooled
   to -78'C and ethyl bromoacetate (0.87 mL, 1.Oeq.) was added. Reaction mixture was brought
   to room temperature. This reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 16 hrs. The
   progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC analysis using 20% Ethyl acetate-Hexane
 5 as mobile phase. Reaction mixture was poured into water (50 mL) and extracted with
   EtOAc (3x20 mL). The combined organic layer was washed with brine solution (50 mL),
   dried over Na2 SO4 , filtered, and concentrated by rotary evaporation to afford 3.5 g of
   Crude compound. The crude compound was purified by column chromatography using
   60/120 mesh silica and ethyl acetate: hexane as mobile phase. The column was packed in
10 hexane and started eluting in ethyl acetate in gradient manner starting with fraction
   collection (25-mL fractions). The compound started eluting from 4% to 6% ethyl acetate in
   hexane. Fractions containing such TLC profile were collected together to obtain pure
   compound 1.2 gm Yield (44.94%).
            Synthesis of Intermediate (2)
                                   ON   0                                    NH
                       F3C              0 O           Step-2  F3C                O
                                                   COC12.6H20
                              CF3                  NaBH4             CF3
                                (1)                MeOH                  (2)
15
            In a 100-mL, 3N RBF equipped with nitrogen inlet, a Thermometer pocket and
   stopper, Intermediate-1(1.2 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in MeOH (48 mL, 40V).
   Dichlorocobalt hexahydrate (1.68 g,2.0 eq.) was added portion wise. The reaction mixture
   was cooled to 20 C. NaBH 4 (1.98 g, 15 eq.) was added portion wise slowly by maintaining
20 temperature below 25'C in this reaction mixture. Then the reaction mixture was stirred for 18
   hrs at 25'C. The progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis using 50% Ethyl
   acetate-hexane as mobile phase. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduce
   pressure and residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate (25 mL) and water (25 mL).
   Reaction mixture was filtered through celite and organic layer separated, dried over
25 Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated by rotary evaporation. This crude compound was
   triturated with pet ether to afford 0.5 g of pure compound.(Yield 47.61 %).
            Synthesis of Intermediate (3)

                                                  -165
                                  NH                                  NH
                   F3C                0      Step-3      F3C
                                          LAH, THF
                          CF 3 (2)                             CF 3  (3)
            In a 1 00-mL, 3N RBF equipped with nitrogen inlet, a Thermometer pocket and
   stopper, Intermediate-2 (1.0 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in THF (20mL, 20V). The reaction
   mixture was cooled to 00 C. To this reaction mixture LAH (6.7mL, 2.Oeq.) was added
 5 dropwise by maintaining temperature 00 C. After completion of addition, temperature of
   reaction mixture was brought to room temperature and then refluxed to 70'C for 1h. The
   progress of the reaction was followed by TLC analysis using 5% MeOH:DCM as mobile
   phase. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 0 C. Reaction mixture was quenched by
   addition of 1.5 mL of 5 % KOH solution. Then reaction mass was filtered through celite
10 and washed with EtOAc (20mL). Filtrate was concentrated by rotary evaporation to afford
    1.0 g of crude compound. The crude compound was purified by column chromatography
   using 60/120 mesh silica and MeOH: DCM as mobile phase. The column was packed in
   DCM and started eluting in MeOH in gradient manner starting with fraction collection (25
   mL fractions). The compound started eluting from 4% to 6% MeOH in DCM. Fractions
15 containing such TLC profile were collected together to obtain pure compound 0.18 gm Yield
   (19%).
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)pyrrolidin-1-yl)-1-(3,3
   difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1 -one
                                                                               F
                         NH                                        N     N      F
       F3 C                          Step-4         F3 C             0
                                  DABCO, DMF
               CF 3 (3 )        I       N       F          CF3
                                                F
                                     (1A)
20          In a 50 mL 3-neck round bottom flask equipped with septum, Nitrogen bubbler and
   thermometer pocket, Intermediate -3 (0.050g, 1.0 eq.) in DMF (2.OmL) were added. Then
   DABCO (0.039 g, 2.0 eq.) was added at room temperature. Reaction mixture was stirred at
   room temperature for 30 min. Intermediate-1A (0.05 3 g, 1.1 eq.) was added at room
   temperature drop wise. Reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. The progress of the reaction

                                                 -166
   was followed by TLC analysis using 5% MeOH: DCM as mobile phase and visualization
   with UV, SM Rf=0.20 and product Rf=0.70. The reaction mixture was poured into water (50
   mL) and extracted with EtOAc (2X5OmL). The combined organic layer was washed with
   brine solution (50mL), dried over anhydrous Na2 SO4 , filtered, and concentrated by rotary
 5 evaporation (25 C, 20mmHg) to afford crude compound 50 mg. The crude material was
   purified by Prep.TLC using 2% MeOH: DCM as mobile phase. It was again purified by
   Prep.TLC using 50% EtOAc: Hexane as mobile phase to obtained 0.018 g of pure compound
   (Yield-24%).
             (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)pyrrolidin-1-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin
10 1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one: 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6, 7.82 (s, 1H), 7.73 (s, 1H), 7.69 (s,
   2H), 4.43-4.46 (d, J=12.4Hz, 1H), 4.32-4.38 (t, J=12Hz, 4H), 3.61 (s, 2H), 2.47 (s,1H), 2.18
   (s, 1H), 2.16 (s, 1H), 1.27 (s, 1H); LCMS for C1 8H16 F8N2 0 [M+1]* 428.3 found 429.09 at
   RT 3.047 min. purity (95.45%).
15 Example 44
                                                                                  CN   0
        F3 C          C     +    Br                 Step-1            F3CI0C
                                       O          NaHMDS/THF
                                                                             CF3
                CF3
                                                                              (1)
                                                                     COCI 2.6H20
                                                                     NaBH 4         Step-2
                             0           F                           MeOH
                                  N      F
                                                                                     NH
                          N                            I   0                                 0
         F3 C                 0                                       F3C
                                             Step-3          N     F   +
                 CF3                        NaH,DMF              F
                 CF3
                                                                             CF3       (2)()
            Synthesis of ethyl 3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-3-cyanopropanoate (1)

                                                 -167
                         CN                                                          CN   0
           F3C                  +   Br                   Step-1      F3 C    10
                                          0            NaHMDS / THF
                  CF3                                                          CF3
                                                                                (1)
            3,5-Bis(trifluoromethyl)-phenylacetonitrile (1.4 mL, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in THF
   (20 mL). The reaction mixture was cooled to -78 'C where a solution of NaHMDS (35% in
   THF) (4.34 mL, 1.05 eq.) was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to
 5 10 'C and stirred for 15 min. Then it was cooled to -78 'C where ethyl bromoacetate (0.87
   mL, 1.0 eq.) was added. The reaction mixture was then allowed to warm to room
   temperature where it was stirred for 16 h. Reaction mixture was poured into water (50 mL)
   and was extracted with EtOAc (3x20 mL). The combined organic layers were washed
   with brine solution (3x50 mL), dried over Na 2 S04, filtered, and concentrated under
10 reduced pressure to afford 3.5 g of crude product, which was purified by chromatography
   (4% ethyl acetate in hexane) to give 1.2 g of ethyl 3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-3
   cyanopropanoate (Yield 44.94%).
            Synthesis of 4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)pyrrolidin-2-one (2)
                                                                                    NH
                                   CN   0O
                      F3 C                 O'         Step-2    F3C                     0
                                                  COC12 .6H 20           CF 3
                              CF 3                NaBH 4
                                                  MeOH
                               (1)                                          (2)
15          Ethyl 3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-3-cyanopropanoate (1.2 g, 1.0 eq.) was
   dissolved in MeOH (48 mL). Dichlorocobalt hexahydrate (1.68 g, 2.0 eq.) was added and the
   reaction mixture was cooled to 20 'C. NaBH 4 (1.98 g, 15 eq.) was added portion wise by
   maintaining temperature below 30 C. After completion of addition, this reaction mixture
   was stirred for 18 h at 25 'C. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced
20 pressure and the residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate (25 mL) and water (25 mL).
   The reaction mixture was filtered through CeliteTM and the organic layer was separated,
   dried over Na2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.65 g of
   crude product, which after trituration with petroleum ether gave 0.5 g of 4-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)pyrrolidin-2-one (Yield 47.61 %).

                                                   -168
             Synthesis of (E)-4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1-(3-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1
   yl)-3-oxoprop-1-enyl)pyrrolidin-2-one
                     NH                                                                  0
                                                                   F3C
    F3C                    0                     F
                                  I\      N >           Step-3                     N   N           F
                             +                   F     NaHDMF         C                           F
             CF 3                                                  F3 C
                (2)
 5          4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)pyrrolidin-2-one (0.5 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in
   DMF (5 mL) and cooled to 0 'C. A solution of NaH in DMF (0.133 g, 2.0 eq.) was added at
   0 -C. (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-iodoprop-2-en-1-one (0.689 g, 1.5 eq.) was then
   introduced. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min at room temp. The reaction mixture
   was poured into water (50 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (3x20 mL). The combined
10 organic layers were washed with brine (3x50 mL), dried over Na2 SO4 , filtered, and
   concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.502 g of crude product, which was
   purified by chromatography (1%Methanol in DCM) to give 0.030 g of (E)-4-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1-(3-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-oxoprop-1-enyl)pyrrolidin-2
   one (Yield 4.03%).     1H  NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 8 8.15-8.19 (d, J=14Hz, 1H),7.69-7.87 (in,
15 311), 5.27-5.31 (d, J=14Hz, 1H), 4.05-4.47 (m,4H), 3.89-3.93 (s,1H), 3.73-3.77(s,1H), 3.60
   3.62 (s,1H), 3.08-3.13 (s,1H), 2.78-2.90 (s,1H); LCMS called. for C18H14 F8N 2 0 2 [M+H]*
   found 443.44 at retention time 2.97 min.
   Example 51
20          Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3
   hydroxy-3-(trifluoromethyl)azetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1 -one
                                           O                                    -_          CF 3
                      N'N          OH                                    N-N         N      OH
        F3 C                               CF                  F3C               O
                         N          H      C3                               N
                              +            OH
                                    HCI          T3P/DIPEA
                 CF3                                                 CF3
            (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.10 g,
   1.0 eq.) and 3-(trifluoromethyl)azetidin-3-ol hydrochloride (0.055 g, 1.1 eq.) were dissolved

                                                   -169
     in DCM (3.0 mL). The reaction mixture was cooled to -30 'C where T3P (0.3 mL, 1.5 eq.)
     and DIPEA (0.12 mL, 2.5 eq.) were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at -30 0C for 30
     min. and diluted by DCM, washed with water. The combined organic layers were dried
     over sodium sulfate and distilled under reduce pressure (250 'C, 20 mmHg) to obtain
  5  crude product. The crude product was purified by peparative TLC (70% ethyl acetate
     Hexane) to yield to 0.020 g of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
     yl)- 1-(3-hydroxy-3-(trifluoromethyl)azetidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en- 1-one .(Yield:14.8%). 'H NMR
     (400 MHz, MeOD) 6 9.20 (s, 1H), 8.65 (s, 2H), 8.09 (s, 1H), 7.40-7.43 (d, J=10 Hz, 1H),
     5.95-5.93 (d, J=10.6 Hz, 1H), 4.42-4.43 (in, 2H), 4.33-4.05 (in, 2H); LCMS caled for
10   C17H,1 F9N 4 0 2 [M+H]* 474.3 Found: 475.14 Retention time: 2.872 min,
              Synthesis of 1-benzhydryl-3-(trifluoromethyl)azetidin-3-ol     (1A)
                                            O                             CF3
                                      N          TFTS                N     OH
                                                 TBAF                N
                                                 THE
                                                                       1A
              1-Benzhydrylazetidin-3-one (5.0 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in THF (50 mL).
     Trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane was added at 5-10 'C. The reaction mixture was stirred at 10
15   0C  for 10 min. Tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride was then added. The reaction mixture was
     allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 1 h. The reaction mixture was diluted
    with ethyl acetate, and washed with water and brine. The organic layer was dried over
     sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure to give the crude product, which
    was purified by chromatography (6% ethyl acetate-hexane) to give 3 g of 1-benzhydryl-3
20  (trifluoromethyl)azetidin-3-ol (Yield:46.32%).
              Synthesis of 3-(trifluoromethyl)azetidin-3-ol hydrochloride (2a)
                                              CF3
                                                OH
                                          N                 H2                 CF 3
                                                                     SHN
                                                         Pd(OH) 2         HCI   OH
              1-Benzhydryl-3-(trifluoromethyl)azetidin-3-ol (0.25 g) was dissolved in ethanol (3
    mL). Palladium hydroxide on carbon (0.25 g) was added and hydrogen gas was purged in to
25  the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture was maintained at 25-30 C for 2h. The solid

                                                      -170
     formed was removed by filtration and ethanolic HCl was added to the filtrate at 0 C and
     further stirred for 30 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure
     to give an oily residue, which was triturated with ether to give 3
     (trifluoromethyl)azetidin-3-ol hydrochloride as solid product, which was used in the next
  5  step without further purification. 'H-NMR (400 MHz, MeOD) 8= 4.39-4.43 (d, 2H), 4.13
     4.16 (d, 2H).
     Example 52
               Synthesis of (Z)-tert-butyl 6-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
 10  1-yl)acryloyl)-2,6-diazaspiro[3.3]heptane-2-carboxylate
                                                                                               0
                         N-N         OH                                              N        NkO
                                      i        '>             0N-N
            F3C            N               T3P, DIPEA           F3C           /
                   CF3                HCIN                            CF3
                                               N    0
                                                0
              (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.50 g,
     1.0 eq.) was dissolved in DCM (5 mL). tert-Butyl 2,6-diazaspiro[3.3]heptane-2-carboxylate
15  hydrochloride (0.40 g, 1.2 eq.) was added and the reaction mixture was cooled to -70 0 C.
    T3P (1.02 mL, 1.2 eq.) was added dropwise followed by DIPEA (0.73 mL, 3.0 eq.). The
    reaction mixture was quenched with 50 mL of water and extracted by DCM. The organic
    layer was concentrated under reduced pressure (35 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 0.603 g of
    crude product which was purified by chromatography (1%Methanol in DCM) to give 0.350
20  g of (Z)-tert-butyl 6-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)
    2,6-diazaspiro[3.3]heptane-2-carboxylate. (Yield 46.29 %).
             Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1
    (2,6-diazaspiro [3.3]heptan-2-yl)prop-2-en-1-one 2,2,2-trifluoroacetate:

                                                     -171
                                                                         N-N          N         NH
                                N        N                                       0           CF 3 0OOH
                    NN      O                                              N
      F3 C            N     0
                                                TFA, DCM
                                                                  CF 3
             CF 3                                              Chemical Formula: C1 8H15 F6 N50
                                                                  Molecular Weight: 431.34
             (Z)-tert-butyl 6-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)
     2,6-diazaspiro[3.3]heptane-2-carboxylate (0.13 g) was dissolved in DCM (1.5 mL). The
     reaction mixture was cooled to 0 'C and CF 3COOH (1.5 mL) was added. The reaction
  5  mixture was allowed to warm to room temp. where it was stirred for 4 h. The reaction
     mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure (35 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 0.100 g of
     (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1 -yl)-1-(2,6
     diazaspiro[3.3]heptan-2-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one 2,2,2-trifluoroacetate (Yield 95.23 %). 'H NMR
     (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 9.49 (s, 1H), 8.52-8.5 (in, 3H), 8.32 (s, 1H), 7.44-7.42 (d, 1H, J=10.4
 10  Hz), 5.97-5.94 (d, J=10.4Hz, 1H,), 4.37-3.93 (in, 8H); LCMS calcd for Ci H F N 0
                                                                                     8 16 6 5
     [M+H]* 432.34; found 432.29 at retention time 2.256 min.
    Example 53
             Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-l-(3
 15 hydroxyazetidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                     N-N         OH                                              N-N           N     OH
       F3C                    O                        T3P, DIPEA  F3C            / N
                       N           + HN          OH
                                                HCI       DCM
               CF 3                                                        CF 3
            (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1.,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.2 g,
    1.0 eq.) was dissolved in DCM (20 mL). The reaction mixture was cooled to -60 'C where
20  azetidin-3-ol hydrochloride (0.075 g, 1.2 eq), T3P (50% in EtOAc) (0.4 mL, 1.2 eq) followed
    by DIPEA (0.2 mL, 2 eq) were added dropwise. The clear reaction mixture was stirred at -60
    'C for 45 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure (25 'C, 20
    mm Hg) to afford the crude product, which was purified by chromatography (5% Methanol

                                                        -172
     in DCM with ammonia) to obtain 30 mg of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H
      1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)-1 -(3 -hydroxyazetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one Yield (13 %). 1H NMR
     (400MHz, DMSO) 6 = 9.4 (s, 1H), 8.56 (s, 2H), 8.29 (s, 1H), 7.48-7.40 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H),
     5.95-5.97 (d, J= 10 Hz, 1H), 5.77-5.79 (d, J= 5.6, 1H, D2 0 exchangeable), 4.47-4.48 (d, J=
  5  5.6, 1H), 4.25-4.29 (t, 1H), 4.15-4.19 (in, 1H), 3.8-3.84 (in, 1H), 3.70-3.73 (in, 1H); LCMS
     called. for C16 H13 F6N40    2 [M+H]* 407.28 found: 407.14, at 2.462 min retention time,
     Example 54
                 Synthesis of (Z)-1-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
 10  yl)acryloyl)azetidine-3-carbonitrile
                         N-N         OH                                           N-N         N      CN
        F3 C                    0                                     F3C           N
                                                  .HCI    T3P, DIPEA
                                                             DCM
                   CF3                                                       CF3
                (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.2 g,
     1.0 eq.) was dissolved in DCM (20 mL). The reaction mixture was cooled to -60 'C where
 15 azetidine-3-carbonitrile hydrochloride (0.08 g, 1.2 eq), T3P (50% in EtOAc) (0.4 mL, 1.2 eq)
    followed by DIPEA (0.2 mL, 2 eq) were added dropwise. The clear reaction mixture was
    stirred at -60 'C for 45 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure
    (25 'C, 20 mm Hg) to afford the crude product, which was purified by chromatography (3
    5% Methanol in DCM). to obtain (Z)-1-(3 -(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
20  triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)azetidine-3-carbonitrile (0.14 g, 60% yield). 'H NMR (400MHz,
    DMSO) 6 = 9.36 (s, 1H), 8.54 (s, 2H), 8.30 (s, 1H), 7.45-7.43 (d, J= 10 Hz, 1H), 5.95-5.92
    (d, J= 10 Hz, 1H), 4.39-4.37 (t, 1H), 4.29-4.11 (in, 3H), 3.84-3.82 (in, 1H); LCMS calcd. for
    C1 7 H1I 2 F6 N 5 0 [M+H]*416.29; found 416.14, at 2.64 min retention time
25  Example 55
               Synthesis of methyl azetidine-3-carboxylate hydrochloride

                                                    -173
                                 OH                                             0
                      HN                          SOC   2          CIHHN
                                                 CH3 0H
             A suspension of azetidine-3-carboxylic acid (1 g, 9.8 mmol) in MeOH (10 mL) was
    cooled to 5 'C. Thionyl chloride (5.83 g, 49.45 mmol) was added dropwise maintaining the
   reaction temperature below 30 'C. The mixture was then heated to 65 'C for 10-12 h. The
 5 reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to yield methyl azetidine-3
   carboxylate hydrochloride as viscous brown oil (1.3 g, 90%), which was used without further
   purification.
             Synthesis of (Z)-methyl 1-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
    1-yl)acryloyl)azetidine-3-carboxylate
                                                                                              0
                       NOH                                                   N-N      N
    F3C                 0                       0      T3P, DIPEA F 3C         N
                    N         +       HN        O          DCM
                                        HCI                D
                                                                        CF3
10          CF3
            (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.5 g,
    1.0 eq.) was dissolved in DCM (20 mL). The reaction mixture was cooled to -60 'C where
   methylazetidine-3-carboxylate hydrochloride (0.25 g, 1.2 eq.), T3P (50% in EtOAc) (1.0 mL,
    1.2 eq.) followed by DIPEA (0.48 mL, 2 eq.) were added. The clear reaction mixture was
15 stirred at -60 'C for 45 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure
   (25 'C, 20 mm Hg) to afford the crude product, which was purified by chromatography (2
   3% Methanol in DCM) to give (Z)-methyl 1-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
   triazol- 1-yl)acryloyl)azetidine-3 -carboxylate (0.15 g, 24% yield).
            Synthesis of (Z)-1-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
20 yl)acryloyl)azetidine-3-carboxylic      acid
                                                                                               OH
                                       0
                  N'N          N                                            N-N
    F3 C                                           LiOH        P F3C          N
                                             Methanol/Water
             CF 3                                                      CF 3
            (Z)-methyl 1-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
   yl)acryloyl)azetidine-3-carboxylate (0.1 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in methanol:water (10 mL,

                                                             -174
          1:1). LiOH (0.010 g, 1.0 eq.) was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room
         temperature for 1-2 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with 10 mL
                                                                                            water and acidified
         with dilute HCl until pH=2-3. The aqueous layer was extracted with
                                                                                          ethyl acetate (10 mL
         X 3). The organic layer was washed with brine, dried over sodium sulphate
                                                                                                   and
   5     concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.060 g of (Z)-1-(3-(3-(3,5
         bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)azetidine-3-carboxylic
                                                                                                       acid
         (62.5% yield). 'H NMR (400MHz, DMSO) 6 = 9.38 (s, 1H), 8.54 (s,
                                                                                         2H), 8.29 (s, 1H), 7.40
        7.42 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 5.93-5.96 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H),
                                                                           4.23-4.27 (in, 2H), 4.12-4.16 (in,
        3H). LCMS calcd. for C 17 H13 F6N 4 0 3 [M+Hl : 435.29, Found: 435.14,
                                                                                           at 2.55 min retention
 10     time.
        Example 56
                  Synthesis of (Z)-tert-butyl 6 -( 3 -( 3 -(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
       triazol-1-yl)acrylamido)-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-3-carboxylate
                              N-N          OHF3C                                 N-N          NH
               F3                      0        T3P, DIPEA
                                                 N
                                           H2 N                                                 '   N
                                                          N-Boc       F3C                           N=0
                       CF3                                                                          0
 5
                 (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1, 2 ,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic
                                                                                                  acid (0.250 g,
       1.0 eq.) was dissolved in DCM (12 mL). tert-butyl 6 -amino-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-3
      carboxylate (0.17 g, 1.2 eq.) was added and the reaction
                                                                        mixture was cooled to - 60 0 C. T P
                                                                                                             3
      (0.51 mL, 1.2 eq.), followed by DIPEA (0.24 mL, 2.0 eq.) was then
                                                                                     added at the same
0     temperature. The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. and
                                                                               transferred into water (50 mL)
     and extracted with DCM (2X50 mL). The combined organic
                                                                             layer was washed with brine
     (50 mL), dried over anhydrous MgS04, filtered, and concentrated
                                                                                  under reduced pressure
     (25'C, 20 mmHg) to afford crude product, which was purified
                                                                              by chromatography (0-5%
     MeOH in DCM) to give (Z)-tert-butyl 6-(3 -(3 -(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-
                                                                                                  1H- 1,2,4
5    triazol-1-yl)acrylamido)-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-3-carboxylate
                                                                                   (0.28 g; 66.1% yield).
               Synthesis of (Z)-N-(3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexan-6-yl)-3-(3-(3,5
     bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylamide
                                                                                 hydrochloride

                                                           -175
           F3 C           N-N           NH                                       N-N          NH
                            N                        Dioxane:HCI  F3C                                   H
                      1                      N           DCM                                         NH
                F3C                               O                   F3C                             HCI
                                             0
                 (Z)-tert-butyl 6-(3 -(3 -(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1
       yl)acrylamido)-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-3-carboxylate (0.05 g, 1.0 eq.)
                                                                                           was dissolved in
       DCM (3 mL) and cooled to 0 'C where dioxane:HCl (0.2 mL) was added
                                                                                           dropwise and
  5    stirred for 30 min. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature
                                                                                            and stirred for 30
      min, concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was
                                                                                  triturated with ether to
      afford (Z)-N-(3 -azabicyclo [3.1. 0]hexan-6-yl)-3 -(3 -(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-
                                                                                                      1H- 1,2,4
      triazol-1-yl)acrylamide hydrochloride (0.015 g, 37.5% yield). 1H NMR
                                                                                        (400 MHz, DMSO) 6
      ,9.61 (s, 1H), 8.75 (s, 2H), 8.60 (s, 2H), 8.30 (s, 1H), 7.38-7.40
                                                                               (d, J=10.4Hz, lH), 5.87
 t0   5.89 (d, J=10.4Hz, 1H), 2.91 (s, 1H), 2.14 (s, 2H), 1.23 (s, 3H)
                                                                              ;LCMS for Chemical
     Formula: Ci 8H 16F6N 5 0 [M+H]* 432.34 found 432.19 at retention
                                                                                time 2.302 min.
     Example 57
                Synthesis of tert-butyl 6 -(((( 9 H-fluoren-9-yl)methoxy)carbonyl)amino)-3
 5   azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-3-carboxylate
                       0                   FMOC-CI /NaHC 0 3                              0            K
                  0    N          NH2                                     _ Nz 2        Nk0
                                                                      0
                                             dioxane:H 20                               H--
               tert-Butyl 6-amino-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-3-carboxylate
                                                                                    (1 g, 1.0 eq.) was added
    to a solution of sodium bicarbonate (0.84 g, 2.0 eq.) in water (5
                                                                            ml) at 5 0 C. FMOC-Cl (1.56
0   g, 1.2 eq.) in 1,4-dioxane (10 ml) was added dropwise. The reaction
                                                                                   mixture was stirred at
    room temperature for 3 h, transferred into iced water (50 mL),
                                                                            and extracted with EtOAc (2
    x 100 mL). The combined organic layers was washed with brine
                                                                                 (2x50 mL), dried over
    Na 2 SO4, filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure (25'C,
                                                                                   20 mmHg) to afford

                                                           -176
         1.9 g of tert-butyl 6 -(((( 9 H-fluoren-9-yl)methoxy)carbonyl)amino)-3
        azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexane-3-carboxylate (yield 90%).
                 Synthesis of (9 H-fluoren-9-yI)methyl 3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexan-6-ylcarbamate
                                0             r
             O               N                            TFA          HN         N   0
               O                                           DCM
  5             tert-Butyl 6 -(((( 9 H-fluoren-9-yl)methoxy)carbonyl)amino)-3
       azabicyclo [3.1.O]hexane-3-carboxylate (1.9 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved
                                                                                    in DCM (20 mL). TFA
       (1.38 ML, 4 eq) was added dropwise at 0 'C and the reaction mixture
                                                                                     was stirred at room
       temperature for 4 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 'C and
                                                                                 neutralized by saturated
      NaHCO 3 . The solid precipitated out was collected by filtration
                                                                               to afford 1.0 g of (9H
  0   fluoren-9-yl)methyl 3-azabicyclo[3. 1.O]hexan-6-ylcarbamate
                                                                            (69% yield).
               Synthesis of (Z)-( 9 H-fluoren-9-yl)methyl (3-(3-(3-(3,5
      bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H.1, 2 ,4 -triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexan-6
      yl)carbamate
                                        N          OH                                O
                        F3 C               N    O
                                                                                  NH
              NH                 CF3                                     N
                           T3P, DIPEA, DCM                       N
               N                                 F3C
               H
                                                           CF3
5
              (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-Bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1, 2 ,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic
                                                                                             acid (1.0 g,
     1.0 eq.) was dissolved in DCM (50 mL) and cooled to -60 'C where 9
                                                                                 ( H-fluoren-9-yl)methyl
    3 -azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexan-6-ylcarbamate
                                                     (1.09 g, 1.2 eq.), T3P (50% in EtOAc) (2.02 mL, 1.2
    eq.) and DIPEA (0.95 mL, 2 eq.) was added. The clear reaction mixture
                                                                                      was stirred at -60 'C
0   for 1 h, quenched with water, and extracted with DCM. The organic
                                                                                    layer was dried over
                                          'I

                                                   -177
   sodium sulphate, concentrated under reduced pressure (25 'C, 20 mm Hg) to afford the
   crude product, which was purified by chromatography ( 2% Methanol in DCM) to yield (Z)
   (9H-fluoren-9-yl)methyl (3-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
   yl)acryloyl)-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexan-6-yl)carbamate (1.26 g, 69% yield).
 5           Synthesis of (Z)-1-(6-amino-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexan-3-yl)-3-(3-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                                       0                                                 NH2
                                        NH
                                 N                                         N-N
                                                    Et3 N     F3C')
                      N'N                          DMF
                            N                                     I
                                                                     CF3
              F3C   \  /
                         CF3
             (Z)-(9H-Fluoren-9-yl)methyl (3-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
10 triazol- 1-yl)acryloyl)-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexan-6-yl)carbamate (0.3 g, 1.0 eq.) in was
    dissolved in DMF (0.75 ml). TEA (0.75 ml) was added dropwise and the reaction mixture
   was stirred at room temperature for 4 h, quenched with water (10 mL) and extracted with
    ethyl acetate (3x50 mL). The combined organic layers was washed with brine (50 mL),
    dried over Na 2 SO 4 , filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure (25'C, 20 mmHg)
15  to afford 0.2 g of the crude product, which was purified by chromatography (10%
    Methanol in DCM) to obtain (Z)-1-(6-amino-3-azabicyclo[3.1.0]hexan-3-yl)-3-(3-(3,5
    bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one (0.1 g; 50% yield). 1H
   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 = 9.10 (s, 1H), 8.49 (s, 2H), 8.30(s,1H), 7.30-7.32 (d, J= 10 Hz,
    1H), 6.07-6.09 (d,J=1OHz,1H), 3.65-3.68 (d,1H), 3.48 (s,1H), 3.35-3.45 (m,1H), 3.29-3.30
20  (d,1H), 2.28 (s,1H), 1.48-1.49 (m,2H),1.22(s,1H); LCMS calcd. for C18H16F6N 50 [M+H]*
    432.34, found 432.19 at 2.1 min retention time.

                                                    -178
   Example 58
            Synthesis of (Z)-tert-butyl 6-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
   triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)-2,6-diazaspiro[3.4]octane-2-carboxylate
                     OH
                     O       HN                                         N-N          N
               N                                            F3C             ,
                \N                  N     T3P, DIPEA                      N
                         +             0     EtOAc                                            0
                                  0                             F3C
      F3C\/
 5                 CF 3
             (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-Bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.3 g, 1
   eq.) dissolved in ethylacetate (20 mL) and cooled to -70 'C where tert-butyl-2,6
    diazaspiro[3.4]octane-2-carboxylate (0.22 g, 1.2 eq.), T3P (50% in EtOAc) (0.61 mL, 1.2
    eq.), followed by DIPEA (0.6 mL, 4 eq) were added. The clear reaction mixture was stirred
10  at -60 'C for lh, concentrated under reduced pressure (25 C, 20 mm Hg) to afford the crude
    product, which was purified by chromatography (3-4% Methanol in DCM) to yield (Z)-tert
    butyl 6-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)-2,6
    diazaspiro[3.4]octane-2-carboxylate (0.2 g; 43% yield).
             Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1
15  (2,6-diazaspiro [3.41 octan-6-yl)prop-2-en-1 -one 2,2,2-trifluoroacetate
                   N'N                                                       NN
     F3C            4TFA,                               DCM    F3C         NN                  NH
              CF3
                                                                      CF3
             (Z)-tert-Butyl 6-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
    yl)acryloyl)-2,6-diazaspiro[3.4]octane-2-carboxylate (0.05 g) was dissolved in DCM (20
    mL), cooled to 0 'C and CF 3COOH (0.5 mL) was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at
20  room temperature for 4 h, concentrated under reduced pressure (35'C, 20 mmHg) to give
    (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(2,6-diazaspiro[3.4]octan
    6-yl)prop-2-en-1-one 2,2,2-trifluoroacetate (0.03 g, 95 % yield). 'H NMR (400 MHz,
    DMSO) 6= 9.25 (s, 1H), 8.77 (brs, 1H), 8.59 (s, 2H), 8.30 (s, 1H), 7.39-7.37(d, 1H, J= 10.4
    Hz), 6.15-6.12 (d, J= 10.4Hz, 1H), 3.86-3.65 (brs, 4H), 2.14 (s, 2H), 1.49 (s, 2H), 0.85-

                                                    -179
   1.23 (in, 2H); LCMS calcd. for C19H18F6N 5 0 [M+H]*446.36; found 446.12 at retention time
   2.161 min.
   Example 59
                                                    0                                      S
    F3C           ONF3C                                      Lawesson's       F3C             NH
                          H2 0 2                       NH 2  reagent                             2
     Cl                  K2CO3           CI                                    Cl
            CF 3                              CF 3                                    CF3
                                                                          NH2 NH2.H20
                                                                            HCOOH
                                                          F                                  N-NH
                                       N-N         N      F      DABCO         F3C            I N
                        F3C               N   O                                  cl
                         Cl                                  I       N                 CF3
 5                               CF3
            Synthesis of 4-chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzamide
                                                                        0
                          F3C            CN                 F3C            NH2
                                                   H2O2                    NH
                            C    (                K2 CO 3     CI
                                   CF3                              CF3
            4-Chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl) benzonitrile (1 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in DMSO
   (10 mL). K2 C0 3 (0.55 g, 1.1 eq.) and H20 2 (1 mL) were added to the reaction mixture and
10  stirred at room temperature for 2-3 h, then poured into ice water (20 mL). The precipitate
   formed was collected by filtration and washed with petroleum ether to afford 1.0 g of
    crude product (90% yield), which was used without further purification in the next step.
             Synthesis of 4-chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzothioamide
                                     o                                       S
                      F3C               NH      Lawesson's       F3C            NH2
                                            2   reagent
                              CF3                                       CF3
15           4-Chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzamide (1.2 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in toluene
    (20 mL) and Lawesson's reagent (3.32 g, 2.0 eq.) was added. The reaction mixture was
    stirred at 90 C for 8 h then filtered. The filtrate was poured into water. The compound
    was extracted with EtOAc (3X100 mL). The combined organic layers was washed with

                                                 -180
   brine (3x50 mL), dried over Na 2 SO4 , filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure
   (25'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 2 g of 4-chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzothioamide (95%
   yield), which was used in the next step with no further purification.
            Synthesis of 3-(4-chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole
                                  S                                           N'NH
                     F3 0    >       NH      H2NH2.H20          F3C             N
                      CI                      HCOOH              CI
 5                          CF3                                        CF3
            4-Chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)benzothioamide (1g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in DMF
   (10 mL). Hydrazine hydrate (0.32 g, 2.0 eq.) was added and the reaction mixture was stirred
   at room temperature for 1 h. Formic acid (3 mL) was then added and the reaction mixture
   was heated to 90 'C for 2-3 h. The reaction mixture was poured into saturated sodium
10 bicarbonate solution slowly maintaining the temperature at 25-30'C. The desired product
   was extracted with EtOAc (3X50 mL). The combined organic layers was washed with
   brine (50 mL), dried over Na 2 SO4 , filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure
   (25'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 1.5 g of crude product, which was purified by chromatography
   (40% ethyl acetate in Hexane) to afford 0.150 g of 3-(4-chloro-3,5
15 bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole (15% yield)
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(4-chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
    1-yl)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                                                                                          F
                                                                           -NH      N
                F/                      DABCO                           N-N           XF
            F3C             N                              F3C         AN/
                    CF3
                    C                I       N      F       C
                                                                  CF3
            3-(4-Chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazole (0.1 g, 1.0 eq.) was
20  dissolved in DMF (5 mL). DABCO (0.071g, 2 eq.) was added and stirred for 30 min. (Z)-1
    (3,3-difluoroazetidin-1 -yl)-3-iodoprop-2-en-1-one (0.095 g, 1.1eq.) was then added. The
    reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h and then poured into iced water (50
    mL). Product was extracted with EtOAc (3X1 5 mL). The combined organic layers was
    washed with brine, (20 mL), dried over Na 2 SO4 , filtered, and concentrated by rotary
25  evaporation (25 'C, 20 mmHg) to afford 0.150 g of crude product, which was purified by
    chroamotgraphy to obtain (Z)-3-(3-(4-chloro-3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-lH-1,2,4-

                                                    -181
                                                                                              1H NMR
   triazol-1-yl)-l -(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one (0.004g, 3% yield).
   (400 MHz, DMSO) 6 = 9.32 (s, 1H), 8.46 (s, 1H), 8.32 (s, 1H), 7.47-7.49 (d, J= 10.4 Hz,
   1H), 6.00-5.04 (d, J= 10.4 Hz, 1H), 4.55-4.58 (in, 2H), 4.33-4.36 (in, 2H) LCMS called for
   C 16H 1 0ClF 8N 4 0 [M+H]*: 461.7, Found: 461.14, at 2.99 min retention time.
 5
   Example 60
             Synthesis of (Z)-1-(3-(aminomethyl)-3-fluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl) phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one
                                                                    H
                                                                             N,     Bc             -    X  NH2
                   N-N     OH                   NN
                                                N-N          N     FNBcNN
                                                                   IF                      NN        N     NH
                 N-N       O
                                        0~~           ')0>)                                      0
       FCN F3 I/OF~                 I  3C         I/OF                      3C              N
                                                    N                          '(        A
         F                 T3P,DIPEA                               TFA
                                /NH
            CF3                 F Boc       CF3                                     CF3
10
             Synthesis of tert-butyl ((3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methyl)carbamate
                                               OH             \F /                                     NH2
                        NaHSO 3     --    N     N       DAST          N      N NaBH 4                  F
                         KCN                                                      NiCl 2
                                                                               Boc anhydride
                                                                                    DCM
                                                                 ,Boc
                                                        HN                                    N        NH
                                                             F          Pd(OH) 2         -           F Boc
                                                                        Ethanol
             Synthesis of 1-benzhydryl-3-hydroxyazetidine-3-carbonitrile
                                       \ /          NaHSO 3
                                                                \ /
                                                                               OH
                                       N                 C0
                                                   -_
                                                                        N      CN
15           1-Benzhydrylazetidin-3-one (50 g, 210 mmol) was dissolved in methanol (250 mL).
    KCN (15 g, 316 mmol) and NaHSO 3 (32.86 g, 316 mmol) was added at 25 'C and the
    reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 16 h. The reaction mixture was acidified with dilute
    HCl and the product was extracted with ethyl acetate (200 mL x 3). Organic layers were

                                                 -182
   washed with brine, dried over anhydrous Na 2 SO 4 and concentrated under reduced pressure
   to obtain 45.0 g crude product, which was purified by chromatography to give 10.5 g of 1
   benzhydryl-3-hydroxyazetidine-3-carbonitrile (18% yield). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13 ,
   ppm) 6 = 7.5-7.2 (in, 10 H); 4.43 (s, 1H); 3.73-3.71 (d, 2H); 3.27-3.24 (t, 2H).
 5          Synthesis of 1-benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidine-3-carbonitrile
                                          OH      DAST                    F
                                     N                             N
                                           CN                            CN
             1-Benzhydryl-3-hydroxyazetidine-3-carbonitrile (10.5 g, 39.7 mmol) was dissolved in
   DCM and cooled to -78 'C. DAST (12.80 g, 79.45 mmol) was slowly added and the reaction
   mixture was allowed to warm to rt where it was further stirred for 5 h. Reaction mixture was
10 cooled to 0 'C and transferred into 500 mL NaHCO 3 solution and extracted with (100 mL
   x 3) DCM. Combined organic layers were washed with brine, dried over Na2 SO 4 , and
   concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain 15.0 g of crude product, which was purified
   by chromatography to obtain 6.0 g of 1-benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidine-3-carbonitrile. (57.14%
   yield). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDC13 , ppm) 6 = 7.6-7.1 (in, 10 H); 4.46 (s, 1H); 3.9-3.6 (in,
15 2H); 3.5-3.2 (in, 2H).
            Synthesis of (1-benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methanamine
                                           F NaBH 4                  NH2
                                      NN
                                      __CN NiCl 2               N     F
             1-Benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidine-3-carbonitrile (0.5 g, 1.88 mmol) was dissolved in
    methanol (25 mL). NaBH 4 (0.49 g, 13.14 mmol) and NiCl 2 (0.044 g, 0.34 mmol) were added
20  at 0 'C and the reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 14 h. The solids formed were removed
    by filtration and and the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude
    product was purified by chromatography (0-5% methanol-DCM) to give 0.15 g of (1
    benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methanamine (30% yield). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ,
    ppm) 6    = 7.46-7.19 (in, IH); 4.48 (s, 1H); 3.38-3.34 (t, 2H); 3.26-3.09 (in, 4H).
25           Synthesis of tert-butyl (1-benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methylcarbamate:

                                                  -183
                                    NH2      Boc anhydride
                              N                              *N               FNH
                                     F          DCM                             Boc'
                                                F                               Bo
           (1-Benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methanamine (0.5 g, 1.85 mmol) was dissolved
   in DCM (20 mL) and Boc anhydride (0.20 g, 0.924 mmol) was added at 0 'C. The reaction
   mixture was allowed to warm to rt, at which temperature it was stirred for 4 h. The reaction
 5 mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.5 g of tert-butyl (1
   benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methylcarbamate (100% yield). 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   CDCl 3, ppm) 6 = 7.44-7.19 (in, 1OH); 5.32 (s, 1H); 4.84 (s,1H); 3.69-3.61 (in, 2H); 3.38
   3.033 (in, 2H); 3.18-3.10 (in, 2H).
           Synthesis of tert-butyl (3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methylcarbamate
                                      C -NH         Pd(OH) 2                  NH
                                N                                   HN
                                       F   Boc         H2           H      F Boc
                                                     Ethanol
10
           tert-Butyl (1-benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methylcarbamate      (0.6 g, 1.35 mmol)
   was dissolved in ethanol and Pd(OH) 2 (0.38 gm, 2.7 mmol) was added. The reaction mixture
   was stirred at rt for 14 h under H2 atmosphere. The solids were removed by filtration and
   the filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.2 g of tert-butyl (3
15 fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methylcarbamate (66% yield).
            Synthesis of (Z)-tert-butyl (1-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
   triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methylcarbamate
                                                                                             H
                                                                                             N Boc
                   N-N          OH                                        N-N         N     F
                                         T3P,DIPEA            F3 CC          N
      F3C             />O
                                       HN         NH
                                               F Boo
              CF 3                                                   CF 3
             (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-Bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.20 g,
20  0.56 mmol) was dissolved in DCM (10 mL). The reaction mixture was cooled to -60 'C, at
    which temperature tert-butyl(3 -fluoroazetidin-3 -yl)methylcarbamate (0.127 g, 0.62 mmol),
    was added, followed by T3P (50% in EtOAc) (0.434 g, 0.67 mmol). DIPEA (0.144 g, 1.11

                                                    -184
   mmol ) was then introduced slowly. The clear reaction mixture was stirred at -60 'C for a
   further 45 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain
   crude product, which was purified by column chromatography (0- 15% ethyl actetate
   hexane) to afford 150 mg of (Z)-tert-butyl(1-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
 5 triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methylcarbamate (Yield 50%). 'H NMR (400
   MHz, CDCl 3 , ppm) 6 = 9.7 (s, 1H); 8.63 (s, 2H); 7.94 (s,1H); 7.24-7.21 (d, J=10.8 Hz,
   1H); 5.67-5.64 (d, J= 10.8, 1H); 4.41-4.16 (in, 4H); 3.76 - 3.54 (m,3H).
            Synthesis of (Z)-1-(3-(aminomethyl)-3-fluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl) phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)prop-2-en-1 -one
                                       H
                                       N Boc
                      NNNF                                                   N'N        N       NH
    F3 C     '        N                                         F3C            />O            F
                                                                                N
                                                     TFA
10          CF3                                                         CF3
            (Z)-tert-Butyl(1-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
   yl)acryloyl)-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methylcarbamate (0.15 g, 0.279 mmol) was dissolved in
   DCM (10 mL) and TFA (0.1 mL) was added at 0 'C. The reaction mixture was stirred at r
   for 4 h and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.5 g of crude product, which
15 was purified by chromatography (0-5% methanol in DCM) to afford 15 mg of (Z)-1-(3
    (aminomethyl)-3-fluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
    1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one (Yield 15%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 , ppm) 6 = 9.4 (s,1H); 8.54
    (s, 2H); 8.32 (s,1H); 8.13 (s, 3H ); 7.49-7.46 (d, J=10 Hz, 1H); 6.0-5.97 (d, J=10 Hz,
    1H); 4.41-4.06 (in, 4H); 3.49 - 3.36 (in, 3H). LCMS calcd for C17H15 F7N 5 0 [M+H]*438.3,
20  found: 438.19 (retention time 2.298 min).
    Example 61
             Synthetic scheme for methyl 3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylate hydrochloride
                                                            H2
                                                                    HCI    0HSClSOC   HCI   O
                              NaOH                       Pd(OH) 2   HN                HN
                                                                                      HN
                                                                                    2
                        ~    NOH                          -
                     N-   F                              Ethanol         F  OH            F
                        5                      f
25           Synthesis of 1-benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylic acid

                                               -185
                                            NaOH
                                                                   N        0
                                N     F
                                    CN                                   F OH
           1-Benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidine-3-carbonitrile (3.5 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in
   ethanol, and aq. NaOH solution (IN) was added. The reaction mixture was refluxed for 5 h,
   then was allowed to cool to room temperature, at which temperature, it was acidified with
 5 dilute HCl (pH-3) and extracted with ethyl acetate (50 mL x 3). The combined organic
   layers were washed with brine, dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced
   pressure to obtain 0.5 g of 1-benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylic acid (13% yield).
   The product was used in the next step without further purification.
           Synthesis of 3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylic acid hydrochloride
                                                               HCI
                                                   H2          HN         O
                                        OH                               OH
                                                Pd(OH) 2             F
                        1N                      Ethanol
10                                    F
           1-Benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylic acid (0.5 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in
   ethanol. Pd(OH) 2 (0.5 g) was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 14 h at room
   temperature under H2 atmosphere. The solids were removed by filtration and the filtrate was
   concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 150 mg of 3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylic
15 acid hydrochloride (30% yield). The product was used in the next step without further
   purification.
           Synthesis of methyl 3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylate hydrochloride
                    HCI       O                                   HCI       O
                      HN                     SOC12                 HN         O
                                                         D
                            -  OH
                           F                 Methanol                     F
           3-Fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylic acid hydrochloride (0.10 g, 8.4 mmol) was dissolved
20 in methanol (2 mL) and cooled to 5 'C. Thionyl chloride (0.05 g, 4.2 mmol) was added
   dropwise. The reaction mixture was heated at 65 'C overnight and concentrated under
   reduced pressure to afford methyl 3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylate hydrochloride. The
   product was used in the next step without further purification.
           Synthesis of (Z)-methyl 1-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
25 1-yl)acryloyl)-3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylate

                                                    -186
                                       HCI       O
                    N-N        OH                                                          0
     F3C                N                      F                         N-N         N       F
                                          T3P,DIPEA          F3C            N
              CF 3
                                                                    CF3
            (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-Bis(trifluoromethyl) phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.20 g,
    1.0 eq.) was dissolved in DCM (4 mL). The reaction mixture was cooled to -60 'C, at which
   temperature methyl 3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylate hydrochloride (0.09 g, 1.2 eq.) and T3P
 5 (50% in EtOAc) (0.427g, 1.2 eq.) were added, followed by DIPEA (0.146g, 2 eq.). The clear
   reaction mixture was stirred at -60 'C for 45 min and concentrated under reduced pressure
   (25 'C, 20 mm Hg) to afford the crude product, which was purified by chromatography (20
   30% ethyl acetate in hexane) to give (Z)-methyl-1-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
    1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)-3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylate.   (40 mg; 24% yield). 'H
10 NMR (400 MHz, CDCL3) 6 9.51 (S, 1H), 8.62 (s, 2H), 7.96 (s, 1H), 7.20-7.18 (d,J=10.8,
    1H), 5.70-5.68 (d, J=10.8Hz, 1H), 4.15-3.82 (in, 4H), 3.82 (s, 3H).
   Example 62
            Synthesis of (Z)-1-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
15 yl)acryloyl)-3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylic        acid
                                       0                                                  OH
                                   N     F                              N-N        N       OH
                         N-N
          F3C              N
                             O                 _  _
                                                   LiOH
                                                      _   _
                                                            F3 C          N
                   CF 3                                           CF 3
             (Z)-Methyl 1-(3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)-3
    fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylate (0.01 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in methanol:water (0.2 mL,
    1:1), and LiOH (1.0 mg, 1.0 eq) was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room
20  temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with 10 mL of water and acidified
    with dilute HCl to pH 2-3. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate (10 mL x

                                                -187
   3). The combined organic layers were then washed with brine, dried over sodium sulfate
   and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.002 g of (Z)-1-(3-(3-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acryloyl)-3-fluoroazetidine-3-carboxylic
   acid. Yield (20.83%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCL3) 6 8.92 (S, 1H), 8.54 (s, 2H), 8.29 (s,
 5 1H), 7.45-7.42(d, J=10.4, 1H), 6.00-5.98 (d, J=10.4Hz, 1H), 3.73 (in, 4H).
   Example 63
                             OH                  N                                           N
                 N-N(:-      O
    F3 C
                                    I HN
             3N
                         O                                               N           N     F
                                                            F3C             N
                                        T3P,DIPEA
            CF3
                                                                    CF3
            Synthesis of 1-(1-benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)-NN-dimethylmethanamine
                             N       NH 2      CH 20
                                  F         NaCNBH 3                  N        N
10                                                                         F \
            (1-Benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)methanamine (0.5 g, 1.0 eq.) was dissolved in
   methanol and HCHO (0.138 g, 2.5 eq.) and NaCNBH 3 (0.47g, 4.0 eq.) were added at 0 'C.
   The reaction mixture was stirred for 14 h at room temperature, then quenched with aqueous
   ammonium chloride solution and extracted with DCM. The organic layer was washed
15 with brine, dried over sodium sulfate, and concentrated under reduced pressure to
   afford 150 mg of 1-(1-benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)-NN-dimethylmethanamine
   (100%), which was used in the next step without further purification.
            Synthesis of 1-(3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)-NN-dimethylmethanamine
                                                      H2          HN
                                 N        N        Pd(OH) 2             F
                                                  Ethanol               F
                                      F

                                                  -188
            1-(1-Benzhydryl-3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)-N,N-dimethylmethanamine (0.6 g, 1.0 eq.)
   was dissolved in ethanol. Pd(OH) 2 (0.6g) was added. The reaction mixture was stirred for 14
   h at room temperature under H2 atmosphere. The solids were removed by filtration and the
   filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 300 mg of 1-(3-fluoroazetidin-3
 5 yl)-NN-dimethylmethanamine (68% yield), which was used in the next step without
   further purification.
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3
   ((dimethylamino)methyl)-3-fluoroazetidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1 -one
                                                                                                   N
    F3CNOH                              HN                                                        F
                                                                F3C            N
            CF3                          T3P,DIPEA
                                                                        CF3
10          (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-Bis(trifluoromethyl) phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.50 g,
    1.0 eq.) was dissolved in DCM (10 mL). The reaction mixture was cooled to -60 'C, at
   which temperature 1-(3-fluoroazetidin-3-yl)-NN-dimethylmethanamine (0.22 g, 1.2 eq) and
   T3P (50% in EtOAc) (1.08 g, 1.2 eq.) were added, followed by DIPEA (0.36 g, 2 eq.). The
   clear reaction mixture was stirred at -60 'C for 45 min. The reaction mixture was
15 concentrated under reduced pressure (25 'C, 20 mm Hg) to afford the crude product, which
   was purified by chromatography to give 12 mg of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)
    1H-1,2,4-triazol-1 -yl)-1 -(3-((dimethylamino)methyl)-3-fluoroazetidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one
   (3 %yield). 1H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6        = 9.75 (s, 1H), 8.62 (s, 2H), 7.94 (s, 1H), 7.24
   7.21 (d, J= 10.8Hz, 1H), 5.69-5.66 (d, J= 10.8 Hz, 1H), 4.37-4.25 (m, 2H), 4.22-4.15 (m,
20 2H), 2.82-2.76 (d,2H), 2.35 (s,2.35,1H); LCMS for C19H19 F7N5 0 [M+H]* 466.4 found 466.3
   at retention time 2.263 min

                                                 -189
   Example 64
                                                                       F
                                                                   F
                                    NH                                   N
                   F3 C                0
                                       O
                                                                              N
                                          F            -      F3C                 0
                          CF3             F      NF
                                             NaH,DMF                  CF3
           THF (5 mL) and sodium hydride (0.08 g, 2.02 mmol) were added under nitrogen
   atmosphere to a 25-mL sealed tube equipped with septum. The reaction mixture was cooled
 5 to 0 'C and 4-(3, 5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)pyrrolidin-2-one (0.3 g, 1.01 mmol) was added
   portionwise, maintaining a temperature below 0 'C. The reaction mixture was refluxed for
   3.5 h and later cooled to -10   C. To this reaction mixture, (Z)-isopropyl 3-iodoacrylate (0.33
   g, 1.21 mmol) was added dropwise. Reaction mixture was further stirred at -10    0 C for
   another 30 min. The reaction mixture was transferred into water (50 mL) and extracted with
10 EtOAc (2 x 50 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with saturated brine solution
   (50 mL), dried over anhydrous Na2 SO4 , filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to
   obtain crude compound. The crude material was purified by column chromatography (silica
   60/120, EtOAc-hexane gradient) and again purified by preparative TLC using 60% EtOAc
   hexane as mobile phase to afford 0.015 g (Z)-4-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1-(3-(3,3
15 difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-oxoprop-1-enyl)pyrrolidin-2-one (Yield 3.3%). 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   CDC13) 6 ,7.83(s, 1H); 7.73(s, 2H); 7.16-7.19 (d, J=10.4Hz, 11); 5.08-5.11 (d, J=10.4Hz,
    1H); 4.43-4.51 (in, 3H); 4.30-4.36 (t, J=12Hz, 2H); 3.96-4.01 (in, 11); 3.75-3.79 (in, 1H);
   2.95-3.02 (in, 1H); 2.68-2.75 (in, 111); LCMS for C1 8Hi 5 F8N2 0 2 [M+1]* 442.3 found 443.14
   at RT 2.932 min.
20
   Example 65
           Synthesis of (Z)-3-(2-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-1-(3,3
   difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1 -one:

                                                      -190
    F3C          Br               NaH / THF      F3C                 MDC,TEA F ~ C                N       O
                            +   N                     /         N                                       o
                         H    ZnCI2/ Pd(OAc)/                   H          O
             CF3               2,2-(dicyclohexyl                                         CF 3
                               phosphino)bipheny     F3C(1)             O                       (2)
                                                                                                 LiOH
                                                                                               THF/H 20
                                F3C                N                                 F3C              N
                                                              N F                                          OH
                                          CF3                    F     T3 P,DIPEA
                                                 (4)                   HN       F           CF3 (3)
                                                                     .HCI       F
             Synthesis of 2-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-pyrrole:
                      F3C            Br/\
                                             C   B r    NaH / T HF    F3C                N\
                                      +        N                             IN
                                               H     ZnCI2/ Pd(OAc)/                     H
                              CF3                    2,2-(dicyclohexyl
                                                     phosphino)bipheny      F3C( 1 )
             A 500 mL 3-neck round-bottomed flask was charged with a solution of pyrrole (5.15
 5 g, 76.79 mmol) in THF (120 mL) at rt and cooled to 0 'C. NaH( 2.21 g, 92.12 mmol) was
   added portionwise and the reaction mixture was stirred at 0 'C for 1 h. To this reaction
   mixture, ZnCl 2 (10.4 g, 77 mmol) was added and stirred at 0 'C for 1 h. 1-Bromo-3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)benzene (5.0 g, 17.0 mmol) was added and reaction was properly
   degassed for 10 min and palladium diacetate (0.172 g, 0.76 mmol) and 2-(dicyclohexyl
10 phosphino)biphenyl (0.269 g, 0.76 mmol) were added and reaction was refluxed for 48 h.
   Reaction mixture was transferred into water (100 mL) and extracted with EtOAc (3 x 300
   mL) and the combined organic layers were washed with saturated brine solution (3 x 150
   mL), dried over MgSO 4 , filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 7 g
   of crude 2-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-lH-pyrrole which was purified by
15 chromatography to afford 0.8 g of pure product. LCMS calcd for: C12H 6F6N [M-H]- 278.18
   found 278.19 (retention time 3.383 min)
             Synthesis of (Z)-isopropyl 3-(2-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-pyrrol-1
   yl)acrylate:

                                                    -191
                               F     3~F                 3C0
                       F3CN                  MDC,TEA                 N
                               FC         H
                                         __0      O
                           F3 C( 1 )            0                    (2)
            A 100 mL 3-neck round-bottomed flask was charged with a solution of 2-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-pyrrole (1) (0.7 g, 2.50 mmol)) in DCM (14 mL) and
   reaction mixture was cooled to 0 'C. TEA (0.379 g, 3.76 mmol) and isopropyl acrylate
 5 (0.421 g, 3.76 mmol) were added simultaneously at 0 'C and stirred for 1.5 h. Reaction
   mixture was transferred into water (50 mL), extracted with EtOAc (3 x 20 mL) and
   combined organic layers were washed with saturated brine solution (3 x 50 mL), dried
   over MgS04, filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 1.5 g of crude
   compound which was purified by column chromatography to obtain 0.150 g of (Z)-isopropyl
10 3-(2-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)acrylate (Yield 15 %). 'H NMR (400
   MHz, CDCl 3, ppm) 6 =1.279-1.318 (in, 6H); 5.106 (in, iH); 5.521-545 (d, J=9.6 Hz, 1H);
   6.377 (s, 1H); 6.494 (s,1H); 6.643-6.763 (d, J=10 Hz, 1H); 7.800-7.831 (m,3H): LCMS
   calcd for: Ci 8H16F6NO2 [M+H]* 392.31 found 392.4 (retention time 3.820 min).
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(2-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)acrylic  acid
15 (3):
                                                                 F3C            0
                   F3C                N
                                                             F3C         N  N
                                             0-          LiH                  -   OH
                          CF3        (2)              THF/H 20     CF 3 (3)
            A 100 mL 3-neck round-bottomed flask was charged with a solution of (Z)
   isopropyl 3-(2-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)acrylate (0.15 g, 0.383 mmol)
   in THF (10 mL) and water (10 mL) and stirred at rt. To this reaction mixture, LiOH.H 20
20 (0.027 g, 1.15 mmol) was added and reaction was further stirred for 16 h. Reaction mixture
   was acidified by dilute HCl and extracted with EtOAc (3 x 20 mL). The combined organic
   layers were washed with brine solution (3 x 50 mL), dried over MgS04, filtered, and
   concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.15 g of (Z)-3-(2-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)acrylic acid (3) (Yield: 88%) which was used for
25 next step without purification. LCMS called for: C 1 5 HioF 6NO2 [M+H]* 350.23 found 350.39 (
   retention time 3.129 min).

                                                  -192
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(2-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)-1-(3,3
   difluoroazetidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en-1-one:
                 F3C                  O                F3C                  O
                                  N      OH T3 P,DIPEA                 N        N     F
                        CF3   (3)<HN                          CF3       (4)          F
                              (3)            .HCI      F
            A 100 mL 3-neck round-bottomed flask was charged with a solution of (Z)-3-(2
 5 (3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-pyrrol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.15 g, 0.429 mmol) in DCM
   (10 mL) and cooled to 0 'C and 3,3-difluoroazetidine hydrochloride (0.052 g, 0.558 mmol)
   was added dropwise. T3P (50% in EtOAc) (0.163 g, 0.514 mmol) was added dropwise
   followed by DIPEA (0.11 g, 0.858 mmol) and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at 0
   'C. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to afford 0.2 g of crude
10 product which was purified by column chromatography (60/120 silica gel, 0-3%
   ethylacetate : n-hexane gradient) to afford 0.01 g of (Z)-3-(2-(3,5
   bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-pyrrol-1 -yl)- 1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1 -yl)prop-2-en- 1-one
   (Yield 6.6%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3, ppm) 6= 4.307-4.425 (m, 4H); 5.523-5.443 (d,
   J=10 Hz, 1H); 6.387-6.404 (t, 1H); 6.500-6.509 (t, 1H); 6.765-6.790 (d, J=10 Hz, 1H);
15 7.704-7.715 (t, 1H); 7.811-7.845 (m, 3H). LCMS called for: C1 8H13 F8N2 0 [M+H]* 435.29
   found 425.49 (retention time 3.292 min).
   Example 66
            Synthesis of (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(4
20 hydroxypiperidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1 -one
                  N'N        OH                                        N-N         N        OH
    F3C                  O            HN         OH      F3C             /)   O
                                      T3P, DIPEA                          N
             CF3                                             F3C
            (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-Bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylic acid (0.20 g,
    1.0 eq.) was dissolved in DCM (10 mL). Piperidin-4-ol (0.07 g, 1.2 eq.) was added and the
   reaction mixture was cooled to -60'C. T3P (propyl phosphonic anhydride) (0.40 mL, 1.2 eq.)
25 and DIPEA (0.19 mL, 2.0 eq.) were added. Reaction mixture was stirred for 30 min. The
   reaction mixture was then transferred into water (50 mL) and extracted with DCM (2X50
   mL). The combined organic layers were washed with brine (50 mL), dried over anhydrous

                                                -193
   MgSO 4 , filtered, and concentrated under reduced pressure (25 C, 20mmHg) to afford crude
   product, which was purified by chromatography (0-3% MeOH in DCM) to obtain 0.025 g of
   (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(4-hydroxypiperidin-1
   yl)prop-2-en-1-one (Yield:10%). 'H NMR (400 MHz, CDCl 3 ) 6 ,8.75 (s,1H), 8.58 (s, 2H),
 5 7.93 (s, 1H), 7.08-7.11 (d, J=10.4 Hz,1H) ,6.01-6.04 (d, J=10.4Hz, 1H), 4.02-4.14 (m, 1H),
   3.98-4.01 (in, 1H), 3.78-3.85 (in, 1H), 3.47-3.52 (s, 1H), 3.32-3.38 (s, 1H), 1.96 (s, 1H),
   1.83 (s, 1H), 1.27 (s, 1H), 0.90 (s, 1H); LCMS for Chemical Formula: Ci 8H 17F6N 4 0 2
   [M+H]* 435.34 found 435.24 at RT 2.408 min.
10 Inhibition of Nuclear Export
            The ability of exemplary compounds of the invention to inhibit CRM 1-mediated
   nuclear export was assessed in a RevGFP assay. Rev is a protein from human
   immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) and contains a nuclear export signal (NES) in its C
   terminal domain and a nuclear localization signal (NLS) in its N-terminal domain. Nuclear
15 export of Rev protein is dependent on the classical NES/CRM1 pathway (Neville et al. 1997).
   Nuclear accumulation of Rev can be observed in cells treated with specific inhibitors of
   CRM1, such as LMB (Kau et al. 2003).
             In this assay, U2OS-RevGFP cells were seeded onto clear-bottomed, black, 384-well
   plates the day before the experiment. Compounds were serially diluted 1:2 in DMEM,
20 starting from 40 tM in a separate, 384-well plate, and then transferred onto the cells. The
   cells were incubated with compound for about 1 hr before fixation with 3.7% formaldehyde
   and nuclei staining with Hoechst 33258. The amount of GFP in cell nuclei was measured and
   the IC 50 of each compound was determined (Kau et al. 2003). Compounds of the invention
   are considered active in the Rev-GFP assay outlined above if they have an IC5 0 of less than
25 about 10 tM, with the most preferred compounds having an IC50 of less than about 1 tM.
   The results of the RevGFP assay appear in Table 3.
   Cell ProliferationAssay
            The CellTiter 96@ AQueous One Solution cell proliferation assay (Promega) was
30 used on MM. IS multiple myeloma cell line to study the cytotoxic and cytostatic properties of
   the compounds. The assay is based on the cleavage of the tetrazolium salt, MTS, in the
   presence of an electron-coupling reagent PES (phenazine ethosulfate). The MTS tetrazolium
   compound is bioreduced by cells into a colored formazan product that is soluble in tissue

                                                 -194
   culture medium. This conversion is presumably accomplished by NADPH or NADH
   produced by dehydrogenase enzymes in metabolically active cells. Assays are performed by
   adding a small amount of the CellTiter 96@ AQueous One solution reagent directly to culture
   wells, incubating for 1-4 hours and then recording the absorbance at 490nm with a 96-well
 5 plate reader. The absorbance revealed directly correlates to the cell number and their
   metabolic activity.
           The cells were seeded at 5x10 3 to 1.5x10 4 cells (depending on cell type) in each well
   of a 96-well plate in 100 pL of fresh culture medium and adherent cells were allowed to
   attach overnight. The stock solutions of the compounds were diluted in cell culture medium
10 to obtain eight concentrations of each drug, ranging from 1 nM to 30 pM and DMSO at less
   than 1%v/v was used as a negative control. The resulting drug solutions were transferred
   onto the cells. After 72 h of treatment, 20 pl of CellTiter 96@ AQueous reagent was added
   into each well of the 96-well assay plates and the plate was incubated at 370 C for 1-4 hours
   in a humidified, 5% CO 2 atmosphere. Then the absorbance of each well was recorded at 490
15 nm using a 96-well plate reader. In most cases, the assay was performed in triplicate and the
   results were presented as half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC5 0). Optical density
   versus compound concentration was plotted and analyzed using non-linear regression
   equations (IDBS XLfit) and the IC 50 for each compound was calculated.
20 Pharmacokinetic(PK)Assay andBrain:PlasmaRatio Determination
           Pharmacokinetics (PK) play an increasing role in drug discovery and development.
   Pharmacokinetics is the quantitative study of the time course of drug absorption, distribution,
   metabolism and/or excretion. When a drug is administered, it distributes rapidly from its
   administration site into the systemic blood circulation. One measure of the extent of a
25 therapeutic agent's distribution is the area under the plasma concentration-time curve (AUC),
   calculated to the last measured concentration (AUCt) and extrapolated to infinity (AUCnf).
   AUC is thus a useful metric to quantitate drug exposure.
           Generally, the higher the exposure of a therapeutic agent, the greater the effects of the
   agent. However, high exposure of a therapeutic agent may have deleterious effects on certain
30 tissues such as the brain. While the blood-brain barrier (BBB), a protective network
   consisting of tight junctions between endothelial cells, restricts the diffusion of hydrophilic
   and/or large molecules, drugs with high AUC are still capable of penetrating the BBB and/or
   cerebrospinal fluid. Such penetration can lead to unwanted side effects. Current drug

                                                   -195
   discovery efforts are aimed, in part, at striking a balance between maximizing drug exposure
   (e.g., AUC), while minimizing brain penetration.
           The brain to plasma (B:P) ratio is one method of quantifying the relative distribution
   of a therapeutic agent in brain tissue to that in circulation and, as such, provides one
 5 indication of the brain penetration of a given therapeutic agent. A high brain to plasma ratio
   is preferred when targeting diseases localized in the central nervous system (CNS), including
   the brain and the cerebrospinal fluid. However, a lower brain to plasma ratio is generally
   preferable for non-CNS therapeutic agents to minimize brain penetration and avoid potential
   side effects caused by unwanted accumulation of the therapeutic agents in the brain and CNS
10 tissue.
            A UC. Blood was collected from mice (N = 3) to contribute to the total of 10 time
   points (pre-dose, 5 min, 15 min, 30 min, 1 hour, 2 hours, 4 hours, 8 hours, 12 hours and 24
   hours post dose). Mice were bled on a rotating basis, each mouse contributing 3 time points
   to the blood collection. At the designated time points, animals were anaesthetized under
15 isoflurane, and approximately 110 ViL of blood per time point was collected via retro-orbital
   puncture into pre-cooled K2EDTA (anti-coagulant) tubes. Blood samples were put on wet ice
   and centrifuged (2000g, 5 min at 4 'C) to obtain plasma within 30 minutes of sample
   collection. All samples were stored frozen at approximately -80 'C until analysis. Prior to
   analysis, samples were mixed with internal standard (dexamethasone) in acetonitrile,
20 vortexed, centrifuged, and supernatant was injected for analysis. Concentration of compounds
   in plasma was determined using LC-MS-MS instrumentation (API 4000, Triple Quadruple
   with electrospray ionization; Acuity Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography column C18,
   with MeOH and formic acid as organic solvents). AUC values were calculated using
   WinNonlin Professional 6.2 software package, non-compartmental pharmacokinetic model
25 NCA200.
           Brain to Plasma (B:P) Ratio. A separate group of mice (N = 3) were dosed (PO at 10
   mg/kg) and then sacrificed at the time of maximal plasma concentration (estimated Tmax at 2
   hours post-dose), at which time terminal plasma and brain tissue were collected. Following
   collection, brain tissue was rinsed with cold saline, dried on filter paper, weighed and snap
30 frozen by placing on dry ice. All samples were stored frozen at approximately -80 'C until
   analysis. At the time of analysis, brain tissue was homogenized (homogenizing solution PBS,
   pH 7.4), mixed with internal standard (dexamethasone) in acetonitrile, vortexed, centrifuged,
   and supernatant was injected for analysis of compound concentration using LC-MS-MS

                                              -196
  methodology (API 4000, Triple Quadruple with electrospray ionization; Acuity Ultra
  Performance Liquid Chromatography column C18, with MeOH and formic acid as organic
  solvents). Plasma samples were treated with the identical method (except homogenization
  step) and the concentration of compound in each matrix was calculated based on generated
5 standard curves. The results of the PK assay and the B:P ratio determination are presented in
  Table 3.
  Table 3. Assay Results for Exemplary Compounds of the Invention (A      = <1 ptM; B = 1-10
  pM; C = >10 pM; NT = not tested).
                                                   AUC, 1 f
                                                 hr*ng/mL                Rev
                        Structure               (mouse, PO,      B/P   Export     Cytotoxicity
    No.                                            10mpk)               [IC 5 0]     [EC50]
                                       F
                           N-N      N  F
      1           F3C         N                     12300         5        A            A
                       CF3
                                       F
                           N'N      N  F
                            /    0
                   F3C
      2                       N                      396         NT       NT            A
                       F
                                       F
                           N'N      N   F
                  FaC
      3             3         N                      NT          NT       NT            A
                       OH

                                      -197
                                           AUCInf
                                         hr*ng/mL          Rev
Cmpd.
              Structure                 (mouse, PO, B/P  Export   Cytotoxicity
 No.
                                           lOmpk)         [IC 5o]   [EC50]
                           0
                        /-    N    F
                  N-N            F
  4   F3C          N                         NT     NT      A          A
            CF3
                  N-N         N
  5                 N           F            NT     NT     NT          B
            CF3
                             ND
            FCN-N
  6     F3           )0
                        -         F
                                  FNT               NT     NT          B
       F3C          N/ 0~
                  N-N         N    F
  7                                         2510    NT     NT          A
            CF3
                  N-N        N     F
      8
                                            9050^   3.16   NT          A
            CF3   N-N         N
                -   NN
      F3C
           9N                                NT     NT     NT          A
            CF3

                                   -198
                                        AUCnf
                                      hr*ng/mL         Rev
Cmpd.
            Structure                (mouse, PO, B/P Export  Cytotoxicity
                                        lOmpk)        [ICso]   [EC50]
                 N-N        N
 10   F3C                                 NT     NT    NT         B
           CF3
                  N-N        NH
       F3C          N
                   N/   O
 11                        0             3080A   NT    NT         A
            CF3
                                F
                          N
               HN         NXF
 12   F3C         N'                      NT     NT    NT         B
           CF3
                  N-N        NH
 13   F3C              N                  NT     NT    NT         B
            CF3
                  N-N        NH
 14   F3C              N                  NT     NT    NT         A
                          N   1
            CF3
                      0          F
                                F
                N
 15   FC3                                 NT     NT    NT         C
           CF3

                                 -199
                                      AUCsf
                                    hr*ng/mL        Rev
Cmpd.
                Structure          (mouse, PO, B/P Export   Cytotoxicity
                                      lOmpk)       [IC 50 ]   [EC50]
                     Na    N
       F3C \        N      N
 16           /                         NT     NT   NT           A
             CF 3
                   N-N        N
       F3C              N               NT     NT    NT          B
               CF3
                               N
                   N-N'    NN
 18    F3C              N               NT     NT    NT          B
               CF3
                   N-N  NF  NH
 19     FP-1C             HN6           NT     NT    NT          B
              CF,
            FCN-N          NO F
 20                         -           NT     NT    NT          A
            CF  3
                   N-N        NH
  1F3C                  N               NT     NT    NT          B
                               N
              CF3

                                          -200
                                               AUCInf
                                             hr*ng/mL           Rev
Cmpd.
                      Structure             (mouse, PO, B/P   Export    Cytotoxicity
 No.                                           lOmpk)          [IC 5 0]   [EC50]
                           N-N       N
 22           F3C                  0              NT    NT      NT           B
                      CF3
                          N-N        N
            F3C                  0
 23                                               521   NT      NT           A
                     CF3
                        N-N -    N
     24     F3C                N   '              NT0   NT
            F3C          N         NT                            NT          A
                   CF3
 25               K                   N          264    NT       NT          A
                         N-N
                                   N
                                      H
 27          F3C                       N         2640   NT       NT          A
                    CF3
     26F      3C                                  NT    NT/NT0
                          N-N        NH
                   3C
                 FF3C      I1/)  0
       25N-                  N       N
                                                  NT    NT       NT           A
         26N-
                     CF3               N
                          N-N        N
            27F3 -            N/ 0   N6NT               NT       NTA
                    CF3

                                         -201
                                              AUCf
                                            hr*ng/mL        Rev
Cmpd.
                Structure                  (mouse, PO, B/P Export   Cytotoxicity
 No'                                          l0mpk)       [IC 5 0]   [EC50]
                   N-N      NH
      F3C           I N O
                                ,
 28                                  N          NT     NT   NT            B
            CF3
                   N-N      NH     N
 29    F                                        NT     NT   NT            B
             CF3
                      N-N         NH
 30    F3C                                      NT     NT    NT           A
               CF3
                  N-N'     NH     -N
       F3C qN'      N               N>
 31    FN                                       NT     NT    NT           A
            CF3
                               -F
                     N-N       N       F
       F3C             N/)0           F
 32                                             NT     NT    NT           A
         CI
              CF 3
                               -F
                     N-N       N      F
        F3C            /)0            F
 33                                             NT     NT    NT          NT
         HONN
               CF3

                                 -202
                                      AUCinf
                                    hr*ng/mL         Rev
Cmpd.
            Structure              (mouse, PO, B/P Export   Cytotoxicity
 No.                                  lOmpk)        [IC 501   [EC50]
      F3CN               N
 34                                     NT     NT     NT         NT
          CF3
               N-N       N     F
 35                                     NT     NT     NT          A
          CF3
                         N     F
                     -
      F3C         N    0       F
 36               H                     NT     NT     NT         N/T
          CF3
      F3C
                IN     0
 37               H                     NT     NT     NT        NT
                N-        NCX
          CF3
                FC N-N N
 38                          NH         NT     NT     NT        NT
           CF3
               N-N       N
           73    I  /      , NH         NT     NT     NT        NT
           CF
            3

                                 -203
                                      AUCf
                                     hr*ng/mL         Rev
Cmpd.
               Structure            (mouse, PO, B/P Export   Cytotoxicity
 No.                                  10mpk)         [IC 501   [EC50]
                          D
                 N-N         N  F
 40              1/
           *N          D                NT      NT    NT           A
           CFF
                        D
                 N-       N
 41               N D                   NT      NT     NT         NT
             CF3
                    Br
                 N-          YF
      F3CI        N       N
 42               N                     NT      NT    NT          NT
             CF3
                          -F
        3C          N     N
 43                                     NT      NT    NT           C
             CF3

                                 -204
                                      AUCIsg
                                     hr*ng/mL        Rev
Cmpd.
            Structure               (mouse, PO, B/P Export Cytotoxicity
                                      lOmpk)        [IC 5o   [EC50]
 44                                     NT      NT    NT         C
          F
                      -       OH
              N-N      N
      F3C           0
 45                                     NT      NT    NT        NT
          CF3
                       -      OH
              N-N       N     O
      F3C
               N/)  0    )
 46N                                    NT      NT    NT        NT
                          N    l
          CF3
              N-N        N     F
      F3C       N
                   NN       N7          NT      NT    NT        N
                           N\
          CF3
                   -N
                               F
              N-N        N     F
      F3C       N
          CF3

                                           -205
                                                AUCsf
                                               hr*ng/mL        Rev
Cmpd.
                Structure                     (mouse, PO, B/P Export Cytotoxicity
 No.                                            l0mpk)        [ICso]   [EC50]
                            -A
                                      F
                    N-N           N   F
       F3C            N
       497                             N          NT      NT   NT         NT
                                   N\
              CF 3
                               -    OH
                   N-N          N     H
      F3C            N/A              CF 3
 50                                               NT      NT   NT         NT
            CF 3
                    N-N          N
       51                                         NT      NT    NT         A
             CF3
                   N-N           N i NH
      F3C            N/      0
 52          -7                                   NT      NT    NT         A
            CF3
                                 N    OH
                          '>0
        F3C~q        / N/
 53     F3C                                       NT      NT    NT         A
              CF3
                    N-N          N    CN
              C        />    0
 54     F3C            N                          NT      NT    NT         A
              CF3

                                              -206
                                                   AUCIf
                                                  hr*ng/mL         Rev
Cmpd.
                Structure                        (mouse, PO, B/P  Export   Cytotoxicity
 No.
                                                   lOmpk)         [IC 50 ]   [EC50]
                  N-N          N      CO2 H
      F3 C          N/     0
 55                                                  NT      NT    NT            B
            CF3
                  N-N           NH
 56                                 N/H HCI           NT     NT      A           A
            CF3
                  N-N          N        NH2
       F3C                 0
 58                    N                             NT      NT     NT           A
            CF3
                   N-N           N
                             N           NH
 59      Ci                                          NT      NT     NT           A
             CF3
       F3 C                  O            F
                    N--N          N        F
       F3C                   0       >F
 59                    N4              H2N           NT      NT     NT           A
             CF 3
                             -     N        F
                    N-N,
       FC               ')    0
 60                    N               H2 N          1240A   13.3    NT          A
             CF 3

                                     -207
                                          AUCnf
                                         hr*ng/mL         Rev
Cmpd.
                Structure               (mouse, PO, B/P Export   Cytotoxicity
 No.
                                          lOmpk)         [IC50 1   [EC50]
                               F
                 N-N
                           N      OH
       F3C,            0
 61                N            0           NT      NT    NT           A
            CF3
                               F
                 N-N       N      OH
      F3C           N                       NT      NT    NA
                    N
 62                                         NT      NT    NT           B
            CF3
                                  N
 63   F3CFN         N        N              NT      NT    NT           A
             CF3
                      N.      N
 64                      0                  NT      NT    NT           C
             CF3
      F3CN
 65                   NNFF                  NT      NT      TC
                 N-N       N      OH
      66FCpN           0NT                          NT     NT          A
          FC

                                                -208
                                                     AUCIf
                                                    hr*ng/mL          Rev
Cmpd.
                         Structure                 (mouse, PO, B/P   Export Cytotoxicity
 No.                                                 l0mpk)          [IC5o]   [EC50]
                                  0
                          N-N           N
                            N/
           F 3C
   67
                   CF 3
                              NF
            F3C            N             N                               NT       NF
   68                         H                         NT     NT       NT       NT
                    CF3
                               D     D
                           N-N          N     F
    69      F3C              N    D                     NT      NT      NT        NT
                    CF 3
                          N-N         NH   N
              F3 C           N     0  HN
    70                                                 10100    0.71     A         A
                    CF3
             FN-N
                                       NH   N
             F3C             N/)0HN
     71                                                10800     1.8      A        A
                    CF3
 A tested at 5 mpk.

                                                 -209
   Inhibition of HCT-116XenograftsIn Vivo
           Mice were inoculated on the hind flank with HCT- 116 cell line and the HCT-116
   xenografts were grown to approximately 150mm3 , at which time treatment was initiated.
   Treatment groups were as follows:
 5         Vehicle SC;
            50 mg/kg 5-FU IP, days 1-3;
           25mg/kg Compound 1 compound QDx5 SC (low dose);
            75mg/kg Compound 1 compound QDx5 SC (high dose).
           FIG. 1 is a graph of tumor volume as a percentage of the initial tumor volume versus
10 time and shows that treatment with Compound 1 inhibited tumor growth, and showed
   superior anti-tumor effects compared to 5-FU. Compound 1 compound was well-tolerated at
   both the low and high doses.
   Induction ofp21, p53 and apoptosis in HCT-116 Cells
15          HCT- 116 cells were incubated with 10 ptM Compound 1 for 24 hours, at which time
   the cells were fixed and stained with antibodies to p21 or p53, or the DNA stain, DAPI.
   Subsequent analysis by immunofluorescence showed that both p21 and p53 were
   concentrated in the nucleus in cells treated with Compound 1, while cells treated with vehicle
   only (DMSO) contained only low levels of p53 and p21 in cytoplasm and nucleus.
20          This experiment showed that Compound 1 inhibited the nuclear export function of
   CRM1, altering the subcellular localization of the tumor suppressor gene protein p53 and the
   cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor, p21.
            HCT- 116 cells were incubated with 10 tM Compound 1 for 2, 4, 6, 16, or 24 hours
   (indicated in FIGS. 2A and 2B as "2+," 4+," etc.), or with 10 [tM Compound 1 for 22 hours
25 and an additional 1 tM Compound 1 for another 2 hours (indicated in FIGS. 2A and 2B as
   "22+ 2+"). At the end of the incubation period, total protein extracts were prepared. In
   addition, protein cell extracts were made from cells incubated with vehicle (DMSO) for 2 and
   24 hours (indicated in FIGS. 2A and 2B as "-"). Cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins were
   separated, immunoblotted and reacted with antibodies to p53, p21, full-length (FL) PARP,
30 cleaved PARP and lamin B.
            FIGS. 2A and 2B are images of Western blots obtained from the experiment and show
   that Compound 1 induces p21 and p53 in both cytoplasmic and nuclear fractions.
   Particularly strong induction of p53 was observed in the nuclear fraction of cells treated with

                                                 -210
   Compound 1. In addition, FIGS. 2A and 2B show that Compound 1 induces apoptosis in
   HCT-1 16 cells after 24 hours, as indicated by the decrease in PARP, an apoptosis marker,
   and the increase in cleaved PARP. Cleaved PARP marks the initiation of cell death
   following 16 hrs of incubation, lamin is a marker for nuclear proteins and actin is a loading
 5 control.
    Induction ofpRb Nuclear Localization and Phosphorylationin HCT- 16 Cells
            HCT- 116 cells were incubated with 10 pM Compound 1 for 24 hours, at which time
   the cells were fixed and stained with antibodies to pRb or DAPI. Subsequent analysis by
10 immunofluorescence showed that treatment with Compound 1 induced nuclear localization of
   the tumor suppressor gene protein, pRb.
            HCT-1 16 cells were incubated with 10 [M Compound 1 for 2, 4, 6, 16, or 24 hours
   (indicated in FIGS. 3A and 3B as "2+," 4+," etc.), or with 10 tM Compound 1 for 22 hours
   and an additional 1 !.M Compound 1 for another 2 hours (indicated in FIGS. 3A and 3B as
15 "22+ 2+"). At the end of the incubation period, total protein extracts were prepared. In
   addition, protein cell extracts were made from cells incubated with vehicle (DMSO) for 2 and
   24 hours (indicated in FIGS. 3A and 3B as "-"). Cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins were
   separated, immunoblotted and reacted with antibodies to phosphorylated pRb (pRbphos), pRb,
   actin and lamin B.
20          FIGS. 3A and 3B are images of Western blots obtained from the experiment and show
   higher levels of pRb in the nuclear fraction and a loss of the upper band of pRb protein in
   samples treated with Compound 1 for more than 6 hours. The upper pRb bands correspond
   to the inactive, phosphorylated protein and the lower bands correspond to the
   unphosphorylated, active form of the protein that induces cell cycle arrest. FIGS. 3A and 3B
25 show that Compound 1 induces dephosphorylation of pRb in both cytoplasmic and nuclear
   fractions.
   Induction ofAPC and IKB NuclearLocalization in HCT-116 Cells
            HCT- 116 cells were incubated with 10 tM Compound 1 for 24 hours, at which time
30 the cells were fixed and stained with antibodies to APC or IB, or DAPI. Subsequent
   analysis by immunofluorescence shows that treatment with Compound 1 induced the nuclear
   localization of the tumor suppressor proteins, APC and IKB, respectively, in HCT-1 16 cells.

                                                    -211
   Cells treated with vehicle only showed clear cytoplasmic (ring-like staining) of both , APC
   and IKB.
   ExperimentalAutoimmune Encephalomyelitis (EAE) Model
 5          The EAE Model is an accepted model for the study of human CNS demyelinating
   diseases such as multiple sclerosis. The model described herein used 5-8-week-old female
   C57BL/6 or CD40- mice (13-16-week-old BM chimeric mice). The mice were immunized
   subcutaneously with 200 tg of MOG35-55 peptide (peptide 35-55 of myelin oligodendrocyte
   glycoprotein) emulsified in CFA (Complete Freund's Adjuvant) supplemented with 500 pIg
10 of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (DIFCO). The mice received intraperitoneal injections with
   250 ng of pertussis toxin (Sigma-Aldrich) at the time of immunization and 48 h later to
   increase the permeability of the blood brain barrier. After 7 days, the mice received an
   identical boost immunization with MOG/CFA without pertussis toxin. Clinical disease
   commenced between days 13 and 18 after immunization. The administration of Compound 1
15 started when all mice displayed flaccid tail and weakness of hind limbs. The study design
   was as described below and all dosing was performed in a blinded fashion.
            The study consisted of 3 groups: (i) vehicle-treated; (ii) 25 mg/kg of Compound 1;
   and (iii) 75 mg/kg Compound 1 (oral gavage, 3 days per week - Monday, Wednesday,
   Friday). Each group had 16-18 animals and was color coded. Body weight and condition
20 and clinical score were recorded daily by two independent investigators. The clinical scoring
   of the mice was conducted four times per week as follows: 0, no detectable signs of EAE;
   0.5, distal limp tail; 1, complete limp tail; 1.5, limp tail and hind limb weakness; 2, unilateral
   partial hind limb paralysis; 2.5, bilateral partial hind limb paralysis; 3, complete bilateral hind
   limb paralysis; 3.5, complete hind limb paralysis and unilateral forelimb paralysis; 4, total
25 paralysis of fore and hind limbs (score > 4 to be sacrificed); 5, death. During the course of
   the experiment, supplementation of soft and palatable food such as gelatin and Nutrical was
   provided.
            FIG. 4A is a graph of EAE score as a function of time and shows that administration
   of Compound 1 in the above-described regimen reduced the clinical score in a statistically
30 significant manner for both the 25 mg/kg (low dose) and 75 mg/kg (high dose) groups. FIG.
   4B is a graph of body weight as a function of time and shows that administration of
   Compound 1 in the above-described regimen did not dramataically affect body weight.

                                                    -212
            On day 26, a subset of mice was sacrificed and immunce cells were subjected to
   fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) using standard methods. FIG. 5 shows the results
   of the FACS experiment, which indicated a modest decrease in the number of splenocytes
   and circulating CD8 cells associated with the high dose of Compound 1.
 5          Compound 1 and Example 1 are used interchangeably herein and refer to Compound
    1 of Table 2 having the chemical name (Z)-3-(3-(3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
   triazol- 1-yl)- 1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin- 1-yl)prop-2-en- 1-one.
   Bibliography
10  1. Cronshaw JM and Matunis MJ. 2004. The nuclear pore complex: disease associations and
        functional correlations TRENDS Endocrin Metab. 15:34-39
   2. Falini B et al. 2006. Both carboxy-terminus NES motif and mutated tryptophan(s) are
        crucial for aberrant nuclear export of nucleophosmin leukemic mutants in NPMc+ AML
        Blood. 107:4514-4523
15 3. Cai X and Liu X. 2008. Inhibition of Thr-55 phosphorylation restores p53 nuclear
        localization and sensitizes cancer cells to DNA damage.PNAS. 105:16958-16963.
   4. Daelemans D, Afonina E, Nilsson J 2002 A synthetic HIV-1 Rev inhibitor interfering
       with the CRM1-mediated nuclear export. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 99(22):14440
        5.98052-2517
20 5. Davis JR et al. 2007. Controlling protein compartmentalization to overcome disease
       Pharmaceut Res. 24:17-27
   6. Freundt E, Yu L, Park E, et al 2009 Molecular determinants for subcellular localization of
       the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus open reading frame 3b protein. J Virol
        83(13):6631-40
25 7. Ghildyal R, Ho A, Dias M, et al 2009 The respiratory syncytial virus matrix protein
       possesses a Crml-mediated nuclear export mechanism. J Virol 83(11):5353-62
   8. Ghosh CC et al 2008 Analysis of nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of NF kappa B proteins in
       human leukocytes.Methods Mol Biol. 457:279-92.
   9. Gupta N et al 2008 Retinal tau pathology in human glaucomasCan J Ophthalmol. 2008
30     Feb;43(1):53-60
   10. HoshinoL et al. 2008. Combined effects of p53 gene therapy and leptomycin B in human
       esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Oncology. 75:113-119.

                                                  -213
   11. Lain S et al. 1999a An inhibitor of nuclear export activates the p53 response and induces
       the localization of HDM2 and p53 to U1A-positive nuclear bodies associated with the
       PODs Exp Cell Res. 248:457-472.
   12. Lain S et al. 1999b. Accumulating active p53 in the nucleus by inhibition of nuclear
 5     export: a novel strategy to promote the p53 tumor suppressor function Exp Cell Res.
       253:315.
   13. Muller PA et al. 2009 Nuclear-cytosolic transport of COMMD 1 regulates NF-kappaB and
       HIF- 1 activity. Traffic on-line publication
   14. Mutka S 2007 Nuclear Export Inhibitors (NEIs) as novel cancer therapies AACR
10     Annual Meeting. Poster 5609.
   15. Mutka S, Yang W, Dong S, et al. 2009. Identification of nuclear export inhibitors with
       potent anticancer activity in vivo. Cancer Res. 69: 510-7.
   16. Nakahara J et al. 2009. Abnormal expression of TIP30 and arrested nucleocytoplasmic
       transport within oligodendrocyte precursor cells in multiple sclerosis J Clin Invest.
15     119:169-181
   17. Noske A et al. 2008. Expression of the nuclear export protein chromosomal region
       maintenance/exportin i/Xpol is a prognostic factor in human ovarian cancer
   18. Cancer. 112:1733-1743
   19. Pollard V & Malim M. 1998 The HIV-1 Rev protein 52:491-532.
20 20. Rawlinson S, Pryor M, Wright P, Jans D 2009 CRM1-mediated nuclear export of dengue
       virus RNA polymerase NS5 modulates interleukin-8 induction and virus production J
       Biol Chem 284(23):15589-97
   21. Sanchez V, Mahr J, Orazio N, et al 2007 Nuclear export of the human cytomegalovirus
       tegument protein pp65 requires cyclin-dependent kinase activity and the Crml exporter J
25     Virol 81(21):11730-6.
   22. Sorokin AV et al. 2007. Nucleocytoplasmic transport of proteins Biochemistry. 72:1439
       1457.
   23. Terry LJ et al. 2007. Crossing the nuclear envelope: hierarchical regulation of
       nucleocytoplasmic transport Science. 318:1412-1416
30 24. Van der Watt PJ et al. 2008. The Karyopherin proteins, Crml and Karyopherin betal, are
       overexpressed in cervical cancer and are critical for cancer cell survival and proliferation
       Int J Canc. 124:1829-1840

                                                  -214
   25. Walsh MD et al. 2008 Exportin 1 inhibition attenuates nuclear factor-kappaB-dependent
       gene expression. Shock 29:160-166
   26. Williams P, Verhagen J, Elliott G 2008 Characterization of a CRM1-dependent nuclear
       export signal in the C terminus of herpes simplex virus type 1 tegument protein UL47 J
 5     Virol 82(21):10946-52.
   27. Yang W 2007 Anti-tumor activity of novel nuclear export inhibitors (NEIs) in multiple
       murine leukemia models AACR Annual Meeting. Poster 5597.
   28. Yao Y et al. 2009. The expression of CRM1 is associated with prognosis in human
       osteosarcoma Oncol Rep. 21:229-35.
10 29. Zimmerman TL et al 2006 Nuclear export of retinoid X receptor alpha in response to
       interleukin-Ibeta-mediated cell signaling: roles for JNK and SER260 J Biol
       Chem281:15434-15440
           The relevant teachings of all patents, published applications and references cited
15 herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.
           While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to
   example embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various
   changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the
   invention encompassed by the appended claims.
20

                                            -215
                                          CLAIMS
   1. A compound of formula I:
                                      B3Y           A       '^N'
 5                                                     (R )m R2
                                                          4
                                                                     (U,
      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
          Ring A is an optionally substituted ring selected from phenyl, an 8-10 membered
      bicyclic aryl ring, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms
      independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered
10    bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
      oxygen, and sulfur;
          Ring B is an optionally substituted ring selected from a 3-8 membered saturated or
      partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10 membered bicyclic
      aryl ring, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic
15    ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
      sulfur, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms
      independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered
      bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
      oxygen, and sulfur;
20        X is selected from 0, S, N-CN, and NR;
          R is hydrogen or an optionally substituted group selected from C1.6 aliphatic, 3-8
      membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring having 1-2 heteroatoms
      independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, phenyl, and a 5-6
      membered heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from
25    nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur;
          Y is a covalent bond or an optionally substituted bivalent C-  4 hydrocarbon group,
      wherein one methylene unit of Y is optionally replaced by -0-, -S-, -N(R6 )-, -C(O)
                                 66)             6)           (  ) ,_     6C(   )  _
        -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R )--, -N(R )C(O)N(R )-, -N(R 6 )C(O)-, -N(R6)C(O)O-,
      -OC(O)N(R 6)-. -S(O)-, -S(0) 2 -, -S(0) 2N(R 6 )-, -N(R 6)S(O) 2-, -OC(O)- or
30    C(0)0-;

                                           -216
         each of R1 and R2 is independently hydrogen or an optionally substituted group
    selected from C1 .6 aliphatic, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated
    monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10 membered bicyclic aryl ring, a 3-8
    membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic ring having 1-2
 5  heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, a 5-6
    membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected
    from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl ring
   having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, or:
        R' and R2 are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a 4-8 membered
10  saturated, partially unsaturated, or aromatic heterocyclic ring having 1-3 heteroatoms
   independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, wherein the ring formed
   thereby is substituted with -(R5 )p;
        each of n, m, and p is independently an integer selected from 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4;
        q is an integer selected from 0, 1 and 2;
15      each of R3, R4 , and R5 is independently halogen, -NO 2 , -CN, -N 3 , -L-R 6 , or an
   optionally substituted group selected from C1 .6 aliphatic, a 3-8 membered saturated or
   partially unsaturated monocyclic carbocyclic ring, phenyl, an 8-10 membered bicyclic
   aryl ring, a 3-8 membered saturated or partially unsaturated monocyclic heterocyclic
   ring having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
20 sulfur, a 5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms
   independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered
   bicyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen,
   oxygen, and sulfur, or:
   two R3 groups on Ring B are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a
25      fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-3
        heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur; or:
   two R4 groups on Ring A are taken together with their intervening atoms to form a
        fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aryl ring having 0-3
        heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur; or:
30 two R5 groups on the ring formed by R' and R2 are taken together with their
        intervening atoms to form a fused 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated,
        or aryl ring having 0-3 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
        and sulfur;

                                           -217
          L is a covalent bond or an optionally substituted bivalent C1 .6 hydrocarbon group,
     wherein one or two methylene units of L is optionally and independently replaced by
     -Cy-, -0-, -S-, -N(R )-, -C(O)-, -C(S)-, -C(O)N(R 6)-, -N(R 6)C(O)N(R           )_,
    -N(R 6)C(0)-, -N(R )C(O)0-, -OC(O)N(R 6)-, -S(O)-, -S(0) 2 -, -S(0) 2N(R 6),
  5 -N(R 6)S(0) 2 -, -OC(O)- or -C(O)O-;
         -Cy- is an optionally substituted bivalent ring selected from a 3-7 membered
     saturated or partially unsaturated cycloalkylenylene ring, a 4-7-membered saturated or
    partially unsaturated heterocycloalkylene ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently
     selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, phenylene, a 5-6 membered monocyclic
10  heteroarylene having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
     and sulfur, an 8-10 membered bicyclic arylene, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic
    heteroarylene having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen,
    and sulfur; and
         each R6 is independently hydrogen or an optionally substituted group selected
15  from C1 .6 aliphatic, phenyl, a 3-7 membered saturated or partially unsaturated
    carbocyclic ring, an 8-10 membered bicyclic saturated, partially unsaturated or aryl
    carbocyclic ring, a 4-7-membered saturated or partially unsaturated heterocyclic ring
    having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, a
    5-6 membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently
20  selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur, and an 8-10 membered bicyclic heteroaryl
    ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and
    sulfur; or:
         two R6 on the same nitrogen are taken together with their intervening atoms to
    form a 4-7 membered saturated, partially unsaturated, or aromatic heterocyclic ring
25  having 1-2 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur,
         provided the compound is not (Z)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
    cyclopentylacrylamide, (Z)-1-(azetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol
     1-yl)prop-2-en-1 -one, (Z)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-1-(3,3
    difluoroazetidin-1-yl)prop-2-en-1 -one, (Z)-1-(3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3
30  methoxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)prop-2-en- I-one, (Z)-1
    (3,3-difluoroazetidin-1-yl)-3-(3-(3-isopropoxy-5-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)-1H-1,2,4
    triazol-1-yl)prop-2-en-1-one, (Z)-3-(5-(3-chlorophenyl)-4H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)-N
    phenylacrylamide, (Z)-3-(5-(3-chlorophenyl)-4H-1,2,4-triazol-3-yl)-N-methyl-N-

                                              -218
       phenylacrylamide, (E)-tert-butyl (4-(3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
       yl)acrylamido)phenyl)carbamate, (E)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
       (4-methoxyphenyl)acrylamide, (E)-N-(3-chlorophenyl)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H
       1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylamide, (E)-N-(4-aminophenyl)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H
 5     1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylamide, (Z)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
       isopropyl-N-methylacrylamide, (Z)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N
       fluoro-N-isopropylacrylamide, (Z)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1
       yl)acrylamide, (E)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-phenylacrylamide,
       (E)-3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)-N-methyl-N-phenylacrylamide, (E)
10     3-(3-(3-chlorophenyl)-1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)acrylamide or (Z)-3-(3-(3-isopropoxy-5
       (trifluoromethyl)phenyl)- 1H-1,2,4-triazol- 1-yl)acrylamide.
   2.  The compound according to claim 1, wherein Ring A is an optionally substituted 5
       membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 heteroatoms independently selected
       from nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
15 3.  The compound according to claim 1, wherein Ring A is selected from pyrrolyl,
       furanyl, thiophenyl, pyrazolyl, imidazolyl, triazolyl, tetrazolyl, oxazolyl, isoxazolyl,
       thiazolyl, isothiazolyl, oxadiazolyl and thiadiazolyl.
   4.  The compound according to claim 3, wherein Ring A is triazolyl.
   5.  The compound according to claim 3, wherein Ring A is pyrrolyl.
20 6.  The compound according to claim 3, wherein Ring A is pyrazolyl.
   7.  The compound according to claim 3, wherein Ring A is imidazolyl.
   8.  The compound according to claim 3, wherein Ring A is selected from:
              N     N-N          N        N               N              N
                                 /> \, I!>
                                 N~                                   \-I
                                                    H  ,      H   and       H
   9.  The compound according to claim 1, wherein Ring A is an optionally substituted 6
25     membered monocyclic heteroaryl ring having 1-4 nitrogen atoms.
   10. The compound according to claim 9, wherein Ring A is selected from pyridinyl,
       pyrazinyl, pyridizinyl, pyrimidinyl, triazinyl and tetrazinyl.

                                            -219
   11. The compound according to claim 10, wherein Ring A is pyridinyl.
   12. The compound according to any of claims 1-11, wherein Ring B is phenyl.
   13. The compound according to claim 12, wherein Ring B is substituted and is
       represented by the following structural formula:
                                        F3C
 5                                              CF3
   14. The compound according to any of claims 1-13, wherein X is 0.
   15. The compound according to any of claims 1-14, wherein Y is a covalent bond.
   16. The compound according to any of claims 1-15, wherein RI and R 2 are taken together
       with their intervening atoms to form a 4-8 membered saturated, partially unsaturated,
10     or aromatic heterocyclic ring having 1-3 heteroatoms independently selected from
       nitrogen, oxygen, and sulfur.
   17. The compound according to claim 16, wherein the 4-8 membered saturated
       heterocyclic ring formed by R , R2 and their intervening atoms is represented by the
       following structural formula:
15
   18. The compound according to claim 17, wherein p is 2.
   19. The compound according to claim 18, wherein R5 is -F.
   20. The compound according to claim 19, wherein the 4-8 membered saturated
       heterocyclic ring formed by R', R 2 and their intervening atoms is represented by the
20     following structural formula:
         -N       F
                 F.
   21. The compound according to claim 1, wherein the compound is represented by the
       following structural formula:

                                            -220
                                (R3                         NsIR2
                                 B
                              )"-D     Y      A        q
                                                   (R4 )m         (I-b),
      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
  22. The compound according to claim 1, wherein the compound is represented by any one
5     of the following structural formulas, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                     Compound                     Structure
                                                                      F
                                                    N'N       N
                                      F3 C            N
                                             CF 3
                                                                      F
                                                   N-N        N
                                     2F3C             N   O
                                        FC
                                             F
                                                   N-N        N       F
                                     F3C              N
                                             OH
                                                          0
                                                              N       F
                                                   N-N             F
                          4          F3C             N
                                            CF3

                    -221
Compound                  Structure
                               N-N     N
                  F3C          N       N    F
                                          F
                         CF3
                             N-N      N      >
                        CF3
                                N
                                          N    F
         F3 C                N'
                    CF 3
                                         N     F
                     N       N--N
                               N
     9F      3C                     0
                       CF3
       8                       NN      N
                             N-N
              F3C           N
   1
                              N-N       N
                       CF3
                                   NO
              F3C                           F
                       CF3
                                N
  11
                       CF3    N-N       N
              F 3C                  0
                               CN
                             N-N         NH
                       CF

             -222
Compound          Structure
                          N-N        NH
          F3C             I       0
   13
                 CF3                   N
                          N-N        NH
                                 0
          F3C
   14                       N(
                 CF3                   N
                                        F
                               O
                                       F
                        N
   15    F3C
                CF3
                             -/
                                      F
                          N       N
           F3C
   16
                CF3
                      \   N,
                         N-N'N
                                N
          F3C
   17
                 CF 3
                                    N
                         N-N          N
                 CF 3
                                N0
          F3C
  18
                           N        N

               -223
Compound              Structure
                          N-N         NH
                                        HN
             F3C
   19
                     CF3
                                          F
                         N-N         N     F
   20              \       N
                   CF3
                          N-N          NH
                0          I~N)    0
      21F    3
                                     FN
                   CF3                   N
                           N-N         N
            F3C    ~         I'0
   22                 70
                     CF3                 N
                          N-N          N
           F3C                /)   0
   23
                   CF3
                       N-N -N
          F3C                    0
                         N
  24             17                   N
                  CF3
                        N-N         N
           F3C          NN
  25                                  /N
                  CF3

                -224
Compound                 Structure
                              N--N            NH
             F3 C                 N
   26                   -C
                       CF3
                                      -       H
                              N-N             N
                                                N
             F3 C                       N6
                       CF 3
                            N-N          NH
                                    N
             F3C
    30
                      CF 3
                             N-N/         NH    N
                                         N        N
                               N
              F3C
                       CF3
         300
                      C    F      /N
                F2C             N NN
                             N-N         NH /-N
               F3 C,       A   N/    0     -\     >
    31               IN
                       CF3
                                N-N /         NCF
                F3C              I /)    o          F
    32                 1A/
                          CF3

                -225
Compound              Structure
               HO   /
                    CF3
                               -
                                         F
             F3C                    N    F
   34/
         35N    CN CF3
                          N-Nx -    N
             F3C           N        N
   35
                    CF3
                                -   NCF
              F3C        N                F
                      elIN
    36                      H
                    CF3
              F3C           N         VF
    37                      H
                     CF3
                            N-N'    NNo
                     FC NN        0
                            INN
        38F      3C
                      CF3
                           N-N
                                    N
     39                /3    Na        /NH
                       CF3

           -226
Compound          Structure
                                D
                    N-N              N   F
             F3CN            D
            CF 3
                               D
                                  N    F
                     N-N
   41                  N D
                /
           D
               CF3
                                -     OH
                     N-N         N
         F3C          N      0
                                   N
               CF3
                     N-N          N
         F3C      F     /
   46           /N
               CF 3
                                  -F
                     N-N          N
         F3C           N/) 0
               CF 3
                          '-
                                       F
                     N-N          N
             F3        N/
   487
                CF 3

               -227
Compound              Structure
                          N-N        N    F
            F3C             N/ 0
   49                                      N
                                       N\ /
                    CF3
                         N-N        N    H
            F3C            N/ 0           CF  3
   50
                   CF 3
                          N-N        N
             F3C         N )      o       CF,
   51
                   q
                    CF3
                                     N    OH
                           N-Nr
                            i   O
       33FC     3qA
   53
                     CF3
                           N-N'      N     CN
                                  0
              F3 C
    54
                     CF3
                          N-N        N    CO2H
             F3C (          Nl   0
    55
                    CF3
                                           NH2
                          N-N       N
              F3C
                            N
    57CF
                     CF3

                  -228
Compound                 Structure
                               N-N      ~  NF
                               N N                F
              F3C
   59          Ci
                       CF3
                               N-N/-N      N
              F3C               N              N F
   60                                          H2N
                       CF 3
                                       -      F
                             N-N         N        O
              F3C I~                 0
                                N1             0
   61
                      CF3
                              N-N        N        OH
                    F            1)  0
               F3 C             N               0
    62
                       CF3
                                                   N
                               N-NN               F
    63         FaC                N)
                        CF 3
                F3C                         N
         65              CF  3     /0               F
                                N-N       N         OH
            ~         ~~F
                  3Cg"N)
        66
     66                           N
                     F3C

                                            -229
                       Compound                   Structure
                                                            -       F
                                                      N         N
                                    F3C              NN         N   F
                            68                       H
                                            CF3                       or
                                                       D      D
                                                   N-N           N   F
                                                          D
                             69       F3 C
                                             CF3
   23.  The compound of Claim 1, wherein the compound is represented by the following
        structural formula:
                                                                F
                                            N'N          N       F
                                F3C            N
                                       CF3
 5      or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
    24. A compound represented by structural formula (VI):
                                           N-N          N,
                                               />O        R2
                                 R             N
                                    Z
                                      CF3                     (VI),
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
10           Z is selected from N, CH and C(Cl);
             R' is hydrogen; and

                                                  -23u
           R 2 is selected from -CH 2 -oxazol-5-yl, -CH 2-pyrimidin-5-yl,
           -CH2-(1-methylpyrrolidin-3-yl), or                 NH; or:
           R and R2 are taken together with the nitrogen atom to which they are bound to
                                /N
                            N/N                                    NH
       form       I     NH ,NH              2,                         , 4-hydroxypiperidin-1-yl,
 5     pyrrolidiny- I-yl, or azetidin- 1-yl, wherein the pyrrolidiny- 1-yl and azetidin- 1-yl are
       each optionally and independently substituted at the 3-position with up to two
       substituents independently selected from fluoro, -CF 3 , -CH 3, -OH, pyridin-2-yl,
       -CH 2 -N(CH 3) 2 , -CH 2-NH-CH 3 , -CH 2-NH 2 , -CN, -C(O)-O-CH 3 ; and
           R7 is selected from fluoro, -OH and -CF 3.
10
   25. The compound according to claim 24, wherein the compound is represented by any
       one of the following structural formulas, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof:
                             Compound                   Structure
                                                          N-N      -  N/
                                               F3C           /)0           CF3
                                   51
                                                     CF3
                                                         N-N         N       NH
                                             FC            N     0
                                   52
                                                    CF3
                                                                        NOH
                                                          N-N        N     O
                                               F 3C              O
                                                            N
                                   53
                                                     CF3

               -231
Compound             Structure
                          N-N       N     CN
                               />0
                             NO
   54N54F     3C
                    CF3
                         N-N        NH
   56       F3C                          HHCI
                   CF3
                                          NH2
                         N-N       N      N
            F3C            /
                           N
   57
                   CF3
                          N-N        N      NH
            F3C
   58
                   CF3
                              -N
                    FN             O
    59        C
                 CF3
                    CF3
                                       N     F
                             N N
             F3C
       59
                             N-N       N     O
                 F3                0/)
    60F3C                      N/         HN
                    CF 3
                          N-N/ -     N   F0
             F3C              1) 0     Y
                          1N              0
          6      9
                    CF3

                                                 -232
                             Compound                   Structure
                                                                   N
                                                         N-N   N  F
                                   63        F3C           N
                                                    CF3               or
                                                            N
                                                         N-F3C  N   OH
                                              FC
                                   66
                                                  F3C
   26.  A composition comprising the compound of any one of claims 1-25, or a
        pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier,
        adjuvant, or vehicle.
 5
   27.  A method for modulating CRM1, the method comprising contacting CRM1 with a
        therapeutically effective amount of the compound of any one of claims 1-25 or the
        composition of claim 26.
t0 28.  A method for treating, modulating, and/or preventing a disorder associated with
        CRM 1, the method comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a
        therapeutically effective amount of the compound of any one of claims 1-25 or the
         composition of claim 26.
15 29.   The method according to claim 28, wherein the disorder is selected from cancer,
         neoplastic disorders, inflammatory diseases, disorders of abnormal tissue growth,
         fibrosis, renal disorders, and viral infections.
    30.  A compound according to any one of Claims 1-25, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
20       salt thereof, for use in treating a disorder associated with CRM1 activity in a subject
         in need thereof.

                                              - 233
31.      Use of a compound according to any one of Claims 1-25, or a pharmaceutically acceptable
salt thereof, in the manufacture of a medicament for the treatment of a disorder associated with
CRM1 activity.
                                 Karyopharm Therapeutics, Inc.
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
