                                        ABSTRACT
     The present invention discloses a new cutting pick, comprising a main body, a
cutting tooth provided on the main body and a circular cone frustum wedge; wherein
the cutting tooth is a polycrystalline diamond composite tooth and consists of a
polycrystalline diamond composite layer and a hard alloy base seat; the main body of
the cutting pick comprises a main body upper portion and a main body lower portion,
the main body upper portion is provided therein with a hollow structure which is
embedded with the cutting tooth part as well as the circular cone frustum wedge; the
main body upper portion is provided at its top with a cone hole; the hard alloy base
seat of the cutting tooth, the circular cone frustum wedge, and the cone hole provided
at the top of the main body upper portion are connected together by interference fit.
With the above solution(s) of the present invention, the effect(s) of welding or
hot-pressing on the polycrystalline diamond cutting teeth can be avoided, the impact
resistance and the wear resistance of the diamond composite teeth can be
significantly improved, and the service life of the cutting pick can be significantly
prolonged.

                                        New Cutting Pick
   RELATED APPLICATION
 5       This     application   is   a   divisional   of   International   patent    application
   PCT/CN2017/092134 filed 7 July 2017, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated
   herein by reference.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
10       The present invention relates to the field of roadway excavation machines, coal
   winning machines, shield machines and rotary drilling rigs, and specifically to a new
   cutting pick.
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
15       In the prior art, excavation machines, combined mining machines, shield machines
   and rotary drilling rigs are widely used various coal mine tunnel excavation engineering
   constructions. The cutting head is a main part in the excavation machines, combined
   mining machines, shield machines and rotary drilling rigs. The cutting pick is fixed, via
   a tooth seat, onto the cutting head. The cutting pick generally uses a hard alloy tooth
20 tip (called as the hard alloy cutting pick), generally in a shape of a circular cone, and is
   directly fixed onto the respective base seat. During a practical working process, the
   cutting head, as the main stressed part, cuts rocks by the cutting pick in an impacting
   manner.
         In this case, when facing a rock stratum with a relatively higher hardness, it bears
25 a relatively larger impact load and friction, and the hard alloy cutting pick thereon wears
   fast, thus affecting the working efficiency seriously.
         A traditional cutting pick is composed of two portions: the hard alloy tooth head
   and the cutting pick main body which are generally connected together into one piece
   by the high temperature welding or hot-pressing technology, with copper as the welding
30 material. During welding, the high temperature will affect the component structure in
   the hard alloy and decrease the strength, wear resistance and impact resistance of the
   cutting pick, thus reducing the service life of the cutting pick. Therefore, there is a need
   for a cutting pick having better impact resistant strength and wear resistance in
                                                - 1 -

   production.
        A reference herein to a patent document or any other matter identified as prior art,
   is not to be taken as an admission that the document or other matter was known or that
   the information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority
 5 date of any of the claims.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        In order to ameliorate the above technical problem(s), a new cutting pick is
   provided according to the present invention which is high in impact resistance and in
10 wear resistance.
        According to the present invention, there is provided a new cutting pick,
   comprising a main body, a cutting tooth (1) provided on the main body, and a circular
   cone frustum wedge (2); wherein the cutting tooth (1) is a polycrystalline diamond
   composite tooth and consists of a polycrystalline diamond composite layer (12) and a
15 hard alloy base seat (13); the polycrystalline diamond composite layer (12) of the
   cutting tooth, as the cutting tooth of the cutting pick, extends out of the main body of the
   cutting pick; the main body of the cutting pick comprises a main body upper portion (4)
   and a main body lower portion (5).
        Further, the main body upper portion is provided therein with a hollow structure
20 which is embedded with the cutting tooth part (1) as well as the circular cone frustum
   wedge (2); the main body upper portion is provided at its top with a cone hole (8); the
   hard alloy base seat (13) of the cutting tooth, the circular cone frustum wedge (2), and
   the cone hole (8) provided at the top of the main body upper portion are connected by
   interference fit.
25      Further, the main body upper portion (4) and the main body lower portion (5) are
   interconnected together by a screw thread (6).
        Further, a welding groove (7) is provided at the site of the interconnection, and
   they are interconnected together by performing welding to the welding groove, thus
   forming an integral structure.
30      Further, the main body lower portion (5) is provided at its top with a connecting
   push rod (9) which is in contact with the hard alloy base seat (13) of the cutting tooth
   and the circular cone frustum wedge (2).
        Further, the main body lower portion (5) is provided at its bottom with a clip spring
   groove (10) which is held to the base seat of the cutting pick.
                                               - 2 -

        Further, the main body upper portion is provided at its wearing area with a wear
   resistant layer (3); the wear resistant layer is formed by surfacing welding a tungsten
   carbide welding rod to the wearing area of the main body of the cutting pick using the
   argon arc welding technology, and is all coated onto the surface of the main body.
 5      Further, the wear resistant layer (3) on the main body upper portion of the cutting
   pick is welded in a ring shape, wherein the tungsten carbide layer by surfacing welding
   is added layer by layer in an axial direction of the main body, with its thickness
   increasing accordingly in a direction perpendicular to the axial direction of the main
   body.
10      Further, the main body of the cutting pick is rotationally connected with a tooth seat
   center.
        Further, the main body lower portion is provided at its middle portion with a
   cylindrical body (11) which is located below the screw thread of the main body lower
   portion.
15      According to the present invention, the effect(s) of welding or hot-pressing on the
   polycrystalline diamond cutting teeth can be ameliorated, the impact resistance and the
   wear resistance of the diamond composite teeth can be improved, and the wear
   resistant layer added to the wearing area of the cutting pick can improve the wear
   resistance of the cutting pick and provide improved support to the diamond composite
20 teeth.
        Other features and advantages of the present invention will be explained
   hereinafter in the description or can be understood by implementation of the present
   invention. The purpose(s) and other advantages of the present invention can be
   achieved and obtained by the structures specifically indicated in the description, the
25 claims as well as the accompanying drawings.
   DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        Hereinafter, the present invention will be described in detail with reference to the
   accompanying drawings to make the above advantage(s) of the present invention
30 clearer.
        Figure 1 is a structural diagram of a cutting pick of the present invention;
        Figure 2 is a structural diagram of a main body upper portion and a main body
   lower portion of the new cutting pick of figure 1;
        Figure 3 is a structural diagram of a polycrystalline diamond composite tooth of the
                                             - 3 -

   cutting pick of the present invention; and
        Figures 4 and 5 are structural diagrams of a circular cone frustum wedge of the
   cutting pick of the present invention.
 5 DESCRIPTION OF EXEMPLARY EMBODIMENTS
        Hereinafter, the specific implementations of the present invention will be further
   described in detail, in connection with the accompanying drawings and specific
   embodiments. The following embodiments are provided for explaining the present
   invention, rather than limiting the scope of the present invention.
10      As shown in figures 1 and 2, the structural diagrams of a new cutting pick
   according to the embodiment(s) of the present invention are provided. The new cutting
   pick comprises: a main body, a cutting tooth part and a circular cone frustum wedge (2)
   provided on the main body; wherein the cutting tooth part comprises a polycrystalline
   diamond composite layer (12) and a hard alloy base seat (13); the main body of the
15 cutting pick comprises a main body upper portion (4) and a main body lower portion (5),
   the main body upper portion is provided therein with a hollow structure which is
   embedded with the cutting tooth part as well as the circular cone frustum wedge (2),
   and in addition, the main body upper portion is provided at its top with a cone hole (8);
   the polycrystalline diamond composite layer (12) of the cutting tooth, as the cutting
20 tooth of the cutting pick, is higher than the main body. The hard alloy base seat (13) of
   the cutting tooth, the circular cone frustum wedge (2) as shown, and the cone hole (8)
   provided at the top of the main body upper portion are connected together by
   interference fit.
        More specifically, the main body upper portion (4) and the main body lower portion
25 (5) are interconnected together by a screw thread. The main body upper portion is
   provided with an inner screw thread and the main body lower portion is provided with
   an outer screw thread. The main body lower portion is provided at its top with a
   connecting push rod (9) which presses against the bottom of the hard alloy base seat
   (13) of the cutting tooth and the bottom of the circular cone frustum wedge (figure 4). In
30 a preferred embodiment, a welding groove (7) is provided at the site of the
   interconnection, and they are interconnected together by performing welding to the
   welding groove, thus forming an integral structure.
        In addition, the main body lower portion is provided at its bottom with a clip spring
   groove (10) which is connected to the base seat of the cutting pick, wherein the main
                                              - 4 -

   body of the cutting pick is rotationally connected with a tooth seat center.
         In an embodiment, during mounting, the hard alloy base seat (13) of the cutting
   tooth and the circular cone frustum wedge (2) are secured into the cone hole by the
   pretension force of the screw threads of the main body upper portion and the main
 5 body lower portion as well as the cooperation with the connecting push rod (9); and
   then the interconnection site of the upper and lower bodies of the cutting pick for
   pretension is welded. Such improvement results in that the effect(s) of high
   temperature during welding or hot-pressing on the bonded structure between the
   diamond composite layer and the alloy base seat of the polycrystalline diamond cutting
10 teeth can be avoided, and thus the impact resistance and the wear resistance of the
   new diamond composite can be significantly improved such that it can be applied to
   coal seam or rock stratum mining, to replace the hard alloy.
         In an embodiment, the explanation is provided referring to figure 3. The cutting
   tooth comprises the polycrystalline diamond composite layer (12) and the hard alloy
15 base seat (13), the hard alloy base seat (13) is fitted and secured to the cone hole of
   the main body upper portion of the cutting pick by the circular cone frustum wedge
   (figure 4), and during assembling with the angle a, the circular cone face and the inner
   side face of the circular cone frustum wedge (figure 4) are completely secured and
   fitted. The polycrystalline diamond composite tooth is used as an excavation tool for
20 cutting rocks, to replace the hard alloy tooth tip.
         In an embodiment, as shown in figures 1 and 2, at least a portion of the main body
   upper portion is provided with a wear resistant layer (3) which is welded in a ring shape.
   The wear resistant layer is coated onto the surface of the wearing area on the main
   body of the cutting pick. The wear resistant layer is formed by surfacing welding a
25 tungsten carbide welding rod to the wearing area of the main body of the cutting pick
   using the argon arc welding technology. During welding, a dedicated clamping tool is
   used to rotate the main body of the cutting pick and also the argon arc welding is used
   for surfacing-welding of the tungsten carbide welding rod, wherein the main body is
   preheated before welding and is processed by heat preservation measures after
30 welding. Thus, the wear resistant effect of the wearing area of the main body can be
   improved.
         In an embodiment, as shown in figure 4, the wedge is in a circular cone frustum
   shape which is provided on its circumference with a through groove 14 by machining.
   During assembling, the circular coning body face at the bottom of the hard alloy base
                                              - 5 -

   seat (13) and the inner side face of the circular cone frustum wedge (figure 4) are
   completely secured and fitted, and the outer side face of the circular cone frustum
   wedge and the circular cone face (8) of the main body upper portion are completely
   fitted and secured.
 5       In an embodiment, the polycrystalline diamond cutting tooth may be made from
   the prior diamond composite materials. For example, in a preferred embodiment,
   during manufacturing, the cutting tooth having a reasonable size is produced according
   to the requirements of design parameters, and it is formed by putting the diamond
   powder and the adhesive onto the hard alloy and then performing sintering under high
10 temperature and high pressure.
         In an embodiment, the main body lower portion is provided at its middle portion
   with a cylindrical body (11) which is located below the screw thread of the main body
   lower portion.
         In the present invention, based on the prior art, the polycrystalline diamond
15 composite tooth is used as the cutting tooth of the cutting pick. The improved cutting
   pick uses the screw thread to fasten the cutting tooth as well as the circular cone
   frustum wedge into the fitting cone hole of the main body. In addition, the wear resistant
   layer is added to the wearing area of the cutting pick such that the impact resistance
   and the wear resistance of the cutting pick are improved.
20       Moreover, the main body of the cutting pick can provide excellent support to the
   new diamond composite teeth. The diamond composite tooth is used as an excavation
   tool for cutting rocks, to replace the hard alloy tooth.
         Finally, it should be noted that the above description is provided only for the
   preferred embodiments of the present invention, not for limiting the present invention.
25 Though the present invention is explained in detail with reference to the above
   embodiments, those skilled in the art can make amendments to the technical solutions
   recorded in the above embodiments or make equivalent substitutions to some
   technical features therein.
         Any modification, equivalent substitution, improvement and the like made within
30 the scope of the spirit and principle of the present invention should fall within the
   protection scope of the present invention. Those skilled in the art should understand
   that the above specific description is provided only for the purpose of explaining the
   present invention, rather than limiting the present invention. The protection scope of
   the present invention is defined by the claims and the equivalent solutions thereof.
                                              - 6 -

       Where any or all of the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or
  "comprising" are used in this specification (including the claims) they are to be
  interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features, integers, steps or
  components, but not precluding the presence of one or more other features, integers,
5 steps or components.

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
      1. A new cutting pick, comprising a main body, a cutting tooth provided on the
main body and a circular cone frustum wedge;
     wherein the cutting tooth is a polycrystalline diamond composite tooth and
consists of a polycrystalline diamond composite layer and a hard alloy base seat; the
polycrystalline diamond composite layer of the cutting tooth, as the cutting tooth of the
cutting pick, extends out of the main body of the cutting pick;
     the main body of the cutting pick comprises a main body upper portion and a
main body lower portion.
     2. The new cutting pick according to claim 1, wherein
     the main body upper portion is provided with a hollow structure which is
embedded with the cutting tooth part as well as the circular cone frustum wedge;
     the main body upper portion is provided at its top with a cone hole;
     the hard alloy base seat of the cutting tooth, the circular cone frustum wedge, and
the cone hole provided at the top of the main body upper portion are connected by
interference fit.
     3. The new cutting pick according to claim 1, wherein the main body upper
portion and the main body lower portion are interconnected together by a screw
thread.
     4. The new cutting pick according to claim 3, wherein a welding groove is
provided at the site of the interconnection.
     5. The new cutting pick according to claim 1, wherein the main body lower portion
is provided at its top with a connecting push rod which is in contact with the hard alloy
base seat of the cutting tooth and the circular cone frustum wedge.
     6. The new cutting pick according to claim 1, wherein the main body lower portion
is provided at its bottom with a clip spring groove which is held to the base seat of the
cutting pick.
     7. The new cutting pick according to claim 1, wherein the main body upper
portion is provided at its wearing area with a wear resistant layer; the wear resistant
layer is formed by surfacing welding a tungsten carbide welding rod to the wearing
area of the main body of the cutting pick using the argon arc welding technology, and
                                           - 8 -

is all coated onto the surface of the main body.
      8. The new cutting pick according to claim 7, wherein the wear resistant layer on
the main body upper portion of the cutting pick is welded in a ring shape, wherein the
tungsten carbide layer by surfacing welding is added layer by layer in an axial
direction of the main body, with its thickness increasing accordingly in a direction
perpendicular to the axial direction of the main body.
      9. The new cutting pick according to claim 1, wherein the main body of the cutting
pick is rotationally connected with a tooth seat center.
      10. The new cutting pick according to claim 1, wherein the main body lower
portion is provided at its middle portion with a cylindrical body which is located below
the screw thread of the main body lower portion.
                                          - 9 -

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 1                         1/2

<removed-date>
               2/2
<removed-apn>
              Fig. 2
              Fig. 3
              Fig. 4
              Fig. 5

