ABSTRACT
          A pulse-palpating apparatus, including: a pulse-palpating device, including a
pulse-palpating communicating element and a force detecting element which exerts a
force on pulse taking positions through the detecting member, which detects pulse
information on the pulse taking positions; and a network controlling device, including a
controlling element, a controller communicating element and a mode switching element,
in which the controlling element is configured to generate force-intensity-controlling
information,     and     the   controller  communicating      element   transmits    the
force-intensity-controlling  information and receives the pulse information of the
detecting member through network transmission, and the mode switching element is
connected to the controlling element to perform switching between a swipe-input mode
and a press-input mode of the controlling element. The pulse-palpating apparatus is
provided for users to perform self-pulse diagnosis, and for professional and amateur
operators to perform remote pulse palpation on a subject through network.

                                      1/3
                                                         00
r   --       -----------------                   n
                                                  1   -     -   -
  L    - - -    - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - -    -   -     - - -

                                             I
  PULSE-PALPATING APPARATUS FOR PROXIMAL AND REMOTE PULSE
                                       PALPATION
                                  TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] The present invention relates       to a pulse-palpating    apparatus,   and more
particularly to a pulse-palpating apparatus with remote pulse-palpating function.
                                     BACKGROUND
[0002] To perform a pulse diagnosis in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), a medical
practitioner has a face-to-face meeting with a patient, and measures the patient's pulse so
as to recognize the type, cause and changes of the disease according to information such
as an arterial pulse rate and a pulse volume of the patient. Since pulse diagnosis require
face-to-face consultations between the practitioners and the patients, elderly or disabled
patients having difficulties seeking medical help on their own cannot obtain this kind of
medical services. There is thus a need to provide a pulse-palpating apparatus with
remote pulse-palpating function for both amateur and professional operators to recognize
the pulse signal of the patients.
                                        SUMMARY
[0003] Embodiments described herein provide a pulse-palpating apparatus which can be
used for performing proximal and remote pulse palpation, by which the users can
perform self-pulse palpation or by which amateur or professional operators can perform
remote pulse palpation.
[0004] According     to an aspect     of the present     invention there  is provided a

                                               2
pulse-palpating   apparatus, including: a pulse-palpating device, including a force
detecting element and a pulse-palpating communicating element which is in signal
connection with the force detecting element, the force detecting element including a
force exerting member and a detecting member in such a manner that while the force
exerting member exerts a force to a pulse taking position of a human body, the detecting
member detects pulse information on the pulse taking position; and a network
controlling device, including a controlling element, a controller communicating element
and a mode switching element, in which the controlling element is configured to
generate force-intensity-controlling information to which the force exerted by the force
exerting member corresponds, the controller communicating element is configured to
transmit    the    force-intensity-controlling   information   to   the   pulse-palpating
communicating element through network transmission between the pulse-palpating
device and the network controlling device, and to receive the pulse information of the
detecting member through the network transmission, and the mode switching element is
connected to the controlling element to perform switching between a swipe-input mode
and a press-input mode of the controlling element. In the swipe-input mode, the
force-intensity-controlling information is generated according to a vector of a swipe
operation on the controlling element so as to determine an intensity of the force exerted
by the force exerting member. In the press-input mode, the force-intensity-controlling
information is generated according to a pressing force of a press operation on the
controlling element so as to determine an intensity of the force exerted by the force
exerting member.
[0005] According to an embodiment of the present invention, the quantity of the force
detecting element is three, and each force detecting element respectively corresponds to
the three pulse taking positions of Cun, Guan. and Chi on the human body.
[0006] According to an embodiment of the present invention, the force exerting member

                                              3
includes a bulging body that contacts the detecting member, which is provided to contact
the three pulse taking positions of Cun, Guan, and Chi on the human body.
[0007] According to an embodiment of the present invention, the force detecting element
is plural, and the pulse-palpating device includes a selecting element that is electrically
connected between the plurality of force detecting element and the pulse-palpating
communicating element.
[0008] According to an embodiment of the present invention, the pulse-palpating device
includes a signal converter that is in signal connection between the force detecting
element and the pulse-palpating communicating element.
[0009] According to an embodiment of the present invention, the controlling element
includes    a pressing    force   sensor  that generates   the  force-intensity-controlling
information according to the pressing force of the press operation.
[0010] According     to   an  embodiment     of the   present  invention,   the   controller
communicating element and the pulse-palpating communicating element are wirelessly
connected.
[0011] According to an embodiment of the present invention, the network controlling
device includes an analyzing element which is provided to generate an analysis result
according to the received pulse information.
[0012] By the technical means adopted by the present invention, the pulse information
and the force-intensity-controlling information is transmitted through network, which
enables the pulse palpation to be performed with no distance limit. In addition, the
force-intensity-controlling   information   can be switchably generated       either in a

                                            4
swipe-input mode where a vector of a swipe operation is detected by the controlling
element, which is suitable for amateur operators who are not familiar with how much
force it should be applied, or in a press-input mode where a pressing force of a press
operation is detected by the controlling element, which is suitable for professional
operators who are familiar with how much force it should be applied. Accordingly, both
amateur and professional operators can perform remote force exerting and pulse
information detecting through the network controlling device, and therefore obtain the
pulse information of a subject.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0013] The technical means adopted by the present invention to achieve the above and
other objects can be best understood by referring to the following detailed description of
the preferred embodiments and the accompanying drawings.
[0014]     FIG. 1 is a schematic diagram of a pulse-palpating apparatus according to a
first embodiment of the present invention;
           FIG. 2 is a schematic diagram of the pulse-palpating apparatus according to a
second embodiment of the present invention;
           FIG. 3 is a block diagram of the pulse-palpating apparatus according to the
first embodiment of the present invention.
       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0015] The preferred embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below
with reference to Fig. I to Fig. 3. The description is used for explaining the
embodiments of the present invention only, but not for limiting the scope of the claims.

                                             5
[0016] As shown in Fig. 1, a pulse-palpating apparatus 100 according to an embodiment
of the present invention includes: a pulse-palpating device 1, including a force detecting
element II and a pulse-palpating communicating element 12 which is in signal
connection with the force detecting element 11, in which the force detecting element 11
includes a force exerting member 111 and a detecting member 112 in such a manner that
while the force exerting member 111 exerts a force to a pulse taking position of a human
body, the detecting member 112 detects pulse information P on the pulse taking
positions; and a network controlling device 2, including a controlling element 21, a
controller communicating element 22 and a mode switching element 23, in which the
controlling element 21 is configured to generate force-intensity-controlling information
C to which the force exerted by the force exerting member 111 corresponds, and the
controller    communicating      element     22    is   configured    to    transmit   the
force-intensity-controlling information C to the pulse-palpating communicating element
 12 through network transmission between the pulse-palpating device 1 and the network
controlling device 2, and to receive the pulse information P of the detecting member 112
through network transmission, and the mode switching element 23 is connected to the
controlling element 21 to perform switching between a swipe-input mode and a
press-input mode of the controlling element 21. In the swipe-input mode, the
force-intensity-controlling information C is generated according to a vector of a swipe
operation on the controlling element 21 so as to determine an intensity of the force
exerted by the force exerting member 111. And in the press-input mode, the
force-intensity-controlling information C is generated according to a pressing force of a
press operation on the controlling element 21 so as to determine an intensity of the force
exerted by the force exerting member 111.
[0017]In the pulse-palpating apparatus 100 according to the first embodiment of the
present invention as shown in Fig. 1, the force detecting element II is plural. In the
present embodiment, the quantity of the force detecting element 11 is three, and each

                                              6
force detecting element 11 respectively corresponds to any one of the three pulse taking
positions of Cun, Guan, and Chi on the human body. The force exerting member 111 of
the force detecting element 11 is a micro pump, and the detecting member 112 which
includes a preamplifier is a piezoelectric sensor.
[0018] In the pulse-palpating apparatus 100 according to the first embodiment of the
present invention as shown in Fig. 1, the force exerting member 111 includes a bulging
body 113 that contacts the detecting member 112, which contacts the three pulse taking
positions of Cun, Guan, and Chi on the human body. The size of the bulging body 113 is
close to that of a fingertip. The bulging body changes its size according to the
force-intensity-controlling information C. The change in size of the bulging body can
change the force exerted against the pulse taking positions in intensity so as to simulate
the pressing force of a medical practitioner performing the pulse palpation. Preferably,
the force exerting member 111 also includes a moving body (not shown in the Figs.) that
connects with the detecting member 112 and the controller communicating element 22.
The moving body is used by an operator to perform an operation of moving the detecting
member 112 at the network controlling device 2 so as to adjust the position of the
detecting member 112 to reach a precise pulse taking position.
[0019] In the pulse-palpating apparatus 100 according to the first embodiment of the
present invention as shown in Fig. 3, the pulse-palpating device I includes a selecting
element 13 that is electrically connected between the plurality of force detecting element
11 and the pulse-palpating communicating element 12. The selecting element 13
includes a detection selecting unit 131 and a force-exertion selecting unit 132, wherein
the detection selecting unit 131 is a multiplexer that receives the pulse information P
from the plurality of the detecting members 112 and outputs a selected pulse information
P which is selected from one of the plurality of the detecting members. The
force-exertion selecting unit 132 is a demultiplexer that selects one of the outputs which

                                             7
connects with the force exerting member 111 and outputs the force-intensity-controlling
information C.
[0020] In the pulse-palpating apparatus 100 according to the first embodiment of the
present invention as shown in Fig. 3, the pulse-palpating device 1 includes a signal
converter 14 that is in signal connection between the force detecting element 11 and the
pulse-palpating communicating element 12. In the present embodiment, the plurality of
the force detecting element 11 is in signal connection with one signal converter 14
through the selecting element 13. In other embodiments, the plurality of the force
detecting element 11 also can be in signal connection with the plurality of corresponding
signal converters 14, and in signal connection with the pulse-palpating communicating
element 12 through the selecting element 13.
[0021] The signal converter 14 includes an analog-to-digital converter 141 and a
digital-to-analog converter 142. The analog-to-digital converter 141 which includes a
programmable gain amplifier (PGA) and filters is in signal connection between the force
detecting member 112 and the pulse-palpating communicating element 12, and converts
analog pulse information P into digital signals so that the pulse information P in digital
form can be transmitted by the pulse-palpating communicating element 12. The
digital-to-analog converter 142 is in signal connection between the pulse-palpating
communicating element 12 and the force exerting element 111, and converts digital
force-intensity-controlling information C into analog signals so as to control the force
intensity of the force exerting member 111.
[0022] In the pulse-palpating apparatus 100 according to the first embodiment of the
present invention as shown in Fig. 1, the network controlling device 2 is a cell-phone,
wherein     the controller   communicating    element  22 in the     cell-phone   and the
pulse-palpating communicating element 12 at a proximal end or a remote end are in

                                              8
wireless network N connection. It goes without saying that the present invention is not
limited to this. In the pulse-palpating apparatus 100a according to the second
embodiment of the present invention as shown in Fig. 2, the network controlling device
2 is a computer, wherein the controller communicating element 22 in the computer and
the pulse-palpating communicating element 12 at a proximal end or a remote end are in
wired network N connection. The network controlling device 2 also can be other smart
device that performs mutual signal transmission with the pulse-palpating device 1
through wired network communication or wireless network communication, wherein the
network controlling device 2 uses an application (app) as a user interface for the operator
to operate. The operator controls the pulse-palpating device 1 through the app and
performs pulse-palpation on a subject.
[0023] In the pulse-palpating apparatus 100 according to the first embodiment of the
present invention as shown in Fig. I and Fig. 3, the controlling element 21 includes a
pressing force sensor 211 that generates the force-intensity-controlling information C
according to a pressing force of a press operation.
[0024] The mode switching element 23 performs switching between a swipe-input mode
and a press-input mode of the controlling element 21. The press-input mode is suitable
for a professional operator who is how much force is applied to the pulse taking
positions. And the swipe-input mode is suitable for an amateur operator who is not
familiar with how much force is applied to the pulse taking positions.
[0025]In    the press-input    mode,    the pressing    force  sensor 211     generates  the
force-intensity-controlling information C according to a pressing force of a press
operation. In detail, the operator press the pressing force sensor 211 at the Cun operating
position, Guan operating position, and Chi operating position on the cell-phone. The
force exerting member 111 simulates the pressing force received by the pressing force

                                               9
sensor 211, and by this means the pulse information P of the subject can also be detected
accurately.
[0026] In the swipe-input mode, the pressing force sensor 211 generates the
force-intensity-controlling information C according to a vector of a swipe operation. In
detail, the operator press the pressing force sensor 211 at the Cun operating position,
Guan operating position, and Chi operating position on the cell-phone. The operator
swipes his/her fingertip upward on the pressing force sensor 211 so as to generate a
force-intensity-controlling information C, according to which the force exerting member
111 exerts a "deep" force (a heavy press). Alternatively, the operator lightly presses
his/her fingertips on the pressing force sensor 211 so as to generate another
force-intensity-controlling information C, according to which the force exerting member
III exerts a "middle" force (a light press). Alternatively, the operator swipes his/her
fingertip downward on the pressing force sensor 211 so as to generate yet another
force-intensity-controlling information C, according to which the force exerting member
111 exerts a "superficial" force (a light touch). Accordingly, the force exerting member
111 simulates multiple levels of palpation force and exerts the simulated palpation forces
to the pulse taking positions of a subject, and thus the pulse information P of the subject
can be detected accurately.
[0027] In the pulse-palpating apparatus 100 according to the first embodiment of the
present invention as shown in Fig. 3, the network controlling device 2 includes an
analyzing element 24. After the pulse information, such as pulse rate, pulse volume, and
pulse shape, is received and stored by the network controlling device 2, the analyzing
element 24 analyzes the pulse information P and generates an analysis result according
to the rules of pulse diagnosis in TCM. The analysis result includes the pulse pattern of
the subject, the physical condition of the Zang-Fu (the internal organs), the advice for
the subject, etc., for the operator's reference. Furthermore, the subject becomes aware of

                                               10
his/her physical condition according to the analysis result generated by self-pulse
palpation.
[0028] The above description should be considered as only the discussion of the
preferred embodiments of the present invention. A person having ordinary skill in the art
may make various modifications to the present invention. However, those modifications
still fall within the spirit of the present invention and the scope defined by the appended
claims.
[0029] Throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the words "comprise" and "include" and variations such as
"comprising" and "including" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
integer or group of integers, but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of
integers. The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part of
the common general knowledge.

                                              11
What is claimed is:
 1. A pulse-palpating apparatus, characterized in that the pulse-palpating apparatus
includes:
     a pulse-palpating device, including a force detecting element and a pulse-palpating
communicating element which is in signal connection with the force detecting element,
the force detecting element including a force exerting member and a detecting member
in such a manner that while the force exerting member exerts a force to a pulse taking
position of a human body, the detecting member detects pulse information on the pulse
taking position; and
     a network controlling device,        including a controlling element, a controller
communicating element and a mode switching element, in which the controlling element
is configured to generate force-intensity-controlling information to which the force
exerted by the force exerting member corresponds,          the controller communicating
element is configured to transmit the force-intensity-controlling information to the
pulse-palpating communicating element through a network transmission between the
pulse-palpating device and the network controlling device, and to receive the pulse
information of the detecting member through the network transmission, and the mode
switching element is connected to the controlling element to perform switching between
a swipe-input mode and a press-input mode of the controlling element,
     wherein
     in the swipe-input mode, the force-intensity-controlling information is generated
according to a vector of a swipe operation on the controlling element so as to determine
an intensity of the force exerted by the force exerting member, and
     in the press-input mode, the force-intensity-controlling information is generated
according to a pressing force of a press operation on the controlling element so as to
determine an intensity of the force exerted by the force exerting member.

                                            12
2. The pulse-palpating apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the quantity of the force
detecting element is three, and each force detecting element respectively corresponds to
the three pulse taking positions of Cun, Guan, and Chi on the human body.
3. The pulse-palpating apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the force exerting
member includes a bulging body that contacts the detecting member, which is which is
provided to contact the three pulse taking positions of Cun, Guan, and Chi on the human
body.
4. The pulse-palpating apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the force detecting
element is plural, and the pulse-palpating device includes a selecting element that is
electrically connected between the plurality of force detecting element and the
pulse-palpating communicating element.
5. The pulse-palpating apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the pulse-palpating
device includes a signal converter that is in signal connection between the detecting
member and the pulse-palpating communicating element.
6. The pulse-palpating apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the controlling element
includes    a   pressing    force   sensor   which    is  provided    to  generate    the
force-intensity-controlling information according to the pressing force of the press
operation.
7. The pulse-palpating apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the controller
communicating element and the pulse-palpating communicating element are wirelessly
connected.
8. The pulse-palpating apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the network controlling

                                           13
device includes an analyzing element which is provided to generate an analysis result
according to the received pulse information.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/3

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/3

