   Abstract
   A method of determining at least one point of entry of smoke into a smoke detection system, the
   system having a sampling pipe network including at least one sampling pipe and a plurality of
   sampling inlets through which an air sample can enter the at least one sampling pipe of the
 5 smoke detection system for analysis by a particle detector, said method including: determining a
   volume of sample air that has passed through at least part of the smoke detection system since
   a predetermined event or a value corresponding to said volume; and determining through which
   sampling inlet of the plurality of sampling inlets the smoke entered the smoke detection system
   based, at least in part, on the determined volume or value. Systems for implementing such a
10 method and related methods are also described.

                                                       1
                                    Addressability in particle detection
   This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application 2013332261 (national
   phase of PCT/AU2013/001201), the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in
   their entirety.
 5                                          Field of the invention
   The present invention relates to particle detection. For illustrative purposes only, the preferred
   embodiment of the present invention will be described in relation to a smoke detection system,
   but the invention should not be considered to be limited to that exemplary use.
                                        Background of the invention
10 Air sampling or aspirated smoke detection systems operate by drawing air samples through a
   sampling network, to a central high sensitivity particle detector. The sampling network typically
   includes one or more sample pipes with a number of air sample inlets in the form of sampling
   holes or sampling points located along the length of the pipe(s). In such an arrangement, a
   single detector may be fed with air originating from many distinct geographical locations at
15 which the air sample inlets are located. Thus a single such detector can monitor for the
   presence of smoke at many distinct locations simultaneously.
   One recognised difficulty with air sampling systems as described above is that they do not
   identify through which air inlet smoke enters the system.            If the air inlet is known, the
   geographical location of the source of the smoke may be inferred. This allows investigation of
20 the likely site of the fire including allowing a person to be directed to the location of the smoke,
   so that they may investigate and possibly intervene and prevent further growth of the fire, or
   shut down equipment in the area. Alternatively, an appropriate fire suppression system may be
   deployed in a localised way, limiting damage caused by the system, as well as expense.
   There have been attempts to provide air sampling particle detection systems capable of
25 determining the geographical location at which smoke is detected, for example Jax, 'Method
   and Device for locating accumulations of pollutants', U.S. 5,708,218 and Hekatron Vertriebs
   GmbH, 'Verfahren und Vorrichtung zur Erkennung eines Brandes', EP 1811478.

                                                    2
   Each of these systems measures the elapsed time between two instants at which
   measurements are made to infer where along sampling pipe (i.e. through which sample inlet)
   the detected smoke entered the system. However, this inferential process is often unreliable.
   The Jax system measures the elapsed time between detection of a first smoke level, and a
 5 second smoke level. The time between detection of a first, lower level of smoke, and a second,
   higher level of smoke indicates the distance along the collection line at which smoke entered
   the system. However, this process may be inaccurate. For example, systems employing this
   approach rely upon the actual level of smoke detected at the first point of entry remaining
   approximately constant for the period of time beginning from the point at which smoke is first
10 detected until the contribution from the second point of entry can be reliably detected.      More
   specifically, an increase in smoke level, such as that caused by a fire of growing size, may
   result in an inaccurate estimate of the geographical location from which air has been drawn.
   In Hekatron, a first air-sampling detection unit detects the presence of smoke. Responsive to
   detection of smoke, a second air-sampling detection unit is engaged, the air sampling unit
15 drawing air along the pipe network. The time elapsed between initial detection by the first air
   sampling unit and detection by the second air-sampling unit is measured.          Ideally, the time
   elapsed indicates the location from which smoke filled air has been drawn. To ensure accuracy,
   such a system requires the aspiration system to operate in a highly consistent manner, each
   time it is operated.     However, this is difficult to achieve as various features influence the
?0 operation of the fall, e.g. degradation of the aspiration system over time and variations in
   operational and environmental conditions e.g. air density, or the constriction of sampling points
   by dirt over time, will change the airflow characteristics within the system, and make the
   inference of the smoke address based on elapsed time potentially unreliable.
   In some schemes, airflow may be temporarily reversed, introducing clean air to the sampling
25 network, before redrawing air for detection. The idea in such schemes is to flush substantially
   all smoke particles from the system, before redrawing air through the sampling network and
   measuring the delay before detecting smoke.           In theory, a longer delay indicates that the
   particles entered the sampling network at a point farther from the detector. However, these
   schemes suffer a drawback in that during the phase that clean air is introduced to the sampling
30 network, smoke particles within the monitored environment may be displaced in the area
   surrounding the air inlets, since clean air is being expelled from the inlets.        When air is

                                                     3
   subsequently drawn through the system, there may be an additional delay before smoke
   particles are once again drawn into the inlet.
   It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a particle detection system that
   addresses at least some of the aforementioned disadvantages. An alternative object of the
 5 invention is to provide the public with a useful choice over known products.
   Reference to any prior art in the specification is not, and should not be taken as, an
   acknowledgment or any form of suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general
   knowledge in Australia or any other jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be
   expected to be ascertained, understood and regarded as relevant by a person skilled in the art.
10                                      Summary of the invention
   In a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of determining at least one
   point of entry of smoke into a smoke detection system, the system having a sampling pipe
   network including at least one sampling pipe and a plurality of sampling inlets through which an
   air sample can enter the at least one sampling pipe of the smoke detection system for analysis
15 by a particle detector. The method includes: determining a volume of sample air that has
   passed through at least part of the smoke detection system since a predetermined event or a
   value corresponding to said volume; and determining through which sampling inlet of the
   plurality of sampling inlets the smoke entered the smoke detection system based, at least in
   part, on the determined volume or value.
20 The predetermined event could be, for example, a smoke detection event; or a change in an air
   sample flow characteristic in the smoke detection system.
   In some embodiments the method includes continuously determining a flow rate of the air
   sample passing through at least part of smoke detection system. Alternatively the method
   includes commencing determination of the volume of sample air or a related value upon the
25 occurrence of the predetermined event.
   The volume of the air sample that has passed through at least part of smoke detection network
   or a related value can be determined by accumulating a flow rate measurement over time. The
   rate of flow measurement is preferably a volumetric flow rate measurement. Most preferably the
   he flow rate measurement is determined using an ultrasonic flow sensor.
30 The step of determining a volume of sample air that has passed through at least part of the
   smoke detection system since a predetermined event or a value corresponding to said volume,

                                                     4
    can include determining any one of more of: a mass; a length; a pressure; a temperature, a
    second volume; or an accumulated count of volume-related events, or other parameter that that
    relates to a volume of sample air that has passed through at least part of the smoke detection
    system since the predetermined event.
 5  The method can include collecting all or a proportion of the sample air that has passed through
    at least part of the smoke detection system since the predetermined event.
    The method can further include changing an air sample flow characteristic in response to a first
    smoke detection event. For example, changing an air sample flow characteristic in the smoke
    detection system can include one or more of the following:
IO0     opening a valve;
    *   closing a valve;
    *   changing a direction of an air sample flow in at least part of the smoke detection system;
    *   changing a rate of air sample flow in at least part of the smoke detection system;
    *   starting an aspiration system; and
15  *   stopping an aspiration system.
    In a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided an apparatus for determining at
    least one point of entry of smoke into a smoke detection system of the type having a particle
    detector in fluid communication with an air sampling network, the air sampling network having at
    least one sampling pipe and a plurality of sampling inlets through which an air sample can enter
20  the at least one sampling pipe of the smoke detection system for analysis by the particle
    detector, and an aspirator for drawing the air sample through the air sampling network to the
    detector. The apparatus includes: means for determining a volume of sample air that has
    passed through at least part of the smoke detection system since a predetermined event or a
    value corresponding to said volume; and means for identifying at least one point of entry of
25  particles into the sampling network based on the detected volume or value.

                                                    5
   The apparatus preferably identifies one or more of said points of entry by reference to one or
   more corresponding sampling inlets through which smoke determined to have entered the
   system.
   The means for determining a volume of sample that has passed through at least part of the
 5 particle detection system, or value related to said volume, preferably includes a flow sensor.
   Most preferably the flow sensor comprises an ultrasonic flow sensor.
   The apparatus is preferably configured to perform a method in accordance with the first aspect
   of the present invention.
   In a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a smoke detector including a particle
10 detection chamber to detect particles in an air sample, an inlet to receive an air sample from an
   air sampling network, said the sampling network having at least one sampling pipe and a
   plurality of sampling inlets through which a sample can enter the at least one sampling pipe for
   analysis by the particle detection chamber, and an aspirator for drawing the sample through the
   air sampling network to the detector, the detector further including a processor configured to:
15 identify at least one point of entry of smoke into the sampling network based, at least in part, on
   a volume of sample air that has passed through at least part of the smoke detector or sampling
   network since a predetermined event, or a value corresponding to said volume.
   The smoke detector can include a flow sensor, e.g. an ultrasonic flow sensor, configured to
   detect rate of flow of sample air passing through at least a part of the smoke detector.
20 The processor is preferably configured to cause the smoke detector to perform a method in
   accordance with the first aspect of the present invention.
   Also disclosed herein is a method of determining the point of entry of particles into a particle
   detection system, said particle detection system including a particle detector and a sampling
   network in fluid communication with the particle detector, the sampling network including a
25 plurality of inlets through which a fluid is drawn, the particle detection system further including
   means for drawing fluid through the sampling network to the detector.        The method includes:
   comparing a first particle detection profile to a second particle detection profile; determining an
   offset between the particle detection profiles at which the profiles match to a predetermined

                                                    6
   degree; and, determining a location of entry of particles into the detection system on the basis
   of that offset.
   In some embodiments, the offset is a time offset. In other embodiments, the offset is a volume
   offset.
 5 In some embodiments, the comparison involves calculation of a cross-correlation between
   particle detection profiles.
   In some embodiments, a maximum value of the calculated cross correlation is determined, and
   an offset between particle detection profiles corresponding to the maximum value is determined.
   In some embodiments, the calculated cross correlation function is determined and compared to
I0 a predetermined value.
   Preferably, the fluid is air, and the means for drawing fluid through the sampling network to the
   detector is an aspirator.
   One embodiment includes determining that at least a first predetermined particle detection
   criteria has been met on the basis of a first particle detection profile being a comparison of the
15 first and second particle detection particles.
   The method can include continuously storing a first and/or second particle detection profile.
   Alternatively one of the profiles may be stored only after at least one predetermined criteria has
   been fulfilled.
   The method can include changing an air flow characteristic in at least part of the particle
20 detection system prior to beginning a comparison of the first and second particle detection
   profiles.
   In one form the step of changing an air flow characteristic in the particle detection system
   includes one or more of the following:
   0 opening a valve;

                                                       7
   " closing a valve;
   *    changing a direction of an air flow in at least part of the particle detection system;
   *    changing a rate of air flow in at least part of the particle detection system;
   *    starting an aspiration system; and
 5 *    stopping an aspiration system.
   Further disclosed herein is an apparatus for determining the point of entry of particles into a
   particle detection system of the type having a particle detector in fluid communication with an air
   sampling network, the air sampling network having a plurality of inlets through which air may
   enter the air sampling network, and an aspirator for drawing air through the air sampling
10 network to the detector, the apparatus including means for determining a volume of air passing
   through at least a part of the particle detection system, said apparatus including: means for
   receiving a signal representative of the volume of air passing through at least a part of the
   particle detection system; means for determining a location in the air sampling network at which
   air carrying particles entered the network on the basis of the determined volume.
15 Also disclosed herein is a device for determining the point of entry of particles into a particle
   detection system through one or more of a plurality of air inlets. The device includes means for
   determining a volume of air flowing through at least part of the particle detection system and
   means for determining a point of entry of the particles based upon the measured volume.
   Preferably, the apparatus for determining the point of entry of particles into the particle detection
20 system identifies the source of particles by reference to at least one inlet through which particles
   are likely to have entered.
   Further preferably, the apparatus for determining the point of entry of particles into the detection
   system identifies the source of particles by providing an indication of the distance of along the
   sampling network at which particles entered the air sampling network.
25 Further disclosed herein is a method of determining the point of entry of particles into a particle
   detection system having a sampling pipe network with a plurality of sampling points through

                                                    8
   which particles can enter the particle detection system. The method includes, determining the
   volume of air passing through at least part of particle detection system and determining through
   which sampling hole of the plurality of sampling points the particles entered the particle
   detection system.
 5 The method can include, detecting a first particle detection event and a second particle
   detection event, and measuring the volume of air passing through at least part of particle
   detection network between the particle detection events.
   The method can include continuously measuring the volume of air passing through at least part
   of particle detection network. Alternatively the method can include activating the volume
10 measurement upon the occurrence of a predetermined condition.
   The volume of air passing through at least part of particle detection network is preferably
   measured by summing a rate of flow measurement over time. Preferably the rate of flow
   measurement is a volumetric flow rate measurement. Most preferably it is determined using an
   ultrasonic flow sensor.
15 Further disclosed herein is a particle detection system including a particle detector, a sampling
   network in fluid communication with the particle detector, and means for drawing fluid through
   the sampling network to the detector. The sampling network includes a plurality of inlets, the
   inlets being arranged into a plurality of location groups. Each location group has an address
   defined by the presence or absence of an inlet connected to each of a plurality of sampling
?0 pipes.    The particle detector is configured to draw air along each sampling pipe and in the
   event that smoke is detected, determine the address of the location group through which
   particles entered the detector based upon both the presence and absence of particles in each of
   the sampling pipes.
   Also disclosed herein is a method of determining a single point of entry of particles into a
25 particle detection system. The particle detection system includes at least one particle detector,
   a sampling network in fluid communication with a or the particle detector, and means for
   drawing fluid through the sampling network to a or the detector. The sampling network includes
   a plurality of sample communication paths along which a sample can be drawn and in which the
   presence of particles can be independently detected by at least one of the detectors, wherein
30 each sample communication path includes at least one sample inlet. Each of said inlets further
   belongs to one of a plurality of location groups defined by the physical location of the inlet. The
   particle detection system being configured to determine whether particles are been detected on
   an air sample from each sample communication path. The method includes:

                                                    9
           determining a location group of inlets at which particles entered into the particle
   detection system uniquely on the basis of whether particles have or have not been detected on
   each sample communication path.
   In one embodiment, the sampling network comprises a plurality of pipes that respectively
 5 correspond to a sample communication path, and the step of determining that particles have
   been detected at a location group comprises determining that particles have or have not been
   detected in fluid drawn through each of the plurality of pipes.
   Further disclosed herein is an apparatus for determining the point of entry of particles into a
   particle detection system of the type having at least one particle detector in fluid communication
10 with a sampling network, and aspiration means for drawing fluid through the sampling network
   to the or a particle detector, the sampling network including a plurality of sample communication
   paths in which particles can be separately detected. The sampling network includes a plurality
   of sample inlets, each inlet being a member of a location group at one of a plurality of physical
   locations; the apparatus further including means for determining a location at which particles are
15 present on the basis of whether particles have or have not been detected on each sample
   communication path.
   Also disclosed herein is a method in a particle detection system having:
           at least one particle detector; and
           a sampling system including a sampling pipe with a plurality of sampling inlets, said
20 sampling system being arranged to convey a sample to be analysed from an environment
   surrounding the sampling inlet via the sampling pipe to the at least one particle detector;
           a flow inducer arranged to cause an air sample to flow in the sampling system to the at
   least one particle detector;
   the method including:
25         measuring a first particle concentration in a sample arriving form the sampling system;
           varying a sampling parameter at a subset of the sampling inlets;

                                                    10
            measuring a second particle concentration in a sample arriving form the sampling
   system;
            measuring a particle concentration in a sample arriving form the sampling system; on the
   basis of the first and second particle concentrations and the varied sampling parameter.
 5 The sampling parameter that is varied can be flow rate through the first subset of sampling
   inlets. The variation can be triggered by opening or closing valves or using a fan or other flow
   inducer to increase (or decrease) flow through the subset of sampling inlets. In this case the
   varied sampling parameter used to determine the measuring a particle concentration in a
   sample arriving form the sampling system can be a flow rate through the subset of sampling
10 inlets.
   In some embodiments the sampling parameter that is varied is the particle concentration drawn
   through the first subset of sampling inlets. The variation can be triggered by adjusting a filtering
   parameter applied to the first subset of sampling inlets, e.g. by interposing or removing a filter in
   the flow path of air entering through the sampling inlets. In this case the varied sampling
15 parameter used to determine the measuring a particle concentration in a sample arriving form
   the sampling system can be a sample concentration the subset of sampling inlets.
   In some embodiments the first subset of sampling inlets is the same as the second subset of
   sampling inlets. The first or second subsets if sampling inlets may include a plurality of inlets, or
   may be a single inlet.
20 Also disclosed herein is a method for detecting contaminant(s) in air samples from a plurality of
   air intake paths, the method including:
            varying the flow balance between the multiple paths by increasing or partially reducing
   the flow in one or more of the plurality of air intake paths to create a plurality of different flow
   patterns;
25          measuring the contaminant level of the combined air intake paths for each of the plurality
   of different flow patterns; and

                                                      11
            determining the contaminant level of each air intake path by using known, predetermined
   or measured values of flow rate in each air intake path for each of the plurality of different flow
   patterns,
            wherein the number of different flow patterns created and the number of contaminant
 5 level measurements taken are sufficient to determine the contaminant level in each air intake
   path.
   Varying the flow balance is preferably achieved over the plurality of different flow patterns by
   partial flow reduction in each of the air intake paths, in turn. In other words, if there are four air
   intake paths, a first subset of the air intake paths (e.g. three paths) are partially closed while the
10 remaining intake path(s) remain open while the contaminant level is measured. Next, that first
   subset air intake path is reopened and a second different subset of air intake paths is partially
   closed while the remaining air intake path(s) remain open and a second measure of the
   contaminant level is made. This is continued until four different flow patterns are created while
   four measurements of the contaminant level are taken.
15 The partial reduction in flow is preferably achieved by partially closing valves in the air intake
   paths. So, each valve is partially closed in turn while the other valves remain open.          In this
   arrangement, the flow rate through each air intake path may not be known. Therefore, it may
   be necessary to measure the flow rate in each air intake path, for each of the plurality of
   different flow patterns.
20 In an alternative form, the step of varying the flow balance may be achieved by having
   moveable baffles within the air intake paths. For example, the moveable baffles may be in the
   form of rotatable discs movable to a number of selectable positions. The discs have openings
   which, depending upon the selected position, create a predetermined flow rate. Thus, in this
   arrangement, flow rate measurements may not be required.
25 In a third alternative method of varying the flow balance, each air intake path may be vented in
   turn while the other pipes remain unvented. Compared to the other two methods described
   above, this will result in an increase in air flow through each vented air intake path in turn and
   may also affect the flow rate in the other air intake paths.

                                                                  12
   In a preferred form, there are as many flow patterns created as there are air intake paths.
   Given that there are as many measurements of contaminant level as there are flow patterns,
   this means the number of measurements of contaminant level equal the number of flow paths
   too. This will provide enough information to determine the contaminant level in each air intake
 5 path, provided the flow rate in each air intake path is also known/predetermined or measured for
   each flow pattern.
   In some arrangements, the flow rate is measured in each air intake path. This is preferably
   achieved by a flow rate sensor having a reasonably high degree of accuracy.                                      In a most
   preferred form, flow rate is measured by ultrasonic flow rate sensors, one in each air intake
10 path.
   Preferably, with the            measured        contaminant         levels for        each flow pattern            and the
   known/predetermined or measured flow rates in each path for each flow pattern, a series of
   equations may be solved as follows:
             C, = X, F,/(Fl + F 12      + ... F1,) + X 2 F 12 /(Fj1 + F1 2   + ... F1,)       + X, Fl,/(F1 + F1 2    + ...  Fjr)
I5           C2 = X,  F21/(F 2 1 + F 22 +     F 2 n) + X 2F 22/(F  21 + F 22 + ... F 2n)  +     X, F2n/(F 21 + F 22  +     F 2n)
             Cn= X, Fnl/(Fnl + Fn2      + ... Fn)    + X 2 Fn2 /(Fnl + Fn2   + ... Fn)    + ... XnFon/(Fnl + Fn2    + ...  Fn)
   where
   X 1 ... Xn=  concentration in air intake paths 1 to n
20 C1 ....   =  measured contaminant level of the combined air intake paths
   F11...Fn = flow rate in pipe 1 for flow patterns 1 to n
   F1 2 ...Fn2= flow rate in pipe 2 for flow patterns 1 to n
   F1 n...Fn  =  flow rate in pipe n for flow patterns 1 to n

                                                       13
   In a preferred form, the air intake paths may be in the form of air sampling pipes. Each air
   sampling pipe may feed into a respective intake port on a detector unit. The flows may be
   merged in a manifold, in the detector unit prior to being fed to the detector.
   The step of measuring, whether for the contaminant level or the flow rate may involve multiple
 5 readings from which an average is taken. Alternatively, any other statistical calculation may be
   made to determine the central tendency of the multiple readings.
   Also disclosed herein is a sensing system for detecting contaminants in air samples from a
   plurality of air intake paths, the system including:
            a control system for controlling flow control means in each of the air intake paths to
10 increase or partially reduce the flow in one or more of the air intake paths to create a plurality of
   different flow patterns;
            a detector to measure the contaminant level of the combined air intake paths, the control
   system controlling the detector to measure the contaminant level for each of the plurality of
   different flow patterns;
15          the control system being further operable to determine the contaminant level of each air
   intake path using known, predetermined or measured values of flow rate in each air intake path
   for each of the plurality of different flow patterns; and
            the control system being operable to create a sufficient number of different flow patterns
   and to control the detector to take a sufficient number of measurements to determine the
20 contaminant level of each air intake path.
   The sensing system may be in the form of a sensing unit which includes air intake ports
   corresponding to the number of air intake paths. Each air intake port may be coupled to a
   respective sampling pipe. Each of the flow control means may be disposed within the sensing
   unit or alternatively may be disposed in a respective sampling pipe.
25 Preferably, the control system is able to control the measurement of flow rate.

                                                     14
   Also disclosed herein is a sampling point for an environmental sampling system of the type
   having a at least one elongate sampling duct defined by a peripheral wall and having plurality of
   sampling inlets located along the duct's length and extending through the wall to allow the
   ingress of a sample, said environmental sampling system being configured to draw a sample
 5 from the environment through the sampling inlets into the duct and to convey the samples
   through the duct to an analysis device, the sampling point including a sample injection inlet
   extending into an interior of the duct inward of the peripheral wall thereof.
   The sample injection inlet can include a pipe extending through the peripheral wall of the duct.
   Most preferably the pipe has an outlet at or near the centre of the duct, away from the
10 peripheral wall of the duct.
   The sample injection inlet can have its outlet facing in a downstream direction of flow in the
   duct. In a preferred form the sample injection inlet is an L-shaped pipe, with a first inlet end for
   drawing a sample from the environment and a second, outlet end located within the duct and
   having an outlet facing in a downstream direction of flow in the duct. Also disclosed is a method
15 in an environmental sampling system of the type having a at least one elongate sampling duct
   defined by a peripheral wall and having plurality of sampling inlets located along the duct's
   length and extending through the wall to allow the ingress of a sample, said environmental
   sampling system being configured to draw a sample from the environment through the sampling
   inlets into the duct and to convey the samples through the duct to an analysis device, the
?0 method including:
            providing a structure to ameliorate diffusion of at least a front of a discrete sample
   portion, along the duct, as the sample portion travels down the duct.
   The structure can be a sampling point including a sample injection inlet extending into an
   interior of the duct as described above. The structure could also be a structure that creates
25 turbulence within the duct configured to prevent laminar flow within the duct in use. For
   example, the structure could be a contoured or textured wall of the duct; a turbulator; a passive
   or active rotating element or the like.
   Also disclosed herein is a sampling system for an environmental analysis system, said sample
   system including at least one elongate sampling duct defined by a peripheral wall and having
30 plurality of sampling inlets located along the duct's length and extending through the wall to

                                                     15
   allow the ingress of a sample into the duct, said environmental sampling system being
   configured to draw a sample from the environment through the sampling inlets into the duct and
   to convey the samples through the duct to environmental analysis system, the sampling system
   further including means to ameliorate diffusion of at least a front of a discrete sample portion,
 5 along the duct, as the sample portion travels down the duct. The structure can be a sampling
   point including a sample injection inlet extending into an interior of the duct as described above.
   The structure could also be a structure that creates turbulence within the duct configured to
   prevent laminar flow within the duct in use. For example, the structure could be a contoured or
   textured wall of the duct; a turbulator; a passive or active rotating element or the like.
10 The structure could extend substantially the whole length of the duct, or be localised, e.g. at or
   near, one or all, of the sampling inlets.
   Further disclosed herein is a method in an environmental sampling system of the type having at
   least one elongate sampling duct having plurality of sampling inlets located in series along the
   duct's length to allow the ingress of a sample from the environment, said environmental
15 sampling system being configured to draw a sample from the environment through the sampling
   inlets into the duct and to convey the samples through the duct to an analysis device, the
   method including: changing the airflow characteristic in the duct to alter a local sample
   concentration at or near at least one particular sampling inlet to increase the local sample
   concentration towards the sample concentration in the atmosphere surrounding the particular
?0 sampling inlet.
   Changing the airflow characteristic can include stopping or reversing a direction of flow in the
   duct to so that a portion of a sample adjacent the particular sampling inlet is expelled from the
   sample inlet. The method then includes drawing an additional sample from the environment via
   the particular sample inlet. The steps of stopping or reversing a direction of flow in the duct to so
25 that a portion of a sample adjacent the particular sampling inlet is expelled from the sample
   inlet, and drawing an additional sample from the environment via the particular sample inlet can
   be repeated one or more times.
   The method can include oscillating the direction of flow in the duct such that a repeated process
   of expulsion and re-sampling the environment occurs.

                                                   16
   The method can then include transporting the contents of the duct to the analysis device. This
   transportation is preferably performed with minimal dilution of the sample within the duct, or
   mixing between longitudinally positioned portions of the sample of the duct. For example the
   method can include; one or more of the following:
 5         closing one or more of the sampling inlets prior to transportation,
           opening duct at an upstream position to provide a low flow impedance;
           blowing the sample along the duct from an upstream position.
   An environmental sampling system of the type having at least one elongate sampling duct
   having at least one sampling inlet located along the duct's length to allow the ingress of a
10 sample from the environment, said environmental sampling system being configured to draw a
   sample from the environment through the or each sampling inlet into the duct and to convey the
   samples through the duct to an analysis device, The system further including sample
   amplification arrangement to ameliorate dilution of the sample by air flow in the duct.
   The sample amplification arrangement could include a device to reverse flow direction in at
15 least a portion of the duct. The device to reverse flow direction is preferably arranged to cause
   multiple reversals of flow direction to promote mixing of an air sample at or adjacent a sampling
   inlet. The device to reverse flow could be, for example, a reversible fan, bellows, reciprocating
   piston, vibrating membrane, or the like.
   Also disclosed herein is an environmental sampling system of the type having at least one
20 elongate sampling duct having plurality of sampling inlets located in series along the duct's
   length to allow the ingress of a sample from the environment that is configured to perform the
   above method. The environmental sampling system can include one or more of the following:
           One or more valves to control flow along the duct and/or through one or more of the
   sampling inlets;
25         fans, blowers or other flow inducing means to control flow along the duct and/or through
   one or more of the sampling inlets.

                                                    17
   A particle detection system, and preferably a smoke detection system, is also provided that
   includes an environmental sampling system of the above type to deliver air samples for analysis
   from a plurality of locations.
   In a preferred form the particle detection system comprises a detection system according to the
 5 following aspects of the present invention. In this case, the accessory can comprise any one or
   more of: a sampling inlet or a sampling point; a valve; a filter; a duct or portion of a duct; a flow
   inducing device such as a fan, piston, bellows, pump, vibrating membrane or the like; and a
   localisation module.
   In accordance with an further aspect of the present invention there is provided a detection
10 system, such as a particle detection system of any of the types described herein, for detecting
   an abnormal condition in an air volume, the detection system including a detector for detecting
   an abnormal condition of the air volume and an accessory, wherein the detector and the
   accessory are in fluid communication with each other and the air volume by an air flow path,
   wherein the detector is operable to communicate, at least unidirectionally, with the accessory
I5 through the air flow path.
   The detector may be in the form of a particle detector which is used to detect an abnormal level
   of particles within the sampled air volume. Preferably, the type of particle detector is an
   aspirating smoke detector i.e. includes a fan or other type of fluid drive. Accordingly, in this
   preferred embodiment, the detector is able to send signals to the accessory through the air flow
20 path by changing the air flow characteristics in the air flow path. In this preferred embodiment,
   that can be achieved by adjusting flow speed or direction. Suitably, the changes in the air flow
   characteristics may be detected by the accessory, with the accessory being responsive to the
   detected change. Thus the change in air flow characteristics functions as a signal from the
   detector to the accessory.
25 Preferably the air flow path comprises an air sampling system or environmental sampling
   system as described in any one of the aspects of the present invention or embodiments
   described herein.
   The accessory could comprise a detector for detecting an abnormal condition of the air volume.
   The accessory detector may be any one of the following types: particle detector, gas detector,

                                                    18
   temperature/heat detector, humidity detector. Alternatively, the accessory may comprise a filter,
   For example, the filter may be a pre-filter which is used before particle detection. The accessory
   can be in the form of a valve or fan incorporated into the air flow path.
   The air flow path suitably includes a sampling pipe network including pipe and inlet ports. In the
 5 embodiment which utilises a particle detector, the air flow path may also include the flow path
   through the detector including the aspirator i.e. the fan and the detection chamber. The exhaust
   from the detector also forms part of the air flow path. The flow path through the accessory is
   also understood to be part of the air flow path.
   The detector and the accessory may subsist as separate units along the air flow path. The
10 accessory may be retrofittable into an existing detection system such as a smoke detection
   system already having a smoke detector unit with a sampling pipe network.
   Preferably the detector sends operational information to the accessory. For example, the
   detector may send information about the operation of the detector such its current mode of
   operation. The accessory's response to the sensed information may be to adjust its settings or
15 perform a calibration or recalibration or change its operating state.
   As discussed above, one mode of communicating through the air flow path is for the detector to
   cause a change in air flow characteristics which may be detected by the accessory. The change
   in air flow characteristics may include any aberration in the air flow which is detectable by the
   accessory. This may include a change in the air flow rate or direction; or a pressure surge or
20 wave in the air flow path. This may be created by an air flow apparatus within or within the
   control of the detector such as the aspirator fan within the detector. The aspirator is preferably
   controlled by a programmable controller within the detector. Thus, suitable programming will
   cause the detector to send the required signal(s).
   The change in flow characteristics of the air flow path may vary so that different signals mean
25 different things to the accessory. For example, rather than a single change in flow rate, there
   may be a plurality of changes such as pulses of increased flow, the number of pulses
   corresponding to particular information. Alternatively, the degree of change in the flow rate or
   the actual measured flow could also be used to denote different information.

                                                     19
   Preferably, the accessory has a sensing system comprising one or more sensors to detect the
   changes in flow characteristics.
   Communication through the air flow path could be by way of sound transmission detectable by
   the accessory. For example a change in fan noise , might be used for signalling purposes.
 5 Otherwise, sound signals e.g. acoustic, ultrasound or infrasound could be created by the
   detector or other component of the system and sensed by the accessory. Suitably, the
   accessory has a microphone or other transducer to detect such noises as part of its sensing
   system.
   In an alternative form of the invention, vibrations may be created by the detector e.g. tapping of
10 the pipe with a suitable vibration sensor provided in the accessory.
   The detector could alternatively transmit light signals with a light sensor on the accessory,
   although such a system may require a line of sight through the air flow path.
   While the above discussion has focused on unidirectional communication between the detector
   and the accessory, bidirectional communication is also possible. Communication from the
15 accessory to the detector may be created by the presence of a valve in the accessory with the
   consequential effect on the air flow characteristics being detected by a flow sensor in the
   detector. Some accessories also incorporate a fan. This fan may also be used to have an
   influence in the air flow characteristics which may be sensed by the detector.
   In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided an accessory for a
20 detection system, the detection system for detecting an abnormal condition in an air volume, the
   accessory being fluidly connectable to the detection system and the air volume by an air flow
   path, wherein the accessory is operable to receive communication transmitted by the detection
   system through the air flow path. The accessory may include any of the features discussed
   above in accordance with the first aspect of the invention.
25 In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a detection system
   for detecting an abnormal condition in an air volume, the detection system including a detector
   for detecting an abnormal condition of the air volume and an accessory, wherein the detector
   and the accessory are in fluid communication with each other and the air volume, wherein the
   detector is operable to communicate, at least unidirectionally with the accessory by effecting

                                                     20
   changes in air flow characteristics of the fluid communication, said changes being detectable by
   the accessory.
   In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided an accessory for a
   detection system, the detection system for sensing an abnormal condition in an air volume, the
 5 accessory being fluidly connectable to the detection system and the air volume, wherein the
   accessory is operable to detect changes in air flow characteristics generated by the detection
   system. Preferably, the accessory is operationally responsive to said changes. However, the
   accessory may also be operationally responsive to a lack of any changes.
   The detection system and the accessory in the preceding two aspects above may incorporate
10 any of the preferred features discussed above.
   In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
   operating a detection system which detects an abnormal condition in an air volume, the
   detection system including a detector for detecting an abnormal condition of the air volume and
   an accessory, the detector and the accessory being in fluid communication with each other and
15 the air volume by an air flow path, the method including: sending a signal from the detector to
   the accessory through the air flow path, wherein the accessory is responsive to the signal or a
   lack of signal.
   The detector may send a signal to the accessory through the air flow path by effecting a change
   in the air flow characteristics. Alternatively, the signal may be sent according to any of the
20 alternative methods discussed above in connection with the above aspects of the invention.
   The accessory response to the signal or to the lack of signal may be to shut down, go into a
   fault mode or adjust its operating characteristics.
   In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
   operating a detection system which detects an abnormal condition in an air volume, the
25 detection system including a detector for detecting an abnormal condition of the air volume and
   an accessory, the detector and the accessory being in fluid communication with each other and
   the air volume by an air flow path, the method including: receiving, at an accessory, a signal via
   the air flow path; controlling the accessory on the basis of the received signal.

                                                       21
   The step of receiving a signal can include detecting a change in a flow parameter, such as flow
   rate, direction or pressure or the like, in part of the airflow path at the accessory.
   Controlling the accessory can include changing at least one operational parameter or state of
   the accessory in response to the received signal. Preferably the change of the operational
 5 parameter changes a flow condition in the airflow path.
   In accordance with another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of
   operating a detection system which detects an abnormal condition in an air volume, the
   detection system including a detector for detecting an abnormal condition of the air volume and
   an accessory, the detector and the accessory being in fluid communication with each other and
10 the air volume by an air flow path, the method including: sensing at an accessory, a change in
   air flow in the air flow path; controlling the accessory on the basis of the sensed change.
   The step of receiving a signal can include detecting a change in a flow parameter, such as flow
   rate, direction or pressure or the like, in part of the airflow path at the accessory.
   Controlling the accessory can include changing at least one operational parameter or state of
15 the accessory in response to the received signal. Preferably the change of the operational
   parameter changes a flow condition in the airflow path.
   In the above embodiments the accessory can include any one or more of: a valve, fan, flow
   control device, detector, filter.
   As will be appreciated a system, detector and or accessory can advantageously be used in any
20 one of the embodiments described herein. In particular using such an accessory and method
   minimises the complexity of installation of the accessory since additional communication lines
   need to be connected between the accessory and other system components.
   Also disclosed herein is a method in an environmental sampling system of the type having at
   least one elongate sampling duct having plurality of sampling inlets located along the or each
25 duct's length to allow the ingress of a sample from the environment, said environmental
   sampling system being configured to draw a sample from the environment through the sampling
   inlets into the duct and to convey the samples through the duct to an analysis device to detect
   the presence of a threat substance in the sample, the method including:

                                                     22
   operating in a detection mode in which the presence and or concentration of the threat
   substance is being monitored, and in the event at least one criterion is met, the system
   performs the step of:
   operating in a localisation mode to determine which of the sampling inlets the threat substance
 5 entered the system.
   The method can include operating in a training mode to characterise a sample flow through the
   at least one sampling duct to the analysis device so as to enable determination of which of the
   sampling inlets the threat substance entered the system in the localisation mode.
   The localisation mode can include a sample amplification phase and transportation phase.
10 The localisation mode can include a purge phase.
   In a further aspect there is provided a particle detection system configured to monitor a series of
   physical locations for the presence of particles, the particle detection system including a particle
   detector and a sampling pipe network for delivering air samples from the series of physical
   locations to the particle detector for analysis, said sampling pipe network being arranged such
15 that: each of said physical locations has a sample inlet arrangement through which an air
   sample is drawn into the sampling pipe network, each of said sample inlet arrangements being
   connected to a sampling pipe at a respective sampling connection location, wherein the
   average distance between the sample inlet arrangements of neighbouring physical locations is
   less than the average distance between the sampling connection locations of neighbouring
20 physical locations when measured along a flow path within the sampling pipe network.
   In the event that a sample inlet arrangement includes multiple sample inlets the centroid of the
   sample inlets can be used to determine the distance to its neighbouring arrangement(s).
   Similarly if the sampling connection location of a physical location includes multiple points of
   connection to the sampling pipe the centre of the multiple points of connection can be used to
25 determine the distance to its neighbour(s) along the flow path.
   In some embodiments the sampling pipe passes through the regions being monitored to service
   the regions, in other embodiments the sampling pipe runs near, but not through the regions

                                                    23
   (such as might be the case where the sampling pipe runs above a ceiling of a room, or outside
   an equipment cabinet which is being monitored, in order to service the region.
   In preferred embodiments the sampling pipe includes a first portion extending past or through
   regions being serviced by the sampling pipe and a second portion connected to the sampling
 5 pipe network upstream of the first portion which extends past or through at least one region
   being serviced by the first portion. Preferably the second portion extends past or though a
   plurality of regions that the first portion extends past or through. Most preferably the second
   portions extend past or through a majority of the regions that the first portion extends past or
   through.
10 In some forms the first and second portions extend substantially side by side, most preferably
   they run parallel to each other.
   In a preferred form the second portion services a location positioned between locations serviced
   by the first portion. Most preferably locations positioned adjacent one another are alternately
   serviced by the first and second portions of the pipe network. Such an arrangement acts to
15 spread out the points of connection along flow path of the sampling pipe network, which aids in
   reducing ambiguity in particle localisation
   A region should be considered to be serviced by either a given (e.g. the first or second) portion
   of the common portion of the sampling pipe network if a point of connection of the region's
   sample inlet arrangement is made to the given portion of the common portion of the sampling
20 pipe network. In another aspect there is provided a particle detection system arranged to
   monitor particles in a plurality of regions, said particle detection system including a particle
   detector and a sampling pipe network including a plurality of sample inlets into which particles
   are drawn for transport to the detector for analysis. Said sampling inlets being arranged to draw
   samples from a specific region, wherein the sampling pipe network includes a plurality of side
25 by side pipes interconnected in series, wherein the sampling inlets corresponding to at least two
   regions that are located sequentially adjacent each other along the length of the plurality of
   side-by-side pipes are connected to different members of the plurality of pipes. Most preferably
   when the plurality of pipes has two pipes the sampling inlets of sequentially adjacent regions
   are alternately connected to the first or second pipe.

                                                     24
   In another aspect of the present invention there is provided an apparatus comprising: a delivery
   system for delivering a test substance to a particle detector arranged to protect a location; an
   activation means to activate the delivery system to deliver the test substance;
   a indicator signalling the activation of the delivery system, such that the activation can be
 5 automatically detected by an image capture system arranged to capture images of the location.
   The apparatus can further include an interface enabling data regarding the activation to be
   entered into the apparatus for storage or transmission thereby. The delivery system can
   comprise at least one of: a test substance generator; a duct for delivering a test substance to a
   the particle detector from a test substance generator; a fan, pump or the like to move the test
10 substance through the apparatus to the particle detector. The indicator preferably comprises
   one or more radiation emitters configured to emit radiation for capture in an image. The
   apparatus can include a synchronisation port, to enable data transfer to and/or from the
   apparatus to an external device, such as the particle detection system or video capture system.
   In another aspect the present invention provides a method for correlating an address in a
15 particle detection system, said address corresponding to a physical location, with a location
   being monitored in a video capture system that monitors a plurality of locations; the method
   comprising; causing the detection of particles in the particle detection system at the address;
   indicating visually a physical location corresponding to the address; identifying the visual
   indication of the physical location in at least one image captured by the video capture system;
20 correlating address with a location of the plurality of locations monitored by the video capture
   system.
   The method preferably includes correlating the address with one or more of: a camera that
   captured the at least one image in which the visual indication was identified; One or more of a
   pan, tilt or zoom parameter of a camera that captured the at least one image in which the visual
25 indication was identified.
   The method can include providing the correlation data to the video capture system to enable
   selective capture, storage or display of images relating to corresponding to an address in the
   particle detection system in the event that particles are detected by the particle detection

                                                    25
   system at the address. Described herein this allows video verification of the particle detection
   event.
   The step of indicating visually a physical location corresponding to the address can include,
   emitting radiation that can be captured and identified in an image captured by the video capture
 5 system. This can includes selectively activating a radiation source in a detectable pattern. For
   example on-off modulating a light source.
   The step of causing the detection of particles in the particle detection system preferably
   includes emitting particles at, or near, the physical location so as to be detected by the particle
   detection system at the address.
10 The step of causing the detection of particles in the particle detection system at the address;
   and indicating visually a physical location corresponding to the address are preferably
   performed simultaneously to enable temporal correlation between images captured by the video
   capture system with a particle detection event in the particle detection system.
   Most preferably the method is performed using an apparatus of the previous aspect of the
15 present invention.
                                   Brief description of the drawings
   Illustrative embodiments of the invention will now be described by way of a non-limiting example
20 with reference to the accompanying figures. In the figures:
   Figure 1 shows a particle detection system including an air sampling network;
   Figure 2 shows a particle detection system employing two particle detectors to enable
   determination of the location at which smoke enters an air sampling network;
   Figure 3 shows a particle detection system employing a single particle detector coupled to an
25 air sampling network having two branches separated by a valve;

                                                     26
   Figure 4 shows a particle detection system employing two particle detectors coupled to a single
   air sampling pipeline;
   Figures 5 and 6 graphically illustrate a timing of events as measured at respective detectors (or
   branches) of a particle detection system;
 5 Figure 7 illustrates another embodiment of a particle detection system that is used to determine
   a location particles entering the system;
   Figure 8 illustrates a particle detection system including a sampling system including a plurality
   of valves, for altering a sampling parameter of the sampling system [to implement an
   embodiment of one aspect of the invention];
10 Figure 9A illustrates a particle detection system including a sampling system including a
   plurality of filters which are configured to alter a sampling parameter the sampling system [to
   implement an embodiment of one aspect of the invention];
   Figure 9B illustrates a filter and valve arrangement used in the system of figure 9A;
   Figure 10A is a schematic diagram of a particle detection system according to a preferred
15 embodiment of the present invention;
   Figure 1OB is a schematic diagram of a portion of the particle detection system of Figure 1OA;
   Figure 10C is a schematic view of the portion of the particle detection system as per Figure
   1OB, except with one of the valves in a partially closed position; and
   Figure 1OD is a schematic view of the portion as per Figure 10C, except that one of the other
20 valves is partially closed;
   Figure 11 A illustrates a particle detection system;
   Figure 11 B is a graph illustrating diffusion of a front of a sample portion as the sample portion
   travels down a duct;
   Figure 11C illustrates a flow speed profile within the sample duct of figure 11 A;

                                                     27
   Figure 12 illustrates 3 sampling points according to different embodiments of the present
   invention, that may ameliorate the effect of the diffusion illustrated in figure 11 B;
   Figures 13A to 13D are examples of turbulators that may ameliorate the effect of the diffusion
   illustrated in figure 11 B;
 5 Figure 14 illustrates a particle detection system including an air sampling network that is
   connected to bellows that can be used to oscillate the direction of sample flow within the air
   sampling duct to counteract sample dilution by other sampling inlets within the particle detection
   system;
   Figures 14A to 14E illustrate an exemplary system that uses a vibrating membrane to perform
10 sample amplification in a manner analogous to that of Figure 14;
   Figure 15 illustrates a particle detection system including an air sampling system that has an
   upstream fan that can be used to counteract sample dilution by other sampling inlets within the
   particle detection system.
   Figure 15B illustrates a particle detection system similar to that of figure 15, which has been
15 augmented with an sample flushing system.
   Figure 16 illustrates a particle detection system having an air sampling system including a valve
   upstream of the sampling inlets that can be used to open the end of the sampling duct to
   enhance transport of sample in the duct to the particle detector for analysis;
   Figure 17 illustrates a variant of the system of figures 14A to 14E;
20 Figure 18 illustrates a particle detection system including an air sampling network that has a
   sample amplification arrangement comprising a plurality vibrating membranes; and
   Figure 19 illustrates another particle detection system including an air sampling network with
   branched sampling pipes and which has a sample amplification arrangement comprising a
   plurality vibrating membranes.
25 Figures 20A and 20B illustrate a variation on the systems of figures 14 and 15 respectively,
   which include a dedicated localisation module.

                                                     28
   Figure 21 illustrates a particle detection system according to an embodiment of the present
   invention, which is arranged to detect particles in a series of regions.
   Figures 22 and 23 illustrate further two embodiments of a system according to the invention that
   are arranged to detect particles in a series of regions.
 5 Figure 24 illustrates a particle detection system incorporating video verification using a video
   security system.
   Figures 25 and 26 illustrate exemplary user interfaces used for video verification in the system
   of Figure 24.
   Figure 27 is a schematic diagram of an apparatus used for commissioning and/or testing of a
10 system of the type illustrated in figure 24.
   Figure 28 is an exemplary accessory, in this case a valve, which is arranged to sense a change
   or condition in flow in the air flow path from another system component and control its operation
   in response to the sensed change or condition.
   Figure 29 illustrates a particle detection system incorporating an accessory as described in
15 connection with figure 28.
   Figure 30 illustrates an embodiment of a localisation module.
   Figure 31 illustrates another embodiment of a localisation module to which multiple sampling
   pipes can be connected.
   Figures 32 and 33 illustrate additional embodiments of accessories similar to that of figure 28.
20                             Detailed description of the embodiments
   Figure 1 shows a particle detection system including a particle detector 11                in fluid
   communication with a sampling network 28. The sampling network includes a plurality of inlets
   29 through which air is drawn. An aspirator 16 draws air into the sampling network 28 through
   inlet 21 and along into a particle detection chamber 14. Air sample exits the detection system
25 through outlet 22.

                                                     29
   The detector includes a flow sensor 24. In a preferred embodiment of the present invention, an
   ultrasonic flow sensor as described in WO 2004/102499 is employed. This sensor enables
   volumetric flow measurements to be made. The flow sensor 24 provides an indication of the
   volume of air flowing into the particle detector 10 from the sampling network 28 per unit time.
 5 The output of the flow sensor 24 may be used to infer, for example, when flow faults e.g. a
   blockage of the sampling network 28 or reduced aspirator performance, has occurred.
   The system 10 also includes a controller 40 for determining the level of particles in the air
   sample based on the detector's 14 output and apply alarm and fault logic to the detector output
   alert a user to the presence of particles and the operating state of the system. A typical
10 installation of a Vesda or ICAM smoke detector, from Xtralis Pty Ltd. would be an example of a
   system of this type.
   Such a detection system can be applied in an embodiment of the present invention to
   additionally determine the point of entry of particles into the air sampling network 28.
   Figure 2 shows two particle detectors 202 and 204, each particle detector being of the type
15 illustrated in Figure 1. Each detector is connected to a respective pipe of sampling network 203
   and 205 respectively.       The sampling networks 203 and 205 are effectively parallel and
   configured to monitor the same area. Each detector is also connected to a control unit 207,
   containing a microcontroller 209. Pipe 203 has a plurality of air inlets 206-216. Similarly, pipe
   205 has a plurality of air inlets 218-230. Each air inlet from pipe 203 can be paired with an inlet
20 from its parallel air pipe 205. At the time of installation, each inlet from pipe 203 is positioned to
   be close to a corresponding inlet from pipe 205. The inlets are therefore arranged in pairs. For
   example, air inlet 206 of pipe 203 and air inlet 218 of pipe 205 are together labelled air sampling
   inlet pair 232, because air inlet 206 and air inlet 218 are placed in close physical proximity. For
   example each pair of inlets may be located in the same room of a row of offices, or even be
25 attached to a common sampling point.
   In normal operation, the aspirator of particle detector 202 draws air pipe 203. The aspirator of
   particle detector 204 draws air through pipe 205. As each particle detector draws air, the
   scattered light or "smoke level" is measured, and reported to the control unit 207.               The
   microcontroller 209 of the control unit 207 stores the reported smoke levels in its internal
30 memory.

                                                    30
   In the event that smoke enters the air sampling network at air sampling inlet pair 232, the
   distance that smoke must travel to reach particle detector 202 from air inlet 206 is much smaller
   than the distance that smoke must travel to reach particle detector 204 from air inlet 218.
   Accordingly, particle detector 202 will register an increased smoke level due to smoke entering
 5 air sampling inlet pair 232 before particle detector 204.
   When the detected smoke level of one of the detectors 202,204, say particle detector 202,
   surpasses a predetermined threshold (which may also be an alarm threshold or not) , the
   microcontroller begins to monitor the volume of air that has been drawn through one or both of
   the detectors. Because the smoke introduced at air inlet 218 must travel along the length of
10 sampling pipe 205 before it can be detected at detector 204. After the particle detector 204 has
   drawn some volume of air, particle detector 204 will record an increased smoke level similar to
   that seen by particle detector 202.         When this increased smoke level is recorded, the
   microcontroller 209 finishes monitoring the volume of air that has been drawn through detector
   204. This final volume can be used to determine the sampling hole through which the smoke
15 entered the air sampling pipe.
   Because the flow sensor e.g. 24, outputs volumetric rate of flow, the volume of air passing
   through the detector is determined by integrating the output of the flow sensor over time. For
   example, the flow rate may be output one or more times per second by the sensor. These
   volumes can be accumulated either in the detector itself or at the microcontroller 209 to
?0 determine the total volume of sample air that has flowed.
   The microcontroller 209 then uses the determined volume of air drawn by detector 204 to infer
   the sampling inlet pair through which the smoke particles were introduced. In one embodiment,
   the microcontroller achieves this by consulting a lookup table such as the one below:
                                Volume    Air Inlet Pair
                                -5L        Pair 1
                                -3L        Pair 2
                                -1L        Pair 3
                                1L         Pair 4
                                3L         Pair 5
                                5L         Pair 6

                                                     31
   The lookup table contains measured volumes mapped back to a corresponding sampling hole
   pair. Each volume corresponds to the volume of air that is drawn through the second detector
   before particles are detected by it. The negative and positive values indicate which detector of
 5 the pair 202 or 204 measure the volume.          In this case a negative value indicates that the
   detector 202 measures volume.
   For example, the microcontroller 209 may measure a volume of 112 mL of air drawn through
   detector 204 in the time between a smoke detection event by detector 202 and a subsequent
   detection event by detector 204.       The row of the table that has a volume most closely
10 corresponding to the volume is the fourth row, and corresponds to Pair 4. Pair 4, in turn,
   corresponds to air inlet pair 238. Had the measured volume instead been -112mL, the closest
   table row would have been the entry for -100mL, and Pair 3 (air inlet pair 236) would have been
   determined as the point at which smoke entered the system.
   As will be appreciated, instead of measuring volume directly a value that corresponds to volume
15 could be used in other embodiments of the present invention. For example the amount of air
   sample that has passed through the system can be determined by measuring a parameter other
   than volumetric flow rate, for example, if a mass flow sensor is present in the detector the output
   of such a sensor is able to be used in an embodiment of the present invention as it is related to
   volume by a correction factor that corrects for the temperature or density of the fluid.
20 Other physical parameters may also be used, including but not limited to as length, pressure or
   temperature or a count of volume-related events. For example, the time variable speed of the
   sample flow can be measured (e.g. in ms-) at location and accumulated (eg. summing or
   integration etc.) to determine an amount of air that has passed through the system in the form of
   a "length". Volume could also be represent as a "length" by using the air sample (or known
25 proportion of it) to displace a piston. The total displacement of the piston by the collected
   sample (or fixed proportion thereof) will represent a measure of the amount of air that has
   passed through the system, alternatively for a small cylinder size the a number of cycles of the
   piston could be counted to yield an numerical value corresponding to the volume of air sample
   that has passed through the system.
30 To give an example in which the physical parameter being used to determine an amount of air
   passing through the system is pressure or temperature, consider a system in which the air

                                                      32
   sample (or a known proportion of the air sample volume) is captured in a first chamber of a
   closed system, the actual volume V, (or pressure if volume if fixed) of this amount of air may
   never be known. However if the temperature T, and pressure P (or volume if pressure is fixed)
   of the captured sample is measured. The captured sample is then moved to a second camber
 5 of known, volume V 2 and the new temperature T2 and pressure P2 are related to the initial
   volume by Boyle's law. By controlling one the either pressure or temperature to be held
   constant during the transfer of the sample (or sample portion) to the second chamber a
   temperature or pressure can be used as an amount that relates to volume of sample air that has
   passed through the system.
10 If a measurement of a value , such as mass, pressure, temperature and length, or other
   physical parameter that might be measured and which is tolerant to variable flow rate, is used in
   place of volume, the look-up table may alternatively map those other physical parameters
   directly to the air inlet pair number, without having to undertake the intermediate step of
   calculating the volume.
15 Once the air inlet pair number has been determined, the air inlet pair number can then be
   communicated to a secondary device, such as a Fire Alarm Control Panel (FACP) or displayed
   to the user, to enable the localisation of the fire.
   The lookup table can be created during the commissioning of the system, for example, by
   introducing smoke to each sample inlet pair and measuring the volume of air drawn before
20 detection. As will be appreciated, if smoke has entered at sampling pair 232, there will be a
   very large volume of air drawn by detector 204 in the period after detection by detector 202
   while detector 204 waits to detect the increased smoke level. Conversely, if smoke entered the
   system through sampling pair 242, detector 204 would detect an increased smoke level before
   detector 202, detector 202 drawing a very large volume of air while waiting to detect the
25 increased smoke level. If smoke were to enter the sampling network toward the middle, for
   example at sample pair 236, although detector 202 would detect an increased smoke level first,
   the volume of air drawn before detection by detector 204 would be relatively smaller than in
   either of the first cases, since by the time of detection by detector 202, smoke will have already
   been drawn a substantial distance toward detector 204.
30 A person skilled in the art will appreciate that in the present configuration, where the sampling
   pipe network length is large, and transport time of particles through the sampling network is

                                                    33
   large, it will be possible to detect the presence of smoke before determining the location of
   smoke. For example, in the event that smoke is introduced at sampling inlet pair 232 of Figure
   2, smoke entering sampling hole 206 will quickly proceed to detector 202, and be detected.
   Detector 202 can immediately raise an alarm, despite the fact that smoke has not yet been
 5 detected by detector 204. Accordingly, where regulations prescribe the time by which smoke
   introduced to a sampling hole must be detected, this particular configuration is capable of
   detecting and reporting upon the presence of fire upon detection of smoke particles.
   Determination of the geographic location of the fire can then proceed in the manner previously
   described using a threshold level that is not an alarm level.
10 Accordingly, in a preferred form, the threshold used for determining an addressing event for
   each detector is higher than the lowest alarm (eg: a pre-alarm) threshold.           A preferred
   embodiment waits until a higher level of particles is detected before attempting addressing.
   In one embodiment, instead of employing a lookup table, the volume offset is multiplied by a
   constant to determine the distance along the sampling network at which smoke particles
15 entered the system.       In another embodiment, the volume offset is used as a variable in a
   function, which when evaluated, yields an estimate of the distance along the sampling network
   at which particles entered. In yet another embodiment, the volume offset is used as an index
   into a lookup table, the resulting lookup value being an estimate of the distance along the pipe.
   In preferred embodiments, the multiplicative constant, function, or lookup table described
?0 immediately above is determined at the time of commissioning by introducing smoke to each
   sampling hole pair and measuring the resulting volume offset to generate calibration data. As a
   person skilled in the art will appreciate, it may be possible to infer results for a subset of
   sampling holes by introducing smoke to another subset of holes, and relying upon the known
   distribution of sampling pairs in the sampling network.
25 As a person skilled in the art will appreciate, modifications of the invention can be adapted to
   determine, for example, the spread of a fire. The information reported by the system may be a
   distance along the sampling network at which particles appear to have entered, although this
   distance may not correspond to a sampling inlet pair.
   The calculated distance or air inlet may be presented directly to an end user. The calculated
30 distance or air inlet may also be communicated to another system, such as a fire alarm control
   panel (FACP).      Where a fire alarm control panel has been designed to receive data from a

                                                       34
   system of addressable point detectors rather than a single aspirated smoke detector having
   multiple sampling points, the present system may communicate the calculated distance or inlet
   to the fire alarm control panel in a way which mimics a system of addressable point detectors,
   thereby utilising the FACPs understanding of geographic location of fires without actually
 5 utilising individual addressable point detectors.
   Figure 3 illustrates an alternative embodiment of the invention that employs a single particle
   detector attached to an air sampling network comprising two pipes 303 and 305 and a valve
   304. In normal operation, air is drawn through pipe 303. When smoke detector 202 detects
   smoke above a predetermined threshold, valve 304 is moved to obstruct pipe303, and to allow
10 air to flow through pipe 305, and the microcontroller 309 begins to record the volume of air
   drawn through detector 302.            When smoke particles are detected by detector 302,
   microcontroller 309 finishes recording the volume of air drawn though detector 302.            The
   volume of air passing through air sampling network 305 and into particle detector 302 prior to
   again detecting particles is then used to infer the point at which smoke particles enter pipe 305,
15 using any of the methods herein described.
   Figure 4 shows yet another approach which employs two particle detectors attached to a single
   air sampling network.      Initially, smoke detector 402 operates and smoke detector 404 is
   inoperative. Smoke enters the system through air inlet 408. The smoke is drawn through the
   air sampling network, and detected by smoke detector 402. The determination of a smoke
?0 detection event triggers smoke detector 402 to become inoperative, smoke detector 404 to
   become operative, and microcontroller 409 to begin recording the volume of air drawn through
   detector 404. The aspirator of smoke detector 404 draws air along air sampling network 403 in
   a direction opposite to the initial flow direction caused by the aspirator of smoke detector 402. If
   smoke enters only through a single air inlet 408, smoke detector 404 cannot detect smoke until
25 smoke from air inlet 408 reaches it. According to the present invention, the volume of air drawn
   by detector 404 after the initial detection by smoke detector 402 and up until subsequent
   detection of smoke by detector 404 is used to determine the air inlet through which smoke
   particles enter air sampling network 403, using any of the methods herein described.
   The inventors have realised that it can be advantageous to use the volume of air drawn through
30 the system or corresponding values to determine the point of entry of particles into the air
   sampling system. Moreover, by measuring volume rather than time, certain disadvantages or
   problems associated with reliance on measurement of time may be ameliorated. For example,

                                                    35
   it is known that with usage the sampling inlets gather dirt and get constricted, resulting in
   greater pressure drop and less flow of air. This means changing transport time for air samples
   over the life of the system. However the volume of air displaced to get a sample to the detector
   is relatively constant over time which makes the correlation between displacement volume and
 5 address more stable than transport time. Moreover if there are delays in opening a valve or
   beginning an aspirator, or the fan starts more slowly than expected the volume of air drawn
   through the system before particles are detected a second time is likely to be relatively
   unchanged, as compared to time based systems. Advantageously volume-based addressing
   systems may be able to be operated independent of the flow rate or over a range of variable
10 flow speeds, enabling techniques such as those described below, in which the system opens up
   an end cap to speed up the flow of a sample to the detector.
   Other types of flow sensor can be used in embodiments of the invention, for example a mass
   flow sensor, which provides an indication of the mass of air moving past the sensor over time.
   However, because mass flow sensors are insensitive to the density of the air they measure,
15 other information such as the temperature of the air is required in order to determine the volume
   of the air moving past them.
   A further difficulty that can arise in implementing embodiments of the above invention and that
   of the prior art is the potential difficulty in reliably determining that two equivalent smoke
   detection events has occurred, for example noise introduced prior to conversion of a signal from
?0 analogue to digital form may frustrate the process of determining when smoke is detected by
   detector 202, or detector 204. The inventors have devised an improved process that avoids or
   ameliorates this drawback.
   A smoke detection system such as that of Figure 2 produces two distinct data sets or "particle
   detection profiles". One data set is drawn from particle detector 202. The second data set is
25 drawn from particle detector 204. Each data set contains a series of measured smoke levels.
   The data set may also contain information regarding the volume of air flowing through the
   detector, or a time at which a particle smoke level was measured.
   In the following example, we will describe a system that monitors smoke levels over time. A
   person skilled in the art would appreciate that the method can be adapted to measuring smoke
30 levels compared to the volume of air drawn by the system (as described above), however for

                                                       36
   illustrative purposes, we presently describe the system in relation to a series of measured
   smoke levels taken at various times.
   Figure 5 illustrates a particle detection profile. Detected smoke level is represented along its
   vertical axis.    Time is measured along the horizontal axis.         The smoke levels are those
 5 measured by detector 202 of Figure 2. Figure 6 shows a second particle detection profile. It is
   similar to that of Figure 5, except that it relates to smoke levels measured by detector 204.
   Comparing the figures, detector 202 detected a smoke level that reached a maximum at time
   200, at which time it was deactivated and the particle detection output returned substantially to
   zero. Detector 204 detects a maximum smoke level at time 300.            The different times are at
10 least partially attributable to the additional distance along the sampling network 205 that smoke
   reaching detector 204 must travel. It would be possible to use the difference between the time
   of each maximum or the difference in time at which each profile crosses some predetermined
   threshold e.g. a smoke level of 150 on the vertical axis (which may be different to the alarm
   thresholds in use), to estimate the air inlet through which smoke entered the particle detection
15 system.     However, more preferably a cross correlation can be calculated using the data
   illustrated in Figures 5 and Figure 6.
   For real and continuous functions f and g, the cross-correlation is calculated according to the
   formula:
                                        (f * g)(t)=E_ f(71     + r)dr
20 A person skilled in the art will appreciate that this equation can be adapted for use with discrete
   measurements, such as the smoke levels detected in the present systems. For example, such
   a system can be implemented in hardware by temporarily storing a particle detection profile of
   each detector data in a respective buffer, e.g. a ring buffer. The buffers may be chosen so as to
   store data such that the longest possible offset measurable by the system can be accurately
25 calculated.    The cross correlation at a point can then be calculated by multiplying each pair of
   data elements in turn, and adding them, as described by the equation above. This process can
   then repeated for each possible offset t, to determine the overall cross-correlation function. The
   cross correlation function can then be used to estimate of the time offset between two particle
   detection events.        This can in turn be used to infer through which inlet pair the particles
30 entered the sampling pipe network.             In some embodiments, information from the cross-

                                                     37
   correlation function is used to locate further geographic locations at which smoke may have
   entered the system.
   In one embodiment, multiple peaks of the cross-correlation function are identified. A list of time
   offsets is calculated based upon the location of each peak and its corresponding cross
 5 correlation value. The time offsets are used to infer the geographic location of the source of
   smoke. This can be used to potentially infer multiple locations at which fire occurs.
   Figure 7 illustrates a detector particle detection system 700 that includes a particle detector 702
   in fluid communication with an air sampling network in the form of pipes 704, 706, 708 and 710.
   Each pipe includes a plurality of inlets, arranged into sampling inlet groups 712 to 740.     Each
10 sampling inlet group corresponds to a physical address, eg: a room or location that is serviced
   by the detector. Each sample inlet group includes between one and four air inlets.
   The particle detector is connected to each pipe, and configured to provide an indication to a
   controller whether particles have been detected in fluid drawn through each pipe. The detector
   702 could for example be four VESDA smoke detectors (from Xtralis Pty Ltd) detectors coupled
15 to a central controller or a detector capable of independently detecting smoke on up to 4 pipes.
   Each of sampling inlet groups 712 to 740 comprises one, two, three or four individual sampling
   inlets.   The inlets are arranged into groups such that the same pattern does not occur twice.
   For example, sampling inlet group 730 includes an inlet on each pipe but no other group
   includes an inlet on each pipe.      Sampling inlet group 712 includes an inlet only on pipe 710,
20 but no other sampling inlet group includes only a hole on pipe 710. In the example of Figure 7
   the inlets are arranged in groups corresponding to a 4-bit Gray code.
   Consistent with the discussion previously in relation to Figure 2, at the time of installation, the
   inlets from each group are positioned close to one another.     In the event that smoke enters the
   sampling network at a particular inlet, smoke should enter each of the pipes for which there is
25 an inlet present in that group.     For example, if smoke enters the sampling network near the
   location of sampling inlet group 730, one would expect smoke to enter each of the four pipes
   704, 706, 708 and 710 at that location. Conversely, if smoke enters the sampling network at
   sampling inlet group 712, one would expect smoke to only enter pipe 710, since at that location,
   no other pipe includes an inlet. Upon detection of particles in the samples drawn into the
30 individual pipes 704, 706,708, 710, the particle detection system is able to determine the point

                                                      38
   of entry of smoke into the sampling network based upon the pattern of detection across the
   pipes 704, 706,708, 710.
   The table of Figure 7 more completely illustrates the possible combinations of particle detection
   states across the four pipes and their corresponding particle detection locations. It is useful to
 5 begin by defining a nomenclature for expressing the indicated smoke levels.             For present
   purposes, we will use a four binary bits to correspond to the detected smoke levels for each of
   pipes 704, 706, 708, and 710 respectively. For example, the indication '1111' corresponds to
   detection of smoke at some threshold level, in air drawn from each of pipes 704, 706, 708, and
   710.    The indication '1100' would refer to detection of smoke in air drawn from each of pipes
10 704 and 706. The indication '1010' would refer to detection of smoke in air drawn from each of
   pipes 704 and 708.        Accordingly, each of these four bit indications can be treated as an
   address that corresponds to a location. There are fifteen non-zero four bit numbers.
   Accordingly, these fifteen numbers can be used to distinguish fifteen separate locations. The
   table of Figure 7 lists each of the possible fifteen non-zero binary numbers in the column 'Gray
15 Code' address. Alongside each binary number is one of 15 locations in the 'Location' column.
   The 'Smoke Detected' column shows whether smoke had been detected at the assigned
   threshold level at pipe.
   There is a large number of possible ways of allocating addresses to each location.               For
   example, in some embodiments, each successive location from 1 to 15 may take a subsequent
?0 binary number, in a manner similar to ordinary counting.       Accordingly to this scheme, location
   1 would have the address '0001' (which is a binary representation for the decimal number '1')
   and location 2 would have the address '0010' (which is a binary representation for the decimal
   number '2').    In this scheme, location 15 is given the binary address '1111', which is a binary
   representation for the decimal number 15.
25 However, the illustrated embodiment uses a different method of allocating addresses, called a
   'Gray code'.   In the illustrated gray code of Figure 7, the location 1 is given the address '0001'.
   Location 2 is given the address '0011' (which corresponds to the binary for the decimal number
   '3').  Location 3 is given the address '0010' (which corresponds to the binary for the decimal
   number '2').    This sequence of numbering has a special property when each of the binary
30 representations is considered.        In particular, each pair of adjacent locations has a binary
   representation that differs by precisely one bit. For example, location 4 has the address '0110',
   whereas location 5 has the address '0111', and so only the fourth bit of each number differs.

                                                   39
   Similarly, location 11 has the address '1110' whereas location 12 has the address '1011', and
   so these also differ by their second bit only.
   The way in which addresses are chosen may influence performance in the presence of
   detection errors. In particular use of a Gray code scheme may be, more robust to addressing
 5 errors than a straight "counting" address scheme in which successive locations are addressed
   by successive binary numbers. To illustrate this point, in a system that adopts the gray code
   numbering as described in figure 7, there is roughly a fifty percent chance that for a single bit
   error the determined location of the fire will be a location adjacent to the actual location of
   smoke, since the address of each adjacent location differs by a single bit only.
10 A person skilled in the art would appreciate that judicious selection of the sample inlet groups
   and increasing of the number of pipes feeding the detector can result in increased redundancy
   for the purpose of the localizing decision. In practical terms, the introduction of this redundancy
   may be such that, for example, simultaneous entry of smoke at multiple sample inlets can be
   distinguished, or alternatively, such a system may simply provide greater resilience to error.
15 Figures 8 and 9 show two embodiments of a further mechanism for providing addressability
   within an aspirated particle detection system of the type described in Figure 1.
   Turning firstly to Figure 8, which shows a particle detection system 800, including a particle
   detector 11, coupled to an air sampling system 26. The air sampling system 26 includes a
   sampling pipe 28, including five sample points 29. As described in relation to Figure 1, the
20 aspirator of the particle detector 11 draws air samples in through the sample inlets 29, which
   then travel along the pipe 28 and into the detector 11 for analysis. In this embodiment, each
   sampling hole 29 additionally includes a valve 802. Each valve 802 is independently able to
   adjust flow through its respective sampling hole 29. The valves are controlled by the central
   controller of the detector 11, and are configured to be opened and closed under the control of
25 detector 11. In some embodiments the valves 802 can receive sense the need to change state
   by interpreting glow changes as signals from the detector 11 in a manner described in more
   detail in connection with figure 28.
   The purpose of the valves 802 on each sampling inlet 29 is to enable the smoke detector 11 to
   vary one of its systems' sampling parameters in order to assist in determining which of the
30 sampling inlets 29 particles of interest have entered the system 800 through. Upon an initial

                                                    40
   detection of particles of interest by the detector 11, at a predetermined threshold level, the
   detection system 800 goes into the localisation routine. In this routine, the detector 11 causes
   the valves 29 to vary a sampling parameter, in this case flow rate, of air entering the sampling
   inlets. This variation may be performed on an inlet by inlet basis, or in groups of multiple inlets.
 5 After each variation in flow rate, a new particle concentration measurement is made. The initial
   particle concentration measurement and the second particle concentration measurement along
   with a variation parameter can then be used to determine which of the sample inlets particles of
   interest entered through.
   This works because the particle level detected at the detector 11 is a weighted sum of particle
10 concentrations and flow rates of the sample flow at each individual inlet 29. By varying the
   smoke level or flow rate through the sampling inlets, it is therefore possible to solve the set of
   simultaneous equations to determine the particle level entering any one sample inlet or group of
   inlets.
   To illustrate a simple example, consider a smoke detection system including a smoke detector
15 and a sampling network having a pipe with two sample inlets.
   In this example, the level of smoke detected when all valves are open is given by the following
   equation:
    DetectorSm okeA i Va/v esOpen = Smokel * fowl + Smoke2 * flow2
                                               flowl+ flow2
   Where, DetectorSmokeAl/ValvesOpen is the total smoke detected by the smoke detector;
20 Smoke1 is the smoke level in the sample entering sample inlet 1;
   flow is the flow rate of the sample entering through sample inlet 1;
   Smoke2 is the smoke level entering the sample inlet 2; and
   flow2 is the flow rate through sample inlet 2.

                                                       41
   Now, when the first sample inlet is closed by its valve, the weighted sum of smoke arriving at
   the detector becomes:
    DetectorSmokeValveslClosed = Smokel * 0 + Smoke2 * flow2
                                                  0 + flow2
   It will be noted that this weighted sum is identical to equation 1, except that flowl = 0, because
 5 the valve on sample inlet 1 has been closed fully.
   We are now in a situation where we can solve these equations for Smoke1, to determine the
   amount of smoke that has entered through sample inlet 1, as follows:
                                                                              okeValveslClosed (0 + flow2)
    Smokel = DetectorSmokeAllValvesOpen(flowl + flow2) - DetectorSm
                                                             mfowl
10 Thus, if we know flowl, flow2 and the change in flow, we can solve the equation and determine
   what smoke level entered at sample inlet 1. This principle also works in the event that the
   valves 802 only partially restrict flow through their respective sampling hole when they are
   closed, so long as it is possible to determine the flow rate at each sampling inlet 29. In order to
   allow flow rate to be detected, the system 800 includes a flow sensor 804 at each sample inlet
15 29. The flow sensor 804 could be a high sensitivity flow sensor, such as an ultrasonic flow
   sensor or a lower cost thermal flow sensor of the type which will be known to those skilled in the
   art.
   In some embodiments, the valves 802 will not reduce the flow rate through their respective
   sample inlet to 0, but will only reduce it by some fraction. The following equation demonstrates
20 how in a two hole system, as described in relation to the last example, smoke level through
   sample inlet 1 (Smokel) may be calculated if valves are used to reduce the flow rate through
   their respective sampling holes to half their previous flow rate.
    Smokel  = DetectorSmokeAllValvesOpen(flowl +flow2) -DetectorSmokeValves1Closed(O.5flowl +flow2)
                                                      0.5flowl
   In a further embodiment of the present invention, instead of varying flow rate through the
25 sample inlet to solve the simultaneous equations, it is possible to vary the level of smoke

                                                      42
   entering each of the inlets. This can be achieved by selectively interposing a filter into the flow
   path through each of the sample inlets 29. An example of such a system is shown in Figures 9A
   & 9B. The system of figure 9A 900, includes a detector 11 connected to a sampling network 26,
   which includes sampling pipe 28, into which air samples are drawn through plurality of sample
 5 inlets 29. Each sample inlet additionally includes a selectable filter arrangement 902, which is
   shown in more detail in Figure 9B. The selectable filter arrangement 902 presents an air sample
   inlet 904 (equivalent to inlet 29) at one end, and a sample outlet 906 at the other. The air
   sample inlet 904 is open to the environment, and allows an air sample from the environment to
   be drawn into the selectable filter arrangement 902. The sample outlet 906 is connected to the
10 sampling pipe 28. Inside the selectable filter arrangement 902 are two flow paths, one path,
   908, which is unfiltered, and another 910 which includes a filter 912. The selectable filter
   arrangement 902 additionally includes a valve 914. The valve 914 is moveable between the first
   position in which it blocks the filtered flow path 910, and a second position in which it blocks the
   unfiltered flow path 908. After smoke has initially been detected by the detector 11, at a
15 threshold level, and the detector goes into its localisation mode, in which it attempts to
   determine which sample inlet 29 particles have entered the system from, the valve 914 is
   triggered to switch between the first position in which particles drawn in through the inlet 904
   are allowed to pass through to the outlet 906, into a second position, in which any particles
   entering the inlet 904 are removed from the airflow passing out of the outlet 906 by the filter
?0 912. In a preferred form, the filter 912 is a HEPA filter or other high efficiency filter which will
   remove substantially all particles from the airflow.
   The sampling point 29, and in this case the selectable filter arrangement 902 includes a flow
   sensor 916 to measure flow rate entering the sampling point 29.
   The selectable filter arrangement 902 can be configured to communicate with the detector 11
25 via the airflow path of the system 900. In an example such as this the communication protocol
   used by the detector 11 will need to signal such that each selectable filter arrangement 902 can
   be individually addressed or each selectable filter arrangement programmed to operate with a
   co-ordinated timing. More details of an example communication method are described in
   connection with figure 28.
30 As will be appreciated, a similar set of equations to that described in connection with the first
   example, can be applied to the system of the type illustrated in Figure 9A and 9B.

                                                       43
    For a two hole system, as discussed above, the level of smoke arriving at the detector when all
    sample inlets have their input unfiltered can be expressed with the following equation:
     DetectorSmokeAllUnfiltered = Smokel * flowl + Smoke2 * flow2
                                                 flowl + flow2
    Where, DetectorSmokeAI/Unfiltered is the level of smoke received at the detector when all flows
  5 are unfiltered, and all other terms are as described above in connection with equations 1
    through 4.
    After the selectable filter arrangement of the first sampling hole is moved into its filtered mode,
    the weighted sum expressing the level of smoke received at the detector is expressed as
    follows:
 10  DetectorSmokeFilteredl= 0 *     flowl + Smoke2 * flow2
                                          flowl + flow2
    Where, DetectorSmokeFllteredl is the level of smoke received at the detector when the flow
    through sample inlet 1 is fully filtered.
    Solving these equations simultaneously yields the following equation, from which the level of
    smoke arriving at sample inlet 1 can be determined.
15   Smokel = DetectorSmokeAllUnfilteredflow1 + flow2) - DetectorSmokeFilteredl(flowl + flow2)
                                                           flowl
    In order to handle increasing or decreasing smoke levels which may change reliability of this
    type of localisation process, the sequence of taking measurements in a first state and a second
    state can be repeated, and equivalent states averaged over a number of cycles. For example,
20  the first measurement with all valves open can be taken followed by a smoke level
    measurement with the varied parameter, followed again by an equivalent initial reading with all
    valves open again. The two valve open measurements can then be averaged and used in
    subsequent calculations.

                                                    44
   Further variation on the present systems can be implemented where instead of constricting or
   reducing the flow through each of the sampling points, the flow rate at the sampling points is
   increased, either by opening a valve, to increase the size of the sampling hole to decrease its
   flow impedance, and thereby increase the proportion of the total airflow from the system which
 5 is drawn through that sampling point, or by putting a fan at each sampling point and actuating or
   varying the speed of the fan to either increase or decrease the flow through the sampling point
   by a known amount.
   The above embodiment has been described with a simple two inlet system. However, as will be
   appreciated, an as described in Figures 8 and 9A, systems are likely to have more than two
10 sampling inlets. In such systems it is possible to scan through each of the inlets individually and
   vary the sampling parameter at only one inlet at a time. However, it may be beneficial to
   perform the variation in a grouped manner in which a subset of the total number of inlets have
   their sampling parameters adjusted in each measurement cycle. In some cases it may be
   possible to vary the sampling parameters of all sampling inlets by a differential amount in order
15 to determine the contribution of each. As will be appreciated, the more inlets in the system that
   there are, the more times the process of varying sampling parameters and remeasuring particle
   concentration needs to be performed in order to collect sufficient data to solve the necessary
   set of equations.
   The concept described in connection with figures 8, 9A and 9B can be extended more generally
?0 to a method for detecting contaminant(s) in air samples drawn from a plurality of air intake paths
   and determining the contaminant level in each. For example the methods could be applied to
   an aspirating particle detector that is coupled with a sampling network having a plurality of air
   sampling pipes feeding to the single detector, where the contribution from each pipe or branch
   of the sampling system is to be determined. Figure 7 describes a system in which this type of
25 'per pipe' localisation or addressing is used.
   In the example of Figure 7 the multi-pipe air sampling system may feed into a single
   contaminant detector such that it requires sampling of one pipe at a time, in order to determine
   which of the pipes has the contaminant in the air stream. This can be achieved by sealing all
   but one of the pipes and allowing a sample to enter the detector from one pipe at a time while
30 the detector measures the contaminant level. This is repeated for each of the pipes in the multi
   pipe air sampling network. The sealed pipe must be fully sealed against air flow in order to
   obtain accurate measures of the contaminant level in the open pipe.           However, complete

                                                      45
   sealing is very difficult to achieve in low or reasonable cost valves. However by using a method
   similar to that described in connection figures 8, 9A and 9B the requirement of complete sealing
   can be avoided.
   Figure 1OA schematically illustrates a sensing system 1010 having and a sampling pipe network
 5 1011 comprised of a total of two sampling pipes 1012, 1014. Each sampling pipe 1012, 1014
   defines an air intake path therethrough. The air intake paths are combined at manifold 1016.
   The manifold 1016 may include suitable baffles to assist with combining the air flows. Air is
   drawn through the sensing system 1010 through the use of the fan 1018. A subsample from the
   combined air flows is drawn through detector loop 1020 in which a filter 1022 and a particle
10 detector 1024 are provided. Once the air flow has passed through detector loop 1020, it rejoins
   the main air flow path 1019. A flow sensor 1026 may optionally be provided prior to the outlet
   1028 of the system 1010. As will be appreciated the sensing system 1010 is equivalent to the
   detector 11 of figure 1.
   Each of the sampling pipes 1012, 1014 has a valve such as a butterfly valve or another type of
15 flow modifier 1030, 1032. Additionally, each sampling pipe 1012, 1014 includes an ultrasonic
   flow sensor 1013 and 1015.
   It should be noted that, although the valves 1030, 1032, flow sensors 1013, 1015 and manifold
   1016 are illustrated as forming part of the sampling network 1011, they may equally be
   physically located within the housing of the sensing system 1010 and thus form part of the
20 sensing system 1010 without changing operation of the present invention.
   A method according to the present invention will now be described in connection with figures
   1OB to 1OD. In normal operation, each valve 1030, 1032 is fully open as shown in Figure 1OB.
   However, when the particle detector 1024 detects the presence of a contaminant in the sampled
   air flows at a predetermined level, the scanning method according to the present invention is
25 undertaken. Firstly, the first sampling pipe 1012 is partially closed as shown in Figure 10C. In
   this condition, the particle detector 1024 takes a measure of the contaminant (Cl). Additionally,
   the flow rate is measured in the sampling pipes 1012, 1014 (Fmp, where F is the flow, m is the
   measurement number and p is the pipe number. Thus, the flow rate measurements will be F11
   and F12) with flow sensors 1013 and 1015 respectively.

                                                                  46
   In the next step, the other sampling pipe 14 is partially blocked by moving the butterfly valve to
   the position illustrated in Figure 10D.                In this condition, the particle detector measures the
   contaminant level (C2). Additionally, flow rate measurements are taken (F21, F2 2 ).
   Assuming that the amount of contaminant (or relative amount of contaminant between pipes) is
 5 not changing significantly during the scanning period, the individual contaminant measurement
   for a pipe can be calculated from the following set of simultaneous equations:
           C1 = X 1 F,1 /(F 11 + F 12 ) + X 2 F 12/(F1 1 + F 12 )
           C2 = X 1 F21/(F 21 + F 22)   +X 2 F 22/(F 2 1 + F 22 )
           where X1 is the actual contamination in pipe 1 and X2 is the actual contamination in pipe
10 2.
   Advantageously, embodiments of the present invention enable cross-talk between the sample
   pipes, caused by imperfect sealing of the sample pipes, for a given species of contaminant to
   be eliminated without costly, precision valving. Instead, low-cost butterfly valves or other types
   of flow modifiers are sufficient to accurately eliminate the cross-talk, and allow pipe
I5 addressability to be achieved.
   As noted above, the instead of using valves to partially close the pipes, a filter could be
   selectively interposed into the pipes to reduce the contaminant level in each pipe temporarily by
   a known amount (preferably to 0) and the method adjusted to solve for Contaminant level as
   described above for hole addressing.
20 In the various embodiments described herein, a common step which is performed, is an initial
   detection of particles at a detector and more particularly an attempt to accurately identify the
   receipt of the smoke from a particular sampling inlet of the sampling system. In particular, the
   event which is most commonly sought to be detected is an arrival of a smoke front that is
   propagating down sampling pipe, and which represents smoke which entered a particular
25 sample inlet after a change in the operation in the sample network, e.g. opening or closing of
   valves or flushing the pipe network with clean fluid, or reversing flow direction or the like.
   Figures 11 A and 11 B illustrate this concept.

                                                      47
   Figure 11 A illustrates a particle detection system 1100, which includes the detector 1102, and a
   sampling pipe network 1104. Sampling network 1104 has three sample inlets, 1106, 1108 and
   1110. A smoke plume 1112 is located adjacent to sampling inlet 1108. Take for example a
   situation in which the direction of flow in the sampling network 1104 is reversed and the detector
 5 1102 is attempting to determine the time of arrival of smoke entering the system from sampling
   hole 1108. A graph of determined smoke concentration against time is illustrated in Figure 11 B.
   Initially, for some period, 1020 low smoke level is detected as the sample fluid arriving at the
   detector only contains sample fluid from sample inlet 1106. At time T1, an increase in smoke is
   detected. Over the next time period 1022, when the sample from inlet 1108 begins arriving the
10 detected smoke level ramps up until time T2, when approximate steady state level is detected.
   In the graph of Figure 11 B, the ramp-up 1022 is not due to an increase in smoke level, but due
   to a smearing or diffusion of the smoke front of sample entering sampling hole 1108. If the entry
   of particles from the environment into the sampling network was even and instantaneous, there
   would be a step change in the smoke level detected by the detector 1102, at T1 when the
15 sample from hole 1108 arrives at the detector 11.
   The present inventors believe that there are a range of factors contributing to the diffusion of the
   smoke front, representing the arrival of the sample portion that includes an air sample drawn
   through a particular one of the sample inlets of the sampling system. Chief amongst these is
   suspected to be the existence of a flow speed gradient across the cross-section of the air
?0 sampling duct. Figure 11C illustrates a cross section through an air sampling duct 1130 such as
   pipe 1104. Arrows 1132 indicate that flow rate in the central portion of the duct 1130 is greater
   than the flow rate near the walls of the duct.
   The belief is that it takes some amount of time for a sample being drawn in through a sample
   inlet, e.g. 1134 to break into the fast flowing central region of the flow in the duct 1130, and
25 therefore the smoke front is smeared out when it arrives at the detector. This mechanism
   however has competing factors, namely initially a sample will be introduced into the slow flowing
   peripheral air within the duct which will delay its arrival at the detector. However over time part
   of the sample will find its way into the fast flowing central region which will minimise its transport
   time to the detector.
30 The inventors have proposed that a physical structure can be placed in the duct of the sampling
   network (i.e. in the pipe of the sampling network) to ameliorate this problem. In a first family of
   solutions, the inventors propose a sample injection inlet which extends inward from the wall

                                                      48
   1131 of the pipe 1130, towards the centre 1133 of the pipe 1130, so as to deliver the sample in
   the faster flowing region of the sample flow. Three examples of such a sample injection inlet are
   shown in Figure 12.
   In Figure 12, a duct forming part of an air sampling system in the form of pipe 1200 is illustrated.
 5 The pipe 1200 is defined by a wall 1202. Three sample injection inlets 1204, 1206 and 1208 are
   also illustrated. The first sample injection inlet 1204 is a short tube 1210, which extends from
   the side wall into the pipe 1200, towards its centre 12-12. Sample injection inlet 1206, is similar
   to inlet 1210 but terminates on its inside end 1214 with a Chamfered tip. The tip has the effect
   of functionally making the outlet 1216 point in a downstream direction with respect to the flow
10 within the pipe.
   Finally, sample injection inlet 1208 takes the form of an inverted L shaped tube 1220. Its inlet is
   external to the duct 1200, and its outlet 1222 faces in a downstream direction and is aligned
   with the centre of the duct 1200, thus injecting samples, drawn into the sample inlet 1208, at the
   centre of the pipe in the fastest flowing fluid flow. These three examples take advantage of the
15 faster flowing central region of flow within the pipe to minimise smearing of samples drawn in
   through the sample inlet.
   An alternative to this injection method is illustrated in 13A to 13D. This series of examples uses
   a structure which creates turbulence within the duct of the sampling system to prevent or disrupt
   laminar airflow within the sampling duct, to thereby minimise flow gradient of the type illustrated
20 in Figure 11C. Figures 13A to 13D each illustrate a segment of duct 1300, 1310, 13,20 and
   1330 respectively.
   In Figure 13A, the inside wall 1302 of the duct 1300 is used as a turbulator. The wall 1302 has
   been roughened or given surface contour or texture such as ribs, lines, bosses, or other, to
   create a rough surface that disrupts flow across it.
25 In Figure 13B the turbulator is a series of turbulence causing protrusions 1312 extending inward
   from the wall 1310 of the pipe, and are used to caused disruption of laminar flow within the pipe
   1310.
   Figure 13C illustrates an example in which a plurality of turbulence causing members extend
   the full breadth of the pipe 1320. In this example the turbulators are in the form of open mesh

                                                     49
   elements 1322. The open mesh elements 1322 have a hole size sufficiently large that they will
   tend not to clog over time but will cause turbulence to be created in the pipe 1320. As will be
   appreciated by those skilled in the art, a range of different shaped turbulators which span
   across the interior of a sampling duct can be devised.
 5 Figure 13D illustrates a further example in which a moving turbulence causing element 1332 is
   placed inside the pipe 1330. In this case, a series of fans 1334 and 1336 are supported in the
   pipe 1330. The fans may be actively driven or passively rotating, but serve to stir the air or
   cause turbulence therein, as the air flows past them.
   In this example, it has been convenient to describe the turbulence causing structure in a region
10 of the duct which is an adjacent sampling inlet, however it should be noted that there is no
   particular reason why this should be done and the turbulence causing structure could be placed
   away from sampling inlets.
   As will be appreciated with the four examples described above, the purpose of the turbulence
   causing structure is to break down the flow profile across the air sampling duct such that the air
15 entering from a sampling inlet will travel along the sampling duct to the detector like a 'packet',
   rather than having part of it travel relatively faster or slower than another part and thereby
   smear out the arrival of the sample front at the detector.
   Alternatively, or in addition to the techniques described above, the present inventors have
   identified that additional improvements in detecting which sample inlet of a plurality of sample
20 inlets, smoke is received from by at least partially ameliorating the effect of dilution on air
   samples drawn into the sampling network. Consider a particle detection system such as that
   illustrated in Figure 11 A. In such a system, the air sample drawn into sampling pipe 1108 will be
   drawn into the sampling pipe 1104, where it mixes with, and is diluted by a sample drawn from
   sampling point 1110. Similarly, the air sample drawn from sample inlet 1106 is diluted by
25 samples drawn from all up-stream sample inlets. Thus, by the time air samples arrive at the
   detector 1102, the actual concentration of particles which is detected will be greatly diluted
   compared to the sample concentration in the atmosphere surrounding the particular sampling
   inlet through which the particles entered the sampling network. The present inventors have
   determined that certain modifications to the systems described herein can be performed to
30 ameliorate this problem, either by increasing the concentration of samples drawn into the
   sampling pipe, such that they more closely reflect the actual concentration of particles in the

                                                    50
   atmosphere surrounding this sampling point and/or by providing mechanisms for delivering
   samples to the detector with minimal additional dilution.
   Figure 14 illustrates a first exemplary system 1400 which implements such a technique. The
   system 1400 includes a detector 11, and an air sampling network 26 including a sampling pipe
 5 28 having five sample inlets 29 at the far end 1402 of the air sampling pipe 28, the detector
   system 1400 includes a sample amplification arrangement in the form of bellows 1404, which
   are driven by an actuation means 1406. The bellows 1404 perform the function of blowing or
   sucking air along or from the sampling pipe network in a manner to be described below. As will
   be appreciated by those skilled in the art, a wide variety of systems could be used to replace the
10 bellows structure, for example, a reciprocating pneumatic piston, or reversible fan or pump or
   other like air movement device could be used in place of the bellows 1404.
   Operation of system 1400 will now be described. Initially, once particles at a threshold level
   have been detected by the detector 11, the system 1400 enters a localisation mode in which the
   location of particles in the system will be determined. In this mode, the primary air movement
15 system, e.g. the aspirator 16 of the detector 11 is stopped and the system enters a sample
   amplification phase in which the controller communicates via communications channel 1408
   with the actuation device 1406 of the bellows 1404. With the fan stopped, or alternatively with a
   valve at the detector end of the sampling network 26 closed, the sampling pipe 28 contains a
   fixed volume of air, in use the bellows 1404 is used to increase and decrease the volume of air
?0 contained within the sampling pipe network 26. When the bellows is expanded the volume
   increases and additional sample fluid is drawn into each of the sampling inlets 29. When the
   bellows is contracted some portion of the air within the sampling network 26 is expelled from the
   sampling inlets 29. By expanding and contracting the volume of air within the sampling pipe
   network, air is repeatedly pumped into and out of each of the sampling inlets creating a
25 localised sample portion within the sampling pipe 28, surrounding each of the sampling inlets
   29, which more closely reflect the level of particles of interest in the environment directly
   adjacent each of the sampling inlets 29, than would be the case with the continually drawn and
   continually diluted sample stream.
   Consider the situation at a single one of the sampling inlets 29, the air sample drawn into the
30 sampling inlet enters the sample pipe network and mixes with the existing flow within the pipe
   28. The existing air flowing past the sampling inlet dilutes the sample with samples drawn from
   all upstream sampling inlets. When the flow in the pipe 28 is stopped by closing a valve 1410 at

                                                     51
   the detector end of the pipe 28 or possibly by stopping the aspirator of the detector 11, then the
   bellows 1404 are contracted and then, some portion of air within the sampling pipe 28
   surrounding the sampling point 29 is expelled from the sampling point 29, as air is pushed along
   the sampling pipe 29 by the bellows. However, the air which is expelled from each sampling
 5 point includes the diluting samples from the upstream sampling points. Suction is again applied
   to the pipe network 28 by expanding the bellows 1404 and an additional air sample is drawn
   into each sampling point. Whilst this sample is also diluted by the fluid which already exists
   within the sampling pipe adjacent the sampling point, part of this diluting air is the air sample
   which was previously drawn into the sampling point of interest. Therefore, the total
10 concentration after the second sampling is increased compared to the first. With repeated
   cycles of expelling and sampling via a sampling inlet, the proportion of air within the pipe 28 in a
   portion of the sample surrounding the sampling inlet begins to approach increases and the
   particle level begins to approach that in the atmosphere surrounding sampling inlet. Using this
   method, discrete sample portions within the sampling pipe 29 are formed which represent, more
15 closely, the environment surrounding the sampling inlets. Because dilution is reduced, the
   methods described above which rely on detection of the onset of a smoke level increase i.e. a
   smoke front to determine the location of entry of particles along the sampling network can be
   improved.      Once the sample amplification phase is completed the system enters a
   transportation phase and moves the sampled air, now including sample packets which are
?0 relatively localised, back to the detector for analysis.
   Figures 14A to 14E illustrate an exemplary system that uses a vibrating membrane, e.g. a
   speaker to perform sample amplification. The system 1420 includes a particle detector 11
   coupled to an air sampling network 26. The air sampling network 26 includes a sampling pipe
   28 having a plurality of air sample inlets 29. The air sampling network is coupled to the detector
25 via a sample amplification arrangement 1422 and aspirator 1424. The aspirator 1424 operates
   to draw samples into the sampling network and push them to the detector 11 for analysis in a
   manner that will be described in more detail bellow. The sample amplification arrangement 1422
   performs a similar job to the bellows of figure 14 in that it causes oscillation of the flow direction
   in the air sample system to promote mixing of air in the region of surrounding each sample inlet
30 29 and air in the sampling pipe 28. In this example the sample amplification arrangement 1422
   includes a membrane 1426 that is mounted within a housing 1428 and driven back and forth in
   reciprocating motion by an actuator. The actuator and membrane can be provided by a
   loudspeaker. Preferably the membrane is made to oscillate at a subsonic frequency, and most
   preferably at between 2 and 10 Hz.

                                                   52
   In ordinary operation the aspirator 1424 runs at a first speed setting that is sufficient meet
   sample transport time requirements and draws air samples to the detector 11.       Once particles
   are detected in the sample flow, the system 1420 enters a localisation mode beginning with a
   sample amplification phase. In this phase, illustrated in figure 14A, the fan enters a low speed
 5 operation and the sample amplification arrangement 1422 is activated. The membrane 1426
   oscillates and agitates the air in the pipe 28 to cause mixing with air nearby the entrance to
   each sample inlet 29. Because the fan is running at low speed, a mixed air sample that more
   closely approaches the true particle concentration in the air surrounding the sampling network
   26 enters each sampling inlet 29 and slowly builds a packet of air downstream of each inlet. In
10 figures 14B to 14D the agitation is continued as the fan 1424 runs slowly and builds the sample
   packet 1430.
   Next in figure 14E, the system 10 enters transportation phase. In this mode the fan 1424
   increases speed, and the membrane 1426 is stopped. The sample packets, e.g. 1430 are then
   drawn back to the detector 12 with the fan running in fast mode. As described below, various
15 techniques (e.g. by blocking sampling inlets, opening the end of the pipe etc.) can be employed
   to minimise mixing or smearing of the sample packets to thereby increase the reliability the
   localisation techniques applied. Figure 15 illustrates a second embodiment of a system 1500
   which performs a similar method to that described in connection to Figure 14.
   In Figure 15 like features have been like numbered with respect to Figure 14 and the earlier
?0 embodiments and for brevity will not be re-explained. In this example, the sampling network 26,
   at its distal end 1502 includes a fan 1504, and a valve 1506. Optionally at the end 1508 of the
   sampling pipe 28 which is closest to the detector 11, there may additionally be a second valve
   1510. In this example, the valve 1506 is normally closed while valve 1510 is open during
   ordinary operation of the detector 11. Once the detector goes into its localisation mode
25 however, the position of the valves 1510 and 1506 is changed and valve 1510 is closed and
   valve 1506 is opened. The fan 1504 is then used to perform the same function as the bellows
   1404 of Figure 14. In this regard the fan 1504 is used to either blow some of the contents of the
   sampling pipe 26 from the sampling points 29, or suck samples in through the sampling points
   29 as described above. As will be appreciated, this oscillation of between sucking and blowing
30 samples can be performed by the primary aspirator of the particle detector 11. However, by
   putting the fan 1504 at the far end of the sampling pipe network 28, an additional advantage can
   be gained, namely that the fan 1504 can be used at the end of this process to push the contents
   of the sampling pipe 126 to the detector 11, rather than using the aspirator of the detector 11 to

                                                   53
   suck air samples down the sampling pipe 28. The advantage of using a blower fan 1504 at the
   end of the pipe 28 is that the sampling pipe 28 becomes positively pressurised and thus during
   the transportation phase does not draw any additional air samples from the environment
   surrounding the sampling points 29. In this way, a relatively undiluted column of sampling air
 5 containing packets/portions of sample air corresponding to each sampling inlet 29 is delivered
   to the detector 11 such that the 'packets' of sample which were formed by the oscillation
   process can be distinctly detected by the detector 11. As will be further appreciated the
   oscillation of between sucking and blowing samples during sample amplification can be
   performed by using the primary aspirator of the particle detector 11 and the fan 1504 operating
10 in concert. For example, both fans may be set to operate synchronously, i.e. moving air in one
   direction and then the other to enhance localised mixing of samples around their respective
   sampling holes, or alternatively the fans can be set to alternately apply suction to their
   respective ends of pipe 26 to draw the sample fluid along the pipe in one direction. Thus rather
   than using the bellow-like push/pull on the sample flow from one end of the pipe 26 an
15 alternating pull/pull mechanism from two ends of the pipe is used. At the non-pulling end a valve
   can be closed (or partially closed) to control the amount of sample flow entering the pipe's 26
   end. Advantageously this mechanism allows the system to increase the concentrating effect of
   bellows action. It also allows the sample packet to be formed on both upstream and
   downstream of the sample inlet position. The increased concentrating effect also enables the
?0 system to cut down on the number of flow oscillation cycles for any given concentration
   increase or mixing increase, relative to a system that acts at one end. This scheme may also
   average out (and possibly neutralise) the effect that fires closer to the detector end up with a
   higher slug concentration. As will be described below in connection with figures 18 and 19 a
   double ended flow modulation can be advantageously used to selectively perform sample
25 amplification.
   The system of Figure 15 can be further modified as illustrated in Figure 15B. In this example the
   particle detection system 1350 includes an air sampling system similar to that of figure 15 and
   similar features have been like numbered. However this system 1520 additionally includes two
   branch pipes 1522 and 1524 which enable additional modes of operation. The first branch 1522
30 is located at the downstream end of the pipe network, ideally between the entry to the detector
   11 and the nearest sampling point 29. The branch pipe 1522 includes:
            A fan 1526, which can be used to purge the sampling system in a manner to be
   described.

                                                      54
           A filter 1528, which may inter alia be a HEPA filter or the like, which is used to clean the
   purging air delivered by the fan 1526.
           A valve 1530 for selectively opening and closing the branch 1522 as needed.
   The second branch pipe 1524 includes a valve 1532, and is used as an exhaust from the
 5 sampling pipe 28 during purging, as will be described below.
   The system 1520 operates the in the same way as the system 1500 of figure 15 in detection
   mode, namely with the main aspirator of the detector 11 acting to draw air samples through the
   sampling inlets 29, along the sampling pipe 28 to the detector 11 for analysis. In detection mode
   the valves 1530, 1532 and 1502 are closed to prevent the air which is not associated with a
10 sampling inlet 29 from being drawn into the system and diluting the air samples. Valves 1510 is
   open.
   Once particles are detected to a sufficient extent, the system 1520 goes into localisation mode
   and the following steps occur:
           Valve 1510 is closed and the fan of the main detector 11 stops drawing air down the
I5 sampling pipe 28.
           Valves 1530 and 1532 (and possibly also 1502) are opened to enable purging of the
   sample air from the sampling pipe 28.
           The fan 1526 is activated, and air is drawn into the branch 1522, through the filter 1528,
   where it is cleaned and into the sampling pipe 28. This clean air purges the pipe 28 of particle
20 laden air and displaces it with clean air.
           Valves 1530, 1532 and 1502 are closed and valve 1510 is opened and the main detector
   11 fan is used to draw new air samples into the sampling inlets 29. This process only operates
   for a short period of time, say between 5 and 20 seconds, or as long as possible so as to avoid
   mixing of air samples that are drawn into adjacent sampling inlets 29. In this way packets of
25 particle laden air are built up in the pipe 28. As will be appreciated this step could be augmented
   by performing one of the various concentrating techniques described herein, but in this
   embodiment sufficient sensitivity might be achieved without this added complication. As noted

                                                   55
   above, the use of the pusher fan 1504 also aids in delivering a relatively undiluted column of
   sampling air to the detector 11, which may obviate the need for an amplification stage in some
   embodiments.
           The detector then moves into a transportation phase in which the main detector's 11
 5 aspirator is then deactivated and valve 1502 opened. Valve 1510 remains open.
           The pusher fan 1504 is activated and the packets of sample air are pushed down the
   pipe 28 for analysis.
           The air samples are then analysed and the presence of particles versus volume (or other
   techniques) is used to determine through which inlet 29, the particles entered the system. In this
10 example, analysis of the sample air in the localisation phase is performed by second particle
   detector 1534. This detector has a relatively fast response compared to that of detector 11.
   This detector 1534 may not be as sensitive or stable in its output as detector 11, but as the
   particle level is likely to have increased (e.g. because of an increase in fire activity) as the
   localisation process is taking place, speed of detection may be a priority over sensitivity or
15 accuracy. Furthermore actual particle concentration data can still be obtained by the main
   particle detector 11 as the air samples can pass through both detectors in series.
   The main detector 11 and high speed detector 1534 may be part of the same particle detector
   (e.g. two particle detection chambers in a single device) or may be different devices, e.g.
   located in series. Furthermore the main detector 11 may be used alone. In this case the main
20 detector could optionally be configured to operate in a high speed mode in which it has an
   improved response rate compared to its ordinary detection mode. This could be achieved by
   temporarily changing software parameters of the detector 11 e.g. reducing periods over which
   particle concentration levels are averaged etc. or by activating a second data processing path
   which receives detection chamber output data (or similar) and which is optimised for response
25 rate.
   As will be apparent from the foregoing the branches 1522 and 1524 and their respective
   components, and the fast response detector 1534, are optional additions to the system 1500 of
   figure 15. In order to implement the foregoing method all that is really needed over and above

                                                    56
   the system 1500 of figure 15 is a mechanism for delivering purging air to the pipe network 26
   and a mechanism for controlling the system's valves to enter and exit the purge mode.
   Figure 16 illustrates a further example of a system implementing the oscillation method and a
   mechanism for reduced dilution of delivery of final, increased concentration, air samples to the
 5 detector. The system 1600 includes a detector 11, and sampling pipe network 26, as described
   in connection with Figures 14 and 15, and similar features have been labelled with the same
   reference numerals. In this example, the process of oscillating between sucking and blowing
   samples is performed by the primary aspirator of the detector 11. The sampling network 26 is
   additionally provided with a valve 1602 located upstream of the final sampling inlet 29. After
10 sample concentration has been increased, as described above, using the main aspirator of the
   detector 11, the valve 1602, which is coupled to the controller of the detector 11 by
   communications channel 1604, is opened. The valve 1602 is configured to open the end of the
   sampling network to the atmosphere such that it approximates an open pipe which has
   substantially less flow impedance than any one of the sampling inlets 29. When the aspirator of
15 the detector 11 then applies suction to the sampling network 26, drawing air is preferentially
   drawn into the end of the sampling pipe 28, and the sample packets already within the pipe 28
   are drawn along to the detector 11. Because the open pipe end has low flow impedance, the
   level of air drawn into each of the sampling inlets 29 is greatly reduced, thus greatly reducing
   dilution of the samples as they are delivered to the detector 11. The reduced tendency for air to
?0 be drawn into the sampling inlets 29, when the valve 1602 is opened will also reduce the
   modification of the sample packets by smoke in the environment at or near the location of other
   sampling holes. The reduced flow into the sampling holes 29 when the valve 1602 is open will
   also make the calculation of the smoke source position less dependent on the flow at the
   sampling holes. As described above, the system is initially trained to determine which hole a
25 sample packet has arrived from based on how much air is drawn through the sampling network
   once the localisation phase has been entered. However, because the sampling holes may block
   in a variable way over time the reliability of volume or time measurements based on the initial
   training may vary over time.      By opening the valve 1602 the sample inlets 29 become less
   influential in the flow in the sampling pipe 28 and consequently the effect of differential blocking
30 of the sampling inlets 29 over system life will be reduced. Finally opening the valve 1602 will
   reduce flow impedance and the transportation phase faster. e.g. 40 sec for a 100 m pipe at 50
   L/min rather than 110 sec with the end of the pipe closed.

                                                     57
   In some embodiments the valve 1602 of sampling network 28 beyond the last sampling inlet 29
   can be provide with a filter, e.g. a HEPA filter through which air is drawn. This assists the
   sample packet from the last sample inlet 29 in standing out from the air being drawn into the
   end of the pipe which might also contain particles or interest or even dust. Such a HEPA filter
 5 could also be used in conjunction with a pusher fan to implement a purging phase similar to that
   described in connection with figure 15B, by suitable operation of the valves 1602 and fans of the
   system.
   As will be appreciated in the examples given herein, valves could additionally be applied to
   each of the sampling inlets 29 to further facilitate the effect of the flow control mechanisms (eg.
10 bellow, fan, valve and equivalent structures) applied to the end of the pipe. For example, each
   of the sampling inlets 29 can be provided with a valve which is controlled in concert with the
   pipe end flow control system to optimise its performance.
   Figures 20A and 20B illustrate two embodiments of the present invention, which may offer a
   particularly convenient set up compared to some of the embodiments illustrated above. These
15 embodiments can be used in a manner equivalent to the systems of figures 14 and 15
   respectively, and like features have been like numbered.
   The system 2010 of figure 20A differs from the embodiment of figure 14 in that the air sampling
   pipe 28 is provided with a return portion 2002 connected to the upstream end of sampling pipe
   portion 2012. This brings the far end 1402 of the sampling network 26 back to a location near to
20 the detector 11. In this example, the bellows 1404 and its associated actuation means 1406
   along with valve 1510 are mounted together in a common module 2004. Most preferably
   module can be connected mechanically and electrically to the detector 11. In a similar fashion,
   the system 2000 of figure 20B differs from the embodiment of figure 15 in that the air sampling
   pipe 28 is provided with a return pipe portion 2002 connected to the upstream end of sampling
25 pipe portion 2012. The far end 1502 of the sampling network 26 is thus located near to the
   detector 11 such that the fan 1504 and with valves 1506 and 1510 can be mounted together in
   a common module 2004.
   A localisation module (e.g. module 2004) can be used to implement any embodiments of the
   present inventions described herein in a convenient manner. Such modules could be retrofitted
30 to detector systems not originally intended to perform localisation or provided as optional add
   on modules so that purchasers of new equipment can be provided with a choice as to whether

                                                   58
   or not to buy a detector with these features. For example a module could be provided which
   implements the system of figure 15B by housing the following equipment:
            the branch 1524 with vales 1532,
            valve 1506 and pusher fan 1504
 5          branch 1522 with its fan 1526, 1528 and valve 1530 along with valve 1510.
   Similarly the valve 1602 and possibly also a HEPA filter could be housed in a similar module.
   Whilst these embodiments require an extra length of pipe for the pipe network to loop back to
   near the detector 11, they offer the advantage that power and electrical communications lines
   do not need to be run to a position remote from the detector 11 to power and control the
10 components of the system mounted to the upstream end 1402/1502 of the sampling pipe
   network 26, This may assist in making system installation more straightforward. Moreover it
   facilitates commissioning and testing since the most complex components are now located at a
   single location.
   In the various embodiments illustrated in figures 8, 9a and 9b, 14 through to 20b. Various
15 components of the systems described are required to communicate with the detector 11 or
   other control component of the particle detection system illustrated. In the previously described
   embodiments communication takes place usually over a hard wired communications channel, or
   optionally via a wireless (e.g. radio) communication channel, for example communications link
   1408 in figure 14). The present inventors have realised that a hard wired communication path
20 need not be present but that the airflow path through the detection system could be used for
   communication between the detector or other controlling entity and another component or
   accessory of the system.
   In most embodiments, the accessory will comprise a flow control device such as a valve, fan,
   filter or other element of the system that takes part in performing localisation technique
25 described herein for example the accessory could include the valve 1502 and/or fan 1504 as
   used in the example of figure 15. Details of an exemplary accessory, in the form of a valve, are
   illustrated in figure 28.

                                                    59
   The accessory 2800 is mounted to a portion of a sampling pipe 28 and has access to the airflow
   path 2802 contained within the sampling pipe 28. The accessory 2800 includes one or more
   sensors 2804 which are used to sense the condition in the airflow path 2802, such as flow
   speed, direction and/or pressure. The sensors 2804 are connected to controller 2806 and pass
 5 output signals indicative of their sensed condition to it. The controller 2806 receives sensor
   signals and processes these, and in turn controls the operation of the accessory as required.
   In the present example the accessory 2800 includes a valve 2808 which may be selectively
   opened and closed under control of the controller 2806. The accessory 2800 is preferably
   powered by a battery 2810, rather than by hard wired power connection (although this is
10 possible) in order to minimise wiring and installation requirements for the accessory.
   In use, sensors 2804 are used by the accessory 2800 to sense the present state of the primary
   particle detector by receiving and detecting changes in airflow in the air sampling pipe 28. The
   controller 2806 interprets changes in the air flow 2802 as a communication from the detection
   system, and in response determines what action it should be taking at for the present instant.
15 For example, in the localisation techniques described herein, the localisation phase may be
   begun by temporarily shutting down, slowing or changing direction of the main aspirator of the
   detector 11 or by changing the condition of one or more valves at the detector end of the
   system. This in turn causes the air flow 2802 in the sampling pipe 28 to change. The variation in
   air flow is sensed by the sensors 2804 as a changing air flow speed and pressure in the pipe
?0 28. The change is interpreted by the controller 2806 to be a control signal from the detector 11
   to take an appropriate control step in response to the sensed change in flow pattern. For
   example, detecting a cease in airflow 2802 may signal to the controller 2806 that the detection
   system has gone into a localisation mode and that the valve 2808 should be opened.
   Alternatively, more complex operations may be performed upon detection of a control signal
25 through the air flow path 2802. For example, when the accessory 2800 senses that the system
   had entered localisation mode, the accessory enters its localisation mode in which a localisation
   routine is performed. This may involve the accessory operating in a first condition for first time
   period and then in second condition for a second time period and so on. To give a more
   concrete example, the valve 2802 may be controlled to remain closed for a predetermined
30 period of time, say one minute while the other elements of the particle detection system perform
   a sample amplification routine. After the predetermined time elapses the controller may cause
   the valve 2808 to open in order for the detector to operate in a "transportation phase" of the

                                                    60
   localisation process to enable the delivery of concentrated sample "packets" back to the
   detector 11 for analysis.
   As would be appreciated, if the localisation process includes an oscillation in flow in order to
   perform sample amplification, the sensors 2804 can sense the oscillation and the controller can
 5 respond to this to ensure that the valve or other flow control structure of the like is set in its
   appropriate operating condition.
   Patterns of temporal changes in airflow can also be created by the detection system to encode
   control messages for an accessory, or to allow addressing of particular accessories in systems
   with multiple accessories that require independent control (e.g. the valves 802, 902 in figures 8
IO and 9A)
   This principle of operation to be extended to use the air flow path within the air sampling system
   26 of a detector system to communicate in other ways such as by the application of sound
   pulses or the like. Clearly in such embodiments sensors in the form of suitable acoustic
   transducers would be needed in the accessory to sense these communication signals.
15 Figure 29 illustrates a particle detection system 2900 including a particle detector 11, a
   localisation module 2004 and sampling pipe network 26 and an accessory 2902 similar to that
   described in connection with figure 28. The sampling pipe network 26 includes a sampling pipe
   28 having a series of sampling inlets 29 spaced along its length. The localisation module
   includes 2004 includes a reciprocating piston 2904 which acts as a sample amplification
20 arrangement in the localisation process.
   The accessory 2900 in this example includes a fan 2908 and a valve 2910 which are controlled
   by a controller of the accessory in response to the accessory's sensors (being a flow sensor
   and pressure sensor, that are not shown) detecting signals in the sampling pipe 28 that indicate
   the state of the system.
25 In ordinary detection mode the accessory has its valve 2910 closed so that samples are drawn
   through the sample inlets 29. When the detector 11 detects particles at a predetermined level it
   enters a localisation mode. This initially involves a purge phase in which the main aspirator is
   reversed and air blown out of the sampling pipe 28. This causes an increase in pressure in the
   (previously slightly negatively pressurised) sampling pipe. The sensors of the accessory 2900

                                                    61
   detect this and it interpreted by the accessory's controller as a signal that localisation mode has
   been activated. The controller then opens the valve and allows air to be purged out through the
   end of the pipe 28 to atmosphere instead of out through the sample inlets.
   When this flow ceases the reduction in pipe pressure and flow is detected by the sensors of the
 5 accessory 2900 and the processor interprets this as a signal to close the valve 2910.
   Next the localisation module 2004 performs sample amplification by using the piston to oscillate
   the sample flow in the sampling pipe in a manner described above. The sensors of the
   accessory 2900 and detect the oscillations in flow and/or pressure and the processor interprets
   this as a signal to keep the valve 2910 in the closed position while sample amplification occurs.
10 Upon detecting ceasing of the oscillation phase, the accessory 2900 interprets this as an
   instruction that the transportation phase has begun and opens its valve 2910 and activates its
   pusher fan 2908 to push the sample to the detector 11 for analysis.
   The transportation phase is stopped upon the accessory 2900 sensing a change flow caused by
   the detector or localisation module. For example, the main aspirator of the detector 11 could be
15 temporarily stopped, slowed or reversed, a valve closed, to cause a pressure change that
   signals the end of the transportation phase to the accessory 2900. In embodiments with a
   pusher fan 2908 such as this one, the transportation phase could be run for a predetermined
   time if running the pusher fan makes receiving a signal from the detector via the airflow path
   unreliable.
20 At the end of the transportation phase the accessory closes the valve 2910 and the system
   returns to normal detection operation.
   Figure 21 illustrates a further embodiment of an aspect of the present invention that leverages
   the existence of a pair of side by side pipe portions provided in embodiments like that of figures
   20A and 20B. The particle detection system 2100 is similar to the system of figures 20 and 20A,
25 however the positioning of the sample inlets along the pipe network 26 have been adjusted to
   aid the process of localisation. In this regard one of the difficulties in a practical implementation
   of the localisation techniques described herein is that of the ability to resolve neighbouring
   addresses, i.e. if the sample inlets join a sampling pipe too close together, it can be very difficult
   to detect when an air sample from one sampling inlet ends and an air sample from the next

                                                     62
   sample inlet begins. In the present embodiment, and that of figures 22 and 23, the ability to
   resolve samples has been enhanced by arranging the position of the sampling inlets along the
   sampling points such that they are spaced out further than the minimum spacing. Turning now
   to figure 21 which illustrates a particle detection system 2100 including a particle detector 11, a
 5 localisation module 2004 and sampling pipe network 26. The sampling pipe network includes a
   sampling pipe 28 having a series of sampling inlets 29 spaced along its length. Similar to figures
   20A and 20A, the sampling pipe is a loop arrangement, or rather has two pipe portions following
   a similar path, e.g. two pipes 28A and 28B running parallel or generally in a side by side
   arrangement. However in contrast to the embodiment of figures 20A and 20B the sampling
10 inlets 29 in the system 2100 are spaced along both pipes portions 28A and 28B, thus the
   upstream pipe 28B is not provided to simply allow convenient connection of the upstream end of
   pipe particle portion 28A to the localisation module 2004. Instead, some of the sampling inlets
   29 are positioned along the upstream pipe portion 28B and others on the downstream pipe
   portion 28A. This enables the spacing between sampling inlets to be increased by interleaving
15 sampling points 29 positioned along the upstream pipe portion 28B with those positioned on the
   downstream pipe portion 28A as the sampling pipe 28 traverses neighbouring regions R1 to R8.
   As will be appreciated, in some embodiments the sampling pipe 28 extends through the regions
   R1 to R8 being monitored and the sampling inlets may be directly coupled to the sampling pipes
   or even be a hole directly formed in the pipe wall, however, a sampling pipe 28 does not need to
?0 actually pass through the regions R1 to R8 in order to service the region. In fact in many
   installations a sampling pipe will pass by the region but just outside it, e.g. above a ceiling panel
   of a room being monitored for particles, outside a housing of a series of cabinets being
   monitored or the like. These installations may use a length of pipe connected to the main
   sampling pipe which leads to a sampling point arrangement that is in fluid communication with
25 the region being monitored.
   In embodiments of this aspect of the present invention, the spacing of the sampling point
   arrangements of neighbouring regions is closer together than the distance between their points
   of connection to the sampling pipe network when measured along the flow path in the pipe.
   Figures 22 and 23 illustrate additional implementations. Figure 23 illustrates a system 2300
30 including a particle detector 11 connected to an air sampling network 26. The air sampling
   network includes a single run of three side-by-side, preferably parallel sampling pipe portions
   2202, 2204, 2206. The downstream pipe portion 2202 is connected to the particle detector 11
   on one end and to the next sampling pipe portion 2204 on its other end. The sampling pipe

                                                     63
   portion 2204 is also connected to the upstream sampling pipe portion 2206. The sampling
   points 29 are arranged such that each sampling point 29 connects to a different sampling pipe
   portion to its neighbours. That is, the sampling point servicing R1 connects to pipe portion 2202,
   whereas the sampling point servicing R2 connects to sampling pipe portion 2204, and the
 5 sampling point servicing R3 is connected to sampling pipe portion 2206. This pattern is
   repeated such that the sampling point servicing R4 connects to sampling pipe portion 2202 etc.
   In this way the distance between the sampling points 29, when measured along the length of
   the flow path of the sampling pipe is three times what is would be if a single run sampling pipe is
   used. The added separation between the points of connection makes resolving samples that
10 are drawn from one sampling inlet from another more straightforward.
   A further advantage that may be realised, in addition to the spreading out of the sampling points
   along the pipe network, arises from the (relative) re-ordering of the connection order to the pipe
   network, which it may increase reliability of localisation. In some cases the mixing or merging of
   samples in the sampling pipe network may mask (or falsely suggest) the presence of particles in
15 physically neighbouring regions. By separating the points of connection of the air sampling
   points of one region, from that of its neighbours, in the sampling pipe network (most preferably
   by connecting a sampling point servicing at least one non-neighbouring region between them)
   the level independence of the air samples within the sampling system may be maintained to a
   higher degree.
?0 Accordingly there is provided an air sampling system for a particle detection system for
   monitoring a plurality of regions, said regions being arranged such that at least one region
   physically neighbours another of the regions, wherein the air sampling system includes a
   sampling pipe network including a plurality of sample inlet arrangements, each of which
   services a respective region, and which is connected to the sampling pipe such that the
25 sampling inlet arrangement of at least one region has a point of connection that is separated
   from the point of connection of a physically neighbouring region. Most preferably the point of
   connection of a sampling point arrangement of at least one non-neighbouring region is located
   between the points of connection of sampling inlet arrangements of the neighbouring regions. A
   particle detection system , including the air sampling system and at least one particle detector is
30 also provided.
   Figure 23 illustrates another embodiment which implements this scheme. In this example the
   particle detector 11 is coupled to a localisation module 2004 and sampling pipe network 26. The

                                                      64
    sampling pipe network 26 includes a single sampling pipe 28 having four air sampling pipe
    portions 2302, 2304, 2306, 2308 connected to each other and co-extending past (or through)
    the regions R1 to R8. In this example, the far upstream end of the pipe 28 connects to the
    localisation module 2004 as described above. The downstream end of the pipe 28 connects to
  5 the detector 11, via the localisation module 2004. Localization can be performed using any of
    the methods described herein.
    The sampling inlets of each region R1 to R8 are connected to the pipe segment 2302 to 2308
    as follows:
    Region       R1        R2          R3          R4          R5         R6        R7         R8
    Pipe        2302       2304        2308        2306        2302       2306      2304       2308
    segment
    Thus the regions are connected to the pipe network from downstream to upstream (i.e. the end
 10 nearest the detector to the end farthest from the detector) in the following order:
            R1, R5, R7, R2, R4, R6, R8, R3
    In this way no region has its air sampling arrangement 29 connected to the sampling pipe 28
    next to a neighbouring region, and the points of connection are widely spaced along the pipe
    network.
15  In all other respects this embodiment can operate in accordance with the other schemes
    described herein.
    The pipe portions may be individual lengths of pipe interconnected with fittings at their ends as
    will be known to those skilled in the art, or alternatively special purpose multi channel pipes can
    be used. The interconnections of pipe segments then takes place using interconnection fittings
20  e.g. that may be attached over or into the ends of the channels of the pipe. The use of multi
    channel pipes can offer an installation advantage in that the installation technician need only
    handle a single element instead of multiple pipes.

                                                     65
   Whilst the present example has been described with reference to a group of regions R1 to R8
   that are arranged in a straight line, there is no reason that this need be the case. In reality the
   regions may be arranged in any geometry. Moreover there is no requirement that the regions
   need to be physically separated, e.g. as rooms are, but may be regions within one larger space
 5 or volume.
   In order for the above techniques to work reliably in the field, it is necessary to calibrate or train
   the system e.g. to as to the volume of air moved before an air sample entering each sampling
   inlet arrives at the detector (or each detector), thus effectively characterising the system. Most
   preferably the system is trained while the air is being moved through the system in the same
I0 way as during the system's localisation mode. For example, if the system uses a pusher fan
   method, described below in connection with figure 15, a significant localisation error is likely to
   occur if the system is trained using normal detection operation when the pusher fan is not
   running.    In one form, in which the system has a single air moving device, e.g. fan or the like or
   there is no mechanism to dramatically change the flow impedance or flow path through the
15 detection system when changing from the detection mode to localisation mode, a relatively
   simple, but time consuming process can be implemented in training mode. In this case the
   system can be trained as follows. With the system operating normally, the system measures the
   volume of air moved starting from the time at which a test smoke e.g. smoke spray is
   dispensed, until the smoke arrives at the detector. This measurement is made for each
?0 sampling inlet. However this is can be time consuming as the training sequence needs to be
   performed for each inlet separately and the system may need to be left to return to normal
   operation between each cycle. Preferably the training mode uses a modified behaviour to
   reduce training time.
   In other embodiments, e.g. a system which has an open valve plus a filter at end of the pipe
25 during its transportation phase, the training mode involves opening the valve at the end of the
   pipe for a period of time. Smoke can then be selectively administered to each sample hole (or to
   multiple holes in selected patterns) so that the system will still suck smoke through the holes.
   In training mode the system operates as follows:
            a.    The system then opens valve at the end of the pipe.
30          b.     User then inputs to the detector when smoke is administered at a sampling inlet.

                                                      66
           c.      The detector measures the volume of air moved starting from the indicated time
           until smoke is detected for each sample inlet.
   In embodiments with a pusher fan (and preferably a valve and filter at the end of the pipe) it is
   more difficult to simulate smoke entering a sampling pipe. For example, it is not possible to get
 5 spray smoke into a sampling inlet with the pusher fan continuously running. Therefore an
   alternative method is needed. Such as:
   a.            Replicate the standard bellows operation, but with introduced smoke, including:
           i.       Run the system normally;
           ii.      Enter the calibration process;
10         iii.     Activate the bellows as if particles had been detected, and indicate to a user that
   this process has begun;
           iv.      User applies spray smoke at the sampling inlet under test.
           v.       Deactivate the bellows and turn on the pusher fan to go into the transportation
   phase as normal, and record the volume of air transported before the smoke arrives at the
15 detector.
           vi.      System indicates that the hole has been calibrated.
           vii.     System closes valve and turns off pusher fan.
           viii.    Other sample inlets are then calibrated in the same way.
   b.    A Special training mode:
20         i.       System running normally.
           ii.      User puts the system into the test mode.
           iii.     The system continues to draw air in normally and the user applies spray smoke
           at hole and indicates this to the system.

                                                   67
           iv.    The system then immediately turns on pusher fan.
           v.     The system then records volume of air through flow sensor between indication of
           "spray start" and smoke being detected.
           vi.    The system then indicates that a sample inlet has been calibrated.
 5         vii.   System closes valve and turns off pusher fan.
           viii.  The next hole is then calibrated using the same process.
   c.    Special smoke injector.
   This method is faster for the user but the user needs special equipment. This method involves
   use of an injection device which allows smoke to be sprayed into a sample inlet in a manner
10 that other positive pressure in the pipe. One way of doing this involves use of a test smoke
   generator unit that seals around the sample inlet and sprays smoke into the inlet. For example
   the smoke generator can have an outlet that includes a foam gasket which clamps around the
   sample inlet so air is not coming out the sample hole. Once fitted and a sample is injected into
   the sampling inlet the user inputs to the system that this smoke was sprayed. The system
15 records the volume of air moved before the smoke pulse arrives at the detector. Figure 27
   shows an example device. Although this device includes adaptations that can advantageously
   be used with video verification systems, this device may be used without these adaptations if
   needed.
   Rather than empirically testing the behaviour of the system a simulator can be used. The
20 simulator is similar to Aspire (from Xtralis Pty Ltd) The simulator works out the expected
   volumes per hole during the transportation phase based on the actual system hole dimensions
   and distances.
   In the above testing methods a user can either interact with the detector directly to
   communicate inputs to it, e.g. to enter training mode, or indicate when test smoke has been
25 sprayed etc. However in a preferred embodiment the detector system includes an interface,
   preferably wireless, by which the detector communicates with a user device, e.g. a portable

                                                     68
   computer, tablet computer, smart-phone or the like, and the user device runs an application that
   allows the detector to be controlled to operate as described.
   In some particle detection systems, an enhancement can be provided by interfacing the particle
   detection system with a video security or surveillance system. Such systems use the images
 5 captured by the video security system either to perform additional particle detection methods
   (e.g. by performing video analytics to attempt to verify the detection of particles) or to allow a
   human operator of a monitoring station (CMS) to view an area in which particles have been
   detected so as to have human verification of the particle detection event. This may aid in
   determining threat level and determining an appropriate response to the detection event. An
10 example system including a particle (in particular smoke) detector and video security system is
   illustrated in figure 24. Further details of such systems and their operation are described in the
   Applicant's co-pending PCT application filed on 7 June 2013 and entitled Multi-Mode Detection.
   Figure 24 is a floor plan of a building 2400 including plurality of rooms. Each of the rooms is
   indicated as belonging to a zone which is monitored by a respective camera. In this regard,
15 zone 1 is monitored by camera 2401; zone 2 by camera 2402; zone 3 by camera 2403; zone 4
   by camera 2404; zone 5 by camera 2405; zone 6 by camera 2406; zone 7 by camera 2407; and
   zone n by camera 2408.
   Each of the zones also includes a means for detecting particles 2410.1 to 2410.n. means for
   detecting particles 2410.1 to 2410.n could be of any type, including point detectors, aspirated
20 detectors, beam detectors, open area active video detectors. In the present example the means
   for detecting particles 2410.1 to 241 0.n is an air sampling inlet to an air sampling pipe 2413 that
   is connected to a particle detector 2411 thus forming a particle detection system of any one of
   the types described herein. The particle detection system is arranged to determine which
   sampling point 2410.1 to 241 0.n particles entered, as described herein and indicates a particle
25 level or alarm level for each detector point 2410.1 to 2410.n. The particle detector 2411
   connected to sampling points 2410.1 through 2410.n and is connected to a building fire alarm
   system either in the form of an FACP or central controller 2412, and arranged to individually
   identify each sampling point as having an address on that system to enable the location of fire
   detection within the building 2400 to be indicated by the fire alarm system. Each of the cameras
30 2401 to 2408 are connected to a central control system 2412. The central control system 2412
   is a video analytics system which receives and analyses video feeds from the multiple cameras.
   The central controller can also store and transmit video feeds to a central monitoring station

                                                     69
   either in real time or on demand as events are detected. The controller 2412 is connected via a
   communications channel to a central monitoring station (CMS) 2414, at which alarm situations,
   both fire related and security related, can be monitored. In alternative embodiments the
   functions of the controller 2412 and FACP can be combined into a single device. Also the
 5 functions of the central monitoring station 2414 could be performed at the controller 2412.
   Similarly the cameras and other security systems (not shown) and fire and/or smoke can
   connect directly to a remote CMS which performs all monitoring and analysis (i.e. the functions
   of the controller 2412 and FACP) directly.
   Consider now a situation in which a fire starts in zone 2 of the building 2400 of Figure 24. In this
10 case, the sampling point 2410.2 located within the room will draw an sample air indicating the
   presence of smoke particles in plume 2413. Once an initial detection is made the detector 2411
   will then perform localization as described above and send an alert signal to the fire alarm
   control panel (FACP) indicating the position of the suspected fire. As is conventional in such
   systems the output signal of the detector 2411 can indicate a level of particles detected or an
15 alarm state determined according to alarm logic of the detector. The fire alarm control panel will
   communicate this alert data via central controller 2412 back to the central monitoring station
   2414 where staff can monitor conditions in the building 240. Because the system includes video
   verification capabilities, upon detection of particles in zone 2 via inlet 2410.2, video verification
   using camera 2402 is activated. The camera 2402 begins either capturing (if it was not
?0 previously capturing images) images or analysing images to determine whether smoke can be
   verified to be present from the images. The video feed from the camera 2402 is provided to the
   central controller 2412. The central controller 2412 performs video analytics on a series of
   frames captured by camera 2402 to determine if there are visual features in the images which
   indicate either the presence of smoke or flame within the field of view 2402.1 of the camera
25 2402. This video analytics can be performed either in the controller 2412 or at the central
   monitoring station 2414. If the analysis is to be performed at the central monitoring station 2414
   the video images, perhaps in a compressed form, will need to be transmitted from the site
   controller 2412 to the central monitoring station 2414 for analysis. Upon detection of smoke or
   fire in the images captured by camera 2402 the alert system running at the central monitoring
30 station 2414, can modify its output to indicate that the alert condition indicated by the smoke
   detector 2410.2 is verified by the video analytics system. From this verification a user can infer
   that the chance of a false alarm is low.

                                                       70
   By indicating to the user monitoring the central monitoring station 2414 that a fire or smoke
   alarm has been verified, the importance level of that alarm will be raised. Accordingly the
   person monitoring the system will be encouraged to act more quickly on the alert. Figures 25
   and 26 show two alternative interfaces which can be provided for the central monitoring station
 5 according to embodiments of the present invention. Turning firstly to Figure 25, the interface
   includes a plurality of video display panes 2501, 2502, 2503 and 2504 each of which displays
   images captured from different cameras within the building 2400 which is being monitored. The
   large viewing pane 2501 is provided in order to give a closer view of a location to the user of the
   monitoring system such that they can visually inspect a scene at which an alert has occurred.
10 The smaller display panes 2502 through 2504 may cycle according to an appropriate scheme or
   alternatively be ranked in a priority order according to alert levels in the corresponding zones.
   The bottom portion of the interface 2500 includes a list of events 2507. For each event, event
   data is displayed and the user of the system is provided with a series 2509 of buttons for
   performing certain response actions. For each event the following data is displayed: an event
15 number 2512 being a numerical listing of events, an "Event ID 2514 being a system-wide
   unique identifier for the event used for indexing logged event data for access at a later time; an
   event description 2516 explaining the nature of the event; an event level 2518 being a priority
   ranking for the event; an indicator of the status 2520 of the event e.g. whether it is an alarm or
   fault or other particular type of alert a series of action buttons 2522.1, 2522.2, 2522.3.
?0 Event number 5 in the present example, has the highest alert status and will be described
   herein in more detail. Event number 5 is an indication that smoke has been detected in zone 2.
   The smoke in this example has been detected by particle detector 2410.2 at a level indicating
   that alarm should be raised. In the status column, the event is indicated as "alarm verified"
   because the video analytic system has analysed the output of camera 2402 and determined
25 that smoke and fire is present. In order to indicate the verification to the user of the system, the
   interface has highlighted the status box corresponding to event number 5 and indicated in text
   form that the alarm is "verified". As will additionally be noted the image of zone 2 includes a
   visual indicator 2508 of the location of the smoke and fire detected by video analytics system. In
   this regard, the video analytic system has performed an analysis of a series of images captured
30 by camera 2402 and has indicated a boundary or edge around a region within the image which
   is determined to represent smoke. Additionally, an indication of a zone within the image 2510 is
   indicated as appearing to represent flame which is causing the fire.

                                                     71
   Figure 26 shows an alternative interface to that of Figure 25 the only difference between the
   interfaces of the two figures is that rather than simply indicating that the status of event number
   5 has been "verified" the interface of Figure 26 orders each of the events in the event list
   according to their alarm level and verification level. This additionally highlights that greater
 5 priority should be given to event number 5 compared to the other events within the system.
   Once an event has been detected and verified by the automatic video verification system it will
   be up to a human user of the system to determine an action to be performed in response to the
   event. The person may choose to dismiss the event (2522.2) or view the video feed (button
   2522.1) corresponding to the event to further investigate or to raise an external alarm (2522.3)
10 by either calling Police, fire brigade or other appropriate emergency response services. This can
   be performed using the interfaces of Figures 25 and 26 using the buttons view (2522.1), dismiss
   (2522.2) or call (2522.3) as indicated.
   In an additional embodiment of the present invention, it is advantageous that the video analytic
   system further assists the user in their investigation of pending events. In this regard, a user of
15 the system may wish to investigate the cause of an alert, for example by determining where the
   event has originated, or what the true cause of an event is, for example what or thing is on fire
   or in danger of being set alight and is causing a smoke detection event. Such information can
   be particularly valuable in determining a response strategy to an alert condition. For example, if
   it is known exactly what is on fire an appropriate suppression strategy can be implemented.
?0 Moreover, anything surrounding the fire can be visually inspected to determine what level of
   response is needed. For example, if important equipment or hazardous or flammable items
   surround the area above the fire is, a faster response may be needed or total evacuation
   whereas if a fire is detected in a relatively open area or area in which non-flammable items are
   located a slower (or at least different) response may be acceptable.
25 In order to assist in the investigation process, the central monitoring station can be provided
   with software which analyses alarm outputs from one or more cameras and condition sensors
   and makes a recommendation to a user as to the order of recommended investigation as to the
   source or nature of the event. For example, the software system can store a map or other
   geographical data as to the relative position of rooms and items in the premises being
30 monitored, and using data representing which sampling inlets have received particles,
   determine either a likely central point at which the fire has originated or an investigation priority.
   For example, in Figures 25 and 26 a verified alarm has been sensed in zone 2 and an

                                                      72
   unverified alarm has been sensed in zone 3. A pre-alarm has also been sensed in zone 1. In a
   situation in which verification of the presence of flame (indicated at 2510 in figure 25) is not
   possible, the central monitoring station will recommend an order of manual analysis of other
   zones in order of zone 2, then zone 3, followed by zone 1, followed by zone N. This is based on
 5 received alert levels of zones 2, 3 and 1 and the proximity of the doorways of zones 2, 3, N and
   7, and the fact that zone 1 is a corridor between them. In other embodiments other factors can
   also play a role in determining investigation order, e.g. if the building's air conditioning return
   duct is located at position 2420 abnormal particle levels detector via points 2410.12 may be
   treated as lower priority other air sampling points as it will tend to indicate smoke more often
10 than other air sampling points.
   Thus should smoke be detected at in e.g. zone 2 and zone 1 at sampling point 2410.12 then
   zone 2 is likely to be the source of the fire. Conversely if only sampling points 2410.11 and
   2410.12 are determined to have drawn a sample containing smoke, but no other sampling
   points, then zone 1 is the likely source of the fire condition.
15 It is also useful to note that without the video verification process applied to event 5 in figures 25
   the alarm level of zones 2 and 3 would be otherwise identical. Without video verification there
   will be no additional information on which to base a decision that the fire is actually present in
   zone 2 and not zone 3 other than physical inspection. This clearly aids with the response
   strategy which because of the video verification process described herein enables a response
?0 to be targeted on zone 2 first which is where the fire is actually present.
   The sensors (e.g. cameras) described in the illustrated may be fixed cameras or be capable of
   changing their field of view, e.g. be pan-tilt-zoom (PTZ) cameras. If a PTZ camera is used the
   camera can be programmed to pan, tilt, and zoom either to isolate locations that are identified
   as potentially causing an alert condition to enable investigation, Alternatively or additionally the
25 PTZ camera can be controlled such that is captures images of a first view, and then moves to a
   second view and possibly one or more additional views successively, pausing for a specified
   time at each view. The sequence can be repeated indefinitely.
   Video analysis can be performed on each view independently of the other views. In general
   terms this can be considered a process of performing time division multiplexing of images taken
30 with the one camera at different PTZ settings, with each PTZ setting corresponding to a time
   slot. The video analytics can be performed on a series of images from successive instances of

                                                     73
   each PTZ time slot. Images captured in corresponding PTZ time slots can be treated as a
   "camera" and video analytics can be performed using the techniques described in earlier
   examples for a single camera.
   Systems such as this add an extra dimension to the commissioning/calibration process
 5 described above, in that it is necessary to correlate the location of the air sampling inlets with
   their physical locations and also with the views of the cameras of the security system. In some
   cases it might even be desirable to correlate PTZ parameters of a particular cameras with a
   sampling point.
   An apparatus and method for correlating an address in a particle detection system, said
10 address corresponding to a physical location, with a location being monitored in a video capture
   system that monitors a plurality of locations will now be described in connection with figure 27.
   Figure 27 illustrates an exemplary apparatus 2700 that can be used for conveniently
   commissioning, calibrating and/or testing particle detection systems. It could also be used in
   non-video enabled particle detection systems such as conventional Aspirating particle
15 detections systems, as will be apparent from the following description.
   The apparatus is arranged to provide a mechanism to perform smoke tests such that the
   location of the smoke can be learned by the smoke detector system and in the case of a system
   with video verification of alerts, the security system also in a simultaneous fashion.           The
   apparatus enables the operator to inject smoke (or other test particle) at each sampling inlet of
20 an air sampling particle detection system, point detector or other smoke sensing device,
   preferably in no particular sequence, and record e.g. on an integral computer device such as
   tablet computer or the like, the physical location of the inlet or sensing device. The data can be
   transferred to the particle detector either in real time or afterwards, so that the particle detector
   knows which inlet is mapped to which physical location. Preferably (but not essentially) the
25 apparatus enables the security system to identify which particular camera (and optionally PTZ
   parameters) is associated with each inlet's address location. Association of the inlet or sensor
   location with a location in the video security may be achieved by visible means. As the smoke
   injection occurs, the visual indicator is activated, e.g. by flashing a code for a time. The security
   system searches for the visual indicator and identifies images of it amongst the images
30 captured by its various cameras. The security system can then correlate the right camera and
   optionally PTZ position with location of the air sampling inlet or sensor. Thus the apparatus
   2700 according to the preferred embodiment includes:

                                                    74
           a mechanism for delivering (and preferably generating) smoke to the a sampling inlet;
           means for enabling detection of the apparatus in an image captured by the video
   security system, and optionally means to communicate data over this optical means.
           means for synchronising the actions of the apparatus with the particle detection system
 5 and/or security system.
   More particularly the exemplary device 2700 includes:
            A controller 2702 that controls operation of the device apparatus 2700.
           A power supply 2704, which will typically be a battery.
           A smoke generator 2706 to produce test smoke for introduction to the sampling points
10 as needed.
           A fan 2710 to push the smoke to the point of delivery.
           A duct 2712 to guide the smoke generated by the smoke generator 2706 to the point of
   delivery.   In this example the duct 2712 is an extendible, e.g. telescopic, pipe to enable
   convenient use with sampling points at different heights and convenient device storage. The
15 duct 2712 terminates in an exit port 2714 that is shaped to enable easy coupling to or around a
   sampling point. In this example the exit port 2714 is a funnel shaped exit port, that can fit over
   or around a sampling point.
           A user interface 2716, which in this case includes one or more control buttons 2718 and
   a touch screen display 2720. These can be configured, in a manner know to those skilled in the
20 art to control operation of the apparatus 2700 and enter data as will be described below.
           A synchronisation port 2722, which can be a wired or wireless communications means
   for establishing data communications with external devices, e.g. the smoke detection system,
   video security system or elements of these systems. In the case that the port 2722 is wireless,
   the port 2722 can be used for real-time communications. If the port 2722 is adapted for making
25 a physical connection, communications could be made in real time (e.g. my being plugged into
   the other systems during         use) or asynchronously (e.g. sharing stored data and/or

                                                     75
   synchronisation of the device with one or both of the smoke detection system and video security
   systems after use).
            A visual communications system 2724, which in this case includes an arrangement of
   radiation emitters 2724.1, 2724.2 , 2724.3. The visual communications system can be used to
 5 communicate with the security system during use of the apparatus 2700, in a manner described
   below. The visual communications system 2724 may emit visible or invisible radiation, so long
   as it can be received and relayed to the video surveillance system. Most preferably the radiation
   is received by the security system and captured in its video images of a region. In this way, the
   presence of the apparatus 2700 and (optionally data ) is conveyed by the state of the visual
10 communications system 2724.
   An exemplary use of the test apparatus 2700 will now be described in connection with
   commissioning a particle detection system that has a video verification performed by a video
   security system. The objective of the apparatus 2700 is to assist and preferably automate the
   configuration and verification of the integration between smoke detection system and video
15 security system. Specifically, the tool aids the smoke detection system and video security
   system to have the same sense of physical locations that is being protected.
   Prior to the start of the training process, the particle detector system and video security system
   is set to a "training" mode.
   At each sampling inlet of the particle detector system smoke is generated by the technician
20 using the apparatus 2700. When triggered, the apparatus 2700 generates an amount of smoke
   sufficient to trigger the particle detection system to detect particles. The trigger to generate
   smoke will also switch on a visual indicator that is distinguishable from background entities in
   the images captured by the security system. While in the "training" mode the video security
   system analyses the imaged captured by it, and searches (either periodically or continuously)
25 for the visual indicator 2724 in the images. Once found, it will record the apparatus's location
   (camera and PTZ presets if necessary) to identify which video camera will have the area
   surrounding the sampling hole in its field of view.
   At the point of generating the smoke, the technician also records a name (and optionally a
   description) of the physical space e.g. using a keyboard interface on the touch screen display
30 2720. This text is stored along with the smoke test start and end time, and is optionally

                                                   76
   transmitted to the smoke detector and/or security system for correlating with detected events in
   these systems. During normal operation the text entered at this point can be presented to the
   CMS operator when the sampling hole is identified during actual use of the system.
   The apparatus 2700 is configured e.g. programmed to guide the technician as to what action to
 5 take next, e.g. when move to a new sampling point, whether the technician needs to wait before
   triggering the smoke, the period that the technician needs to dwell with the smoke generator at
   the current hole, prompt for technician for name of the sampling hole etc.
   Sampling points are typically located near the ceiling though there will be exceptions. The
   generated smoke needs to reach the sampling hole quickly and directly. However, it is strongly
10 desirable that the technician always remain on the ground even when they trigger smoke to be
   presented in close proximity to a sample hole mounted high up in the ceiling, thus all controls
   are located at the bottom of duct 2712, and the duct 2712 is extensible.
   The smoke generation start and end events for each sampling hole is synchronised with the
   particle detection system and video security system. This synchronisation can be done in real
15 time over a wireless network. Optionally or alternatively the apparatus 2700 can provide the
   same capability without the real time use of wireless networks in an offline mode. For this later
   case, at the completion of the commissioning process the apparatus 2700 will need to be
   connected with the particle detection system and video security system to synchronise the
   recorded data including the name of the physical spaces. This could be performed via any
20 communications medium or channel, including but not limited to, USB, Ethernet or WiFi.
   In the example of figure 24 the following series of data are generated in the "training" mode by
   the test apparatus, smoke detection system and security system respectively.

                                            77
Start time          End time        Physical location name        Co-ordinate (optional)
1:00                1:01            Main Corridor                 -37.813621
                                                                  144.961389
1:05                1:06            Boardroom                     -37.813637 144.961398
1:08                1.09            Library                       -37.813624 144.961398
1:30                1:31            Cleaner's Cupboard            -37.813610 144.961372
TABLE 1 - Test Apparatus data table
Start                  End                     Location parameter Inlet number
1:00                   1:01                    130 Litres         5
1:05                   1:06                    125 Litres         4
1:08                   1.09                    100 Litres         2
1:30                   1:31                    16 Litres          1
TABLE 2 - Smoke Detector table

                                                     78
   Start                      End                       Camera                  PT2
   1:00                       1:01                      2401                    P=5
                                                                                T=20
                                                                                Z=200mm
   1:05                       1:06                      2403
   1:08                       1.09                      3402
   1:30                       1:31                      2405
   TABLE 3 - Security System table
   Once the training data has been recorded by the test apparatus 2700, smoke detector system
   and security system, this data needs to be correlated in order for the video verification system
   and smoke detection systems to work together in the event of an actual smoke detection event.
 5 As can be seen the start and end times in each table can be used to correlate smoke test data
   with the smoke detector data and security system data.
   In use, in the event that smoke is detected by the smoke detection system it will determine
   where in its system smoke was detected. If the system includes one or more point detectors
   "addressing" i.e. determining where the event was detected is relatively straightforward and only
10 requires knowledge of which detector has detected smoke. If the system includes or is an
   aspirated particle detection system with an air sampling network the system can performs one
   of the localisation methods in any one of the following Australian patent applications
   2012904516, 2012904854 or 2013200353 filed by the applicant or other localisation technique
   to identify the location of the source of the particles. The output could be a location, name (e.g.
15 the name given by the technician during commissioning) room address or a smoke localization
   parameter (such as a volume of air sample that has passed through the detector between
   detection events whilst in the localisation phase, which identifies which of the sampling holes
   the smoke entered the smoke detection system through, using any of the methods described
   herein. This output is passed to the security system. On the basis of this name, identifier or

                                                     79
   localization parameter the security system is able to determine which of its cameras provide a
   view of the determined air sampling point.
   In this case, the security system will identify camera 2405 as the camera which will show a view
   of the region in which the smoke detection event has taken place.
 5 As will be appreciated, additional information could be gathered during commissioning to aid the
   CMS operator in determining an appropriate action when smoke or a fire is detected.
   Additional features can also be included in some embodiments of the apparatus 2700. For
   example, in some embodiments other methods can be used to determine the location of the
   apparatus 2700 to assist or automate identification of the location and sampling inlet. For
10 example satellite positioning (e.g. GPS or DGPS) or triangulation from electromagnetic emitters,
   could be used to determine which room the apparatus is in, thereby obviating or minimising the
   need to enter data into the system. The sampling point may be provided with a short range
   communications mechanism, e.g. an RFID tag, that is read by a reader mounted near the end
   of the duct 2712 to identify which sampling point is being commissioned in each step. This
15 communication could also be used as the trigger for beginning the test procedure for the
   sampling point.
   Figure 17 illustrates a variant of the system of figures 14A to 14E. The system 1700 is identical
   in all respects to the system of figures 14A to 14E and operates in the same manner, with the
   exception that the sample amplification arrangement 1702 is located at the upstream end of the
20 sampling pipe 28. This simplifies the detector end of the sampling network 26 and facilitates
   retrofitting of a sample amplification arrangement 1702 to a legacy detection system that was
   originally installed without such a capability.
   Figure 18 illustrates a particle detection system including an air sampling network that has a
   sample amplification arrangement comprising a plurality vibrating membranes. Essentially this
25 system 1800 is a double ended version of the systems of figure 14A to 14E and figure 17. In
   this embodiment the two pistons 1802, 1804 (formed from the vibrating membranes of
   loudspeakers) act together to form the sample amplification arrangement. These can be
   operated in concert as described in connection with opposing fans of figure 15. However, being
   loudspeakers (or other similar air movement device capable of causing rapidly oscillating air
30 flow) these pistons 1802, 1804 offer new the ability to selectively perform sample amplification

                                                      80
   at one or more sample inlets 29 along the sampling pipe 28. This can be achieved by oscillating
   the pistons with a selected phase difference between them. This causes selective reinforcement
   or cancellation of the sample amplification action at different places along the sampling pipe 28.
   Figure 19 illustrates another particle detection system including an air sampling network with
 5 branched sampling pipes and which has a sample amplification arrangement comprising a
   plurality vibrating membranes. The system 1900 includes a particle detector 11, coupled to an
   air sampling system 26. The air sampling system 26 is branched such that it has sampling
   pipes28A and 28B each of which includes a plurality of sample inlets 29A and 29B arranged in
   series along their length. At the upstream ends of the pipes 28A and 28B are located pistons
10 1902, 1904. A common piston 1906 is placed at the downstream end of the sampling network
   26. The sample amplification arrangement comprising the pistons 1902, 1904, 1906 can be
   operated to selectively cancel its oscillation effect by choosing appropriate phase differences
   between oscillation of the pistons in the sample amplification phase. For example in the
   example the downstream piston 1906 is operated in phase with the upstream piston 1902 on
15 the pipe 28A, but out in anti-phase to the upstream piston 1904 on the pipe 28B. The result is
   that sample amplification occurs only on the sample inlets 29A but not on inlets 29B.
   This process can be extended and combined with the method described in connection with
   figure 18. In this regard, greater selectivity can be achieved by operating the downstream piston
   1906 is with a selected phase difference to the with the upstream piston 1902 on the pipe 28A,
?0 and no oscillation of piston 1904. Most preferably, if a node in the oscillation pattern coincides
   with the junction between the pipes 28A and 28B sample amplification will be minimised (or
   possibly eliminated) on pipe 28B and selective sample amplification can be achieved along the
   length of pipe 28A.
   As will be appreciated the double-ended sample oscillation techniques described in connection
25 with figures 18 and 19 could also be implemented with other types of air flow movement
   devices, e.g. bellows, fans (as illustrated in figure 15) or the like.
   The systems of figures 17 to 19 could be implemented such that the localisation hardware is
   provided in a detector-end module, such as module 2004, described above.                As will be
   appreciated this may necessitate the use of a return pipe segment to enable location of the
30 upstream components (e.g. pistons 1702, 1804, 1902) physically near to the downstream end of
   the pipe 28 so that they can be housed together in the module.

                                                     81
   Although a purge step is only described in connection with the example of figure 15B, it should
   be appreciated that a purge phase may optionally be used in all embodiments described herein
   to improve accuracy of localisation. A purge step, generally speaking involves filling the air
   sampling network with clean air (or at least air that is distinguishable from sample air), which will
 5 typically necessitate means for providing said air, e.g. a filter arrangement that is selectively
   insertable into the system to enable delivery of clean air. Therefore, where applicable such
   means can be provided in the systems described herein.
   As will be appreciated from the foregoing, a number of techniques have been described within
   this document to improve addressing in aspirated particle detection systems which include
10 centralised detector and a plurality of sample inlets placed along a duct or pipe of an air
   sampling system. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that elements of each of the
   systems could be combined to further enhance system performance. To give but one example,
   the pipe network work system of Figures 14, 15 or 16 could be used to increase smoke
   concentrations within the pipe network to deliver a clearer smoke concentration front to the
15 detector for use in the cross-correlation method described in connection with Figures 5 and 6.
   Moreover, instead of using time based correlation, volume based correlation could be used as
   described above. Other combinations will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art.
   It will be appreciated that the present invention, although described in relation to the detection of
   smoke, can equally be applied to any other material that can be usefully detected by a sampling
?0 system, including gases, dust, vapour, or biological materials.
   Figure 30 illustrates a further embodiment of a localisation module 3000 that can be used as a
   localisation module 2004 in any one of the embodiments illustrated herein. The localisation
   module 3000 contains the following main elements:
   A main flow path 3002 that extends from the sampling pipe 28 at one end (the inlet 3004 to the
25 localisation module 3000) to the detector 11 at the other end (the outlet 3006 from the
   localisation module 3000). The main flow path 3002 includes an additional particle detector
   3010. The particle detector 3010 may be a particle detection chamber that is either the same or
   different to the main particle detection chamber 14, or of a different type. In a preferred form the
   secondary particle detector provides a faster response to particles than the main detection
30 chamber 14, although this is not necessary in all embodiments. The main flow path 3002 also

                                                      82
   includes a valve (3012) that can be used to close off the main flow path 3002 and divert all flow
   into a primary branch flow path 3014, described below in more detail.
   The primary branch flow path 3014 includes a first branch 3016 leading to a sample
   amplification device 3018. In a preferred form the sample amplification device 3018 takes the
 5 form of a reciprocating piston that can be used to rapidly switch between pushing and pulling a
   small amount of air within the sampling pipe. The primary branch flow path 3014 includes a
   second valve (3020) that can be used to block access to the piston and divert flow from the
   primary branch flow path 3014 into a secondary branch flow path (3022).
   The secondary branch flow path 3022 contains a fan 3024 and a filter 3026 that are arranged to
10 enable air to be drawn into the secondary branch flow path 3022 from outside the system, filter
   the air, and pass it to the additional particle detector 3010 in a manner described below.
   Figure 31 illustrates a localisation module 2004 that has been extended to operate with an air
   sampling network 26 having multiple air sampling pipes 28.2, 28.2. The localisation module
   2004 could be extended to handle multiple sampling pipes by duplicating the components
15 described above. However, due to the cost of goods, in order to reduce parts count, certain
   components may be shared. In this embodiment independent main flow paths 3002.1 and
   3002.2 are provided. In this case the valves (3012.1 and 3012.2) are operated together and
   connected to respective branches of the primary branch flow path and operated in concert with
   each other. In most multi-pipe systems e.g. Vesda Laser Scanner or Vesda Laser industrial
?0 (both sold by Xtralis Pty Ltd) the main particle detector still only has one detection chamber and
   the air samples from each of the pipes are mixed together in a manifold prior to analysis in the
   detection chamber.
   In all other respects the multipipe localisation module is the same as that of figure 30 and
   matching reference numerals have been used. As will be appreciated a multipipe localisation
25 module can be made to handle any number of sampling pipes required.
   Figures 32 and 33 illustrate two additional embodiments of the accessory 2800. The
   accessories 2800 may be used as pipe end-caps that are mounted at the far upstream end of a
   sampling pipe 28. However they may also be placed at other points in the sampling network e.g.
   at the upstream end of a branch pipe or off a T junction at an intermediate point in a sampling
30 pipe, such that selective opening of the accessory flow path allows air into the sampling pipe.
   The embodiment of figure 32 has a fan 3202 and a valve 3204 (equivalent of valve 2808 of
   figure 28) that can be activated under control of the localisation module. In normal smoke
   detection operation the valve 3204 is closed and the fan 3202 does not run. When activated, the

                                                     83
   valve 3204 is opened and the fan 3202 is activated so that air is drawn into the end of the pipe
   28 and blown down the sampling pipe towards the detector 11. The accessory 2800 can also
   optionally include a filter, such as a HEPA filter so that the air entering the pipe is better able to
   be distinguished from sample air drawn into the system from sampling points.
 5 The accessory 2800 of figure 33 is very similar to the embodiment of figure 28 and like features
   have been like numbered. The accessory includes a valve 2808 that can selectively open the
   pipe, but no fan. It also includes a filter 3302. The valve 2808 is actuated by the controller 2806
   upon sensing low pressure or back-flow in the sampling pipe 28. When a high negative
   pressure is detected, the end cap is opened to allow air to be drawn into the end of the pipe.
10 In use in a preferred embodiment the particle detection system using a localisation module of
   the type illustrated in either of figures 30 and 31 and an accessory illustrated in either of figures
   32 or 33 will have the same general architecture as that show in other embodiments such as
   figure 29, with a main particle detector, localisation module 2004, sampling network 26 with
   sampling pipes 28 and at least one accessory mounted upstream of the localisation module.
15 Operation of such a system will now be described assuming use of the accessory of figure 32.
   In overview, the detector 11 operates in a normal particle mode drawing air samples and
   analysing them continuously. However once particles are detected above a trace level the
   system does into a localisation mode and activates the localisation module 2004. The main
   detector 11 is then de-activated and air samples cease to be drawn through the main detector
20 11. The localisation module 2004 then performs a sample amplification routine as described
   above. As noted above "amplification" mixes the air in the pipe with the local atmosphere
   surrounding each sample hole and causes packets of air in the sampling pipe adjacent each
   sampling hole to form - these packets have a composition similar to the atmosphere
   immediately surrounding the sampling point. As will be apparent from the foregoing description,
25 in normal steady state operation the air sample drawn in through each sampling hole is diluted
   by the air drawn into all other sampling holes as it passes through the sampling network 26.
   However, in this embodiment, because the amplification only sucks and blows a small amount
   of air back and forth through the system the packets are not diluted in this way.
   The contents of the sampling pipe with "packets" is then drawn back to the additional particle
30 detector 3010 for analysis by re-activating the main fan of the main detector and, if an
   accessory with a fan is used (e.g. that of figure 32) by pushing it with the accessory's

                                                          84
    fan. During this "transportation" process the volume (or a related value) is measured. When the
    additional particle detector 3010 detects a packet of smoke, the drawn volume is read off and
    compared to a look-up table to determine which sampling hole corresponds to the smoke
    packet that was detected.
  5 The secondary branch flow path does not play any part in this localisation process. However, it
    is only used to flood the additional particle detector 3010 with clean air for calibration. This
    process happens periodically, say once a day.
    In tabular form the process can be viewed as follows:
    Normal operation
    Main         Main         Flow     Valve  Valve   Sample    Additional Fan in Volume   Valve   End cap
    aspirator    Detection    sensor   3012   3020    Amplifier particle   branch or               fan
                 chamber                                        detector          volume-  3204    3202 (if
                                                                3010       3024   related          present)
                                                                                  measure)
    On           On           Active   Open   Closed  Inactive  Inactive   Off    Inactive closed  Off
 I0           Where for Valve 3012
                       Open = main flow path open and primary branch flow path blocked
                       Closed = main flow path blocked and primary branch flow path open
              for Valve 3020
                       Open    =  primary branch flow path open so sampling pipe open to amplifier
15                     Closed     =  secondary branch flow path open so sampling pipe open to fan and
                       filter
    If trace level smoke detected by the main detection chamber then normal detection is ceased
    and an amplification mode is entered.
    Amplification

                                                    85
    In this state the localisation module 2004 enters its amplification mode and in this example the
    sample amplification device, e.g. piston 3018,, repeatedly draws and pushes air to perform
    sample amplification. The volume of air moved in this process is low compared to the total
    volume of air in the air sampling system and is preferably less than half the volume of the
  5 sampling pipe between neighbouring sampling inlets.
    Main       Main      Flow      Valve  Valve  Sample      Additional Fan in  Volume     Valve  End cap
    aspirator  Detection sensor    3012   3020   Amplifier   particle   branch  or                fan
               chamber                           3018        detector           volume-    3204   3202 (if
                                                             3010       3024    related           present)
                                                                                measure)
    Off        Off       inactive  closed Closed Oscillating Inactive   Off      Inactive  Closed Off
    After some predetermined time or number of oscillations, amplification is ceased and the
    system moves into Transportation mode.
    Transportation
    In this mode the system moves the amplified sample packets back to the additional particle
 10 detector 3010 for analysis. The volume of sample air that has passed through the system since
    transportation started, or a volume related value is measured, e.g. by integrating flow rate. This
    value is correlated with detection events in the additional particle detector 3010 to determine
    entry point of smoke.
    As noted elsewhere herein transportation is preferably done at high speed. This is aided by
15  opening a large port into the sampling pipe e.g. by opening valve 3204 (and if present)
    activating the pusher fan 3202. Opening the pipe's 28 end and blowing into the pipe's end
    causes a positive pressure in at least part of the pipe (the portion closest to the fan 3202) and
    minimises negative pressure (reduces suction) closer to the main aspirator of the system. This
    minimises the suction at the sampling inlets of the sampling pipe and consequently minimises
20  the drawing of additional air into the sampling inlets during transportation, thus minimising
    dilution of the sample packets as they are sent to the particle detector for analysis.
    Drawback is also preferably done at high enough speed to ensure turbulent flow in the sampling
    pipe, which minimises smearing out of packets along the pipe (as described elsewhere herein).
    .A further advantage of high speed drawback during transportation is that it reduces transport

                                                      86
    time of packets from the far end of the sampling pipe 28 to the detector(s) enabling quicker
    response.
    Main       Main       Flow     Valve  Valve  Sample      Additional  Fan in   Volume   Valve  End cap
    aspirator  Detection  sensor   3012   3020   Amplifier   particle    branch   or              fan 3202
               chamber                           3018        detector             volume-  3204   (if
                                                             3010        3024     related         present)
                                                                                  measure)
    On         Off or on  Active   open   Closed inactive    Active      Off      Active   open   On
    After drawback is complete, the system goes back into normal operation.
    The process can be cycled so as to update localisation data periodically, and also monitor
  5 smoke development.
    Use of the secondary branch flow path 3022
    As will be appreciated from the above description the secondary branch flow path 3022 plays no
    role in normal detection, amplification or transportation phase. The main use of the secondary
    branch flow path is to provide a source of clean air that can be used to calibrate or zero either
 10 one or both the main detection chamber 14 or additional particle detector 3010 either
    periodically or when needed. This is performed by going into a zeroing mode in which filtered air
    is blown back through the secondary branch flow path into the main flow path until at least the
    additional particle detector 3010 is full of clean, filtered air. In the zeroing phase the system
    configuration is as follows:
    Main       Main       Flow     Valve   Valve  Sample     Additional  Fan in  Volume    Valve  End cap
    aspirator  Detection  sensor   3012    3020   Amplifier  particle   branch   or               fan
               chamber                            3018       detector            volume-   3204   3202 (if
                                                             3010       3024     related          present)
                                                                                 measure)
    Off        Off        Inactive Closed  open   inactive   Active     On       inactive  closed Off
15  It is only necessary to blow enough clean air into the localisation module 2004 to fill the
    additional particle detector 3010. This can be done, for example, by running the fan 3024 for

                                                     87
   some pre-set time that is sufficient to blow as acceptable volume of clean air into the system.
   Alternatively clean air could be blown back into the additional particle detector 3010 until a
   relatively steady minimum particle reading is detected by the additional particle detector 3010.
   In a further embodiment there is provided a method in a particle detection system having a
 5 particle detector in fluid communication with an air sampling network including at least one air
   sampling pipe and a plurality of air sampling points. The method generally involves, filling at
   least one air sampling pipe which has a plurality of air sampling inlets with a calibration
   substance (e.g. test smoke, or other substance detectable by the particle detector such as
   FM200 or the like) that is able to be detected by the particle detection system, said air sampling
10 pipe being filled with said substance at a level detectable by the particle detection system. Next
   the method involves drawing an air sample into the sampling pipe to cause localised dilution of
   the substance around at least one air sampling inlet. Preferably the dilution process involves
   changing flow direction in the sampling pipe. Most preferably the dilution process is similar to
   sample amplification as described elsewhere herein. The contents of the sampling system are
15 then moved to the detector whilst detecting the level of calibration substance in the contents of
   the air sampling system, whilst also monitoring a quantity that can be correlated with the
   movement of the contents of the sampling system (e.g. volume, a volume related value, or time
   (although this is not preferred). Detecting said localised dilution in the substance in the contents
   of the sampling pipe and correlating said detection with the monitored quantity, to determine a
?0 value of said quantity corresponding to a sampling hole that caused the localised dilution.
   Detecting said localised dilution in the substance in the contents of the sampling pipe comprises
   detecting a reduction in particle level by a particle detector of the system.
   The present method can form part of a commissioning process and in essence is the converse
   of the typical localisation technique, insofar as instead of amplifying a sample to create packets
25 of sample, the substance-laden (e.g. smoke filled) sampling pipe has diluted packets created
   within it by the "amplification" process. Since the whole pipe can be flooded with the calibration
   substance simultaneously and multiple, and physically separated dilution packets created
   simultaneously, calibration can be performed of a greater number of sampling holes at the same
   time.
30 In order to implement such a system a method, filling of the sampling pipe can be manual via a
   sampling inlet or more preferably the sampling network can be fitted with an inlet such as a
   spigot (e.g. as part of the accessory 2800 or localisation module 2004). The latter is probably

                                                  88
  more convenient since in multi-pipe embodiments all pipes can be calibrated at once. The inlet
  is in fluid communication with a supply of calibration substance that has an approximately
  regulated output. The source of calibration substance can be connected to the inlet temporarily
  during calibration or permanently and enable periodic calibration and self test.
5 It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this specification extends to all
  alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features mentioned or evident from the
  text or drawings. All of these different combinations constitute various alternative aspects of the
  invention.

                                                    89
   Claims
   1.       A method of determining at least one point of entry of smoke into a smoke detection
   system, the system having a sampling pipe network including at least one sampling pipe and a
   plurality of sampling inlets through which an air sample can enter the at least one sampling pipe
 5 of the smoke detection system for analysis by a particle detector, said method including:
            determining a volume of sample air that has passed through at least part of the smoke
   detection system since a predetermined event or a value corresponding to said volume; and
            determining through which sampling inlet of the plurality of sampling inlets the smoke
   entered the smoke detection system based, at least in part, on the determined volume or value.
10 2.       The method according to claim 1, wherein the predetermined event is any one or more
   of:
            a smoke detection event;
            a change in an air sample flow characteristic in the smoke detection system.
   3.       The method according to claim 1 or 2, which includes continuously determining a flow
15 rate of the air sample passing through at least part of smoke detection system.
   4.       The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the method includes commencing
   determination of the volume       of sample air or a related value upon the occurrence of the
   predetermined event.
   5.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the volume of the air
20 sample that has passed through at least part of smoke detection network or a related value is
   determined by accumulating a flow rate measurement over time.
   6.       The method according to claim 5, wherein the rate of flow measurement is a volumetric
   flow rate measurement.
   7.       The method according to claim 6, wherein the flow rate measurement is determined
25 using an ultrasonic flow sensor.
   8.       The method according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the step of
   determining a volume of sample air that has passed through at least part of the smoke detection
   system since a predetermined event or a value corresponding to said volume, includes:
   determining any one or more of:

                                                     90
            a mass;
            a length;
            a pressure;
            a temperature,
 5          a second volume;
            an accumulated count of volume-related events,
   or other parameter that relates to a volume of sample air that has passed through at least part
   of the smoke detection system since the predetermined event.
   9.       A method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims which includes collecting all or
10 a proportion of the sample air that has passed through at least part of the smoke detection
   system since the predetermined event.
   10.      The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the method further
   includes changing an air sample flow characteristic in response to a first smoke detection event.
   11.      The method according to claim 10, wherein the step of changing an air sample flow
15 characteristic in the smoke detection system includes one or more of the following:
   *    opening a valve;
   *    closing a valve;
   *    changing a direction of an air sample flow in at least part of the smoke detection system;
   *    changing a rate of air sample flow in at least part of the smoke detection system;
20 *    starting an aspiration system; and
   *    stopping an aspiration system.
   12.      An apparatus for determining at least one point of entry of smoke into a smoke detection
   system of the type having a particle detector in fluid communication with an air sampling
   network, the air sampling network having at least one sampling pipe and a plurality of sampling

                                                   91
   inlets through which an air sample can enter the at least one sampling pipe of the smoke
   detection system for analysis by the particle detector, and an aspirator for drawing the air
   sample through the air sampling network to the detector, the apparatus including:
           means for determining a volume of sample air that has passed through at least part of
 5 the smoke detection system since a predetermined event or a value corresponding to said
   volume; and
           means for identifying at least one point of entry of particles into the sampling network
   based on the detected volume or value.
   13.     The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the apparatus identifies one or more of
10 said points of entry by reference to one or more corresponding sampling inlets through which
   smoke determined to have entered the system.
   14. The apparatus according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the means for determining a volume of
   sample that has passed through at least part of the particle detection system, or value related to
   said volume, includes a flow sensor.
15 15.     The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the flow sensor comprises an ultrasonic
   flow sensor.
   16.     The apparatus according to any one of claims 12 to 15, wherein the apparatus is
   configured to perform a method in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 11.
   17.     A smoke detector including:
20         a particle detection chamber to detect particles in an air sample,
           an inlet to receive an air sample from an air sampling network, the air sampling network
   having at least one sampling pipe and a plurality of sampling inlets through which a sample can
   enter the at least one sampling pipe for analysis by the particle detection chamber; and
           an aspirator for drawing the sample through the air sampling network to the detector,
25         a processor configured to:

                                                      92
            identify at least one point of entry of smoke into the air sampling network based, at least
   in part, on a volume of sample air that has passed through at least part of the smoke detector or
   sampling network since a predetermined event, or a value corresponding to said volume.
   18.      The smoke detector as claimed in claim 17 wherein the smoke detector includes a flow
 5 sensor configured to detect rate of flow of sample air passing through at least a part of the
   smoke detector.
   19.      The smoke detector as claimed in claim 18 wherein the smoke detector includes an
   ultrasonic flow sensor.
   20.      The smoke detector as claimed in any one of claims 17 to 19 wherein the processor is
10 configured to cause the smoke detector to perform a method as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 11.

        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                   1/25
FIG 1

                                                          <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
            203
                    206         208         210         212         214   216
                                                                                205
202
                                                                                  204
                   218          220      222            224     226       230                 2/25
      232    234          236         238         240         242
                     209
              207
                                      FIG 2

                                                       3/25
<removed-date>
                                                                                                         303
                           304      306          308         310          312         314      316
                                                                                                         305
                                    318          320         322          324         326      328
              302
<removed-apn>
                                                 309
                                           307
                                                         FIG 3
              402                                                                              404
                                   403     406     408        410         412         414
                                                             409
                                                       407
                                                       FIG 4
                150                                                150
                0 50                                               0 50
                       0     100    200    300   400                      0     100    200   300   400
                                   FIG 5                                               FIG 6

                                                       4/25
<removed-date>
                    714      718      722        726          730   734   738
                                                                                         700
                    712      716      720        724          728   732   736      740
                                                                                         704
<removed-apn>
                                                                                         706
              702                                                                        708
                                                                                         710
                          Location   Grey code          Smoke detected?
                                     address            Pipe 1  Pipe 2 Pipe 3   Pipe 4
                             1           0001             No      No     No      Yes
                             2           0011             No      No    Yes      Yes
                             3           0010             No      No    Yes       No
                             4           0110             No     Yes    Yes       No
                             5           0111             No     Yes    Yes      Yes
                             6           0101             No     Yes     No      Yes
                             7           0100             No     Yes     No       No
                             8           1100             Yes    Yes     No       No
                             9           1101             Yes    Yes     No      Yes
                             10          1111             Yes    Yes    Yes      Yes
                             11          1110             Yes    Yes    Yes       No
                             12          1010             Yes     No    Yes       No
                             13          1011             Yes     No    Yes      Yes
                             14          1001             Yes     No     No      Yes
                             15          1000             Yes     No     No       No
                                                  FIG 7

                                           5/25
<removed-date>
               800
                                                26
                                                                           28
                     804          802           802          802     802        802
              11                  29            29           29      29         29
<removed-apn>
                                 804       804              804     804
                                        FIG 8
               900
                                                26
                                                                           28
                                            902              902    902
                     902     902
              11               29               29           29      29         29
                                        FIG 9A
                                                      906
                           914
                                                              910
                           908
                                                              912
                                                              902
                                                       904 (29)
                             916
                                        FIG 9B

                                        <removed-apn>              <removed-date>
       1020
              1026
                                               1010
                        1019
1022
                                                      1011
1024
                       1018                                                   6/25
                                                   1013
                                                             1012
                                                                    1030
                              1016
                                     1013
                                            1012   1030
                     FIG 10A

                                                          7/25
<removed-date>
                        1             2                                    1               2
                   30                           32                    30                       32
              12                                 14              12                             14
<removed-apn>
              13                                15               13                            15
                            FIG 10B                   1             2
                                                                                 FIG 10C
                                           30                              32
                                      12                                    14
                                      13                                   15
                                                          FIG 10D

                                                          8/25
                     1100
<removed-date>
                                            1104
                 DET (11)
                                                   1108                                  1110
                                   1106
              1102
                                                                                  FIG 11A
                                     1112
<removed-apn>
              Smoke
              Conc.
                                                                                      FIG 11B
                                                                               time
              1120             t1                 1122 t2
                                            1130
                                                                  1132
                                                                                      FIG 11C
              1133     1131
                                          1134
                                                             1216
                                                 1212            1214
                1200                                                    1222   1220
                                                                                 FIG 12
                     1210
                                                             1208                     1202
                            1204            1206

                 1302             9/25
<removed-date>
               1300
                               FIG 13A
<removed-apn>
              1301                              1312
                                                        1312
                               FIG 13B
                        1320
                                                 1322
                               FIG 13C
                        1330
                                         1322
                                                                 1336
                               FIG 13D                         1334

                                         10/25
<removed-date>
                          1406
                                                       1506
                          1402           1504         1502
              1404
                               29                          29
<removed-apn>
                          29
                                                      29
                                1500
                               1400              29
                     29
              1408
                     29                          29
                                                           FIG 15
                                FIG 14
                     29                          29
                                                 28
                     28
                                                      26
                      26
                                                 1510
                     1410
                               11                          11

                                                       11/25
                                  1422          1430                 1420
<removed-date>
                1426                              26           28
              1428                                      29
                     DET
<removed-apn>
                            11      1424
                                                FIG 14A
                                  1422          1430                 1420
                 1426                             26           28
              1428                                       29
                     DET
                            11      1424
                                                FIG 14B
                                   1422          1430                 1420
                     1426                          26           28
               1428                                       29
                      DET
                             11          1424
                                                FIG 14C

                                                 12/25
<removed-date>
                                1422     1430                       1420
                1426                            26             28
<removed-apn>
              1428                                    29
                     DET
                           11     1424
                                                     FIG 14D
                                1422            1430
                                                                    1420
                 1426                           26             28
              1428                                    29
                     DET
                           11     1424
                                                     FIG 14E

                                                <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                   1522
                                                                             1524
                   1526                                                        1504
                   1528
                   1530                                   1532
     1534            28     29             29     29             29
                                                          29          1502
11     1510                                                                   1506
                                                                                      13/25
                                 FIG 15B
              26                                           1520
                                                   1600
                          1604                                        1602
                     28      29            29     29             29
              26                                          29
11
                                  FIG 16

                                                      14/25
                                                                                         1700
<removed-date>
                                           26                           28                           1702
                                                                 29                 29
                      DET
<removed-apn>
                              11    1424
                                                        FIG 17
                                                                                            1800
                       1802
                                                      29               29
                      DET
                                                                                           1804
                               11
                                                              FIG 18
                                                                             1900
              1906
                                           28A
                                                              29A             29A
                DET
                                                                                                   1902
                              11
                               26               28B            29B             29B                 1904
                                                                       FIG 19

                                                     <removed-apn>            <removed-date>
             2004    26                                             2010
                                                 2002
        1404
             1402                                                          2012
             1406
                       28        29             29             29            29
     1510
                                                                      29
11
                                      FIG 20A
                                                                                         15/25
       2004                 26                          2002               2000
      1504          1502
                    1506                                               2012
                       28        29             29             29            29
     1510
                                                                      29
11
                                      FIG 20B

                                                    <removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                                28B
                 29        29               29             29
     2004
                      R1   R2     R3        R4      R5     R6    R7     R8
                                                                                16/25
11
            26
 2100                                 29            29           29
                                                     28A
                                                                 29
                 28                        FIG 21

                                                     17/25
<removed-date>
                             R1       R2        R3        R4      R5        R6         R7   R8     2208
              11
                                                                                                   2206
                                                                                                   2204
<removed-apn>
              26
                   29   29     29          29        29      29        29      29
                                                                            2202
                    2200
                                                     FIG 22
                               2004
                                                                                                 2308
                                                                                                    2306
                             R1       R2        R3        R4      R5        R6         R7   R8       2304
              11                                                                                    2302
              26
                   29   29     29                    29      29
                                           29                          29        29
                        2300                                                          28
                                                 FIG 23

                                                  18/25
<removed-date>
                                                                                 2400
                                2401                        2410.1
                  2403                                                             2408
                          Zone 3                                Zone n
                                                                                   2410.n
                2410.3
<removed-apn>
               2402.1                             Zone 1
               2402
                                                                                  2407
              2402.1                                                Zone 7
                                                                                  2410.7
               2410.2
              2413
                                   Zone 2
                                                                        Zone 6   2410.6
                                                                                 2413
                                                           Zone 5
               2410.4                                                            2411
                            Zone 4
                                                                      2410.5            2406
                         2404 2410.12
                                            2420               2405
                                    2412           FACP
                                           2414
                                            FIG 24

                                                 <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
                                   2501
                                                                        2500
2502
2503
                                                                 2508           19/25
 2504                                                            2510
 2507
       2512                 2518     2520   2522.1         2522.3
                     2516
              2514                              2509
                               FIG 25                   2522.2

                                                 <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
2502
2503
                                                                                 20/25
2504
2507
       2512                 2518       2520   2522.1
                     2516                                           2522.3
              2514                                 2509   2522.2
                                   FIG 26

                                   21/25
<removed-date>
                                               2714
<removed-apn>
                                            2724.1
                                            2724.2
                     2724                   2724.3
                                             2712
                                              2702
                            2710
                                                             2722
                                                               2716
                 2706
                                                        2720
                                                      2718
              2700                            2704
                                   FIG 27

                                               22/25
<removed-date>
                                                                    2800
                     28
                          2802
                                       Sensor system
                                    (flow rate, direction,
<removed-apn>
                                   pressure, microphone                2808
                                         etc.) 2804
                                              Controller
                                                2806
                                     Power source (e.g. battery)
                                               2810
                                             FIG 28
                     2900
                                                                                2902
              2004                                26
                            2904                                                28
                     11             29             29          29          29
                                                                      29             2910
                                                                      2908
                                           FIG 29

                                                  <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                                    3018                 3026
              3020
         Controller
                                                           3024
                                                                                       23/25
To Detector                                                3010
    11
                                                                                 28
              3014
                             3022                 3002
                      3012                                        3004
          3006
                              FIG 30       3000

                                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                 3020                  3018     3026
                 Controller
                                                  3024
                                                             3022
  3014
                                                             3004.2
                                                                           24/25
  3012.2
                                                 3010.2
         To Detector
3006.2                                                         28.2
                                                  3010.1
         To Detector
                                                              28.1
                                      3012.1
                          3006.1                  3002.1
                                       3002.2      3004.1
                                   FIG 31        2004

                                       25/25
<removed-date>
                                        Control and power
                                                                 2800
              28
<removed-apn>
                        To                        Fan
                      detector
                                                                  Optional
                                                                  Filter
                                                               2808
                                      FIG 32
              Flow sensor                 Pressure sensor
                 (optional)               (optional)
                                                                 2800
                                           2804         2810
                     To
                   detector
                                                                 Optional
                                                                 Filter
                                 28               2808
                                      FIG 33

