                             ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
A process and tool for monitoring the status, health, and performance of wear parts used on earth
working equipment. The process and tool allow the operator to optimize the performance of the
earth working equipment. The tool has a clear line of site to the wear parts during use and may
be integrated with a bucket or blade on the earth working equipment.

                  8/14
                       25
               37
       277         5
Figure 9   27 651
                  63

                                                1
                               WEAR PART MONITORING
RELATED APPLICATION
[01]  This application claims priority benefits to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
      61/908458 filed November 25, 2013 and entitled "Wear Part Monitoring," which is
      incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[02]  The present invention pertains to a system and tool for monitoring the status, health, and
      performance of wear parts used on various kinds of earth working equipment.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[03]  In mining and construction, wear parts (e.g., teeth, shrouds, and lips) are commonly
      provided along the edges of excavating equipment to protect the underlying equipment
      from undue wear and, in some cases, also perform other functions such as breaking up
      the ground ahead of the digging edge. For example, buckets for dragline machines, cable
      shovels, face shovels, hydraulic excavators, and the like are typically provided with
      multiple wear components such as excavating teeth and shrouds that are attached to a lip
      of a bucket. A tooth typically includes an adapter secured to the lip of a bucket and a
      wear member attached to the adapter to initiate contact with the ground and break up the
      ground ahead of the digging edge of the bucket.
[04]  During use, the wear parts typically encounter heavy loading and highly abrasive
      conditions that at times cause the wear parts to become disengaged and lost from the
      excavating machine. For example, as a bucket engages the ground a wear member, also
      known as a point, occasionally will be lost from the adapter.       The operators of the
      excavating machines are not always able to see when a wear part has been lost. It is well
      known that a lost wear part may cause damage to downstream excavating equipment.
      For example, a lost wear member may cause damage that leads to additional downtime
      for conveyors, screens, pumps, and crushers. If a wear part becomes caught in a crusher,

                                               2
     the wear part may be ejected and cause a hazard to workers or it may be jammed and
     require an operator to dislodge the part, which at times may be a difficult, time
     consuming and/or hazardous process. Additionally, continuing to operate the excavating
     equipment with missing wear parts can lead to a decrease in production and excessive
     wear on other components on the excavating equipment.
[05] The abrasive environment causes the wear parts to eventually become worn. If the wear
     parts are not replaced at the appropriate time, an excessively worn wear part can be lost,
     production may decrease, and other components of the excavating equipment may
     experience unnecessary wear.
[06] Systems with varying degrees of success have been used to monitor when a wear member
     has been worn or damaged and needs replacement.            For example, the Tooth-Wear
     Monitoring system and Missing Tooth Detection system sold by Motion Metrics uses an
     optical camera mounted on a shovel boom of excavating equipment.           In addition, US
     Patent 8,411,930 relates to a system and method for detecting damaged or missing wear
     members. The system has a vibration resistant video camera that is preferably mounted
     on a shovel boom.      Because the above systems are located on the shovel boom, the
     systems only have a clear view of the wear members during a portion of the digging and
     dumping operation. As a result, there is potential for the systems to not immediately
     register that a wear member has been lost or needs replacement. In addition should the
     systems incorrectly register that a wear member has been lost, the systems may have to
     wait until the next digging and dumping cycle to confirm that the wear member is truly
     lost and that an object was not obstructing the systems view and registering a false alarm.
[07] Other systems with varying degrees of success have been used to monitor if a wear
     member is secured to the base on an excavating machine.         For example, mechanical
     systems have been fixed between the wear member and the base for detecting the absence
     and presence of the wear member. In US Patent 6,870,485, the system contains a spring

                                                3
     loaded switch between the wear parts. When the wear parts are separated an electrical
     switch activates a radio transmitter alerting the operator that a wear part has been lost. In
     US Patent 5,743,031, the system comprises an indicator attached to the tooth and an
     actuator secured to the nose. In one example, the actuator actuates, a smoke canister to
     provide a visual signal that the tooth has fallen off or is about to fall off. These systems
     do not determine when a wear member has reached the end of life and needs to be
     replaced and these mechanical systems can be costly and cumbersome to install when a
     wear member is worn and needs replacement.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[08] The present invention pertains to a system and tool for monitoring wear parts for earth
     working equipment. The monitoring tool is particularly well suited for monitoring the
     presence and/or health (i.e., the current wear profile) of wear parts utilized with buckets
     used for excavating in mining and construction environments.
[09] In one aspect of the invention, electronic sensors are used in conjunction with
     programmable logic to determine if wear parts are present on the earth working
     equipment. If a wear part is not present the programmable logic triggers an alert. The
     alert notifies the operator when a wear part has been lost from the excavating equipment.
     This allows the operator to take the necessary actions to ensure that the missing wear part
     is replaced and that the missing wear part does not damage downstream excavating
     equipment. As examples, the electronic sensor may be a camera, a laser range finder, an
     ultrasonic sensor, or another distance measuring sensor. In one preferred construction,
     the camera is chosen from a group consisting of 2D cameras, 3D cameras, and infrared
     cameras.
[10] In another aspect of the invention, electronic sensors are used in conjunction with
     programmable logic to determine the degree a wear part on the earth working equipment
     has been worn. If the wear part is worn a predetermined amount the programmable logic

                                               4
     triggers an alert.  The alert notifies the operator when a worn wear part should be
     replaced. This allows the operator to take the actions needed to replace the worn wear
     part so that other components of the earth working equipment do not experience
     unnecessary wear. As examples, the electronic sensor may be a camera, a laser range
     finder, an ultrasonic sensor, or another distance measuring sensor.      In one preferred
     construction, the camera is chosen from a group consisting of 2D cameras, 3D cameras,
     and infrared cameras.
[11] In another aspect of the invention, electronic sensors are used in conjunction with
     programmable logic to determine how full a bucket is loaded during a digging operation.
     In one preferred      construction, the programmable      logic  may be programed to
     communicate the current and past loads for each digging cycle to an operator or wireless
     device.   This allows the operator to adjust the digging operation to optimally fill the
     bucket to the desired capacity. This system could be a stand-alone system or integrated
     with another system such as a monitoring system for monitoring the presence and/or
     health of wear parts installed on the bucket. As examples, the electronic sensor may be a
     camera, a laser range finder, an ultrasonic sensor, or another distance measuring sensor.
     In one preferred construction, the camera is chosen from a group consisting of 2D
     cameras, 3D cameras, and infrared cameras.
[12] In another aspect of the invention, electronic sensors and programmable logic are used to
     determine a percentage that the bucket has been filled.          The percentage may be
     determined by measuring the current fill of the bucket and comparing the current fill to
     the rated capacity of the bucket.   The electronic sensor may be, for example, a camera, a
     laser range finder, an ultrasonic sensor, or another distance measuring sensor. In one
     preferred construction, the camera is chosen from a group consisting of 2D cameras, 3D
     cameras, and infrared cameras. This system could be a stand-alone system or integrated
     with another system such as a bucket fill monitoring system.

                                                5
[13] In another aspect of the invention, electronic sensors are used to determine the digging
     cycle time. In one preferred construction, programmable logic may be programed to
     communicate the current cycle time and past cycle times for each digging cycle of the
     bucket to an operator or wireless device. This allows the operator to adjust the digging
     operation   for optimal performance.         As examples,    an accelerometer and/or an
     inclinometer may be used to determine the beginning of a digging cycle. This system
     may be a stand-alone system or may be integrated with another system such as a
     monitoring system for monitoring the presence and/or health of wear parts installed on
     the bucket.
[14] In another aspect of the invention, electronic sensors are used to determine high impact
     events on a bucket digging edge (i.e., higher than experienced during the normal digging
     operation). In one preferred construction, programmable logic may record the time of the
     high impact event.      The programmable logic may be programed to communicate the
     high impact events to an operator or wireless device. As an example, an accelerometer
     may be used to determine when a high impact event occurs. This system may be a stand
     alone system but can be integrated with another system such as a monitoring system for
     monitoring the presence and/or health of wear parts installed on the bucket. This allows
     an operator or maintenance personnel to better determine what may have caused the
     current state of the wear parts (e.g., the wear member is present, the wear member is lost,
     and the wear member is worn).
[15] In another aspect of the invention, a tool is installed on a wear part that engages and
     moves the earth to be excavated. In one preferred construction the tool is installed on a
     bucket used for excavating so that the monitoring system has a clear line of sight to a
     digging edge of the bucket throughout the digging and dumping operation. The tool may
     be secured to an interior surface of the bucket or the tool may be secured to an exterior
     surface of the bucket. As examples, the monitoring system may be integrated with the

                                                 6
     shell of the bucket, integrated between two interior plates of a bucket having a double
     wall shell, or installed on the bridge or top of the bucket.
[16] In another aspect of the invention, features are incorporated onto the wear part to aid in
     absence and presence detection.          In one preferred construction, the features are
     incorporated onto an adapter so that if the monitoring system is able to detect the feature
     the monitoring system is programmed to send an alert that the wear member has been
     lost.  In another preferred construction, the features are incorporated onto the wear
     member so that if the monitoring system is able to detect the feature the monitoring
     system is programmed to indicate that the wear member has not been lost from the
     excavating equipment.
[17] In another aspect of the invention, features are incorporated onto the wear part to aid in
     determining the degree a wear part on the excavating equipment has been worn. In one
     preferred construction, a wear part contains multiple features along the length of the
     expected wear profile so that as the wear part wears the monitoring system is able to
     detect the number of features remaining on the wear part.
[18] In another aspect of the invention, the monitoring system provides alerts to equipment
     operators, databases, and remote devises when the wear parts on the excavating
     equipment need maintenance.         In one preferred construction, the monitoring system
     communicates wirelessly.
[19] In another aspect of the invention, the monitoring system is provided with a device to
     display or indicate the status, health, and performance of the wear parts. In one preferred
     construction, the monitoring system is provided with a monitor. In another preferred
     construction, the monitoring system is integrated with a display system that is a part of
     the excavating equipment being monitored or a display that is remote to the monitoring
     system.

                                                 7
[20]  In another aspect of the invention, the monitoring system stores the history of the status,
      health, and performance of the wear parts.
[21]  In another aspect of the invention, the monitoring system utilizes lights to illuminate the
      wear parts to be monitored so that the electronic sensors provide accurate readings
      regarding the status, health, and performance of the wear parts.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[22]  Figure 1 is a side view of a prior art mining excavator.
[23]  Figure 2 is a perspective view of a prior art excavator hoe bucket.
[24]  Figure 3 is a perspective view of a prior art lip of an excavator hoe bucket.
[25]  Figure 4 is a perspective view of a prior art tooth assembly.
[26]  Figure 5 is an exploded perspective view of the tooth assembly shown in Figure 4.
[27]  Figure 6 is a partially exploded perspective view of a prior art tooth assembly only
      having a point and an adapter.
[28]  Figure 7A and 7B outlines the general process steps for monitoring the status and health
      of wear parts in accordance with the present invention.
[29]  Figure 8 is a cross section of a monitoring system of the present invention.
[30]  Figure 9 is a perspective view of a bucket with a monitoring system installed on the
      bridge of the bucket in accordance with the present invention.
[31]  Figure 10 is a perspective view of a top portion of a hydraulic face shovel bucket with a
      monitoring system integrated with the shell of the bucket in accordance with the present
      invention. The lip, bottom wall, side walls, and other details of the bucket are omitted to
      simplify the drawing.
[32]  Figure 11 is a perspective view of an enclosure for a monitoring system in accordance
      with the present invention.
[33]  Figure 12 is a perspective view of a nozzle and/or wiping tool for keeping a transparent
      wall clean in accordance with the present invention.

                                              8
[34] Figure 13 is a front perspective view of a device for keeping a transparent material clean
     in accordance with the present invention.
[35] Figure 14 is a perspective view of a wear member with a unique feature and/or pattern
     along the length of the expected wear profile of the wear member in accordance with the
     present invention.
[36] Figure 15 is a partial side view taken along lines 15-15 of the wear member shown in
     Figure 14.
[37] Figure 16 is a perspective view of a base with a unique feature and/or pattern in the top
     surface of the base so that the unique feature and/or pattern can only be seen when the
     wear member is not present in accordance with the present invention.
[38] Figure 17 is a front view of a Human Machine Interface (HMI) to be used with a
     monitoring system in accordance with the present invention.
[39] Figure 18 is a front view of a mobile HMI to be used with a monitoring system in
     accordance with the present invention.
[40] Figure 19 is a side view of an electronic sensor to determine the fill of a bucket in
     accordance with the present invention.
[41] Figure 20 is a side view of an electronic sensor to determine the fill of a truck body in
     accordance with the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[42] The present invention pertains to a system for monitoring the status, health, and/or
     performance of wear parts used on various kinds of earth working equipment including,
     for example, excavating equipment and ground conveying equipment.              Excavating
     equipment is intended as a general term to refer to any of a variety of excavating
     machines used in mining, construction and other activities, and which, for example,
     include dozers, loaders, dragline machines, cable shovels, face shovels, and hydraulic
     excavators.   Excavating equipment also refers to the ground-engaging components of

                                                9
     these machines such as the bucket, blade, or the cutter head.            Ground conveying
     equipment is also intended as a general term to refer to a variety of equipment that is used
     to convey earthen material and which, for example, includes chutes and mining truck
     beds or bodies. The present invention is suited for monitoring the status, health and
     performance of wear parts used on excavating equipment in the form of, for example,
     excavating buckets, blades, lips, teeth, and shrouds. Additionally, certain aspects of the
     present invention are also suited for monitoring the status and health of a wear surface in
     the form of, for example, runners and truck beds or bodies.            For convenience of
     discussion, the wear part monitoring process is discussed in terms of a monitoring system
     that monitors a point on a mining excavator, however, the monitoring process may be
     used with other wear parts used with many kinds of earth working equipment.
[43] Relative terms such as front, rear, top, bottom and the like are used for convenience of
     discussion. The terms front or forward are generally used to indicate the usual direction
     of travel of the earthen material relative to the wear part during use (e.g., while digging),
     and upper or top are generally used as a reference to the surface over which the material
     passes when, for example, it is gathered into the bucket. Nevertheless, it is recognized
     that in the operation of various earth working machines the wear assemblies may be
     oriented in various ways and move in all kinds of directions during use.
[44] A mining excavator 1 is equipped with a bucket 3 for gathering earthen material while
     digging (Figure 1). The bucket 3 includes a frame or shell 4 defining a cavity 16 for
     gathering material during the digging operation (Figure 2). Shell 4 may include a top
     wall 6 having attachment supports 8 to attach the bucket 3 to earthmoving equipment 1, a
     bottom wall 10 opposite the top wall 6, a rear end with a back wall 12, and a pair of
     opposing sidewalls 14 each located between the top wall 6, the bottom wall 10, and the
     back wall 12. The shell 4 may be constructed with walls having a single plate or may be
     constructed with portions of the bucket having double plates as is well known. Multiple

                                         10
configurations of buckets are known and variations in bucket geometry exist, for
example, the bucket may not have a top wall as in a dragline bucket, the rear wall may be
hinged as in a dipper bucket, or a portion of the side walls may be hinged as in a
hydraulic face shovel bucket. The specific geometry of the bucket is not intended to be
limiting as the present invention can be used with various types of buckets and with
various types of wear parts used on earth working equipment. The bucket 3 has a lip 5
that extends forward of the bottom wall 10 and is the digging edge of the bucket 3
(Figures 2 and 3).    The digging edge is that portion of the equipment that leads the
contact with the ground. Tooth assemblies and shrouds are often secured to the digging
edge to protect the edge and break up the ground ahead of the lip 5.       Multiple tooth
assemblies 7 and shrouds 9, such as disclosed in US Patent Application Publication US
2013/0174453 which is incorporated herein by reference, may be attached to lip 5 of
bucket 3 (Figures 2-5). The illustrated tooth 7 includes an adapter 11 welded to lip 5, an
intermediate adapter 13 mounted on adapter 11, and a point (also called a tip) 15
mounted on base 13. Point 15 includes a rearwardly-opening cavity to receive nose 17 of
base 13, and a front end 19 to penetrate the ground (Figure 5). Securement mechanisms
or locks 21 are used to secure wear member 15 to base 13, and base 13 to nose 23 (Figure
5). Other tooth arrangements are possible, for example, the tooth assembly 7a may be
defined with just an adapter 11 a secured to the lip and a point 15a (Figure 6), such as
disclosed in US Patent 7,882,649 which is incorporated herein by reference. One aspect
of the present invention pertains to monitoring the presence and/or health of the wear
member on a base. For ease of discussion the application generally discusses monitoring
the presence and/or health of a wear member on a base secured to an excavating bucket.
However, the invention could be used to monitor the presence and/or health of a wear
member on a base on various types of earth working equipment and may monitor a point
on an adapter, a point on an intermediate adapter, an intermediate adapter on an adapter,

                                              11
     an adapter, a nose of a cast lip, a shroud, a lip, a blade, a wear runner, a truck liner, or
     other wear member of other kinds of earth working equipment. During the life of the
     bucket or other equipment, the wear member wears out and needs to be replaced a
     number of times.
[45] When a wear member reaches a minimum recommended wear profile (i.e., the wear
     member is considered fully worn), the wear member is replaced so that production does
     not decrease and the base, upon which the wear member rests, does not experience
     unnecessary wear. Figure 7 illustrates the steps to a monitoring system that monitors the
     status and health of wear members on an excavating bucket.      The process displays three
     different wear member checks that are performed in parallel and the results of the three
     checks results in a process outcome (e.g., wear member ok for continued operation, wear
     member is worn, and wear member is missing). Variations in the process exist, for
     example, it may be desirable to only monitor if the wear members are present or to only
     monitor when the wear members are worn such that they should be replaced. In another
     example, it may be desirable to perform more than 3 different wear member checks or to
     perform less than 3 wear member checks or to only utilize portions of the process. In
     another example the process may be performed in serial (i.e., perform first wear member
     check and proceed to next wear member check if needed). It is also possible for the
     system to estimate the remaining useful life of the wear part based on the amount of the
     wear part remaining and the rate of wear to assist the operator in determining when to
     replace the wear parts.
[46] Because each type of wear member has a recommended or set minimum wear profile,
     one of the wear member checks may be to determine the current length of each wear
     member on the bucket. The monitoring system 25 may use an electronic sensor 27 to
     determine the current length of each wear member on the bucket (Figure 8).       The length
     of the wear members may be, for example, determined by a camera, an ultra-sonic

                                         12
sensor, a laser interferometer, or another distance measuring sensor.            In some
embodiments the camera may be an optical camera or the camera may be a thermal
imaging camera. In some embodiments, the monitoring system may be equipped with
lights to illuminate the wear part(s) being monitored so that the electronic sensors may
provide accurate readings. The lights illuminating the wear part(s) may alternatively be a
part of the earth working equipment or it may not be necessary to illuminate the wear
parts.   If the monitoring system uses a camera to determine the lengths of the wear
members on the bucket, the camera may first acquire an image of the lip 5 and the
attached tooth assemblies 7 (Figure 3).        Next programmable logic on a Central
Processing Unit (CPU), controller, PC, or Programmable Logic Controller (PLC) (all of
which will be generally referenced as a controller) may apply a reference line to the
image of the bucket lip (not shown).     The reference line may, for example, define the
limit of wear allowed for each of the wear members, may represent the lip of the bucket,
or the reference line may be an arbitrary line to establish a "rearward edge" or end point
for the programmable logic. The reference line may be, for example, straight or non
straight depending on the type of lip and/or wear members.         The reference line (not
shown) will preferably be located rearward of the leading edge of the lip 5 (Figure 5).
The programmable logic may have integrated vision recognition software to determine
the leading edge of each wear member on the lip of the bucket. The vision recognition
software may be, for example, In-Sight sold by Cognex.         The programmable logic is
programed to count the number of pixels between the reference line and the leading edge
of each wear member. Based on the pixel count the programmable logic is programmed
to determine the current length of each wear member. Once the current length of each
wear member is determined, the programmable logic compares the current length to the
set minimum wear profile for the type of wear members installed on the bucket. The
programmable logic may reference a database with the type of wear members currently

                                         13
installed on the bucket or may determine the type of wear members installed on the
bucket using vision recognition software. The programmable logic may also reference a
database of bucket and wear part geometry to assist the vision recognition software in
determining the type and number of wear members installed on the bucket. If the length
of each wear member on the bucket is greater than the set minimum wear profile (i.e.
within a set range) and the results of the other parallel wear member checks are
acceptable (e.g., wear member is on the base and the number of edges extending from the
base match the expected number of edges extending from the base) the programmable
logic may be programmed to loop back to the start of the process and again determine the
length of each wear member (Figure 7A and 7B).             The programmable logic may
continually loop through the process or there may be a delay built into the process so that
the process is run once during a set time limit. If the current length of at least one wear
member was close to the minimum wear profile (i.e. within a set range) and the results of
the other parallel wear member checks are acceptable (e.g., wear member is on the base
and the number of edges extending from the base match the expected number of edges
extending from the base), the programmable logic may be programed to produce a
precautionary alert that a specific wear member is close to needing replacement.       The
alert may be, for example, a visual alert, haptic feedback, and/or an audio alert. The
monitoring system may wirelessly provide the alerts to equipment operators and/or
wireless devises for access by the operator or other such as maintenance personnel, mine
site managers or the like. If, however, the length of each wear member is not greater than
the minimum wear profile (i.e. less than a set range) and the results of the other parallel
wear member checks are acceptable (e.g., wear member is on the base and the number of
edges extending from the base match the expected number of edges extending from the
base) the programmable logic may be programed to produce an alert that the wear
member has been wom. The programmable logic may be programmed to immediately

                                               14
     produce the alert or, to reduce false alarms; the programmable logic may be programmed,
     for example, to repeat the process a preset number of times or to repeat the process over a
     preset time frame to validate that outcome of the process. This reduces the likelihood
     that the programmable logic does not register an object obstructing the wear member or
     the electronic sensor as a worn or missing wear member.
[47] Because each wear member and each base has a specific geometry, another wear member
     check may be to determine the features of each wear member and base on the bucket to
     assist with knowing if the wear member is still attached to the base. As will be disclosed
     in detail below, unique features and/or patterns may also be included on the wear member
     or on the base to assist with knowing if the wear member is still attached to the base. If
     the key features, unique features and/or patterns are incorporated onto the wear member
     and the monitoring system is able to detect the feature and the results of the other parallel
     wear member checks are acceptable (e.g., wear profile is acceptable and the number of
     edges extending from the base match the expected number of edges extending from the
     base), the monitoring system is programmed that the wear member has not been lost from
     the excavating equipment.       In an alternative embodiment, the unique features and/or
     patterns are incorporated onto a base such that the unique feature and/or pattern can only
     be seen if the wear member is missing. If the monitoring system registers the features
     and/or pattern and the results of the other parallel wear member checks are not acceptable
     (e.g., wear profile is not acceptable and the number of edges extending from the base
     does not match the expected number of edges extending from the base), the monitoring
     system is programmed to produce an alert that the wear member has been lost.
[48] Because each base has a specific number of edges extending from it (i.e., for each base
     there is one wear part extending from the base), another wear member check may be to
     determine how many edges are extending from the base attached to the lip of the bucket
     to assist with knowing if the wear member is still attached to the base.       This may be

                                          15
done by counting the number of edges extending from the base or lip (i.e., the number of
edges extending from the base or lip in a forward direction parallel to the motion of the
bucket in a normal digging operation) and comparing them to the expected number of
edges extending from the base or lip. If, for example, the number of edges extending
from the base or lip does not match the expected number of edges extending from the
base or lip and the results of the other parallel wear member checks are acceptable (e.g.,
wear profile is acceptable and the wear part is on the base), the programmable logic is
programed to give a precautionary alert (not shown) and/or may be programed to repeat
the monitoring process from the beginning.        The monitoring process may be repeated
because there may have been an error in the process (e.g., a rock or other item was miss
interpreted as a wear member). In a similar fashion if the wear member is on the base but
the number of edges extending from the base does not match the expected number of
edges extending from the base and the wear profile of the wear part is not acceptable, the
programmable logic is programed to repeat the monitoring process from the beginning
(not shown in Figure 7A and 7B). In an alternative embodiment the programmable logic
may be programed to send a precautionary alert (e.g., the wear member may be worn but
something may be lodged between the wear members, or the wear member may be lost
and an object is being misinterpreted as a wear member). If the wear profile is acceptable
and the number of edges extending from the base matches the expected number of edges
extending from the base but the wear member is not on the base (e.g. unique feature on
base normally not visible when wear member is present is currently visible), the
programmable logic may be programed to repeat the monitoring process from the
beginning as something may have caused an error in the process (not shown in Figure 7A
and 7B). If the wear profile is not acceptable and wear member is not on the base but the
number of edges extending from the base matches the expected number of edges
extending from the base, the programmable logic may be programed to repeat the

                                              16
     monitoring process from the beginning as something may have caused an error in the
     process (not shown in Figure 7A and 7B).        If the wear profile is acceptable but the
     number of edges extending from the base does not match the expected number of edges
     extending from the base and the wear member is not on the base, the programmable logic
     may be programed to repeat the monitoring process from the beginning as something
     may have caused an error in the process (not shown in Figure 7A and 7B).
[49] The results and alerts from the process may be sent to a Human Machine Interface
     (HMI). Details of the HMI will be discussed in further detail below. The bucket health
     monitoring system may also communicate with other computer systems wirelessly or
     through a cable the specific wear member(s) needing maintenance either because the
     wear member is lost or because the wear member is worn past the minimum wear profile.
     In addition the monitoring system may store all of the results from the process.
[50] In addition to monitoring the status and health of the wear members on the bucket, the
     monitoring system may monitor the performance of the bucket or other wear members.
     For example, the monitoring system may determine how full the bucket is loaded during
     the digging cycle. As the bucket is loaded, the material being excavated has a tendency
     to fill the bucket with an established profile. Once the bucket 3a has been filled by the
     operator the electronic sensors 27 measure the distance D1 to the load 91 within the
     bucket 3a (Figure 19) and programmable logic uses the distance and a database of
     established fill profiles to determine the volume of the load within the bucket. The
     electronic sensors 27 and programmable logic may also determine a percentage that the
     bucket has been filled. The percentage may be determined by comparing the current fill
     of the bucket to the rated capacity of the bucket. In an alternative embodiment, the
     electronic sensors 27 may measure the distance D1 to the load 91 within a truck body 3b
     (Figure 20) and programmable logic uses the distance and a database of established fill
     profiles to determine the volume of the load within the truck body. Similar to the bucket

                                              17
     the electronic sensors may be used to determine the percentage that the truck body has
     been filled. The electronic sensor may be a camera, a laser range finder, an ultrasonic
     sensor, or another distance measuring sensor. Programmable logic may determine the
     percentage the bucket is filled based on the distance to the load within the bucket and.
     The results from the current digging cycle and past digging cycles may be communicated
     to the equipment operator or to other databases and computer systems. This allows the
     equipment operator to adapt how the operator digs to optimally fill the bucket and truck
     body. The monitoring system may, for example, use the same electronic sensors used for
     monitoring the status and health of the wear parts or may use separate electronic sensors
     to monitor the fill of the bucket. The electronic sensors may be, for example, a camera, a
     laser range finder, or an ultrasonic sensor.     The camera may be, for example, a 3D
     camera capable of determining depth or may be a camera coupled with vision recognition
     software as outlined above. It is also possible for the electronic sensors for determining
     the fill of the bucket to be separate components from the monitoring system and not be
     incorporated with the monitoring system. The use of a monitoring system to monitor the
     filling of a bucket could be used as a stand-alone system, i.e., without a system to
     monitor the presence and/or health of the wear parts. This type of monitoring system
     could also be used in non-bucket applications (e.g., such as truck trays) to monitor the
     efficiency or optimization of the operator.
[51] The monitoring system may be equipped with electronic sensors that are capable of
     determining the cycle time of a digging cycle. For example, the monitoring system may
     be equipped with an accelerometer and an inclinometer (not shown). The inclinometer
     provides the orientation of the bucket and the accelerometer registers a spike in force
     when the bucket is at the appropriate digging orientation and thus indicating that the
     digging cycle has started. Programmable logic may determine the time from the start of
     one digging cycle to the start of the second digging cycle (i.e., time between peaks when

                                               18
     inclinometer indicates that the bucket is at the appropriate digging orientation). The
     results from the current cycle time and past cycle times may be communicated to the
     equipment operator or to a wireless device. This allows the operator to adjust the digging
     operation for optimal performance.      It is also possible for the electronic sensors for
     determining the cycle time to not be incorporated with the monitoring system.
     Monitoring the fill of a bucket or truck tray and/or cycle time can help mine operators (or
     the like) to better optimize its operations.    In an alternative embodiment, a pressure
     sensor may be used instead of an accelerometer to determine when the digging cycle has
     started. The pressure sensor may be a hydraulic pressure sensor integrated with the boom
     of the earth working equipment. In another preferred embodiment, a strain gauge or load
     cell is used to determine when the digging cycle has started. The strain gauge or load cell
     may be located in the bucket or a wear member on the bucket.               In an alternative
     embodiment, GPS may be used to determine the orientation of the bucket.
[52] The monitoring system may be equipped with electronic sensors that are capable of
     determining high impact events on the bucket digging edge (i.e., higher than experienced
     during normal digging operation). For example, the monitoring system may utilize an
     accelerometer, strain gauge, load cell, or pressure sensor to determine peak impacts (not
     shown). Programmable logic may record the time of the high impact event. The results
     of the high impact events may be communicated to the equipment operator or to a
     wireless device. It is also possible for the electronic sensors for determining the high
     impact event to be separate components from the electronic sensor for determining the
     digging cycle time or not be incorporated with the monitoring system.
[53] In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the monitoring system 25 having at
     least one electronic sensor is incorporated with the bucket 3 so that the sensor always has
     a clear line of sight to the digging edge or lip 5 of the bucket 3 regardless of how the
     operator orients the bucket 3 during the digging and dumping operation (Figures 9 and

                                              19
     10). The electronic sensor may be, for example, integrated with the shell 4 of the bucket
     (Figure 10), integrated between two interior plates of a bucket having a double wall shell
     (not shown), or installed on the bridge 29 or top of the bucket (Figure 9). The electronic
     sensors may be, for example, a camera, an ultra-sonic sensor, or a laser interferometer.
     The camera may be, for example, a Cognex 7100 camera. Nevertheless, the monitoring
     system could be mounted or integrated with, for example, a boom or other support of the
     excavating equipment, or to the body of the excavating equipment.            In a non-bucket
     application, the monitoring system may be preferably mounted and or integrated to a base
     member supporting the wear part. The base member may be, for example, a truck tray or
     a blade. If the monitoring system is fixed to the truck tray the monitoring system may
     monitor the presence and/or health of runners on the truck tray.            Similarly, if the
     monitoring system is fixed to the blade of a dozer or grader the monitoring system may
     monitor the presence and/or health of the end bits on the blade or the leading edge of the
     blade. Like mounting the monitoring system on the bucket, mounting on the truck tray or
     blade would provide a clear line of sight to the part or parts being monitored.
[54] The electronic sensor(s) 27 may be housed in one or more enclosures 31 in one or more
     locations on the wear part that engages and moves the ground to be excavated to protect
     the electronic sensor(s) 27 from the harsh mining environment and to keep the aperture
     33 of the housing of the electronic sensor 27 free of fines, dirt, or other material that may
     negatively impact the electronic sensor 27 (Figures 8 and 11). The enclosure 31 may
     have one or more mounting brackets 35 for mounting the enclosure 31 on the first wear
     part.   The enclosure 31 may house additional electronic equipment (not shown) for
     controlling and processing the data from the electronic sensor 27.          In an alternative
     embodiment, some or all of the additional electronic equipment may be housed on the
     excavating equipment or in a remote location (not shown). For example, one or more
     electronic sensors 27 may be located in one or more locations in/on the bucket and the

                                               20
     electronic sensors 27 may communicate via a wire or wirelessly with other electronic
     sensors and/or the additional electronic equipment within the cab of the excavating
     equipment.    In alternative embodiments, one or more electronic sensors 27 (shown in
     phantom lines in Figure 9) may be located on or in a second wear part(s) that are attached
     to the first wear part(s) that engages and moves the ground to be excavated. The first
     wear part(s) may be, for example, a bucket, a blade, a truck body, or the like and the
     second wear part(s) may be, for example, a point, an intermediate adapter, an adapter, a
     shroud, a nose, a lip, a wear runner, a truck liner, or the like. The electronic sensor(s) in
     the second wear part may communicate with electronic sensor(s) on the first wear part,
     the second wear part(s) and/or with the additional electronic equipment that may be
     located on the first wear part or located remote to the first wear part.         As with the
     electronic sensor(s) in the first wear part, the electronic sensor(s) in the second wear part
     may communicate via a wire or wirelessly. The additional electronic equipment may be,
     for example, a controller, a power supply, a camera, and/or a wireless device.            The
     controller may be, for example, an S7-1200 PLC sold by Siemens. The power supply
     may power just the electronic sensor or may also power the additional electronic
     equipment.    In an alternative embodiment, two power supplies are provided.           A first
     power supply to power the electronic equipment and a second power supply to power the
     additional electronic equipment. The power supply may be, for example, a power supply
     sold by TDK-Lambda and/or an SDC-5 Power Supply. The camera may be, for example,
     a Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) camera. The CCTV camera may provide a HMI
     with a live feed of the lip of the bucket. Details of the HMI will be discussed in further
     detail below. The wireless device may be, for example a wireless serial device server
     sold by B &B Electronics (formerly Quatech).
[55] The enclosure may have at least one cutout 37 on one side so that the aperture 33 of the at
     least one electronic sensor 27 has a clear line of sight to the lip 5 of the bucket 3 (Figures

                                         21
8, 9 and 11). In an alternative embodiment, the bucket may have a cutout 39 so that the
aperture of the electronic sensor has a clear line of sight to the lip (not shown) of the
bucket (Figure 10). The cutout 37 or 39 may be covered with a transparent wall 41, a
translucent wall, or a clear wall so that the electronic sensor is completely sealed within
the enclosure (Figure 8, 10, and 11). In addition a nozzle 43 may be directed to spray air,
water, or another type of cleaning agent on the transparent wall 41 so that as dirt and
fines accumulate the air, water or cleaning agent cleans the transparent wall 41 and keeps
the transparent wall 41 see through (Figure 12).        In an alternative embodiment, the
electronic sensor may have a built in transparent cover to protect the aperture of the
electronic sensor and the nozzle may be directed to spray the air, water, or cleaning agent
directly on the transparent cover of the electronic sensor (not shown). In an alternative
embodiment, a wiping tool 45 may be provided to clean off the transparent cover of the
aperture or the transparent wall 41 (Figure 12). The wiping tool may be integrated with a
nozzle for spraying the air, the water, or the cleaning agent.            In an alternative
embodiment the wiping tool may be a separate tool from the nozzle. The wiping tool
may be, for example, a comb, brush, or a squeegee. In an alternative embodiment, the
cutout 37 in the enclosure or the cutout within the bucket may be provided with a first
spool 47 of transparent material 49 that stretches across the cutout to a second spool 51
(Figure 13). As the transparent material 49 becomes opaque, a motor (not shown) may
spin the second spool 51 so that the transparent material 49 moves from the first spool 47
to the second spool 51 and a new section of transparent material 49 covers the cutout. In
an alternative embodiment, the cutout may be provided with multiple layers of
transparent material so that when the top layer needs to be replaced the old top layer can
be torn away to expose a new layer of transparent material (not shown). In yet another
alternative embodiment, the aperture of the electronic sensor may have a movable cover.

                                               22
     The movable cover may cover the electronic sensor when not in use and may be removed
     so that the electronic sensor can take a measurement (not shown).
[56] The electronic sensor 27 and additional electronic equipment (not shown) may be
     mounted on vibration dampening devices 53 so that the vibrations of the digging and
     dumping operation do not negatively affect the electronic sensor 27 and additional
     electronic equipment (Figure 8). Various vibration dampening devices 53 known in the
     industry may be used to dampen the vibrations experienced.         The vibration dampening
     devices 53 may be, for example, mounted to the top and bottom of a mounting unit 55
     that holds the electronic sensor 27. The vibration dampening devices 53 may be, for
     example, elastomers or springs.
[57] A unique feature and/or pattern 57 may be added along the length of the expected wear
     profile of the wear member 15 to aid the monitoring system in determining the current
     wear profile of the wear member 15 (Figure 14 and 15).           The unique feature and/or
     pattern 57 may be added to the wear member 15 at the time of manufacture or after
     manufacturing.     The unique feature and/or pattern 57 may be, for example, grooves 59
     and/or ridges cut, cast, or forged into the top exterior surface 61 of the wear member 15.
     In an alternative embodiment, the unique feature and/or pattern may be a hardfacing
     material applied to the top exterior surface of the wear member (not shown). As the wear
     member 15 penetrates the ground and is worn the unique features and/or pattern 57 also
     wears away.     The electronic sensor may be able to detect how much of the unique
     features and/or pattern 57 remains (e.g., how many grooves 59 and/or ridges remain).
     Based on the current wear profile and the set minimum wear profile, the health
     monitoring unit can send an alert (which could be a visual, audible, and/or haptic alarm)
     when the wear member 15 is about to be worn to the minimum wear profile. A separate
     alert may be sent when the wear member 15 has been worn past the minimum wear
     profile.

                                             23
[581 Unique features and/or patterns may be incorporated onto the wear member or base to aid
     in absence and presence detection. The unique feature and/or pattern may be added to
     the wear member or base at the time of manufacture or after manufacturing. The unique
     feature and/or pattern 57 may be, for example, grooves 59 and/or ridges cut, cast, or
     forged into the top exterior surface 61 of the wear member (Figure 14 and 15). In an
     alternative embodiment, the unique feature and/or pattern may be a hardfacing material
     applied to the top exterior surface of the wear member (not shown).       In an alternative
     embodiment, the unique feature and/or pattern 63 may be, for example, a shape cut, cast,
     or forged into the top surface 65 of the base 13 so that the unique feature and/or pattern
     63 is only visible if the wear member is no longer attached to the base 13 (Figure 9 and
     16). In an alternative embodiment, hardfacing may be used to apply a shape to the top
     surface of the base (not shown). In an alternative embodiment, a shape 67 may be cut in
     the top surface 65 of the base 13 and a medallion 69 may be press fit, glued, or otherwise
     secured within the cut (Figure 16).
[59] At least one HMI 71 may be provided to display the current status and health of the wear
     members on the bucket (Figures 17 and 18).       The HMI 71 may be hard wired to the
     monitoring system or may be a wireless device 81 (Figure 18).       The HMI 71 may be
     located in the cab 2 of the excavating equipment 1 (Figure 1) or may be located in a
     remote location. In addition the HMI may be integrated with a display system currently
     in the excavating equipment (e.g., with the OEM display), may be integrated with a new
     display system within the excavating equipment, or may be integrated with a remote
     display system. The HMI 71 may be configured to provide a graphical display 73 of the
     current status of the wear members on the lip of the bucket (Figure 17 and 18). The HMI
     71 may, for example, provide visual alerts (e.g., text 75 and/or pictorial images), haptic
     feedback (e.g., vibrations), and audio alerts regarding the status of each wear member
     (Figure 17). The visual alert may be, for example, a graphical picture 77 displaying each

                                              24
     wear member and the status of each wear member (i.e., absent/present, acceptable wear,
     needing maintenance). The HMI 71 may be designed to display a live image 79 of the lip
     of the bucket so that an operator can visually check that an alert is valid. The HMI may
     be designed to display a history chart (not shown) so that an operator can determine when
     an alert happened so that an operator can take the necessary actions if a wear member is
     lost.
[60] The various monitoring systems and features can be used together or as a single stand
     alone system without the other capabilities. Although the above discussion has discussed
     the invention in connection with teeth on a bucket, the system can be used to sense the
     presence and/or health of other wear parts on a bucket such as shrouds, wings, and/or
     runners.   Moreover, systems of the present invention can also be used to monitor the
     presence and or health of wear parts on other kinds of earth working equipment such as
     runners on chutes or truck trays, or end bits on blades.
[61] The above disclosure describes specific examples for a bucket wear monitoring system.
     The system includes different aspects or features of the invention. The features in one
     embodiment can be used with features of another embodiment. The examples given and
     the combination of features disclosed are not intended to be limiting in the sense that they
     must be used together.
[62] In this specification where a document, act or item of knowledge is referred to or
     discussed, this reference or discussion is not an admission that the document, act or item
     of knowledge or any combination thereof was at the priority date publicly available,
     known to the public, part of the common general knowledge or known to be relevant to
     an attempt to solve any problem with which this specification is concerned.
[63] The word 'comprising' and forms of the word 'comprising' as used in this description and
     in the claims does not limit the invention claimed to exclude any variants or additions.

                                                   25
Claims:
         1.       A system for monitoring earth working equipment, the system comprising:
         at least one electronic sensor detecting at least one characteristic of an earth working
operation in each of a plurality of operational cycles, and wirelessly transmitting such
information;
         a programmable logic device using the transmitted information to make at least one
assessment regarding the operation; and
         a human machine interface providing the assessment to an operator of the earth working
equipment during use to allow the operator to adjust the use of the earth working equipment on
account of the assessment.
         2.       The system of claim 1 wherein the at least one assessment includes the amount of
earthen material gathered in a bucket secured to the earth working equipment.
         3.       The system of claim 1 or 2 wherein and the operational cycle is a digging cycle.
         4.       The system of claim 3 wherein the at least one assessment includes the duration
of each said digging cycle.
         5.       The system of any of claim 3 or 4 wherein the at least one assessment includes the
percentage of the bucket that is filled during each digging cycle.
         6.       The system of any of claims 3-5 wherein the at least one assessment includes the
volume of earthen material gathered in the bucket during each digging cycle.
         7.       The system of any of claims 3-6 including a database to store the transmitted
information for each of the digging cycles, wherein the programmable logic device uses the
transmitted information from a current digging cycle and past digging cycles to make the at least
one assessment.
         8.       The system of claim 7 wherein the database stores fill profiles for the bucket, the
at least one electronic sensor detects a distance between the at least one electronic sensor and the

                                                    26
earthen material in the bucket along a line of sight, and the programmable logic device uses the
distance and the fill profiles to make the at least one assessment.
        9.      The system of any of claims 1-6 including a database storing fill profiles for the
bucket, wherein the at least one electronic sensor detects a distance between the at least one
electronic sensor and the earthen material in the bucket along a line of sight, and the
programmable logic device uses the distance and the fill profiles to make the at least one
assessment.
        10.     The system of claim 1 or 2 wherein the at least one assessment includes the
amount of earthen material gathered in a truck tray by the earth working equipment, and the
operational cycle is one filling of the truck tray.
        11.     The system of claim 10 wherein the at least one assessment includes the amount
of earthen material gathered in a bucket secured to the earth working equipment during each
digging cycle.
        12.     The system of claim 10 or 11 wherein the at least one assessment can be used to
adjust the digging to optimally fill the truck tray.
        13.     The system of any of claims 10-12 wherein the at least one electronic sensor
includes a first electronic sensor secured to the bucket and a second electronic sensor secured to
the truck tray.
        14.     The system of any of claims 10-12 wherein the at least one electronic sensor is
secured to the truck tray.
        15.     The system of any of claims 10-14 including a database storing fill profiles for the
truck tray, wherein the at least one electronic sensor detects a distance between the at least one
electronic sensor and the earthen material in the truck tray along a line of sight, and the
programmable logic device uses the distance and the fill profiles to make the at least one
assessment.

                                                  27
         16.    The system of claim 15 wherein the database stores the transmitted information
for each of the operational cycles, and the programmable logic device uses the transmitted
information from a current operational cycle and past operational cycles to make the at least one
assessment.
         17.    The system of any of claims 10-14 including a database to store the transmitted
information for each of the operational cycles, wherein the programmable logic device uses the
transmitted information from a current operational cycle and past operational cycles to make the
at least one assessment.
         18.    The system of any of claims 2-17 wherein the at least one assessment can be used
to adjust the digging to optimally fill the bucket.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      1/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      2/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      3/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      4/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      5/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      6/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      7/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      8/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      9/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      10/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      11/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      12/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      13/14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      14/14

