                                             ABSTRACT
       An apparatus for heating water has a tank for storing water and an air conditioning system
that defines a refrigerant flow path through which refrigerant flows. The refrigerant flow path
passes through the heat exchanger so that refrigerant heat is contributed to the tank. A control
system controls operation of the water heating apparatus.

                   8/13
           CDo
         LU                            U
    C)1
             -N               I      (
        C)      I
ujL
        LuJ
               uJ'
                         C.C>   2    C
                        C">       C> C

                                                      TITLE
     APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR HEATING WATER WITH REFRIGERANT
                                FROM AIR CONDITIONING SYSTEM
                        CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[000]             The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014243719, which is a national phase application from International Application No. PCT/US2014/026894,
having an application date of 13 March 2014. The full disclosure of these applications is incorporated herein
by reference.
                                                BACKGROUND
[001]             Various apparatus and methods have been previously proposed for pre-heating water in a
water heater tank using refrigerant from air conditioning apparatus such as an air conditioner with a non
reversible refrigerant circuit or a heat pump having a reversible refrigerant circuit. However, such
previously proposed apparatus and methods have often proven to be undesirably complex and expensive
for use in many applications.
[002]             Any discussion of documents, acts, materials, devices, articles or the like which has been
included in the present specification is not to be taken as an admission that any or all of these matters
form part of the prior art base or were common general knowledge in the field relevant to the present
disclosure as it existed before the priority date of each claim of this application.
                                                   SUMMARY
1003]             Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or group of
elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of
elements, integers or steps.
[004]             An embodiment of an apparatus for heating water according to the present disclosure
includes a tank for storing water, and a heat exchanger in thermal communication with
                                                         I

the tank and configured to receive refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank. An air
conditioning system has an air handler actuatable to move an air flow through an air flow path
into a conditioned space. A refrigerant path has a first portion that passes through the air flow
path and a second portion that passes through the heat exchanger. A pump is disposed in the
refrigerant path and is actuatable to move refrigerant through the refrigerant path. A control
system has at least one controller in operative communication with the air handler and is in
operative communication with the pump. A computer-readable medium containing program
instructions is executable by the at least one controller to control actuation of the air handler and
to control actuation of the pump. The program instructions are configured so that the control
system, in a first mode of operation, actuates the air handler to move the air flow through the air
flow path and actuates the pump to move refrigerant through the first portion of the refrigerant
path and the second portion of the refrigerant path and, in a second mode of operation, maintains
the air handler in an inactive state and actuates the pump to move refrigerant through the first
portion of the refrigerant path and the second portion of the refrigerant path.
[004A]          In a further embodiment, an apparatus for heating water comprises: a tank for
storing water and having a heat source, wherein the heat source comprises one of an electric
heating element and a gas burner; a heat exchanger in thermal communication with the tank and
configured to receive refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank; an air conditioning
system comprising an air handler actuatable to move an air flow through an air flow path into a
conditioned space, a refrigerant path having a first portion that passes through the air flow path
and a second portion that passes through the heat exchanger, and a pump disposed in the
refrigerant path and being actuatable to move refrigerant through the refrigerant
                                                   Ia

path; a plurality of sensors, each outputting a respective signal representative of a respective
system operating parameter; and a control system comprising at least one controller in operative
communication with the sensors to receive the respective signals, in operative communication
with the tank, in operative communication with the air handler, and in operative communication
with the refrigerant path, and a computer-readable medium containing program instructions
executable by the at least one controller to control operations of the at least one controller to
control operations of the heat source, to control actuation of the air handler, and to control
refrigerant flow, and wherein, the program instructions are configured so that the control system,
in response to the signals from the sensors and an application of data corresponding to the
respective signals to a predetermined relationship between the respective operating parameters
and an efficiency of the apparatus, selectively either allows or blocks refrigerant flow through
the second portion and selectively actuates the heat source.
[004B]           In a further embodiment, an apparatus for heating water comprises: a tank for
storing water and having a heat source, wherein the heat source comprises one of an electric
heating element and a gas burner; a heat exchanger in thermal communication with the tank and
configured to receive refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank; an air conditioning
system comprising an air handler actuatable to move an air flow through an air flow path into a
conditioned space, a refrigerant path having a first portion that passes through the air flow path
and a second portion that passes through the heat exchanger, a pump disposed in the refrigerant
path and being actuatable to move refrigerant through the refrigerant path, and a valve system
within the refrigerant path that controls refrigerant flow in the first portion and the second
portion and that is selectively configurable to alternatively allow refrigerant
                                                   lb

flow through the second portion and block refrigerant flow in the second portion; a plurality of
sensors, each outputting a respective signal representative of a respective system operating
parameter that varies in a predetermined relationship with operating efficiency of at least one of
the tank and the air conditioning system; and a control system in operative communication with
the tank to control operation of the heat source, in operative communication with the air handler
to control actuation of the air handler, in operative communication with the sensors to receive the
respective signals, and in operative communication with valve system to control refrigerant flow,
and wherein, in response to the respective signals from the sensors and an application of data
corresponding to the respective signals to a predetermined relationship between the respective
operating parameters and the operating efficiency, the control system selectively actuates the
valve system to allow refrigerant flow through the second portion or block refrigerant flow
through the second portion and selectively actuates the heat source.
[004C]          In a further embodiment, an apparatus for heating water comprises: a tank for
storing water and having a heat source, wherein the heat source comprises one of an electric
heating element and a gas burner; a heat exchanger in thermal communication with the tank and
configured to receive refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank; an air conditioning
system operative to utilize refrigerant flowing through a refrigerant circuit portion of the air
conditioning system to regulate temperature of air being delivered to a conditioned space,
wherein the refrigerant circuit portion is in fluid communication with the heat exchanger so that
refrigerant flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion flows through the heat exchanger; and
a control system in operative communication with the air conditioning system to control
operation of the air conditioning system and in operative communication with
                                                   Ic

the tank to control operation of the heat source, wherein the control system is configured to
selectively direct flow of the refrigerant flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion to the heat
exchanger and block flow of refrigerant flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion from
flowing through the heat exchanger, the control system is configured, in a first mode of
operation, to direct flow of the refrigerant flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion to the
heat exchanger and deactivate the heat source, the control system is configured, in a second
mode of operation, to block flow of the refrigerant flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion
to the heat exchanger and activate the heat source, and the control system is configured to select
between the first mode of operation and the second mode of operation based on efficiency of the
air conditioning system when the control system operates in the first mode and efficiency of the
air conditioning system when the control system operates in the second mode.
[005]           In a further embodiment, an apparatus for heating water includes a tank for
storing water and a temperature sensor in thermal communication with water in the tank and
operable to output a first signal corresponding to temperature of the water in the tank. A heat
exchanger is in thermal communication with the tank and is configured to receive refrigerant and
transfer heat therefrom to the tank. An air conditioning system has an air handler actuatable to
move an air flow through an air flow path into a conditioned space. A refrigerant path has a first
portion that passes through the air flow path and a second portion that passes through the heat
exchanger. A valve system within the refrigerant path controls refrigerant flow to the first
portion and the second portion and is selectively configurable to alternatively allow refrigerant
                                                   2

flow through the second portion and block refrigerant flow through the second portion. A pump
is disposed in the refrigerant path and is actuatable to move refrigerant through the refrigerant
path. A thermostat is operable to measure ambient temperature in the conditioned space and to
output a second signal corresponding to ambient temperature in the conditioned space. A control
system has at least one controller in operative communication with the tank to receive the first
signal, in operative communication with the thermostat to receive the second signal, in operative
communication with the air handler, in operative communication with the pump, and in operative
communication with the valve system, and a computer-readable medium containing program
instructions executable by the at least one controller to control actuation of the air handler, to
control actuation of the pump, and to control the valve system to selectively allow refrigerant
flow through the second portion and block refrigerant flow through the second portion. The
program instructions are configured so that the control system, in response to the first and second
signals, in a first mode of operation, actuates the air handler to move the air flow through the air
flow path, actuates the pump to move refrigerant through the refrigerant path, and configures the
valve system to allow refrigerant flow through the second portion, in a second mode of
operation, maintains the air handler in an inactive state, actuates the pump to move refrigerant
through the refrigerant path, and configures the valve system to allow refrigerant flow through
the second portion and, in a third mode of operation, actuates the air handler to move the air flow
through the air flow path, actuates the pump to move refrigerant through the refrigerant path, and
configures the valve system to block refrigerant flow through the second portion.
[006]            In a further embodiment, an apparatus for heating water has a tank for storing
water and having a heat source. A heat exchanger is in thermal communication with the tank and
is configured to receive refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank. An air conditioning
                                                   3

system has an air handler actuatable to move an air flow through an air flow path into a
conditioned space. A refrigerant path has a first portion that passes through the air flow path and
a second portion that passes through the heat exchanger. A pump is disposed in the refrigerant
path and is actuatable to move refrigerant through the refrigerant path. A plurality of sensors
respectively output signals representative of respective system operating parameters. A control
system has at least one controller in operative communication with the sensors to receive the
respective signals. The control system is in operative communication with the tank, is in
operative communication with the air handler, and is in operative communication with the
refrigerant path, and a computer-readable medium containing program instructions executable by
the at least one controller to control operations of the at least one controller to control operations
of the heat source, to control actuation of the air handler, and to control refrigerant flow. The
program instructions are configured so that the control system, in response to the signals from
the sensors, selectively allows or blocks refrigerant flow through the second portion and
selectively actuates the heat source.
[0071           In a still further embodiment, an apparatus for heating water has a tank for storing
water and having a heat source. A heat exchanger is in thermal communication with the tank and
is configured to receive refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank. An air conditioning
system has an air handler actuatable to move an air flow through an air flow path into a
conditioned space. A refrigerant path has a first portion that passes through the air flow path and
a second portion that passes through the heat exchanger. A pump is disposed in the refrigerant
path and is actuatable to move refrigerant through the refrigerant path. A valve system within
the refrigerant path controls refrigerant flow in the first portion and the second portion and is
selectively configurable to alternatively allow refrigerant flow through the second portion and
                                                   4

block refrigerant flow through the second portion. A plurality of sensors each outputs a
respective signal representative of a respective system operating parameter that varies in a
predetermined relationship with operating efficiency of at least one of the tank and the air
conditioning system. A control system is in operative communication with the tank to control
operation of the heat source, is in operative communication with the air handler to control
actuation of the air handler, is in operative communication with the sensors to receive the
respective signals, and is in operative communication with the valve system to control refrigerant
flow. In response to the respective signals from sensors, the control system selectively actuates
the valve system to allow refrigerant flow through the second portion or block refrigerant flow
through the second portion and selectively actuates the source.
[0081            In still a further embodiment, an apparatus for heating water has a tank for storing
water. A heat exchanger is in thermal communication with the tank and is configured to receive
refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank. An air conditioning system is operative to
utilize refrigerant flowing through a refrigerant path of the air conditioning system to regulate
temperature of air being delivered to a conditioned space. wherein the refrigerant path defines a
first portion that is in fluid communication with the heat exchanger so that refrigerant flowing
through the first portion flows through the heat exchanger. A control system is in operative
communication with the air conditioning system to control operation of the air conditioning
system and temperature of the refrigerant flowing through the first portion to the heat exchanger.
The control system controls the temperature of the refrigerant flowing through the first portion to
the heat exchanger to a predetermined target temperature.
[0091            In still another embodiment, an apparatus for heating water has a tank for storing
water. A heat exchanger is in thermal communication with the tank and is configured to receive
                                                   5

refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank. An air conditioning system is operative to
utilize refrigerant flowing through a refrigerant circuit portion of the air conditioning system to
regulate temperature of air being delivered to a conditioned space. The refrigerant circuit portion
is in fluid communication with the heat exchanger so that refrigerant flowing through the
refrigerant circuit portion flows through the heat exchanger. A control system is in operative
communication with the air conditioning system to control operation of the air conditioning
system. The control system is configured to selectively direct flow of the refrigerant flowing
through the refrigerant circuit portion to the heat exchanger and block flow of refrigerant flowing
through the refrigerant circuit portion from flowing through the heat exchanger. The control
system is configured, in a first mode of operation, to direct flow of the refrigerant flowing
through the refrigerant circuit portion to the heat exchanger when the air conditioning system is
delivering conditioned air to the conditioned space. The control system is configured, in a
second mode of operation, to direct flow of the refrigerant flowing through the refrigerant circuit
portion to the heat exchanger when the air conditioning system is not delivering conditioned air
to the conditioned space.
[0010]           In yet another embodiment, an apparatus for heating water has a tank for storing
water and has a heat source. A heat exchanger is in thermal communication with the tank and
configured to receive refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank. An air conditioning
system is operative to utilize refrigerant flowing through a refrigerant circuit portion of the air
conditioning system to regulate temperature of air being delivered to a conditioned space. The
refrigerant circuit portion is in fluid communication with the heat exchanger so that refrigerant
flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion flows through the heat exchanger. A control
system is in operative communication with the air conditioning system to control operation of the
                                                   6

air conditioning system and is in operative communication with the tank to control operation of
the heat source. The control system is configured to selectively direct flow of the refrigerant
flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion to the heat exchanger and block flow of refrigerant
flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion from flowing through the heat exchanger. The
control system is configured, in a first mode of operation, to direct flow of the refrigerant
flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion to the heat exchanger and deactivate the heat
source. The control system is configured, in a second mode of operation, to block flow of the
refrigerant flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion to the heat exchanger and activate the
heat source. The control system is configured to select between the first mode of operation and
the second mode of operation based on efficiency of the air conditioning system when the
control system operates in the first mode and efficiency of the air conditioning system when the
control system operates in the second mode.
[0011]          In yet a further embodiment, an apparatus for heating water has a tank for storing
water. A first heat exchanger is in thermal communication with the tank and is configured to
receive refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank. An air conditioning system has a
second heat exchanger, a fan disposed with respect to the second heat exchanger so that the fan is
actuatable to move an air flow across the second heat exchanger, a refrigerant path having a first
portion that passes through the first heat exchanger and a second portion that passes through the
second heat exchanger, and a pump disposed in the refrigerant path and being actuatable to move
refrigerant through the refrigerant path from the pump to the second heat exchanger and from the
second heat exchanger to the first heat exchanger. A control system has at least one controller in
operative communication with the pump and the fan, and a computer-readable medium
                                                  7

containing program instructions executable by the at least one controller to control the pump and
to control speed of the fan.
[0012]          The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part of
this specification, illustrate one or more embodiments of the present disclosure.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0013]          Aspects of the present disclosure can be better understood with reference to the
following drawings. The components in the drawings are not necessarily to scale. An enabling
disclosure, including the best mode thereof, is set forth in the specification, which makes
reference to the appended drawings, in which:
[0014]          Figure 1 is a schematic view of an air conditioning system according to an
embodiment of the present disclosure, with an air conditioning system providing only
conditioned space air conditioning;
[0015]          Figure 2 is a schematic diagram of the system as in Figure 1, but with the air
conditioning system providing conditioned space air and providing refrigerant heat to a water
heater;
[0016]          Figure 3 is a schematic diagram of the system as in Figure 2, but with the air
conditioning system providing refrigerant heat to one of two water heater tanks in a two water
heater tank arrangement;
[00171          Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of a an air conditioning system according to an
embodiment of the present disclosure, with an air conditioning system providing only
conditioned space air cooling;
                                                  8

[00181         Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of the system as in Figure 4, but with the air
conditioning system providing conditioned space air and providing refrigerant heat to a water
heater;
[0019]         Figure 6 is a schematic diagram of the system as in Figure 4, but with the air
conditioning system providing conditioned space air heating without providing refrigerant heat
to a water heater;
[0020]         Figure 7 is a schematic diagram of the system as in Figure 4, but with the air
conditioning system providing conditioned space air and providing refrigerant heat to a water
heater;
[0021]         Figure 8 is a schematic diagram of an air conditioning system according to an
embodiment of the present disclosure;
[00221         Figure 9 is a schematic diagram of the system as in Figure 8, but with the air
conditioning system providing conditioned space air cooling without providing refrigerant heat
to a water heater;
[0023]         Figure 10 is a schematic diagram of the system as in Figure 8, but with the air
conditioning system providing conditioned space air heating without providing refrigerant heat
to a water heater;
[0024]         Figure 11 is a schematic diagram of the system as in Figure 8, but with the air
conditioning system providing conditioned space air and providing refrigerant heat to a water
heater;
[00251         Figure 12 is a schematic diagram of the system as in Figure 8, but with the air
conditioning system providing conditioned space air and providing refrigerant heat to a water
heater; and
                                               9

[00261           Figure 13 is a schematic diagram of the system as in Figure 8, but with the air
conditioning system providing refrigerant heat to a water heater without providing conditioned
space air.
[0027]           Repeat use of reference characters in the present specification and drawings is
intended to represent same or analogous features or elements of embodiments of the present
disclosure.
                DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
[0028]           Reference will now be made in detail to presently preferred embodiments of the
disclosure, one or more examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Each
example is provided by way of explanation of the disclosure, not limitation of the invention. In
fact, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that modifications and variations can be made
in such examples without departing from the scope or spirit thereof. For instance, features
illustrated or described as part of one embodiment may be used on another embodiment to yield
a still further embodiment. Thus, it is intended that the present disclosure covers such
modifications and variations as come within the scope of the appended claims and there
equivalents.
[00291           As used herein, the terms "air conditioning" apparatus, system, etc. encompass
apparatus useable to change the temperature of air being delivered to a conditioned space and
having an associated refrigerant circuit. Thus, an "air conditioning" apparatus or system may
comprise, without limitation, (1) an air conditioning unit (or "air conditioner") having a non
reversible refrigerant circuit that may be used to cool air delivered to a conditioned space, or (2)
a heat pump having a reversible refrigerant circuit that may be used to heat or cool air delivered
to a conditioned space.
                                                    10

[00301           Residential and commercial air conditioning systems capture heat at some point in
the refrigerant's continuous cycle and transfer the heat to a point inside or outside the building,
depending upon whether the system is functioning in a cooling mode or, if capable of dual
modes, in a heating mode. In carrying out principles of one or more embodiments of the present
disclosure, a portion of that heat may be captured and used to heat water in the building's water
heater to a temperature at or, more often, below a high set point temperature of the water heater.
An electric element or gas burner in the water heater may provide additional heat to bring the
water temperature up to the water heater's high set point temperature.
[00311           An air conditioning/water heater system 10 embodying principles of an
embodiment of the present disclosure is schematically depicted in Figures 1 and 2 and includes
(1) an air conditioning system 12 having an outdoor condensing coil unit 14 and an indoor
evaporating coil unit 16, and (2) an associated water heater 18 which, representatively, may be a
gas-fired or electric water heater. In Figure 1, air conditioning system 12 is arranged so that it
operates in an air cooling mode only, and in Figure 2 is in an air cooling mode and further
provides supplemental, refrigerant-based heat to water heater 18. The various functions of air
conditioning/water heater system 10 are controlled by a schematically depicted electronic control
circuit 20 (shown only in Figure 1) that operates various subsequently described components of
the overall system 10.
[0032]           As should be understood, an air conditioning system, from the standpoint of
refrigerant flow, comprises a closed loop of refrigerant flowing among a compressor (i.e. a
pump), a condenser coil, and an evaporator coil. In so-called split systems, one of the two coils
is disposed inside the enclosure that is receiving conditioned air (the conditioned space, e.g. a
building interior space), in association with an air handler, while the other coil is disposed
                                                  11

outside the enclosure of the conditioned space, in the ambient environment. The compressor
may be inside or outside the enclosure, such as a building interior, but is typically outside in a
housing that also encloses the outside coil. In a system configured only to cool, the outdoor coil
is the condenser, and the indoor coil is an evaporator. Refrigerant flows from the compressor, to
the outdoor condenser coil, to the indoor evaporator coil, and back to the compressor. The
outdoor unit includes a fan that draws ambient air across the condenser coils to draw heat from
the coils. As will be understood, the refrigerant acquires this heat in part from the indoor air at
the evaporator as the liquid refrigerant evaporates in the coil in response to the influence of an
expansion valve at the coil's input. As the system's air handler fan moves the building's
recirculating air over the evaporator coils as the refrigerant changes phase from liquid to gas, the
refrigerant removes energy (i.e. heat) from the indoor air, thereby cooling the air as it is forced
back into the building's conditioned space. The warm refrigerant gas then flows from the
evaporator coil to the compressor, which receives the gas and pumps it back to the condenser,
adding pressure and heat. In embodiments in which the air conditioning system operates as a
heat pump, refrigerant lines between the compressor and the condenser, and between the
compressor and the evaporator, pass through a reversing valve so that, when switching from
cooling mode to a heating mode, the control system actuates the reversing valve to direct the
compressor output to the indoor coil, rather than to the outdoor coil. The roles of the indoor and
outdoor coils reverse from those the coils have in air cooling modes, but the sequence of
compressor-condenser-evaporator-compressor remains.
[00331          As noted, the condenser cools the refrigerant, thereby dissipating the refrigerant's
acquired heat (from the evaporator and the compressor) to the ambient environment via the air
flow that the fan moves over the coil. The temperature reduction in the condenser also reduces
                                                  12

the refrigerant's volume, in turn reducing its pressure, but the refrigerant flow path length and
tubing dimensions, and the compressor's size and strength, are selected so that sufficient positive
and negative pressure remain at the condenser's output and input to continue refrigerant flow to
the evaporator and therefrom back to the compressor. The selection of such system components
and operating parameters to enable desired heat transfer and recirculating refrigerant flow
through the flow circuit should be well understood in this art. While it should be understood that
the air conditioning systems described below are designed to provide sufficient heat transfer and
pressure to maintain system operation, these variables are not discussed further herein.
[00341           One or more embodiments of the present disclosure described herein insert into
the refrigerant path a cooling coil that is proximate a water heater to be in thermal
communication with the water heater tank and thereby transfer heat from the flowing refrigerant
to water in the tank. The addition of the cooling coil does not disrupt the air conditioning
system's underlying compressor-condenser-evaporator-compressor sequence, but it is
nonetheless encompassed within the present disclosure to use a single coil, wrapped around a
water heater tank and functioning as both the heat exchanger and the air conditioning system
condenser, in conditions where the heat exchanger provides sufficient cooling for the air
conditioning system's condenser needs and where the air conditioning system does not require air
flow over the condenser. Thus, although the present disclosure primarily discusses examples
having a fan-driven system condenser and a distinct water heater heat transfer coil, it should be
understood that other arrangements fall within the present disclosure.
[00351           Although the presently-described embodiments are discussed in the context of
split-type air conditioning systems, it should be understood that the present disclosure
                                                  13

encompasses air conditioning systems in which the condenser and evaporator coils may be
located in the same housing.
[0036]          Control system 20 may comprise a programmable logic controller (PLC) that
operates as the general system controller. Housed, for example, with outdoor unit 14, the PLC
communicates with and controls (via suitable electrical connections, relays, power sources, and
other electromechanical connections, as should be understood in this art) the actuation and
operation of the components described herein, including but not limited to the compressor,
outdoor coil fan, indoor coil fan, and all electrically controlled valves. As such, the control
system communicates with and controls the air conditioning system, including the valve system
within the refrigerant flow path that, in conjunction with the compressor (also controlled by the
control system) controls refrigerant flow. The reference to connections between control system
20 and each of outdoor unit 14, indoor unit 16, and water heater 18 (and between control system
70 and each of outdoor unit 64, indoor unit 66, and water heater 68, and between control system
 120 and each of outdoor unit 114, indoor unit 116, and water heater 138) encompass such
communications and control. Such communication may also encompass communication
between the control system and a temperature sensor at the outdoor unit, which provides a signal
to the control system corresponding to temperatures of the outdoor unit's ambient environment.
Furthermore, control system 20 receives input signals from one or more thermostats in the
building's conditioned space that provide instructions regarding whether to activate the air
conditioning system, deactivate the air conditioning system, actuate the air handler fan, operate
the system in air cooling mode, and (where the air conditioning system is a heat pump) operate
the system in air heating mode. The thermostat, being located in the conditioned space and
including a temperature sensor, may also output to the control system a signal corresponding to
                                                   14

temperature of the conditioned space. The operation of thermostats in generating such
instructions should be well understood and is, therefore, not discussed further herein. The
thermostat may be considered a part of control system 20, and, in any event, functions typically
performed by the thermostat can be shared or performed by control system 20. The reference to
communication between controller 20 and indoor unit 16 (and between control system 70 and
indoor unit 66, and between control system 120 and indoor unit 116) encompass such
communications between the control system and the thermostat(s), as well as communication
between the control system and the air handler and between the control system and the water
heater. The control system activates and deactivates the air handler, based on the air
conditioning system programming in response to signals from the thermostat and possibly
signals from sensors indicating system operating parameters, as should be understood. In an
inactive state, the air handler does not force air into, draw air into, or otherwise move air through
the conditioned space. As discussed herein, actuation of the air conditioning system may refer to
activation of the compressor to move refrigerant through the refrigerant path, activation of the
condenser fan, and activation of the air handler (fan), in certain embodiments. But as discussed
herein, in some circumstances the air conditioning system may be actuated without activating the
air handler. In that sense, the control system activates the air conditioning system while
maintaining the air handler in an inactive state.
[0037]           Reference to communication between controller 20/50/120 and indoor unit
 16/66/116 also encompasses communication between the control system and the water heater,
e.g. the water heater controller or, particularly where the water heater controller's functions are
incorporated by the control system, between the control system and the water heater temperature
sensor(s) and heat source(s). As should be understood, water heater 18 may include an
                                                    15

electronic controller (not shown) that can receive manual or electronic instructions to activate
and deactivate a water heater and can respond to such instructions as well as activating and
deactivating the water heater in response to pre-programmed set point temperatures. The water
heater's high and low set point temperatures are typically capable of manual or electronic setting
by the operator and/or at installation. Once set, the water heater's controller monitors the output
of one or more temperature sensors in thermal communication with water inside the water heater
and compares the water temperature with the predetermined set points. If the water heater is in
an inactive state, and if the water tank temperature is above the water heater's low set point, the
water heater controller takes no action until the water tank temperature reaches or falls below the
low set point. At this point, the water heater controller activates the water heater's internal heat
source, which begins to heat the water. The water heater controller continues to receive and
monitor water temperature signals from the one or more water heater temperature sensors, and
maintains the water heater heat source active until the controller receives a signal from the one or
more temperature sensors indicating that the water heater temperature has exceeded the high set
point. The water heater goes back to an inactive mode and does not reactivate until manually
activated or until the signal from the one or more temperature sensors indicates that the water
temperature has again fallen to or below the low set point.
[0038]          In the presently described embodiments, however, the water heater controller
passes the water heater temperature sensor signals or corresponding data to control system
20/70/120, which then determines whether to heat the water heater with refrigerant heat or with
the water heater's inherent heat source, as described above. If, or when, the control system
decides to operate the water heater heat source, the control system sends a corresponding signal
to the water heater controller, which actuates the heat source. The water heater controller may
                                                  16

thereafter monitor water temperature and deactivate the heat source when the temperature
reaches the high set point, or it may continue to pass the temperature signal or data to the control
system, which makes the decision when to deactivate the water heater heat source and sends an
appropriate instruction signal to the water heater controller. Still further, the water heater
controller may be omitted, and the control system 20/70/120 put in direct communication with
the water heater temperature sensor(s) and heat source control (i.e. activation and deactivation
control) in order to perform the functions described herein. The reference to communication
between controller 20 and water heater 18 (and between control system 70 and water heater 68,
and between control system 120 and water heater 138) encompass such communications between
the control system and the water heater controller or, particularly where the water heater
controller's functions are incorporated by the control system, between the control system and the
water heater temperature sensor(s) and heat source(s).
[0039]          Similarly, as described below, control systems 20 and 70 communicate with
variable fan controllers 25 and 115, and the communications indicated between control systems
20 and 70 and outdoor and indoor units 14/64 and 16/66 reflect such communications. Still
further, however, the functions of the variable fan controllers may also be incorporated entirely
within the control system, so that the fan controllers may be omitted and the control system
communicates directly with temperature sensors 27/117, or 42 or 46.
[0040]          It will be understood from the present disclosure that the functions ascribed to
control system 20/70/120 may be embodied by computer-executable instructions of a program
that executes on one or more computers, for example embodied by a residential or commercial
split system air conditioning system controller. Generally, program modules include routines,
programs, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular tasks and/or implement
                                                  17

particular abstract data types. Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the
systems/methods described herein may be practiced with various controller configurations,
including programmable logic controllers, simple logic circuits, single-processor or multi
processor systems, as well as personal computers, hand-held computing devices, microprocessor
based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics, and the like. Aspects of these
functions may also be practiced in distributed computing environments, for example in so-called
"smart home" arrangements and systems, where tasks are performed by remote processing
devices that are linked through a local or wide area communications network to the components
otherwise illustrated in the Figures. In a distributed computing environment, programming
modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices. Thus, control system
20 may comprise a computing device that communicates with the system components described
herein via hard wire or wireless local or remote networks.
[0041]          A controller that could effect the functions described herein could include a
processing unit, a system memory and a system bus. The system bus couples the system
components including, but not limited to, system memory to the processing unit. The processing
unit can be any of various available programmable devices, including microprocessors, and it is
to be appreciated that dual microprocessors, multi-core and other multi processor architectures
can be employed as the processing unit.
[0042]          Software applications may act as an intermediary between users and/or other
computers and the basic computer resources of electronic control system 20, as described, in
suitable operating environments. Such software applications include one or both of system and
application software. System software can include an operating system that acts to control and
allocate resources of control system 20. Application software takes advantage of the
                                                   18

management of resources by system software through the program models and data stored on
system memory.
[0043]          The controller may also, but does not necessarily, include one or more interface
components that are communicatively coupled through the bus and facilitate interaction with the
control system. By way of example, the interface component can be a port (e.g., serial, parallel,
PCMCIA, USC, or FireWire) or an interface card, or the like. The interface component can
receive input and provide output (wired or wirelessly). For instance input can be received from
devices including but not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse, track ball, stylus, touch
pad, key pad, touch screen display, keyboard, microphone, joy stick, gamepad, satellite dish,
scanner, camera, or other component. Output can also be supplied by control system 20 to
output devices via the interface component. Output devices can include displays (for example
cathode ray tubes, liquid crystal display, light emitting diodes, or plasma) whether touch screen
or otherwise, speakers, printers, and other components. In particular, by such means, control
system 20 received inputs from, and directs outputs to, the various components with which
control system 20 communicates, as described herein.
[0044]          In general, the control system receives signals from the thermostat, the water
heater, and possibly temperature sensors or other operating parameter sensors that are not part of
the thermostat or water heater. The controller activates or deactivates the air conditioning
system to provide or stop the provision of conditioned air to a conditioned space in response to
the thermostat signals. It decides whether to activate a water heating source in response to the
water heating signal, and it decides which water heating heat source to utilize in response to the
water heater signals and the operating parameter signals (which may include the thermostat
signal) and in some instances in response to the air conditioning mode in which the air
                                                  19

conditioning system exists. The apparatus for carrying out these functions, and the manner of
their operation, are described below.
[0045]           Referring initially to Figure 1, outdoor condensing unit 14 includes a condenser
coil 22, an associated condenser fan 24, and a compressor 26. The condenser coil and
compressor are coupled, as shown, by a refrigerant tubing circuit 28 and liquid refrigerant line
portions 30 and 32, to indoor unit evaporator coil 34 and to a heat conductive refrigeration tube
spiral-wrapped around a metal tank portion 36 of water heater 18 and serving as a refrigerant to
tank water heater exchanger 38 for water heater 18. Although a single coil is illustrated, multiple
parallel coils may be utilized to reduce pressure drop through the heat exchanger. Thus, it should
be understood that reference to a heat exchanger "coil" encompasses one or multiple coils, in
series or in parallel. It will also be understood that the coils may be covered in insulation.
[00461           Operatively linked to electronic control system 20 are (1) an electronically
controlled regulator valve 40 with an associated refrigerant temperature sensor 42 installed as
shown in refrigerant tubing circuit 28 within condensing unit 14, (2) an electronically controlled
regulator valve 44 and an associated refrigerant temperature sensor 46 installed as shown in
refrigerant tubing circuit 28 between line 32 and (adjacent to) a refrigerant inlet 48 of heat
exchanger coil 38, and (3) a normally open solenoid valve 50 installed in a refrigerant bypass
line 32a between heat exchanger inlet 48 and a heat exchanger refrigerant outlet 52. As
illustrated in Figure 1, water to be heated flows into water heater tank 36 via a water inlet pipe 54
and, in response to a heated water demand, is discharged from tank 36 via a hot water supply
pipe 56.
[00471           Figures 1-7 illustrate temperature sensors 42, 46, 27, 102, and 117. As described
below, temperature sensors 27 and 117 are utilized by fan controllers 25 and 115, respectively, in
                                                   20

variably driving the outdoor and indoor coil fans. Each of temperature sensors 42, 46, and 102
illustrate other positions at which temperature sensors may be placed to provide temperature
information to drive control of the outdoor fan, in place of temperature sensor 27. These sensors
should, therefore, be understood as alternatives to sensor 27 and may be omitted in the presence
of sensor 27.
[0048]           Further, the Figures illustrate various electronically controlled valves as normally
open or normally closed valves, whereas other valves are illustrated as electronically controlled
proportional valves. As will be understood, the normally open or normally closed valves
transition between open or closed states, whereas the proportional valves can be used to meter
fluid flow if desired. In the examples discussed herein, all the electronically controlled valves
transition between fully open and fully closed states, and it is thus encompassed within the
present disclosure that all valves may be non-proportional valves. It should also be understood,
however, that the use of proportional valves to meter fluid flow, for example via the condenser
bypass valves, is encompassed within the scope of the present disclosure.
[0049]           An expansion valve 58 is disposed in line 32 at an inlet to indoor coil 34. As
should be understood, an expansion valve receives a fluid input at a high pressure and,
depending on the settings within the valve, outputs the fluid at a lower pressure. This allows
pressurized refrigerant entering coil 34 (when used as an evaporator) to drop in pressure in the
evaporator coil and change phase from a liquid to a gas.
[0050]           Under the conditions illustrated in Figure 1, control system 20 receives a signal
from controller or a temperature sensor in water heater 18 indicating that the tank's water
temperature is above the water heater's low set point, which is stored in the control system's
memory. That is, no water heating is called for. Assume, also, that control system 20 has
                                                    21

received a signal from the building's thermostat (not shown) requiring the air conditioning
system to provide cool air to the conditioned space. With air conditioning system 12 accordingly
in an air cooling-only mode, without need for the control system to also select and actuate a
water heating heat source (e.g. the water heater's heat source or refrigerant heat transferred to the
water in tank 36 via heat exchanger 38), gaseous refrigerant flows from evaporator coil 34 to
compressor 26 via suction line 30. Compressor 26 pumps the gaseous refrigerant forward,
increasing the refrigerant's pressure and temperature and causing the now-hotter refrigerant gas
to flow through condenser coil 22. Control system 20 actuates fan 24 (at a constant speed) via a
variable fan speed control 25 to thereby push or draw air over the condenser coils, causing the
gaseous refrigerant to cool in coil 22 and thereby change phase from a gas to a liquid. This
draws heat energy from the refrigerant into the moving air, thereby dissipating heat from the
refrigerant (and, therefore, from the conditioned space) into the ambient environment. Still
under the pressure provided by compressor 26, the now-liquid refrigerant flows from the output
of condenser 22 to the split between the input line to heat exchanger 38 and the bypass line
including valve 50. Control system 20 maintains valve 40, between the condenser and the
compressor, closed. Since no water heating is called for, control system 20 maintains valve 44
closed and valve 50 in its normally fully open position. This blocks refrigerant flow to the heat
exchanger coil, and liquid refrigerant exiting condenser coil 22 therefore flows through open
solenoid valve 50, bypassing water heater heat exchanger 38, to expansion valve 58. Expansion
valve 58 drops the pressure of the liquid refrigerant as it enters evaporator coil 34. Within the
evaporator, the refrigerant transitions to gaseous phase, drawing heat energy from air flowing
over coil 34, which is disposed in the air flow path generated by an air handler fan (the air flow
path is illustrated schematically in Figure 1 by the relationship of coil 34 and the illustrated fan).
                                                  22

This cools the indoor air being re-circulated by the air handler, thereby cooling the conditioned
indoor space. The now-warmer gaseous refrigerant discharged from evaporator coil 34 then
returns to compressor 26 via suction line 30, and the cycle repeats.
[0051]           As noted, control system 20 controls the operation of heat exchanger 38 in
response to receipt of temperature information from a water heater controller or from a
temperature sensor at tank 36. As should be understood, water heater 18 typically operates
between low and high temperature set points. In the presently-described embodiments, control
system 20, rather than the water heater's independent control, responds to water heater water
temperature when it falls below the water heater's low set point, selecting between the water
heater's inherent heat source and heat exchanger 38 as the means by which to add heat to the
water heater, depending upon which heat source results in higher overall system efficiency. The
basis for this decision is discussed in more detail below.
[0052]          Turning now to Figure 2, when water heater 18 requires refrigerant heat (as
determined by comparison of the value of a temperature signal from the non-illustrated
temperature sensor in a bottom portion of tank 36 to the stored water tank low set point), control
system 20 (Figure 1) appropriately positions the various previously described valves 40, 44, and
50 to which it is linked to cause the refrigerant traversing tubing circuit 28 from the outdoor unit
to pass through heat exchanger 38, thereby adding refrigerant heat to water in tank 36, before
flowing to evaporator coil 34. When control system 20 detects that heating responsibility should
shift from the heat exchanger to the water heater heat source, or that water heater 18 no longer
needs refrigerant heat, as described below, it returns air conditioning system 12 to its air cooling
only mode, as discussed with regard to Figure 1, in which all of the refrigerant flow traversing
tubing circuit 28 bypasses water heater coiled tube heat exchanger 38.
                                                  23

[00531           More specifically, when the control system receives a signal from the temperature
sensor indicating water heating is needed, when air conditioning system 12 is otherwise in an
operative mode to provide conditioned air to a conditioned space, and when the control system
initially actuates water heating by heat exchanger 38 rather than the water heater's inherent heat
source, control system 20 switches fan speed controller 25 from full speed (at which fan 24 is
operated during air cooling-only mode) to a variable speed mode (in which fan speed controller
25 controls the speed of fan 24 in response to a temperature sensor 27, as described below),
opens valve 44, closes valve 50, and opens valve 40. By opening valve 44 and closing valve 50,
the control system directs the entirety of the refrigerant flow through heat exchanger 38. The
condenser coil, however, receives only part of the refrigerant flow output from compressor 26.
By opening valve 40 and allowing some of the refrigerant flow to bypass the condenser, the
refrigerant flowing from condenser 22 and valve 40 to heat exchanger 28 contains both cooler
liquid and wanner gaseous refrigerant. That is, the refrigerant flow includes hot gaseous
refrigerant that, but for bypass valve 40, would have cooled and condensed in coil 22 but is
instead diverted to coil 38, which in turn cools the refrigerant, condenses the gaseous refrigerant
component of the dual phase refrigerant flow that reaches the heat exchanger, and transfers the
removed heat to water within water heater tank 36. Accordingly, heat exchanger 38 may be
considered a sub-condenser or sub-cooler of the overall condenser, as it completes the
condensing function begun by condenser coil 22.
[0054]           Valve 40, therefore, effectively diverts heat from the compressor output to the
heat exchanger that the condenser would otherwise have removed. The amount of heat that the
valve diverts is defined by the balance of refrigerant flow between valve 40 and coil 22. This
balance is, in turn, defined by the speed of fan 24. The bypass refrigerant flowing through valve
                                                   24

40 is warmer than the condensed refrigerant flowing through condenser coil 22. As should be
understood, the cooler, condensed refrigerant presents less resistance to flow through the
condenser coil than does the hot gaseous refrigerant through bypass valve 40, even though the
bypass valve path is much shorter in length. Thus, if valve 40 is opened to its fully open state
when condenser 22 is operating at its full capacity, most of the refrigerant from compressor 26
will flow through the condenser rather than the bypass valve, thereby delivering a relatively low
amount of additional, diverted heat to the heat exchanger. To increase the refrigerant flow
balance toward bypass valve 40, variable fan controller 25 reduces the speed of fan 24 when
water heating is needed. This reduces the rate at which air flows over the condenser coils,
thereby reducing the rate at which refrigerant in the condenser coil cools and correspondingly
increasing the resistance to refrigerant flow. This, in turn, increases refrigerant flow through the
bypass valve and increases the heat contributed to the heat exchanger.
[0055]          At system set up, control system 50 downloads a target temperature to fan
controller 25. When, in system operation, controller 25 receives a signal from controller 20
indicating that water heating mode has begun, fan controller 25 ceases full speed fan operation
and compares the output of temperature sensor 27 to the target temperature. If the sensor 27
temperature is above the target temperature, controller 25 increases the speed of fan 24, which
thereby draws air over (and cools) the refrigerant in the coil at a higher rate, and reduces the
amount of hot bypass refrigerant flowing through valve 40. If the sensor 27 temperature is
below the target temperature, controller 25 decreases the speed of fan 24, thereby reducing the
heat removed from the refrigerant, and increasing its flow resistance, to thereby allow more hot
gaseous refrigerant to bypass the condenser coil. Thus, the target temperature represents the
temperature at which the condenser/bypass combination provides refrigerant to the heat
                                                 25

exchanger. The target temperature preferably does not exceed the temperature at which
compressor 26 outputs gaseous refrigerant or drop below the temperature of water in tank 36.
[0056]           Selection of the target temperature may depend on the configuration of system
 12. Heat exchanger 38 cools refrigerant flowing through its coil (toward a lowest temperature
equal to the temperature of water in the water heater tank) but removes heat from the refrigerant
at a rate slower than the condenser's heat removal rate. Moreover, the heat exchanger's heat
transfer capacity declines as the water heater's water temperature rises and approaches the
refrigerant temperature. If the target temperature for refrigerant exiting outdoor unit 14 is too
high, the residual heat retained within the refrigerant flow path (due to the heat exchanger's
failure to remove the heat) increases flow path pressure and, therefore, the work done by
compressor 26, for no offsetting heat transfer gain at the water heater or the conditioned air,
thereby reducing system efficiency. On the other hand, setting the target temperature tool low
reduces the heat exchanger's ability to transfer heat to the water heater tank. One way of
selecting a target temperature within these boundaries is to operate the system in a pre
installation calibration process, testing the system's efficiency and heat transfer for various target
temperatures within the possible temperature range and selecting the target temperature that
balances these considerations to the user's preference. In one embodiment, the target
temperature is set to the highest temperature from which heat exchanger 38 can successfully
bring refrigerant to the tank water temperature at any point in the tank's water temperature range
between the water heater's low and high set points. Since the heat exchanger's heat transfer
capacity is lower at other tank water temperatures, selection of this target results in some residual
heat remaining in the refrigerant flow path as the tank's water temperature moves from this
maximum point, but this cost may be acceptable in order to allow the heat exchanger its
                                                   26

maximum heat transfer capacity. In a further embodiment, control system 20 downloads a range
of temperature targets corresponding to changing water heater temperatures determined at
calibration, and controller 25 continuously updates the target temperature in response to
temperature data from the control system as water heater water temperature changes. In a still
further embodiment, the control system initially downloads a target temperature equal to a
predetermined temperature increment above the present tank water temperature. As tank water
temperature rises, the control system increases the target temperature, up to the maximum target
temperature. The predetermined increment is selected at system configuration and can be set as
desired.
[0057]          When the control system receives a signal from the water heater temperature
sensor (either directly or through the water heater controller) indicating a need for water heating,
control system 20 first determines the air conditioning mode (i.e. providing conditioned air to the
conditioned space, or not providing conditioned air to the conditioned space, and if providing
conditioned air in embodiments where the system both heats and cools, whether in air-heating or
air-cooling configuration) in which the air conditioning system presently exists. As described
below, control system 20 may have calibrated data sets for some or all of its air conditioning
operation modes that represent a comparison of system efficiency when relying on the refrigerant
heat exchanger or, alternatively, on the water heater's inherent heat source. If the control system
has no data sets for its present air conditioning mode, it activates the water heater heat source and
relies on that heat source to fully heat the water, without utilization of the heat exchanger. If it
does have data sets for the present air conditioning mode, the control system identifies (1)
ambient air temperature as detected from a temperature sensor at outdoor unit 14 that
communicates with the control system, (2) indoor air temperature as detected by the indoor
                                                  27

thermostat, and (3) water tank temperature as detected by the tank temperature sensor. The
control system applies this input data to the air-conditioning-mode-dependent data sets which,
given the specific operating parameter values represented by the input data, provide a ratio value
representing a comparison of system efficiency (at these parameter values) when relying on the
refrigerant heat exchanger and, alternatively, when relying on the water heater's inherent heat
source. Based on this comparison, control system 20 selects between the two heating options,
sets the system valves accordingly, and provides corresponding control signals to the water
heater. Water heating continues, utilizing the selected heat source, but the control system
repeatedly monitors these three input variables and correspondingly re-assesses the efficiency
comparison based on the data sets. If the choice of heat source resulting from these changing
variables changes from the then-currently active heat source to the other, and if that condition
persists uninterrupted for some predetermined period of time, e.g. one minute, then the control
system deactivates the presently active heat source and activates the other heat source. The
control system continues to monitor the variables, and continues to monitor for a change in
chosen heat source that persists for the predetermined time period, and changes the heat source if
that condition occurs. In this manner, the choice of heat source can change multiple times, as
conditions change, before the water heater reaches its high set point. When the control system
detects that the water heater has reached the high set point, the control system deactivates the
then-active heat source and does not reactivate either heat source until receiving a water
temperature signal indicating the tank's water temperature has dropped below the water heater's
low set point, at which point the cycle repeats. In a further embodiment, the control system
always assumes that use of the refrigerant heat exchanger is more efficient at low water heater
temperatures, and so always initially utilizes the heat exchanger.
                                                  28

[00581          The data set represents a comparison of system efficiency between two
conditions: (1) air conditioning system and water heater operation when the refrigerant heat
exchanger is active and the water heater heat source is inactive, and (2) air conditioning system
and water heater operation when the refrigerant heat exchanger is inactive and the water heater
heat source is active. For each condition, overall system efficiency may be defined as the
system's coefficient of performance, or COP. The COP may be described as the ratio of heating
or cooling energy (BTU/hr or Watts) provided to the conditioned air plus heating energy
(BTU/hr or Watts) moved into the water heater water, divided by energy (BTU/hr or Watts)
consumed by the air conditioning system and water heater in providing such energy to the
conditioned air and the water heater water.
[0059]          As should be understood in this art, the energy input to the water and conditioned
air, and energy consumed, may depend on the electrical and mechanical configuration of the air
conditioning and water heating system. For a given system, however, this consideration is a
constant and can be accommodated in the calibration process as described herein. Relevant
parameters that can vary, however, are:
     *  Selected water heat source, i.e. the refrigerant heat exchanger or the water heater's
        inherent heat source;
     *  Air conditioning mode, i.e. (1) air cooling, (2) air heating, or (3) inactive (neither air
        cooling nor air heating);
     *  Outdoor ambient temperature;
     *  Water tank water temperature; and
     *  Indoor temperature.
                                                  29

[00601           To calibrate the system, the air conditioning and water heating system (e.g. as
illustrated in Figures 1-3, Figures 4-7, or Figures 8-13) is constructed and installed in conditions
under which the defining variables can be controlled. The outdoor unit is operatively installed at
a location at which it is possible to both operate the outdoor unit and vary the ambient
temperature. The indoor unit is installed at a location separate from the outdoor unit at which it
is possible to vary the indoor (conditioned space) ambient temperature. The water heater is
disposed at a location at which the water heater water temperature can be controlled
independently of the outdoor unit and indoor unit ambient temperatures.
[00611           Each system is then calibrated for each possible combination of the first two
variables. Consider, first, the system described with respect to Figures 1 - 3. As is apparent
from the discussion herein, the system does not have an air heating mode, and in its inactive
mode the system valves are not configurable to permit use of the refrigerant heat exchanger.
Thus, this system can operate selectively between the refrigerant heat exchanger and the water
heater heat source only in its air cooling mode. Accordingly, a data set will exist only for the
air-cooling mode, and the system would need efficiency calibration only under the following two
conditions:
     *   Air cooling space conditioning and operation of refrigerant heat exchanger; and
     *   Air cooling space conditioning and operation of water heater heat source.
[0062]           Each of the systems described with respect to Figures 4-7 and Figures 8-13 can
operate selectively between the refrigerant heat exchanger and the water heater heat source in
any of its three air conditioning modes, and thus can be calibrated under the following six
conditions:
     *   Air cooling space conditioning and operation of refrigerant heat exchanger;
                                                   30

    *   Air cooling space conditioning and operation of water heater heat source;
    *   Air heating space conditioning and operation of refrigerant heat exchanger;
    *   Air heating space conditioning and operation of water heater heat source;
    *   Inactive air conditioning and operation of refrigerant heat exchanger; and
    *   Inactive air conditioning and operation of water heater heat source.
[00631          Assume, then, that a given system is assembled in such a calibration environment,
and operated sequentially in each of its possible conditions as noted above. In each condition,
two of the five COP-relevant variables are fixed, and the remaining three variables (outdoor
ambient temperature, water tank temperature, and indoor (conditioned space) temperature) can
be controlled in the calibration environment. In particular, each variable can be varied over a
respective range of values that would be reasonably expected to occur in the system's use. Given
the three variables, and given the respective expected ranges for each, the system is operated in
the calibration environment while varying the three variables and measuring or estimating the
components of the system's COP. That is, for combinations of the three variables over their
assumed operative ranges, the system determines and records system COP. For a given system,
the resulting data set is stored or otherwise accessible to control system 20/70/120. Accordingly,
after completing the calibration process for each of the dual variable (selected water heater heat
source/air conditioning mode) configurations for a given system, the control system has, for each
configuration, a COP data set from which COP can be defined with knowledge of the values for
the three defining variables (outdoor ambient air, water tank water temperature, and indoor
temperature).
[00641          In a given system's operation, the control system always knows the system's air
conditioning mode, and it receives values for the three defining variables from corresponding
                                                  31

sensors. As noted, a temperature sensor at the outdoor unit provides outdoor ambient
temperature. The system thermostat provides indoor temperature, and the water heater
temperature sensor provides water temperature. Assume, then, that the system is operating in
one of the three air conditioning modes, and the control system receives a signal from the water
heater temperature system indicating a need for water heating. With calibration complete, the
control system has a data set for each of the possible operating conditions, corresponding to
selected water heater heat source and air conditioning mode. If the system is operating in one of
the air conditioning modes for which a COP data set exists (e.g. any of the three air conditioning
modes for the systems of Figures 4-7 and 8-13, but only air cooling mode for the system of
Figures 1 and 2), the control system retrieves the two data sets (one for refrigerant heat
exchanger, and one for water heater water source) corresponding to that air conditioning mode,
detects the actual defining variable values from the corresponding sensor inputs, and determines
the COP value defined by the three variables for each of the two data sets. If the ratio of the
COP for the system utilizing the refrigerant heat exchanger to the COP for the system utilizing
the water heater heat source is equal to or greater than 1.0, the control system activates the
refrigerant heat exchanger (i.e. with regard to the embodiment of Figure 1, opens valve 44,
closes valve 50, opens valve 40, and instructs controller 25 to control fan 24 speed to maintain
the target refrigerant level) and deactivates the water heater heat source, else if the ratio is less
than 1.0, the control system deactivates the refrigerant heat exchanger and activates the water
heater heat source. The control system continuously monitors the three defining variables. As
long as the water heater water temperature is below the water heater's high set point, the control
system repeatedly (e.g. every ten seconds) measures the three variables and recalculates the
ratio. If the ratio changes state (i.e. moves across the 1.0 threshold, thereby indicating a change
                                                  32

in water heater heat source from the presently activated source) and persists in the changed state
for more than a predetermined period of time, e.g. one minute, the control system deactivates the
presently active water heater heat source and activates the other water heater heat source. The
control system thereafter continues to repeatedly read the defining variable values, re-determine
the ratio, and change the water heat source if so indicated by a persistent ratio. This process
continues until the water heater temperature reaches the high set point, at which point the control
system deactivates both water heater heat sources, and takes no further water heating action until
the water temperature signal indicates that the water heater water temperature has again fallen to
or below the water heater's low set point, at which point the cycle repeats.
[0065]           In a further embodiment, the control system selects the water heater heat source
based on the system COP comparison as described above, but with the additional qualification
that even if the COP comparison continues to favor selection of refrigerant heat exchanger, if
that selection persists continuously for at least a predetermined period of time, e.g. thirty
minutes, the control system will activate the water heater heat source and deactivate the
refrigerant heat exchanger and thereafter allow the water heater heat source to heat the water
heater water up to the water heater's high set point, without consideration of comparative system
efficiency. Since the refrigerant heat exchanger is typically unable to bring the water heater to
its final high set point alone, this modification to the process protects against system dedication
to the refrigerant heat exchanger under conditions in which the heat exchanger cannot bring the
water to the final set point.
[00661           It should be understood that variations in the heat source selection process are
encompassed by the present disclosure. For example, it should be understood in view of the
present disclosure that use of the refrigerant heat exchanger tends to be more efficient than use of
                                                   33

the water heater heat source when the water heater water temperature is low. At the lower
temperatures, the water heater draws more heat from the refrigerant flowing through the heat
exchanger than at higher temperatures, thereby lessening the resistance that the heat exchanger
coil provides to refrigerant flow and reducing system pressure. As the water heater water
temperature is always at the water heater low set point when the control system initiates water
heating, in one embodiment the control system defaults to operation of the refrigerant heat
exchanger at cycle initiation, without reference to the COP comparison (assuming data sets exist
for the existing air-conditioning mode). Thereafter, the control system continuously monitors the
COP comparison, as described above, and switches to the water heater heat source when the ratio
drops below 1.0 and persists below that level for at least the predetermined period of time. Also,
recognizing the likelihood that, once the COP comparison transitions the heat source to the water
heater heat source, subsequent COP comparison would likely continue to select the water heater
heat source, then once the control system switches to the water heater heat source, the control
system no longer examines COP, instead maintaining activation of the water heater heat source
through the end of water heating. In this embodiment, the control system may continue to
monitor water heater temperature following the switch to the water heater heat source or,
alternatively, relinquish control of the water heater heating cycle to the water heater controller to
complete the cycle, as discussed above.
[0067]          It will be understood in view of the present disclosure that various methodologies
may be used to determine the components of the COP calculations during system calibration. To
determine energy actually moved into the water heater water, control system 20 may store water
temperature values received from the water heater's temperature sensor over a predetermined
period of time, thereby determining actual change in water temperature.      Since the control
                                                  34

system also knows the volume of water in the water heater, the control system can determine the
corresponding BTU/hr and convert that number to Watts.
[0068]          As should be understood in this art, precise determination of actual energy moved
into or out of the conditioned air involves a determination of enthalpy change over the
predetermined time period. While methods of making such measurements are known, they may
also be unavailable or impractical. However, since the control system can determine whether the
air handler fan has been active over the predetermined period of time, and since the control
system knows the air handler's capacity, the control system can estimate the volume of air that
the air handler has moved into the conditioned space. The control system also measures the
conditioned space temperature from the thermostat signals, and based on the temperature change
in the conditioned space and the estimated volume of air moved into the conditioned space
within the predetermined period of time, the control system can estimate BTU/hr over that
period, within an approximately 10% accuracy. Again, the control system can convert this
number to Watts.
[0069]          In some instances, of course, certain components of the COP calculation do not
exist. For example, where the air conditioning mode is inactive, there is no energy moved into or
out of the conditioned space.
[0070]          The denominator of the COP calculation is the energy consumed by the system in
contributing the energy represented by the numerator. This, in turn, is the energy used by the
compressor, the coil fans, and the water heater over the predetermined time. Compressor power
utilization may be directly measured in calibration by a watt meter or by continuously measuring
compressor suction pressure, discharge pressure and suction gas temperature, in view of the
                                                 35

compressor's performance curves. Fan power can be measured by a watt meter but can be
estimates or assumed based on lab testing.
[0071]          The overall air conditioner/water heater circuit 10a schematically illustrated in
Figure 3 is identical to the system 10 described above with respect to Figures 1 and 2, with the
exceptions that (1) an additional water heater 18a, having either electric or gas heating apparatus
associated therewith, but without an associated coiled tube refrigerant-to-water heat exchanger,
is connected in series with the previously-described water heater 18 such that water exiting water
heater 18 via pipe 56 flows through the additional water heater 18a and is then discharged
therefrom through a hot water outlet pipe 56a, and (2) water heater 18 is not provided with
electric or gas heat, but receives only refrigerant heat via its tubing heat exchanger portion 38,
thus functioning solely as a water pre-heating device. Water heater 18a may correspond in
capacity to water heater 18 as shown in Figures 1 and 2, which is for example a forty to fifty
gallon electric or gas water heater. The water heater 18 of Figure 3 may be of a larger, smaller,
or similar capacity.
[0072]          The configuration shown in Figure 3 emphasizes the advantages of the refrigerant
flow heat exchanger when water tank water temperature is low. The two tank configuration
allows hot water to be stored when the air conditioning system 12 is running (in cooling or
heating modes) during times when there is little or no demand for hot water, thereby providing
additional low cost hot water capacity during periods of time when the demand for hot water is
high. It also improves the efficiency of the air conditioning system compared to the single tank
arrangement described above with respect to Figures 1 and 2, since water in pre-heating tank 18
(Figure 3) will usually be at a lower temperature than water in the main tank during periods of
time when there is little demand for hot water.
                                                  36

[00731           The system does not use a comparison of efficiencies to control when to actuate
and de-actuate the water heating heat exchanger 38 shown in Figure 3. Since the refrigerant heat
exchanger is not proximate the same water heater that is heated by the water heater heat source,
the efficiency comparison described above with respect to Figures 1 and 2 (and below with
respect to Figures 4-7 and 8-13), is not applicable. Rather, water heater 18a heats under its
independent heat source, and the air conditioning system activates the refrigerant heat exchanger
up to a predetermined set point temperature of the pre-heated tank 18. The set point is set to a
level below the temperature of the compressor output temperature, but it is otherwise selectable
by the operator. A pre-heating tank may also be used with the air conditioning systems
described below with respect to Figures 4-7 and 8-13.
[0074]           An air conditioning system 60 embodying one or more principles of the present
disclosure is schematically depicted in Figures 4-7 and includes (1) a heat pump 62 having an
outdoor coil unit 64 and an indoor coil unit 66, and (2) an associated water heater 68 which,
representatively, may be a gas-fired or electric water heater. In Figure 4, heat pump 62 is in an
air cooling-only mode. In Figure 5, heat pump 62 is in an air cooling mode and further provides
supplemental, refrigerant-based water pre-heating to water heater 68. In Figure 6, heat pump 62
is in an air heating-only mode. In Figure 7, heat pump 62 is in an air heating mode and further
provides supplemental, refrigerant-based water pre-heating to water heater 68. The various
functions of air conditioning system 60 are controlled by a schematically depicted electronic
control circuit 70 (shown only in Figure 4) which operates various subsequently described
components of system 60.
[00751           As shown in Figures 4-7, outdoor coil unit 64 includes a coil 72 and associated
fan 74, and a compressor 76. Coil 72 and compressor 76 are coupled, as shown, by a refrigerant
                                                 37

tubing circuit 78 having line portions 80 and 82, to indoor unit coil 84 and to a heat conductive
copper tube that is spiral-wrapped around a metal tank portion 86 of water heater 68 and serves
as a refrigerant-to-tank water heat exchanger 88 for water heater 68.
[0076]          Outdoor unit 64 has a reversing valve 90, an electronically controlled regulator
valve 92, an expansion valve 94, and a check valve 93 (which can be considered as the
expansion valve's inherent check valve) connected as shown in tubing circuit 78 and operatively
linked to electronic control system 70. Indoor coil unit 66 has a normally closed solenoid valve
98 and a nonnally closed solenoid valve 100 connected across a check valve 109 as shown in
tubing circuit 78 and operatively linked to electronic control system 70. The indoor unit also has
an expansion valve 110, and the valve 100/109/110 assembly can be replaced by a parallel
expansion/check valve as indicated at 93/94. Water heater 68 has a temperature sensor 102, an
electronically controlled regulator valve or normally closed solenoid valve 104, a normally open
solenoid valve 106, and a normally closed solenoid valve 108 connected as shown in tubing
circuit 78 and operatively linked to electronic control system 70.
[0077]          Turning now to Figure 4, with air conditioning system 60 in an air cooling-only
mode, electronic control system 70 sets the previously described valve components in tubing
circuit 78 in a manner such that compressor 76 causes refrigerant discharged therefrom to flow,
via tubing portion 80 of tubing circuit 78, sequentially through condenser coil 72 to water heater
68, evaporator coil 84, and back to the compressor. More specifically, as hot gaseous refrigerant
flows out from compressor 76 on an output line 91, control system 70 maintains solenoid valve
92 closed, so that all of the compressor's output refrigerant flows to reversing valve 90. Control
system 70 sets reversing value 90 to direct the gaseous refrigerant flow from line 91 to tubing
portion 80 and thereby to condenser coil 72. Since none of the refrigerant bypasses the
                                                 38

condenser coil through valve 92 in this mode, all of the hot refrigerant from the compressor
condenses in coil 72 and flows therefrom via check valve 93 out of this outdoor unit and to the
indoor water heater.
[0078]          At the water heater, control system 70 maintains solenoid valve 104 closed and
solenoid valve 106 open, and the refrigerant bypasses heat exchanger 88 through open solenoid
valve 106. The liquid refrigerant then flows through tubing portion 80, through check valve 109
and expansion valve 110 (the control system maintains solenoid valves 100, 98, and 108 closed,
and a check valve 111 blocks flow from left to right in the perspective of Figure 4) and into
evaporator coil 84. As discussed above, the expansion valve lowers pressure of the liquid
refrigerant, allowing the refrigerant to change phase from liquid to gas in the evaporator coil and
draw required heat energy from air flowing over coil 84 due to the air handler fan, to thereby
cool air in the conditioned space. Also as discussed above, positive and negative pressure
contributed by compressor 76 in the refrigerant tubing line is sufficient so that the now-gaseous
refrigerant flows back to compressor 76 over tubing line 82 through reversing valve 90, which
fluidly connects input tubing line 82 to a compressor input tubing line 95.
[0079]          Referring to Figure 5, when a temperature sensor (not shown) of water heater 68
sends an output signal to electronic control system 70 indicating that the water temperature of
water in tank 68 has reached or fallen below the water heater's low set point temperature (as
stored in memory at electronic control system 70), and if the COP comparison favors the
refrigerant heat exchanger, the control system repositions water heater regulator valve 104 and
normally open solenoid valve 106 such that the refrigerant flows through heat exchanger 88 and
back into tubing portion 80, thereby adding refrigerant heat to the tank water, to expansion valve
 110. The settings of valves 104, 106, and 92 are the same as those for valves 44, 50, and 40, as
                                                  39

discussed above with respect to Figure 2. In addition, valves 108 and 100 remain closed, as
refrigerant flows through their respective opposing check valves, and valve 98 remains closed.
Refrigerant flowing through coil 84 changes phase to a gas, as discussed above with respect to
Figure 4, and gaseous refrigerant returns to compressor 76 via tubing 82 and 95.
[00801          Although not shown in Figure 5, fan 74 is controlled by a variable fan speed
controller (see Figure 2) that is, in turn, responsive to a pre-programmed target temperature in
water-heating mode to control the speed of fan 74 so that the refrigerant flowing from coil 72
and bypass valve 92 maintain the desired target temperature in tubing 80, as described above
with regard to the embodiment of Figures 1 and 2. The target temperature maybe selected as
discussed above.
[0081]           Similarly to operation of the embodiment discussed above with regard to Figures
 1 and 2, control system 70 may select the water heating source based on the COP comparison
(data sets exist for the air conditioning modes of this embodiment) or may default to selection of
the refrigerant heat exchanger to heat the water heater when the control system receives a
temperature signal from the water heater indicating a need to heat water. Regardless of the
method or of the heat source chosen, the control system thereafter continuously re-assesses the
COP comparison and selects between the two alternative water heating sources based thereon, as
described above.
[0082]          It should be understood that the control system may change the system's operation
modes between air cooling of the conditioned space and air heating of the conditioned space (or
actuation from one mode to the other from start up), or to the inactive mode, based on operator
control of the system or automatically. When the control system enters an air heating mode, and
referring now Figure 6, the control system changes reversing valve 90 so that the refrigerant
                                                   40

flowing from the compressor through tubing 91 flows through valve 90 to tubing 82 that
connects to indoor coil 84. Valve 98 remains closed. Coil 84, receiving the hot gaseous
refrigerant from compressor 76, now acts as condenser, cooling the refrigerant so that it changes
phase back to a liquid. Exiting coil 84, the liquid refrigerant bypasses expansion valve 110
through its internal check valve and flows through now-open solenoid valve 100 around check
valve 109. Control system 70 maintains valve 106 open and valves 104 and 108 closed. Since
check valve 111 and closed valve 108 otherwise block the refrigerant's flow into heat exchanger
88, refrigerant from coil 84 flows through valve 106 and through tubing 80 to outdoor unit 64.
The control system maintains valve 92 closed. Thus, all refrigerant from the indoor unit flows
through expansion valve 94 and into outdoor coil 72. Expansion valve 94 (which is bypassed by
its internal check valve 93 when the system operates in air cooling modes) lowers the
refrigerant's pressure, causing coil 72 to act as an evaporator that draws heat from air passing
over the coil as a result of operation of fan 74. The now-warmer refrigerant flows from coil 72
to expansion valve 90, which directs the refrigerant flow to the compressor's input tubing line 95.
[0083]           Referring now to Figure 7, if the electronic control system 70 receives a signal
from the temperature sensor at water tank 86 indicating that the tank's water temperature has
reached or fallen below the water heater's low set point while system 60 is operating in an air
heating mode, control system 70 decides whether to activate the heat exchanger or the water
heater heat source, e.g., based on the data sets/COP comparison as described above, or by default
to the heat exchanger followed by the data sets/COP comparison. Assuming the control system
initially activates the heat exchanger, the control system appropriately adjusts valves 104, 106,
and 108 in a manner such that the refrigerant flow to water heater 68 flows through coiled tubing
                                                   41

heat exchanger 88. More specifically, control system 70 closes valve 106 and valve 92 and
opens valves 104, 108, 100, and 98.
[0084]          As discussed above, indoor unit 66 includes an air handling unit having a fan that
draws air over coil 84. As indicated in Figure 7, unit 66 also includes a variable speed fan
control unit 115 in communication with control system 70 and a temperature sensor 117 that
detects refrigerant temperature in the flow of refrigerant combined from the output of coil 84 and
bypass valve 98. As in the air cooling/water heating mode, when the system is in air
heating/water heating mode, heat exchanger coil 88 acts as a sub-cooling or sub-condensing coil,
sharing the condensing function with the system condenser, the difference between the two
modes of operation being that in air heating mode, coil 84, rather than coil 72, is the system
condenser. As in the air cooling/water heating mode, the system in air heating/water heating
mode diverts some of the hot gaseous refrigerant from compressor 76 to coil 88, bypassing the
condensing coil, in order to contribute heat to the heat exchanger. And as in the air cooling
mode, this is accomplished in the air heating mode by a valve that bypasses the condenser coil,
in this instance valve 98. That is, valve 98 serves the function in air heating/water heating mode
that valve 92 serves in air cooling/water heating mode.
[00851          As discussed above with regard to valve 92 in the air cooling/water heating mode,
the opening of valve 98 in air heating/water heating mode allows hot gaseous refrigerant to flow
through the bypass path, but because refrigerant flowing through condenser coil 84 is cooled, and
thus has lower flow resistance than the hot refrigerant, more refrigerant tends to flow through the
condenser coil than through the bypass when the air handler fan is operating at its normal speed.
Accordingly, when control system 70 actuates system 60 to operate in air heating/water heating
mode, the control system instructs variable fan speed controller 115 to variably control the air
                                                  42

handler fan speed in response to temperature of the combined refrigerant flow detected at 117 to
maintain the refrigerant flow at 117 at a target temperature that is pre-programmed to controller
 115 and/or control system 70. The target temperature in air-heating mode may be selected
independently of the air-cooling mode target temperature, as system conditions can be different.
Thus, while the system actuates refrigerant heat exchanger 88, the air handler fan generally slows
in speed, thereby increasing resistance to refrigerant flow through the condenser coil and forcing
more refrigerant through bypass valve 98. The bypass refrigerant remains in a hot, gaseous state
so that the combination of gaseous refrigerant from valve 98 and liquid refrigerant from coil 84
is in a dual-phase state as it flows to heat exchanger 88.
[0086]           This refrigerant flows through open valve 108, around check valve 111, and
through heat exchanger coil 88. This transfers heat from the refrigerant to the water tank and
completes the condensing process, so that the refrigerant leaving coil 88 through open valve 104
is in a fully liquid state. The liquid refrigerant continues its flow through tubing 80 and valve 94,
around check valve 93, to expansion valve 113 and evaporator coil 72. From the evaporator coil,
wanner, gaseous refrigerant flows through tubing 80, reversing valve 90, and input tubing 95 to
compressor 76, and the cycle repeats.
[00871           Control system 70 makes the COP comparison as described above to determine
when to alternatively operate refrigerant heat exchanger 88 or the water heater heat source. As
when the system is operating in air cooling mode, the use of refrigerant heat exchanger 88 in air
heating mode will generally be more efficient when the water in tank 86 is at a lower
temperature. Thus, when control system 70 receives a signal from the water heater temperature
sensor that the water heater is at or below its low set point temperature, control system 70 may
default to operation of refrigerant heat exchanger 88 and thereafter continuously examines the
                                                   43

efficiency comparison to determine when to switch to the water heater's operation. Again, since
the target temperature to which fan controller 17 controls the refrigerant input to the heat
exchanger is typically below the water heater's high set point temperature, this typically means
that the refrigerant flow heat exchanger acts as a pre-heater and that final heating is effected by
the water heater heat source.
[0088]           It should also be recognized, in view of the present disclosure, that the reduction
in the air handler fan speed during operation of refrigerant heat exchanger 88 corresponds to a
reduction of heat provided to the conditioned space, thereby corresponding to a reduction in
system efficiency. When the system operates in air cooling/water heating mode, the system does
not experience a similar efficiency reduction, in that because conditioned air is delivered to the
conditioned space from the evaporator coil rather than from the condenser coil, energy
contribution to the conditioned air is relatively unaffected by the refrigerant bypass around the
condenser. As apparent from the discussion above, control system 70 may therefore switch from
use of heat exchanger 88 to the use of the water heater's heat source earlier in air heating/water
heating mode than in air cooling/water heating mode.
[0089]           In a still further embodiment, variable speed fan controller 115 and sensor 117
may be omitted from the system, and the air handler fan may operate at normal speed during
actuation of heat exchanger 88 in air heating mode. This avoids the reduction in system
efficiency caused by decrease in fan speed, although because of the resulting reduction in
diversion of hot refrigerant to the heat exchanger through valve 98, the heat exchanger would
correspondingly contribute less heat to the water heater, thereby reducing system efficiency. It
will therefore be appreciated that the decision whether to utilize variable fan speed, and if so,
also the selection of the target refrigerant temperature at the output of the bypass valve and the
                                                   44

condenser coil, will influence system efficiency and, therefore, the balance between use of
refrigerant heat exchanger 88 and the water heater heat source. It will also be understood that, in
both air heating and air conditioning modes, decisions regarding use of fan reduction can be
made, and operating parameter values optimized, through calibration of the particular air
conditioning system.
[0090]           In the discussion of the above-described embodiments, the control system
actuates the refrigerant heat exchanger when the air conditioning system is operating either in an
air cooling mode or an air heating mode. In certain embodiments, the control system only
actuates the heat exchanger during an active mode of the air conditioning system, but in other
embodiments the control system also actuates the refrigerant heat exchanger when the system is
in an inactive mode, i.e. when running neither in air cooling mode nor air heating mode. In such
embodiments, and referring for example to the system of Figures 4-7, if control system 70
receives a signal from the water heater temperature sensor indicating that water in the water
heater has reached or fallen below the heater's low temperature set point, the control system
decides whether to activate the heat exchanger or the water heater heat source, e.g., based on the
COP comparison as described above, or by default to the heat exchanger. Assuming the decision
is to activate the heat exchanger, the control system arranges the valves in the air conditioning
system so as to operate in air heating/water heating mode, as discussed above with respect to
Figure 7, and operates the air conditioning system in the manner described above with regard to
Figure 7, except that the control system deactivates the air handler fan so that no air is drawn
across coil 84 and no conditioned air is provided to the conditioned space. Correspondingly, the
variable fan speed controller is inoperative. This tends to force a greater volume of hot
refrigerant from the compressor through bypass valve 98, but the refrigerant flow is thereafter
                                                  45

the same as discussed above with regard to Figure 7. The control system does operate fan 24,
since the evaporator function is needed to complete the refrigerant cycle. Since the evaporator
function is needed, the control system does not select an air cooling set up, as such arrangement
would cause conditioned air to be forced into the conditioned space.
[00911          In this water heating-only mode of operation, the reduced condenser capacity
causes the air conditioning system to remove less heat from the refrigerant between the
compressor and the evaporator than in the air conditioning modes. The increased refrigerant heat
corresponds to increased flow resistance in the refrigerant circuit and, therefore, to increased
compressor discharge pressure. Depending on the system configuration, this may, in turn, so
decrease system efficiency or possibly inhibit the compressor's operation that use of the
refrigerant flow heat exchanger does not occur or occurs for only a short time. Thus, in
embodiments utilizing a water heating-only mode, compressor 76 may be a variable speed
compressor so that control system 70 may reduce compressor speed when heating water with the
heat exchanger but not conditioning air. For example, typical residential air conditioning
systems have compressors ranging in capacity from 16,000 to 60,000 BTU/hr. In a non-air
conditioning mode with water heating, however, control system 70 would lower a variable speed
compressor to operate at a lower capacity, e.g. approximately 10,000 BTU/hr in a typical
residential configuration. As in the air conditioning/water heating operational modes discussed
above, control system 70 in a water heating-only mode again determines whether and when to
switch between heating water with the refrigerant heat exchanger and heating water with the
water heater heat source based on the COP comparison.
[00921          In the embodiments described above, the refrigerant heat exchanger coil is
disposed downstream of the system condenser. In the embodiments discussed below with
                                                 46

respect to Figures 8-13, however, the heat exchanger coil is disposed upstream from the system
condenser, between the system condenser and the compressor. In these embodiments, the heat
exchanger coil reduces heat of the hot gaseous refrigerant output by the compressor (and
transfers this heat to the water heater), but it does not condense the refrigerant to a liquid phase.
Because the heat exchanger coil receives hot refrigerant directly from the compressor, it is
unnecessary to bypass the compressor output around the condenser or, therefore, to reduce
condenser fan speed in order to encourage such bypass flow. That is, the system condenser fan
operates at normal speed whether or not the refrigerant heat exchanger is active. This tends to
increase system efficiency as compared to the embodiments described above with regard to
Figures 1-7. In certain environments, however, the embodiments described with regard to
Figures 1-7 may be more convenient to install, particularly into an existing air conditioning
system as a retrofit.
[0093]          Figure 8 schematically depicts an air conditioning/water heater system 110
embodying principles of an embodiment of the present disclosure. System 110 includes (1) an
air conditioning system 112 having an outdoor coil unit 114 and an indoor coil unit 116, and (2)
and associated water heater 118 which, representatively, may be a gas-fired or electric water
heater. In Figure 8, air conditioning system 112 is arranged so that it may operate alternatively
in air heating and air cooling modes, and may therefore also be described as a heat pump. The
various functions of the air conditioning/water heater system 110 are controlled by a
schematically depicted electronic control circuit 120 (shown only in Figure 8) that operates
various subsequently described components of overall system 110.
[00941          Outdoor unit 114 includes an outdoor coil 122 and associated fan 137 and a
compressor 126. Condenser coil 122 and compressor 126 are coupled, as shown, by a refrigerant
                                                   47

tubing circuit having a line portion 130 between coil 122 and a reversing valve 140 through an
indoor unit coil 134 and expansion valve 160, a line portion 131 between reversing valve 140
and compressor 126 via a heat conductive copper tube that is spiral-wrapped around a metal tank
portion 136 of water heater 118 and serving as a refrigerant-to-tank water heat exchanger 138 for
water heater 118, and a line portion 132 between reversing valve 140 and each of coil 122 and
compressor 126.
[0095]          In addition to reversing valve 190, outdoor unit 114 includes an electronically
controlled regulator valve 142, an expansion valve 153 at an input to outdoor coil 122 (bypassed
when receiving outflow from coil 122), solenoid valves 144 and 154, and a check valve 161.
Valves 154, 144, 142, and 140 are in electrical communication with electronic control system
 120, which controls the actuation of these valves as discussed herein.
[00961          Turning now to Figure 9, with the air conditioning/water heater system 110 in an
air cooling only mode, electronic control system 120 (Figure 8) sets valves 154, 144, and 140 in
the overall tubing circuit in a manner such that compressor 126 causes refrigerant discharged
therefrom to flow, via tubing portion 131, to the entry point of a tubing loop that includes heat
exchanger 138 wrapped around tank 136 of water heater 118. Electronic control system 120 has
closed valve 154 and opened valve 144, so that hot gaseous refrigerant flowing from compressor
 126 bypasses heat exchanger 138 and flows directly to reversing valve 140. Control system 120
has set reversing valve 140 so that the reversing valve directs this refrigerant flow, via tubing
line 132, to outdoor coil 122, which condenses the refrigerant in cooperation with fan 137 as
discussed above. The refrigerant exits coil 122 via tubing line 130 (bypassing expansion valve
 163) and enters indoor coil 134 via expansion valve 160. As discussed above, and as should be
understood, expansion valve 160 lowers the pressure of the refrigerant in coil 134 so that coil
                                                 48

 134 functions as an evaporator. An air handler fan 135 adjacent coil 134 causes air to flow over
coil 134 and into the conditioned space. As discussed above, the refrigerant's change of phase in
the evaporator coil from liquid to gas draws heat energy from this air, thereby causing the re
circulating air to cool the conditioned space. The now gaseous and warmer refrigerant flows
from coil 134 via tubing portion 130 to reversing valve 140, which directs the gaseous refrigerant
flow, via tubing portion 132, back to compressor 126, and the cycle repeats.
[0097]           Referring to Figure 11, when the system is operating in air cooling mode as
described above with regard to Figure 9, and when a temperature sensor (not shown) of water
heater 118 outputs a signal to electronic control system 120 indicating to the electronic control
system that the water heater water has reached or fallen below the water heater's low set point
temperature as stored in the electronic control system, the control system decides whether to
activate the heat exchanger or the water heater heat source, e.g., based on the COP comparison as
described above or by default to the heat exchanger. Assuming the decision is to activate the
heat exchanger, the electronic control system closes valve 144 and opens valve 154, thereby
activating refrigerant heat exchanger 138. Reversing valve 140 remains in the same setting as
discussed with regard to Figure 9. Under these conditions, hot gaseous refrigerant output from
compressor 126 flows to heat exchanger 138 of water heater 118 via tubing portion 131,
bypassing valve 144, and ultimately to reversing valve 140 via check valve 161. The refrigerant
flows from the reversing valve to outdoor condenser coil 122, and then to expansion valve 160,
indoor coil 134, reversing valve 140, and back to compressor 126, as discussed above with
respect to Figure 9.
[00981           Once the electronic control system actuates use of heat exchanger 138 or the
water heater heat source, the control system continuously assesses the data sets/COP comparison.
                                                  49

If the resulting ratio drops below 1.0, the control system deactivates initially selected heat source
and activates the other heat source. As noted above, system 110 (with heat exchanger 138
active) is generally more efficient than the system described above with respect to Figure 2 or
Figure 5, in that reduction of fan speed for condenser coil 122 is unnecessary in air
conditioning/water heating mode. Counterbalancing that positive efficiency effect is the longer
refrigerant tubing line 131 needed between the compressor and the water heater, but this effect is
often offset and even overcome by the increase in efficiency caused by the cooling effect the
refrigerant experiences as it travels through heat exchanger 138. Accordingly, in most instances,
operation of the system illustrated in Figure II results in a positive system efficiency ratio, as
compared to operation of the system and water heater heat source independently of each other,
for a longer rise in temperature of water in water heater tank 136 than does the systems described
above with regard to Figure 2 and Figure 5. In addition, since the water heater receives hot
gaseous refrigerant directly from compressor 126, without need to regulate the refrigerant
temperature being directed to the heat exchanger to a lower target temperature, as described
above with regard to Figures 2 and 5, the heat exchanger illustrated in Figure 11 can transfer
more heat to the water heater, thereby maintaining a positive contribution to system efficiency
over a longer temperature range. Nonetheless, as long as the temperature of refrigerant flowing
from the compressor to heat exchanger 138 is below the water heater's high temperature set
point, the efficiency comparison will eventually favor operation of the water heater's heat source,
causing the system to deactivate water heater heat exchanger 138 and activate the water heater's
inherent heat source. That is, under such circumstances, the water heater heat source will always
bring the water heater water to the final high set point, and heat exchanger 138 serves as a pre
heater. Again, however, if the temperature of gaseous refrigerant from compressor 126 is at or
                                                  50

higher than the water heater high set point, it is possible that heat exchanger 138 can be used to
bring the water heater fully to its high set point.
[0099]          Electronic control system 120 monitors pressure at the output of compressor 12
and, if the monitored pressure exceeds a predetermined pressure (provided by the compressor
manufacturer or by user selection, for example after a calibration process), control system 120
may switch valve 142 from a closed to an opened state, allowing refrigerant flow through a
tubing portion 145, bypassing heat exchanger 138 and condenser coil 122, to the lower pressure
of the evaporator. In one embodiment, and depending on the compressor capacity, control
system 120 may selectively open proportional valve 142 whenever the compressor output
pressure reaches or exceeds 550 psi. As will be understood in the context of the present
disclosure, this reduces system efficiency, in that it diverts heat from transfer to the water heater
and reduces the evaporator efficiency, and accordingly valve 142 is metered to minimize its
impact.
[00100]         If control system 120 changes, either by manual or electronic control, from air
cooling to air heating modes, without water heating and with reference to Figure 10, control
system 120 closes valve 154, opens valve 144, and sets reversing valve 140 to direct refrigerant
flow from tubing line 131 to indoor coil 134 via tubing line 130 and to direct refrigerant flow
from coil 122 via line 132 back to compressor 126 via tubing line 132. In operation, hot gaseous
refrigerant flows from compressor 126 through tubing line 131 and open valve 144, bypassing
heat exchanger 138 due to closed valve 154. Reversing valve 140 directs the gaseous refrigerant
to indoor coil 134 via tubing line 130. Coil 134 acts as a condenser coil, cooling and condensing
the refrigerant to liquid phase as air handler fan 135 moves air over the coils and into the
conditioned space. The re-circulating building air draws heat energy from the refrigerant as it
                                                    51

condenses, thereby providing a heating effect to the conditioned space. Leaving coil 134 through
tubing line 130 (and bypassing expansion valve 160), the now-liquid refrigerant flows to coil 122
through expansion valve 163. The expansion valve lowers the refrigerant's pressure, causing
outdoor coil 122 to act as an evaporator, in which the refrigerant changes phase to a gas and
draws heat energy from outdoor ambient air drawn over the coils by outdoor unit fan 137. The
now-warm gaseous refrigerant flows from coil 122 to reversing valve 140, which directs the
refrigerant flow back to compressor 126 via tubing line 132, and the cycle repeats.
[001011         Referring now to Figure 12, when electronic control system 120 receives a signal
from the water heater water temperature sensor (not shown) indicating that the water heater
water temperature has fallen below the water heater's low set point, when the air conditioning
system is in air heating mode as discussed above with regard to Figure 10, control system 120
decides whether to activate the heat exchanger or the water heater heat source, e.g. based on the
data sets/COP comparison as described above, or by default to the heat exchanger. Assuming
the decision is to activate the heat exchanger, the control system closes valve 144 and opens
valve 154, thereby activating heat exchanger 138 by including the heat exchanger and its related
portion of tubing section 131 in the refrigerant flow loop. As described above, this causes hot
gaseous refrigerant to flow from compressor 126 to and through heat exchanger coil 138 via
tubing section 131 and thereafter to reversing valve 140 via check valve 161. The refrigerant's
flow from reversing valve 140, to indoor coil 134, expansion valve 163, outdoor coil 122,
reversing valve 140, and back to compressor 126 occurs as discussed above with regard to Figure
 10.
[00102]         Again, when electronic control system 120 receives the signal from the water
heater water temperature sensor indicating that water heating is needed, the electronic control
                                                  52

system may initially activate refrigerant heat exchanger 138 rather than the water heater's
inherent heat source, when the air conditioning system is operating in either air heating mode or
air cooling mode, by default or by the COP comparison. Figures 9 and 11 illustrate the transition
from air cooling-only mode to air cooling/water heating mode, while Figures 10 and 12 illustrate
the transition from air heating-only mode to air heating/water heating mode. Continuing the
discussion of the latter transition, once the electronic control system has actuated the refrigerant
heat exchanger, the electronic control system thereafter continuously monitors the COP
comparison of system efficiency with operation of refrigerant water heater 138, and without
operation of the water heater's heat source, to system efficiency with refrigerant flow heat
exchanger 138 deactivated and the water heater's inherent heat source activated. If this ratio
drops below 1.0 as the system operates, the electronic control system deactivates refrigerant flow
heat exchanger 138 (by closing valve 154 an opening valve 144), and activates the water heater's
inherent heat source. As in all of the examples described herein, electronic control system 120
continues to monitor the water temperature output signal, and if the ratio rises above 1.0 and
persists for a predetermined time will switch back to activation of the refrigerant flow heat
exchanger. When the water heater water temperature rises to the water heater's high set point,
the water heater heat source may be deactivated by a control system on the water heater that is
independent of electronic control system 120, or the heat source may be deactivated by control
system 120. As discussed above with regard to air cooling mode, the temperature of refrigerant
flowing from compressor 126 is also a limiting factor, as compared to the water heater's high set
point. If the compressor's output refrigerant temperature is below the water heater's high set
point, refrigerant flow heat exchanger 138 is always a pre-heating device. If the compressor
                                                   53

refrigerant output temperature is higher than the water heater high set point, it is possible for
refrigerant flow heat exchanger 138 to bring the water heater fully to its high set point.
[00103]          As will be apparent in view of the present disclosure, operation of refrigerant flow
heat exchanger 138 in an air heating/water heating mode, as described with regard to Figure 12,
results in the removal of heat from the refrigerant flow at heat exchanger 138 that might
otherwise be removed at coil 134 for contribution to conditioned air for the conditioned space.
This may result in a reduced system efficiency as compared to the operation of the system in an
air cooling/water heating mode, thereby resulting in a shorter duration of operation of the
refrigerant heat exchanger in air heating/water heating mode than in a air cooling/water heating
mode.
[00104]          Valve 142 is operated by control system 120 in this mode in the same manner as
discussed above with respect to Figures 9 and 11.
[00105]          Referring to Figure 13, electronic control system 120 receives a signal from the
water heater water temperature sensor indicating that water heating is needed, when system 110
is in neither an air heating mode nor an air cooling mode, control system 120 sets valves 154,
 144, and 140 to an air heating configuration, as discussed above with regard to Figure 12, but
does not activate air handler fan 135 because there is no call from the indoor thermostat to
provide conditioned air to the conditioned space. Refrigerant flows through the refrigerant loop
as described with regard to Figure 12.
[001061          Again, because refrigerant heat exchanger 138 receives hot refrigerant gas
directly from compressor 126, the system's ability to contribute heat to the water heater remains
high in this mode of operation. However, the deactivation of air handler fan 135 eliminates the
corresponding air flow over condenser coil 134, thereby reducing the system's ability to remove
                                                   54

heat from the circulating refrigerant flow. This may undesirably increase pressure at the output
of compressor 126. Where compressor 126 is a variable speed compressor, the control system
changes the compressor's output to a lower level, e.g. 10,000 BTU/hr. Alternatively, electronic
control system 120 opens bypass valve 142. This causes hot refrigerant gas from compressor
 126 to bypass heat exchanger 138 and coil 134 and flow directly to coil 122 for return to
compressor 126. As described above, the opening of bypass valve 142 may further decrease
system efficiency, thereby increasing the likelihood of a switch to water heater activation.
[001071         It should be understood that the present system may be operated in various
manners. For example, as discussed above, each of the embodiments described with regard to
Figures 1-13 can be operated based on a comparison of system efficiency when using the
refrigerant heat exchanger to system efficiency when using the water heater's heat source, and
relying on that comparison as the deciding factor whether to utilize the heat exchanger
throughout the water heater's heat cycle. Rather than relying on the efficiency comparison,
however, in a further embodiment the electronic control system, upon receiving a signal from the
water heater temperature sensor indicating a need to heat water, actuates the refrigerant heat
exchanger coil and maintains the heat exchanger coil active until the temperature signal reaches a
predetermined point. This predetermined cut-off point may be determined through testing and
comparison of system efficiencies alternatively utilizing the refrigerant flow heat exchanger and
the water heater heat source. That is, the systems are operated under each of the alternative
arrangements, and under similar operating conditions. System efficiencies are compared, and a
temperature cut off is selected based on the comparison. Furthermore, temperature may be
measured at various points in the water heater, as should be understood in the art, and in certain
                                                 55

embodiments the electronic control system responds to water temperature taken at the lower
portion of the lower tank.
[00108]          Still further, in optional constructions of the air conditioning and water heating
systems described above, the electronically controlled regulator valves may be replaced with
fixed orifice solenoid valves, and the flow of hot refrigerant to the water heater refrigerant-to
water heat exchanger coils may instead be regulated by compressor discharge (head) pressure
using an outdoor or indoor fan speed controller which is, in turn, controlled by the sensed water
temperature in the water heater tank.
[00109]          Modifications and variations to the particular embodiments of the present
disclosure may be practiced by those of ordinary skill in the art, without departing from the spirit
and scope of the present disclosure, which is more particularly set forth in the appended claims.
In addition, it should be understood that aspects of the various embodiments may be
interchanged to both in whole or in part. Furthermore, those of ordinary skill in the art will
appreciate that the foregoing description is by way of example only and is not intended to limit
the invention so further described in the appended claims.
                                                    56

CLAIMS:
         1.      An apparatus for heating water, comprising:
         a tank for storing water and having a heat source, wherein the heat source comprises one
of an electric heating element and a gas burner;
         a heat exchanger in thermal communication with the tank and configured to receive
refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank;
         an air conditioning system comprising
                 an air handler actuatable to move an air flow through an air flow path into a
conditioned space,
                 a refrigerant path having a first portion that passes through the air flow path and a
second portion that passes through the heat exchanger, and
                 a pump disposed in the refrigerant path and being actuatable to move refrigerant
through the refrigerant path;
         a plurality of sensors, each outputting a respective signal representative of a respective
system operating parameter; and
         a control system comprising at least one controller in operative communication with the
sensors to receive the respective signals, in operative communication with the tank, in operative
communication with the air handler, and in operative communication with the refrigerant path,
and a computer-readable medium containing program instructions executable by the at least one
controller to control operations of the at least one controller to control operations of the heat
source, to control actuation of the air handler, and to control refrigerant flow, and
        wherein, the program instructions are configured so that the control system, in response
to the signals from the sensors and an application of data corresponding to the respective signals
                                                    57

to a predetermined relationship between the respective operating parameters and an efficiency of
the apparatus, selectively either allows or blocks refrigerant flow through the second portion and
selectively actuates the heat source.
         2.       The apparatus as in claim 1 wherein the program instructions are configured so
that the control system identifies the efficiency of the apparatus respectively for
         a first condition in which refrigerant flows through the second portion and the heat source
is inactive, and
         a second condition in which refrigerant does not flow through the second portion and the
heat source is active, and
         in response to the identified efficiency, alternatively allows refrigerant flow through the
second portion and maintains the heat source inactive, or blocks refrigerant flow through the
second portion and activates the heat source.
         3.       The apparatus as in claim I or claim 2, wherein
         the air conditioning system includes a second heat exchanger, wherein a third portion of
the refrigerant path passes through the second heat exchanger, and
         the plurality of sensors comprises
                  a first temperature sensor in thermal communication with water in the tank and in
communication with the control system to send a first signal to the control system corresponding
to temperature of the water in the tank,
                  a second temperature sensor disposed with respect to the second heat exchanger
and operable to detect a temperature of air ambient to the second heat exchanger and to send a
second signal to the control system corresponding to the ambient air temperature, and
                                                    58

                  a third temperature sensor disposed in the conditioned space and operable to
detect a temperature of air in the conditioned space and to send a third signal to the control
system corresponding to the conditioned space air temperature.
        4.        The apparatus as in claim 3, wherein the program instructions are configured so
that the control system, in response to the first signal, the second signal, and the third signal,
         identifies an efficiency, among a plurality of predetermined efficiencies of the apparatus
defined at least by temperature of water in the tank, temperature of the air ambient to the second
heat exchanger, and temperature of the air in the conditioned space, corresponding to the
temperature corresponding to the first signal, the temperature corresponding to the second signal,
and the temperature corresponding to the third signal, respectively for
                  a first condition in which refrigerant flows through the second portion and the
heat source is inactive, and
                  a second condition in which refrigerant does not flow through the second portion
and the heat source is active, and
         if the identified efficiency for the first condition is greater than the identified efficiency
for the second condition, allows refrigerant flow through the second portion and maintains the
heat source inactive and if the predetermined efficiency corresponding to the second condition is
greater than the predetermined efficiency for the first condition, blocks refrigerant flow through
the second portion and activates the heat source.
         5.       The apparatus as in claim 4, wherein each of the predetermined efficiencies is
defined as a coefficient of performance of the tank, the heat exchanger, and the air conditioning
system.
                                                      59

         6.       The apparatus as in claim 4 or claim 5, wherein the program instructions are
configured so that the control system identifies the identified efficiency, and responds to
identification of the efficiency, repeatedly during activation of the air conditioning system.
         7.       The apparatus as in claim 6, wherein the program instructions are configured so
that if the first condition persists for a predetermined period of time, the control system blocks
refrigerant flow through the second portion and activates the heat source.
         8.       An apparatus for heating water, comprising:
         a tank for storing water and having a heat source, wherein the heat source comprises one
of an electric heating element and a gas burner;
         a heat exchanger in thermal communication with the tank and configured to receive
refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank;
         an air conditioning system comprising
                  an air handler actuatable to move an air flow through an air flow path into a
conditioned space,
                  a refrigerant path having a first portion that passes through the air flow path and a
second portion that passes through the heat exchanger,
                  a pump disposed in the refrigerant path and being actuatable to move refrigerant
through the refrigerant path, and
                  a valve system within the refrigerant path that controls refrigerant flow in the first
portion and the second portion and that is selectively configurable to alternatively allow
refrigerant flow through the second portion and block refrigerant flow in the second portion;
                                                     60

         a plurality of sensors, each outputting a respective signal representative of a respective
system operating parameter that varies in a predetermined relationship with operating efficiency
of at least one of the tank and the air conditioning system; and
         a control system in operative communication with the tank to control operation of the
heat source, in operative communication with the air handler to control actuation of the air
handler, in operative communication with the sensors to receive the respective signals, and in
operative communication with valve system to control refrigerant flow, and
        wherein, in response to the respective signals from the sensors and an application of data
corresponding to the respective signals to a predetermined relationship between the respective
operating parameters and the operating efficiency, the control system selectively actuates the
valve system to allow refrigerant flow through the second portion or block refrigerant flow
through the second portion and selectively actuates the heat source.
         9.      The apparatus as in claim 8, wherein the plurality of sensors comprises a
thermostat that is operable to detect an air temperature of the conditioned space and output a
signal to the control system that corresponds to the air temperature.
         10.     The apparatus as in claim 8 or claim 9, wherein the plurality of sensors comprises
a temperature sensor in thermal communication with water in the tank and that is operable to
output a signal to the control system that corresponds to a temperature of the water in the tank.
         11.     The apparatus as in any one of claims 8 to 10, wherein the plurality of sensors
comprises a temperature sensor disposed proximate the refrigerant path and is operable to detect
a temperature of ambient air proximate the refrigerant path and output a signal to the control
system that corresponds to the temperature of the ambient air.
                                                   61

          12.     The apparatus as in any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein the control system
comprises at least one controller in operative communication with the sensors to receive the
respective signals and a computer-readable medium containing program instructions executable
by the at least one controller to control the operation of the heat source, to control the actuation
of the air handler, and to control the valve system to control the refrigerant flow.
          13.     The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein the program instructions are configured so
that the control system identifies an efficiency of the apparatus respectively for
         a first condition in which refrigerant flows through the second portion and the heat source
is inactive, and
         a second condition in which refrigerant does not flow through the second portion and the
heat source is active, and
         in response to the identified efficiency, alternatively allows refrigerant flow through the
second portion and maintains the heat source inactive, or blocks refrigerant flow through the
second portion and activates the heat source.
          14.     The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein
         the air conditioning system includes a second heat exchanger, wherein a third portion of
the refrigerant path passes through the second heat exchanger, and
         the plurality of sensors comprises
                  a first temperature sensor in thermal communication with water in the tank and in
communication with the control system to send a first signal to the control system corresponding
to temperature of the water in the tank,
                                                    62

                  a second temperature sensor disposed with respect to the second heat exchanger
and operable to detect a temperature of air ambient to the second heat exchanger and to send a
second signal to the control system corresponding to the ambient air temperature, and
                  a third temperature sensor disposed in the conditioned space and operable to
detect a temperature of air in the conditioned space and to send a third signal to the control
system corresponding to the conditioned space air temperature.
         15.      The apparatus as in claim 14, wherein the program instructions are configured so
that the control system, in response to the first signal, the second signal, and the third signal,
         identifies an efficiency, among a plurality of predetermined efficiencies of the apparatus
defined at least by temperature of water in the tank, temperature of the air ambient to the second
heat exchanger, and temperature of air in the conditioned space, corresponding to the
temperature corresponding to the first signal, the temperature corresponding to the second signal,
and the temperature corresponding to the third signal, respectively for
                  a first condition in which refrigerant flows through the second portion and the
heat source is inactive, and
                  a second condition in which refrigerant does not flow through the second portion
and the heat source is active, and
         if the identified efficiency for the first condition is greater than the identified efficiency
for the second condition, allows refrigerant flow through the second portion and maintains the
heat source inactive and if the predetermined efficiency corresponding to the second condition is
greater than the predetermined efficiency for the first condition, blocks refrigerant flow through
the second portion and activates the heat source.
                                                     63

          16.     The apparatus as in claim 15, wherein each of the predetermined efficiencies is
defined as a coefficient of performance of the tank, the heat exchanger, and the air conditioning
system.
          17.     The apparatus as in claim 15 or claim 16, wherein the program instructions are
configured so that the control system identifies the efficiency, and responds to identification of
the efficiency, repeatedly during activation of the air conditioning system.
          18.     The apparatus as in claim 17, wherein the program instructions are configured so
that if the first condition persists for a predetermined period of time, the control system blocks
refrigerant flow through the second portion and activates the heat source.
          19.     The apparatus as in claim 18, wherein the heat source is an electric heating
element.
         20.      An apparatus for heating water, comprising:
         a tank for storing water and having a heat source, wherein the heat source comprises one
of an electric heating element and a gas burner;
         a heat exchanger in thermal communication with the tank and configured to receive
refrigerant and transfer heat therefrom to the tank;
         an air conditioning system operative to utilize refrigerant flowing through a refrigerant
circuit portion of the air conditioning system to regulate temperature of air being delivered to a
conditioned space, wherein
                  the refrigerant circuit portion is in fluid communication with the heat exchanger
so that refrigerant flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion flows through the heat
exchanger; and
                                                      64

                a control system in operative communication with the air conditioning system to
control operation of the air conditioning system and in operative communication with the tank to
control operation of the heat source, wherein
                the control system is configured to selectively direct flow of the refrigerant
flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion to the heat exchanger and block flow of refrigerant
flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion from flowing through the heat exchanger,
                the control system is configured, in a first mode of operation, to direct flow of the
refrigerant flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion to the heat exchanger and deactivate
the heat source,
                the control system is configured, in a second mode of operation, to block flow of
the refrigerant flowing through the refrigerant circuit portion to the heat exchanger and activate
the heat source, and
                the control system is configured to select between the first mode of operation and
the second mode of operation based on efficiency of the air conditioning system when the
control system operates in the first mode and efficiency of the air conditioning system when the
control system operates in the second mode.
                                                 65

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      1/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      2/13

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
               56a
                      3/13

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           111
          117                115             4/13
     91
                 109
     95
93

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           111
                 50GALLON
                                             5/13
          117               115
     91
                 109
     95
93

                       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
           111
          117               115              6/13
     91
                 109
     95
93

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      111
                                        7/13
     117               115
            109
93

                                                                            <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                                                                      120
                         56                                        ELECTRONIC
        48                                                                                   TO
                                                                    CONTROL
                                                                     SYSTEM                  118
      118
            138                                                    TO 114 AND 116
                                      131          154
                                                 144
                  136         36
                                                             142
                                                                                                            8/13
110
                                             161                    145
                           130 131
                                           130
                                                                                      126
                               135    140
                   160                                                          128
                                       132
                                          132                                         114
                                                                                        122
                         134         130                                                    137
       116                                             163
                                                                                112

                                                                               <removed-apn>         <removed-date>
                         56
        48
      118
            138
                                      131          154
                                                 144
                  136          36
                                                             142
                                                                                                           9/13
110
                                             161                   145
                           130 131
                                           130
                                                                         132          126
                               135    140
                   160                                                           128
                                                                               132 114
                                                                                        122
                         134         130                                                    137
       116                                             163
                                                                                112

                                                                               <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                         56
        48
      118
            138
                                     131          154
                                                144
                  136         36
                                                            142                                           10/13
110
                                            161                   145
                          130 131
                                          130
                                                                        132          126
                                     140
                   160                                                          128
                              134
                                                                              132 114
                                                                                       122
                                    130                                                    137
       116                                            163
                  135
                                                                               112

                                                                           <removed-apn>               <removed-date>
                         56
        48
      118
            138
                                       131           154
                                                   144
                  136          36
                                                               142
                                                                                                             11/13
110
                                               161                   145
                           130 131
                                             130
                                                                           132          126
                                135    140
                   160                                                             128
                                                                                 132 114
                                                                                          122
                         134          130                                                     137
       116                                               163
                                                                                  112

                                                                             <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                         56
        48
      118
             38
            138
                                       131           154
                                                   144
                  136          36
                                                               142
                                                                                                             12/13
110
                                              161                    145
                           130 131
                                             130
                                                                           132          126
                                135    140
                   160                                                             128
                                                                                 132 114
                                                                                          122
                         134          130                                                     137
       116                                               163
                                                                                  112

                                                                                       <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                              56
        48
      118
             38
            138
                                            131           154
                                                        144
                   136              36
                                                                    142                                           13/13
110
                                                   161                    145
                                130 131
                                                  130
                                                                                132          126
                                     135    140
                        160                                                             128
                                                                                      132 114
                                                                                               122
                  116         134          130                                                     137
                                                              163
                                                                                       112

