                                         - 35
                          ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
A method for providing enhanced control of travel purchases includes: storing rule
data entries, each entry including data related to an employer rule including a rule
identifier and at least one data requirement; receiving a payment number request
including a specific rule identifier, payment amount, and data fields; identifying a
specific rule data entry where the rule identifier corresponds to the specific rule
identifier; identifying a controlled payment number configured for use for a single
payment transaction if data included in the data fields satisfies the at least one data
requirement included in the specific rule data entry; transmitting the identified
controlled payment number; storing a transaction record including the identified
controlled payment number and data fields; receiving purchase data corresponding
to a purchase made using the identified controlled payment number, the purchase
data including the controlled        payment number;    and associating the stored
transaction record with the received purchase data.

                                           -1
  METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR VIRTUAL ACCOUNT NUMBER-BASED TRAVEL
                      EXPENSE CONTROLS AND ACCOUNTING
Cross-Reference to Related Applications
The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application No., as
2014377626 originally filed and as amended, is incorporated herein by reference.
Field of the Invention
The present invention relates to a method for providing enhanced control of travel
purchases; and a system for providing enhanced control of travel purchases. For
example, the disclosure relates to the providing of enhanced control of travel
purchases, specifically the use of controlled payment numbers to provide for more
secure travel purchases and enhanced accounting and data reconciliation.
Background of the Invention
Travel management companies (TMCs) assist both individual consumers and
various entities, such as corporations, in making travel arrangements. These travel
management companies may assist consumers (e.g., and entities) by making
reservations for air travel, hotel stays, rental cars, and other travel-related services
via global distribution systems that enable automated transactions between the TMC
and vendors that offer the travel services. Travel management companies can ease
the burden on consumers and entities by arranging their travel services on their
behalf, thereby relieving stress and the workload on the consumer.
Although travel management companies may assist consumers and entities by
conducting transactions on their behalf, conducting traditional payment transactions
creates a potential for fraud to occur that could be of a detriment to the client, the
TMCs, and/or the vendor.         In addition, some TMCs may regularly conduct a

                                             -2
staggering of transactions for its clients, which may sometimes be a single, large
corporate client. With such a large volume of transactions, the losses caused by
fraud may be significant. Furthermore, it may be exceedingly difficult for the TMC
and/or the client to adequately keep track of each transaction with regard to the
related travel.
Thus, there is a need for a technical solution to provide for more secure transaction
processing for transactions related to travel services that may also increase the
ability to reconcile data related to each individual transaction.
It is generally desirable to overcome or ameliorate one or more of the above
described difficulties, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
Summary of the Invention
According to the present invention, there is provided a method for providing
enhanced control of travel purchases, comprising:
         storing, in a rules database of a processing server, a plurality of rule data
entries, wherein each rule data entry includes employer purchasing rule data
including at least a rule identifier and at least one data requirement that at least
includes an employee identification number;
         receiving, by a receiving device of the processing server, a payment number
request from a travel management company, wherein the payment number request
includes at least (i) a specific rule identifier that identifies an employer purchasing
rule, (ii) a payment amount, and (iii) a plurality of data fields;
         in response to receiving the payment number request, identifying, in the rules
database of the processing server, a specific rule data entry where the rule identifier
included in the specific rule data entry corresponds to the specific rule identifier
included in the received payment number request;
         determining, by a processing device of the processing server, whether data
included in the plurality of data fields of the received payment number request

                                            -3
satisfies the at least one data requirement included in the identified specific rule data
entry;
        when it is determined that the data included in the plurality of data fields
satisfies the at least one data requirement included in the specific rule data entry,
identifying, by the processing device of the processing server, a controlled payment
number configured for use for a single payment transaction;
        transmitting, by a transmitting device of the processing server, the identified
controlled payment number to the travel management company;
        receiving, by the receiving device of the processing server, from a payment
network, transaction data for a payment transaction funded by the control payment
number;
        storing, in a records database of the processing server, a transaction record
including at least the identified controlled payment number, the plurality of data
fields, and the transaction data received from the payment network;
        receiving, by the receiving device of the processing server, purchase data
corresponding to a purchase made using the identified controlled payment number,
wherein the purchase data includes at least the controlled payment number; and
        associating by the processing device of the processing server, in the records
database, the stored transaction record with the received purchase data.
According to the present invention, there is also provided a system for providing
enhanced control of travel purchases, the system comprising:
        a records database;
        a rules database configured to store a plurality of rule data entries, wherein
each rule data entry includes employer purchasing rule data including at least a rule
identifier and at least one data requirement that at least includes an employee
identification number;
        a receiving device configured to receive a payment number request from a
travel management company, wherein the payment number request includes at least
(i) a specific rule identifier that identifies one of plurality of employer purchasing
rules, (ii) a payment amount, and (iii) a plurality of data fields;

                                             -4
        a processing device configured to
                identify, in response to receiving the payment number request, a
        specific rule data entry in the rules database, where the rule identifier included
        in the specific rule data entry corresponds to the specific rule identifier
        included in the received payment number request,
                determine whether data included in the plurality of data fields of the
        received payment number request satisfies the at least one data requirement
        included in the identified specific rule data entry; and
                identify, when it is determined that the data included in the plurality of
        data fields satisfies the at least one data requirement included in the specific
        rule data entry, a controlled payment number configured for use for a single
        payment transaction; and
        a transmitting device configured to transmit the identified controlled payment
number to the travel management company, wherein
        the receiving device is further configured to receive transaction data, from a
payment network, for a payment transaction funded by the control payment number,
        the processing device is further configured to store, in the records database, a
transaction record including at least the identified controlled payment number, the
plurality of data fields, and the transaction data received from the payment network,
        the   receiving device      is further configured     to receive purchase data
corresponding to a purchase made using the identified controlled payment number,
wherein the purchase data includes at least the controlled payment number, and
        the processing device is further configured to associate, in the records
database, the stored transaction record with the received purchase data.
The present disclosure provides a description of systems and methods for providing
enhanced control of travel purchases.
A method for providing enhanced control of travel purchases includes: storing, in a
rules database, a plurality of rule data entries, wherein each rule data entry includes
data related to an employer purchasing rule including at least a rule identifier and at

                                             -5
least one data requirement; receiving, by a receiving device, a payment number
request, wherein the payment number request includes at least a specific rule
identifier, a payment amount, and a plurality of data fields; identifying, in the rules
database, a specific rule data entry where the included rule identifier corresponds to
the specific rule identifier; identifying, by a processing device, a controlled payment
number configured for use for a single payment transaction if data included in the
plurality of data fields satisfies the at least one data requirement included in the
specific rule data entry; transmitting, by a transmitting device, the identified
controlled payment number; storing, in a records database, a transaction record
including at least the identified controlled payment number and the plurality of data
fields; receiving, by the receiving device, purchase data corresponding to a purchase
made using the identified controlled payment number, wherein the purchase data
includes at least the controlled payment number; and associating, in the records
database, the stored transaction record with the received purchase data.
A system for providing enhanced control of travel purchases includes a records
database, a rules database, a receiving device, a processing device, and a
transmitting device. The rules database is configured to store a plurality of rule data
entries, wherein each rule data entry includes data related to an employer
purchasing rule including at least a rule identifier and at least one data requirement.
The receiving device is configured to receive a payment number request, wherein
the payment number request includes at least a specific rule identifier, a payment
amount, and a plurality of data fields.         The processing device is configured to:
identify, in the rules database, a specific rule data entry where the included rule
identifier corresponds to the specific rule identifier; and identify a controlled payment
number configured for use for a single payment transaction if data included in the
plurality of data fields satisfies the at least one data requirement included in the
specific rule data entry.      The transmitting device is configured to transmit the
identified controlled payment number. The processing device is further configured to
store, in the records database, a transaction record including at least the identified
controlled payment number and the plurality of data fields. The receiving device is

                                            -6
further configured to receive purchase data corresponding to a purchase made using
the identified controlled payment number, wherein the purchase data includes at
least the controlled payment number. The processing device is further configured to
associate, in the records database, the stored transaction record with the received
purchase data.
Brief Description of the Drawing
Preferred embodiments of the present invention are hereafter described, by way of
non-limiting example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
FIG. 1 is a high level architecture illustrating a system for providing enhanced control
of travel purchases.
FIG. 2 is a block diagram illustrating the processing server of FIG. 1 for the
enhanced control of travel purchases in accordance with exemplary embodiments.
FIG. 3 is a flow diagram illustrating a method for distributing a controlled payment
number for use in a controlled travel purchase in accordance with exemplary
embodiments.
FIG. 4 is a flow diagram illustrating a method for reconciling a controlled travel
purchase with purchase data for distributing to a client in accordance with exemplary
embodiments.
FIGS. 5A-5C illustrate a graphical user interface for the requesting and receiving of a
controlled payment number for use in a controlled travel purchase in accordance
with exemplary embodiments.
FIG. 6 is a flow chart illustrating an exemplary method for providing enhanced control
of travel purchases in accordance with exemplary embodiments.
FIG. 7 is a block diagram illustrating a computer system architecture in accordance
with exemplary embodiments.
Further areas of applicability of the present disclosure will become apparent from the
detailed description provided hereinafter. It should be understood that the detailed

                                          -7
description of exemplary embodiments are intended for illustration purposes only
and are, therefore, not intended to necessarily limit the scope of the disclosure.
Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments of the Invention
Payment Network - A system or network used for the transfer of money via the use
of cash-substitutes. Payment networks may use a variety of different protocols and
procedures in order to process the transfer of money for various types of
transactions.   Transactions that may be performed via a payment network may
include product or service purchases, credit purchases, debit transactions, fund
transfers, account withdrawals, etc.      Payment networks may be configured to
perform transactions via cash-substitutes, which may include payment cards, letters
of credit, checks, financial accounts, etc.       Examples of networks or systems
configured to perform as payment networks include those operated by MasterCard@,
VISA@, Discover@, American Express@, etc.
Payment Account - A financial account that may be used to fund a transaction, such
as a checking account, savings account, credit account, secured or unsecured loan
or mortgage account, debit account, pre-paid account, virtual payment account,
vendor account (e.g., a utility), etc. and mixtures thereof. A payment account may
be associated with an entity, which may include a person, family, company,
corporation, governmental entity, etc. In some instances, a payment account may
be virtual, such as those accounts operated by PayPal@, etc.
Payment Card - A card or data associated with a payment account that may be
provided to a merchant in order to fund a financial transaction via the associated
payment account.      Payment cards may include credit cards, debit cards, charge
cards, stored-value cards, prepaid cards, fleet cards, virtual payment numbers,
virtual card numbers, controlled payment numbers, etc. A payment card may be a
physical card that may be provided to a merchant, or may be data representing the
associated payment account (e.g., as stored in a communication device, such as a

                                          -8
smart phone or computer).       For example, in some instances, data including a
payment account number may be considered a payment card for the processing of a
transaction funded by the associated payment account. In some instances, a check
may be considered a payment card where applicable.
Controlled Payment Number - Controlled payment numbers may be payment
numbers associated with a payment account that are subject to one or more rules.
In many cases, these rules may be set by a cardholder, such as spending limits,
limits on days and/or times of a transaction, limits on merchants or industries,
transaction spending or frequency limits, etc.     Controlled payment numbers may
offer an account holder an opportunity to give payment cards tied to the account to
others for use, but subject to rules set by the cardholder, such as an employer
distributing cards to employees, or a parent distributing cards to children. Additional
detail regarding controlled payment numbers may be found in U.S. Patent No.
6,636,833, issued October 21, 2003; U.S. Patent No. 7,136,835, issued November
14, 2006; U.S. Patent No. 7,571,142, issued August 4, 2009; U.S. Patent No.
7,567,934, issued July 28, 2009; U.S. Patent No. 7,593,896, issued September 22,
2009; U.S. Patent Application No. 12/219,952, filed July 30, 2008; U.S. Patent
Application No. 12/268,063, filed November 10, 2008; and U.S. Patent Application
No. 12/359,971, filed January 26, 2009; each of which are herein incorporated by
reference in their entirety.
System for Providing Enhanced Control of Travel Purchases
FIG. 1 illustrates a system 100 for providing enhanced control of travel purchases via
the use of controlled payment numbers and data reconciliation.
A client 102, such as a consumer, an entity (e.g., a corporation, business,
partnership, etc.), etc., may have a desire to make travel arrangements. The client
102 may contact a travel management company 104 in order to make their
arrangements.     The client 102 may provide the travel management company 104

                                          -9
with details regarding their desired arrangement, such as, in the case of air travel,
desired departure and arrival dates, departure and arrival airports, and any relevant
preferences (e.g., aisle or window seats, airline preferences, etc.). The client 102
may also provide the travel management company 104 with payment details to be
used to fund the purchase of the desired travel services.
The client 102 may also have business rules regarding travel purchases.            For
example, a corporation may establish business rules regarding the maximum
amount of a travel purchase, eligible vendors, locations that may be visited, services
that may be used, information that must be included when making a purchase (e.g.,
an invoice or purchase order number, an employee number, a task or action code,
etc.), etc. The client 102 may provide the business rule or rules to a processing
server 106. The processing server 106, discussed in more detail below, may store
the business rules in a rules database, also discussed in more detail below.
Once the travel management company 104 has received the information from the
client 102, the travel management company 104 may provide information regarding
the desired travel services to the processing server 106, including at least the
payment details. The processing server 106 may review the information and check it
against the business rules provided by the client 102. If the check indicates that the
information provided to the travel management company 104 is in violation of one or
more business rules (e.g., an ineligible vendor is selected, an invalid task code was
used, etc.), then the processing server 106 may notify the travel management
company 104 and request corrected information.           In some embodiments, the
processing server 106 may also transmit a notification to the client 102 regarding the
violation of the business rules.
If the check indicates that the information provided by the client 102 is pursuant to
the business rules, then the processing server 106 may identify a controlled payment
number (CPN) to be issued for the subsequent payment transaction. The controlled
payment number may be a single-use or limited-use number that may be valid only

                                           -10
for the subsequent payment transaction via controls or limits placed on the controlled
payment number.       The controls or limits may include, for example, the controlled
payment number being limited to the desired vendor, a transaction amount identified
by the travel management company, a specific time and/or date (e.g., the date on
which the travel management company 104 requests the CPN), etc. The processing
server 106 may map the identified controlled payment number to a payment account
indicated in the received payment details.
The processing server 106 may transmit the identified controlled payment number to
the travel management company 104. The travel management company 104 may
then purchase and/or reserve the desired travel services via a global distribution
system 108, or other travel booking or reservation system, using the controlled
payment number. The global distribution system 108 may be any suitable system
used to enable transactions between vendors and clients, such as Amadeus, Sabre,
Apollo, Galileo, Worldspan, Pegasus, Activity Link Systems, and other suitable
systems as will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art. The global
distribution system 108 may contact a vendor 112 with whom the services are to be
purchased to arrange for the purchase and/or reservation. The global distribution
system 108 may also submit an authorization request to the payment network 110
for a payment transaction between the travel management company 104 (e.g., on
behalf of the client 102) and the vendor 112.
The payment network 110 may identify the controlled payment number used to fund
the transaction as a CPN and may transmit a request for an account number to the
processing server 106, wherein the request includes at least the controlled payment
number and transaction details.         The processing server 106 may review the
transaction details to determine if the transaction satisfies the limits or controls
placed on the controlled payment number. If the transaction is invalid based on the
limits placed on the CPN, the processing server 106 may notify the payment network
110 to deny the transaction.     If the transaction is valid, the processing server 106
may identify the associated payment account number based on the controlled

                                         - 11
payment number, and transmit the payment account number as a response to the
payment network 110. The payment network 110 may then process the payment
transaction using the payment account number using systems and methods that will
be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art.
Once the transaction has been processed, the global distribution system 108 may
notify the travel management company 104 of the successful transaction, which in
turn may notify the client 102. As part of the processing of the travel purchase, the
global distribution system 108 or other third party (e.g., a travel reservation system)
may store purchase data regarding the travel purchase (e.g., itinerary details,
passenger or guest details, etc.) as will be apparent to persons having skill in the
relevant art. The purchase data may include at least the controlled payment number
associated with the reservation and/or purchase.
The processing server 106 may obtain (e.g., request, receive, etc.) the purchase
data for the purchase and/or reservation, the purchase data including the controlled
payment number. The processing server 106 may then identify a transaction record
for the payment transaction including the controlled payment number, and associate
the transaction record with the purchase data.          This may result in reconciled
purchase and transaction data using a single controlled payment number, which may
provide for reconciled data with increased efficiency and a higher chance of success.
The processing server 106 may then make the reconciled data available to the travel
management company 104 and/or the client 102.          This may, in turn, increase the
record-keeping capabilities and improve business efficiency and performance of both
the travel management company 104 and client 102 without modification to existing
systems.
Processing Device
FIG. 2 illustrates an embodiment of the processing server 106 of the system 100. It
will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art that the embodiment of the

                                         - 12
processing server 106 illustrated in FIG. 2 is provided as illustration only and may
not be exhaustive to all possible configurations of the processing server 106 suitable
for performing the functions as discussed herein. For example, the computer system
700 illustrated in FIG. 7 and discussed in more detail below may be a suitable
configuration of the processing server 106.
The processing server 106 may include a receiving unit 202. The receiving unit 202
may be configured to receive data over one or more networks via one or more
network protocols. The receiving unit 202 may be configured to receive business
rule data from the client 102.      The processing server 106 may also include a
processing unit 204.      The processing unit 204 may be configured to store the
received business rule data as one or more rule data entries 210 in a rules database
208.
Each rule data entry 210 may include data related to an employer purchasing rule
(e.g., the business rule) including at least a rule identifier and at least one data
requirement. The rule identifier may be a value used for identification of the rule
data entry 210, such as an identification number.          In some instances, the rule
identifier may be associated with the client 102 to whom the rule is associated with,
such as an employer identification number, a payment account number of a payment
account associated with the client 102, etc. In other instances, the rule identifier may
be a unique identifier. In such an instance, each rule data entry 210 may further
include an identifier associated with the client 102 for identification of the rule during
processing.
The data requirement may indicate a data field that may be included in a request for
a controlled payment number and one or more requirements for the corresponding
data field. For example, a data requirement may require that employee identification
numbers are to be submitted in each payment number request and that each
employee identification number must be formatted with the letter "E" followed by a
five digit number.    Suitable types of data requirements that may be used in the

                                           -13
systems and methods discussed herein will be apparent to persons having skill in
the relevant art.
The receiving unit 202 may be further configured to receive a payment number
request from the travel management company 104. The payment number request
may include a plurality of data fields (e.g., related to the requested travel purchase),
a payment or transaction amount, a specific rule identifier, and payment details. The
processing unit 204 may identify one or more corresponding rule data entries 210 in
the rules database 208 based on the specific rule identifier. The processing unit 204
may then identify if the data fields in the payment number request satisfy the data
requirements included in each of the identified one or more rule data entries 210.
If the data requirements are not satisfied, the processing unit 204 may determine
that the request is to be denied.         The processing server 106 may include a
transmitting unit 206, which may be configured to transmit data over one or more
networks via one or more network protocols, such as the transmission of a message
or notification to the travel management company 104 to indicate that the data
requirements are not satisfied in the payment request. In some embodiments, the
transmitting unit 206 may be further configured to transmit a notification to the client
102 indicating the invalid request.
If the data requirements are satisfied by the payment request, the processing unit
204 may identify a controlled payment number. The processing unit 204 may also
establish limits on the controlled payment number corresponding to the transaction
or payment amount and/or the information included in the plurality of data fields
included in the payment request. Systems and methods for identifying a controlled
payment number and establishing limits thereon will be apparent to persons having
skill in the relevant art. The transmitting unit 206 may be configured to transmit the
identified controlled payment number to the travel management company 104.

                                          -  14
In some instances, an image of a payment card may be required (e.g., by a vendor
112) for a travel purchase. In such an instance, the payment request may include a
request for a card image for a payment card to be associated with the controlled
payment number. The processing unit 204 may be configured to generate a card
image including the controlled payment number. In one embodiment, the processing
unit 204 may further generate at least an expiration date and security code (e.g.,
card validation code) to be included in the generated card image. The transmitting
unit 206 may be configured to transmit the generated card image to the travel
management company 104 in lieu of, or in addition to, the controlled payment
number. In some embodiments, the processing unit 204 may generate an image of
both the front and back of a payment card. Generated images of the payment card
may also include additional information, such as an issuer logo, as will be apparent
to persons having skill in the relevant art.
In some embodiments, the processing unit 204 may store the controlled payment
number and the associated payment account number included in the payment
details included in the payment request. The processing unit 204 may also store the
limits or controls associated with the controlled payment number. In some instances,
the receiving unit 202 may receive a request from the payment network 110 for a
payment account number, the request including a controlled payment number and
transaction details.   In such an instance, the processing unit 204 may identify a
payment account number corresponding to the controlled payment number, and may
provide the payment account number to the payment network 110 if the transaction
details satisfy the limits or controls placed on the controlled payment number.   In
other instances, the transmitting unit 206 may transmit controlled payment number,
payment account number, and limits and controls to the payment network 110 for
use processing. In some embodiments, the processing server 106 may be part of
the payment network 110.
The processing unit 204 may be further configured to store a transaction record 214
in a record database 212, wherein the transaction record 214 includes data related

                                          -15
to the payment transaction funded via the controlled payment number.                 The
transaction record 214 may include data fields included in the payment number
request, and may also include transaction data received from the payment network
110 for the payment transaction.      The transaction data may be received during
processing of the controlled payment number, after the processing of the transaction
by the payment network 110, upon request of the processing server 106, etc. In one
embodiment, the transaction data may be included in a copy of the authorization
request for the payment transaction.
The receiving unit 202 may be configured to receive purchase data corresponding to
a travel purchase made using the controlled payment number. In some instances,
the purchase data may be received by the receiving unit 202 in response to the
transmitting of a request for the purchase data via the transmitting unit 206.       The
purchase data may include at least the controlled payment number and additional
data. The processing unit 204 may identify a transaction record 214 associated with
the controlled payment number and associate the purchase data with the transaction
record 214.
In some embodiments, the receiving unit 202 may receive a request for transaction
and/or purchase data associated with a controlled payment number. The processing
unit 204 may be configured to identify the requested data in a transaction record 214
in the record database 212 based on the provided controlled payment number. The
transmitting unit 206 may be configured to transmit the requested data in response
to the received request.
Method for Identifying and Distributing a Controlled Payment Number
FIG. 3 illustrates a method for the identifying and distributing of a controlled payment
number in response to a payment number request.

                                          -16
In step 302, the receiving unit 202 of the processing server 106 may receive
employer purchasing rules from the client 102. The employer purchasing rules may
include at least one data requirement, which may identify a data field and a
requirement for a value of the corresponding data field. In step 304, the processing
unit 204 of the processing server 106 may store the received employer purchasing
rules as rule data entries 210 in the rules database 208.
In step 306, the receiving unit 202 may receive a request for a controlled payment
number from the travel management company 104, the request including at least a
specific rule identifier, a payment amount, a plurality of data fields, and a payment
account number. In step 308, the processing unit 204 may identify corresponding
rule data entries 210 in the rules database 208 based on the specific rule identifier.
In step 310, the processing unit 204 may determine if any rules were identified in
step 308 that should be applied to the payment number request.             If rules were
identified, then, in step 312, the processing unit 204 may determine if the data fields
included in the payment number request satisfy the data requirements of each of the
identified rules.
If the data requirements of each of the identified rules are not satisfied, then, in step
314, the transmitting unit 206 may transmit a notification to the travel management
company 104 requesting updated data fields. The process may then return to step
306 where the receiving unit 202 may await an updated controlled payment number
request.    Once the processing unit 204 determines that the data requirements of
each of the identified rules are satisfied, or if no data requirements need to be met,
then, in step 316, the processing unit 204 may identify a controlled payment number.
In some embodiments, identification of the controlled payment number may include
storing of an association of the identified controlled payment number with the
payment account number included in the payment number request and limits and/or
controls on the controlled payment number based on the included data fields.

                                           -17
In step 318, the processing unit 204 may determine if a card image is requested by
the travel management company 104. The payment number request may include an
indication of a request for a card image to be generated for providing to the vendor
112. In some instances, the payment number request may indicate the vendor 112,
and the processing unit 204 may identify if the vendor 112 requires an image of the
payment card. If a card image is not requested, then, in step 320, the transmitting
unit 206 may transmit the controlled payment number to the travel management
company 104 for use in conducting the payment transaction.
If a card image is requested, then, in step 322, the processing unit 204 may generate
an image of a payment card including at least the controlled payment number. In
some embodiments, the processing unit 204 may generate additional features of the
payment card image, such as an expiration date or security code.               In some
instances, the payment number request may indicate card features to be included in
the payment card image.        In step 324, the transmitting unit 206 may transmit the
generated card image to the travel management company 104.
Reconciliation of Transaction and Purchase Data
FIG. 4 illustrates a process for the reconciliation of transaction data and purchase
data for a travel purchase facilitated via a controlled payment number using systems
and methods discussed herein.
In step 402, the processing unit 204 may store a plurality of transaction records 214
in the record database 212.       Each transaction record 214 may include transaction
data related to a payment transaction including at least a controlled payment number
used to fund the related payment transaction.          Additional transaction data may
include a transaction amount, transaction time and/or date, merchant data,
consumer data, product data, or other information that will be apparent to persons
having skill in the relevant art.

                                          -18
In step 404, the receiving unit 202 of the processing server 106 may receive a
request for reconciled data (e.g., from the travel management company 104 and/or
the client 102). The request for reconciled data may include at least the controlled
payment number used to purchase travel services for which the reconciled data is
requested.    In step 406, the processing unit 204 may identify a transaction record
214 in the record database 212 where the included controlled payment number
corresponds to the controlled payment number received in the request.
In step 408, the processing server 106 may determine if a transaction record 214
corresponding to the controlled payment number was successfully identified.        If no
transaction record 214 was found corresponding to the controlled payment number,
then, in step 410, the transmitting unit 206 of the processing server 106 may transmit
a notification of the non-existent transaction record 214 to the entity that requested
the reconciled data. Then, the process may return to step 404, where the receiving
unit 202 may await a new and/or updated request.
If a transaction record 214 corresponding to the controlled payment number is
identified, then, in step 412, the processing server 106 may request (e.g., via the
transmitting unit 206) purchase data from a third party, such as the global distribution
system 108 or other booking or reservation system.        The request may include at
least the controlled payment number for identification of the purchase data. In step
414, the receiving unit 202 may receive purchase data for the purchased travel
services from the third party.
In step 416, the processing unit 204 may reconcile the received purchase data with
the identified transaction record 214.     In some embodiments, reconciling the data
may include associating the transaction record 214 with the received purchased
data. In some instances, the processing unit 204 may store the purchase data in the
transaction record 214. In another instance, the processing unit 204 may store the
purchase data as a purchase record in a purchase database, the purchase record
including the controlled payment number for identification. In this regard, U.S. Pub.

                                          -19
Pat. Apple. No. 2013/0232035 and U.S. Patent No. 8,527,416 are incorporated herein
by reference. In step 418, the transmitting unit 206 may transmit the reconciled data
in response to the original request. In some instances, the transmitting unit 206 may
transmit only such purchase and/or transaction data as indicated in the original
request.
Graphical User Interface
FIGS. 5A-5C illustrate a graphical user interface for the requesting and receipt of a
controlled payment number used to provide enhanced control of travel purchases. It
will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art that the interface illustrated
in FIGS. 5A-5C and discussed herein is provided as means of example only, and
that additional interfaces and configurations thereof may be suitable for performing
the functions as disclosed herein.
FIG. 5A illustrates a web browsing application program 502.           The web browsing
application program 502 may include a browsing display 504, which may be
configured to display a webpage 506. Although the interface illustrate and discussed
herein is illustrated as being displayed via a webpage using a web browsing
application program, it will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art that
the interface may be displayed via other suitable means, such as an independent
application program, as an application program interface (API) interfacing with the
travel management company 104 or other party, etc.
The webpage 506 may include a client selection 508. The client selection 508 may
be used to identify the client 102 on whose behalf the travel purchase is to be made.
In some instances, the client selection 508 may include a rule identifier or client
identifier associated with the client 102 for use in identifying one or more rule data
entries 210 to be satisfied in order to receive a controlled payment number. The
webpage 506 may also include a travel type selection 510. The travel type selection
510 may be used to indicate what manner of travel purchase is to be made. In some

                                       -20
instances, the processing unit 204 may use the travel type selection 510 to
determine where to route a subsequent request for purchase data.
The webpage 506 may further include an itinerary selection 512 and load button 514.
The itinerary selection 512 may be used by a user to select a predefined itinerary
that has been created by the user prior to requesting a controlled payment number.
The load button 514, when interacted with by the user, may prompt the server (e.g.,
a web server hosting the webpage 506) to identify data associated with the itinerary
indicated in the itinerary selection 512 to populate a merchant field 516 and a
purchase amount field 518.
The merchant field 516 may include a name or other identifier of one or more
vendors 112 with whom the travel purchase is to be arranged.          The purchase
amount field 518 may include the amount of funds required by the client 102 to
secure the desired travel purchase. The processing unit 204 may establish a limit or
control for a controlled payment number issued subsequent to the request for the
purchase amount indicated in the purchase amount field 518.
The webpage 506 may also include a purchase order field 520 and employee
identifier field 522. The purchase order field 520 and employee identifier field 522
may be included based on the client selection 508 and may include any additional
data that may be required by the client 102 pursuant to one or more employer
purchasing or business rules. The webpage 506 may also include a card image
selection 524. The card image selection 524 may be used by the user to indicate
whether or not an image of a payment card may be required by one or more vendors
112. In some instances, the card image selection 524 may be made automatically
based on the vendor or vendors 112 included in the merchant field 516.
The webpage 506 may further include a submit button 526. The submit button 526,
when interacted with by the user, may transmit the payment request to the
processing server 106, the payment request including data fields corresponding to

                                          - 21
the information selected in the webpage 506. It will be apparent to persons having
skill in the relevant art that additional data fields may be transmitted to the
processing server 106, such as based on the itinerary selection 512, client selection
508, etc., such as a payment account number. In some instances, the processing
unit 204 may identify additional data based on one or more data fields included in the
payment request.       For example, the processing unit 204 may identify a payment
account number associated with the client 102 based on the client selection 508.
As discussed above, the processing unit 204 may identify one or more rule data
entries 210 and determine if the data included in the payment request satisfies data
requirements included in the identified one or more rule data entries 210. If the data
requirements are not satisfied, then the user may be presented with an error window
528, as illustrated in FIG. 5B.
The error window 528 may include one or more errors 530 displayed to the user,
which may indicate data requirements that were not satisfied.            In the example
illustrated in FIGS. 5A and 5B, the purchase order field 520 may not include any
non-numerical characters, and the employee identifier field 522 must require a six
digit identifier to be valid. The user may interact with a return button 532 to return to
the fields and selections in order to cancel the request or remedy the errors 530.
Once the data included in the payment request satisfies the data requirements, the
processing unit 204 may identify a controlled payment number. As illustrated in FIG.
5A, the user may request an image of a payment card be generated for providing to
the one or more vendors 112. Once the processing server 106 identifies a controlled
payment number and generates the payment card image, the browsing display 504
may display an approval webpage 534.
The approval webpage 534 may include an indicator 536, which may indicate to the
user the approval of the payment number request. The approval webpage 534 may
also include confirmation information 538, which may confirm one or more details

                                            -22
included in the payment request.           As illustrated in FIG. 5C, the confirmation
information 538 may include the itinerary identifier, purchase amount, and vendor
112.      It will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art that the
confirmation information 538 may include different information in addition, or
alternative to, the information illustrated herein.
The approval webpage 534 may also include a generated payment card image 540.
The payment card image 540 may be an image of a payment card to be used by the
travel management company 104 in funding the payment transaction for the travel
purchase. The payment card image 540 may include a controlled payment number
542, an expiration date 544, and a security code 546. Additional data that may be
included in the payment card image 540 will be apparent to persons having skill in
the relevant art.      In some embodiments, the processing server 106 may also
generate a second payment card image of the back of a payment card for use by the
user.
The approval webpage 534 may also include a download button 548. The download
button 548 may be used such that, when interacted with, may download an image
file of the payment card image 540 to the user's computer for use in providing to the
global distribution system 108 and/or vendor 112.          It will be apparent to persons
having skill in the relevant art that the approval webpage 534 may include additional
options for obtaining the payment card image 540, such as e-mail, short message
service (SMS) message, multimedia service (MMS) message, etc.
Exemplary Method for Providing Enhanced Control of Travel Purchases
FIG. 6 illustrates a method 600 for the providing of enhanced control of travel
purchase using a controlled payment number.
In step 602, a plurality of rule data entries (e.g., rule data entries 210) may be stored
in a rules database (e.g., the rules database 208), wherein each rule data entry 210

                                          -23
includes data related to an employer purchasing rule including at least a rule
identifier and at least one data requirement. In one embodiment, the rule identifier
may be at least one of: a payment account number, a consumer identifier, an
account identifier, an entity name, an employer identification number, and a
merchant identification number.      In some embodiments, the plurality of data fields
may include at least one of: purchaser name, purchaser address, purchaser phone
number, merchant name, merchant address, merchant phone number, start date,
end date,     purchase order number, employee identifier, point of departure,
destination, method of transportation, itinerary identifier, and account identifier.
In step 604, a payment number request may be received, by a receiving device (e.g.,
the receiving unit 202), wherein the payment number request includes at least a
specific rule identifier, a payment amount, and a plurality of data fields. In step 606,
a specific rule data entry 210 may be identified, in the rules database 208, where the
included rule identifier corresponds to the specific rule identifier.     In step 608, a
processing device (e.g., the processing unit 204) may identify a controlled payment
number configured for use for a single payment transaction if data included in the
plurality of data fields satisfies the at least one data requirement included in the
specific rule data entry 210.
In step 610, the identified controlled payment number may be transmitted, by a
transmitting device (e.g., the transmitting unit 206).         In one embodiment, the
identified controlled payment number may be associated with a plurality of
transactions controls, wherein the transaction controls correspond to the data
included in the plurality of data fields. In step 612, a transaction record (e.g., the
transaction record 214) including at least the identified controlled payment number
and the plurality of data fields may be stored, in a records database (e.g., the record
database 212). In step 614, purchase data may be received, by the receiving device
202, corresponding to a purchase made using the identified controlled payment
number, wherein the purchase data includes at least the controlled payment number.

                                           - 24
In one embodiment, the received purchase data may be included in a Passenger
Name Record.
In step 616, the stored transaction record 214 may be associated, in the records
database 212, with the received purchase data.         In one embodiment, the method
600 may further include: receiving, by the receiving device 202, an authorization
request for a payment transaction, wherein the authorization request includes at
least the identified controlled payment number and transaction data; and storing, in
the transaction      record 214, the     transaction data included     in the   received
authorization request. In another embodiment, the method 600 may further include
transmitting, by the transmitting device 206, the transaction record 214 and the
associated purchase data.
In yet another embodiment, the method 600 may further include: transmitting, by the
transmitting device 206, a request for additional data if the data included in the
plurality of data fields does not satisfy the at least one data requirement included in
the specific rule data entry; and receiving, by the receiving device 202, updated data
fields that satisfy the at least one data requirement included in the specific rule data
entry. In another embodiment, the method 600 may further include: identifying, by
the processing device 204, an expiration date and security code associated with the
identified controlled payment number; and generating, by the processing device 204,
an image of a payment card including the identified expiration date, security code,
and controlled payment number, wherein transmitting the identified controlled
payment number includes transmitting the generated image of the payment card
including the identified controlled payment number.
Computer System Architecture
FIG. 7 illustrates a computer system 700 in which embodiments of the present
disclosure, or portions thereof, may be implemented as computer-readable code.
For example, the processing server 106 of FIG. 1 may be implemented in the

                                          - 25
computer system 700 using hardware, software, firmware, non-transitory computer
readable media having instructions stored thereon, or a combination thereof and
may be implemented in one or more computer systems or other processing systems.
Hardware, software, or any combination thereof may embody modules and
components used to implement the methods of FIGS. 3, 4, and 6.
If programmable logic is used, such logic may execute on a commercially available
processing platform or a special purpose device. A person having ordinary skill in the
art may appreciate that embodiments of the disclosed subject matter can be
practiced  with various computer        system   configurations,   including  multi-core
multiprocessor systems, minicomputers, mainframe computers, computers linked or
clustered with distributed functions, as well as pervasive or miniature computers that
may be embedded into virtually any device. For instance, at least one processor
device and a memory may be used to implement the above described embodiments.
A processor unit or device as discussed herein may be a single processor, a plurality
of processors, or combinations thereof. Processor devices may have one or more
processor "cores." The terms "computer program medium," "non-transitory computer
readable medium," and "computer usable medium" as discussed herein are used to
generally refer to tangible media such as a removable storage unit 718, a removable
storage unit 722, and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive 712.
Various embodiments of the present disclosure are described in terms of this
example computer system 700. After reading this description, it will become
apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement the present
disclosure using other computer systems and/or computer architectures. Although
operations may be described as a sequential process, some of the operations may in
fact be performed in parallel, concurrently, and/or in a distributed environment, and
with program code stored locally or remotely for access by single or multi-processor
machines. In addition, in some embodiments the order of operations may be
rearranged without departing from the spirit of the disclosed subject matter.

                                         - 26
Processor device 704 may be a special purpose or a general purpose processor
device.     The processor device 704 may be connected to a communications
infrastructure 706, such as a bus, message queue, network, multi-core message
passing scheme, etc. The network may be any network suitable for performing the
functions as disclosed herein and may include a local area network (LAN), a wide
area network (WAN), a wireless network (e.g., WiFi), a mobile communication
network, a satellite network, the Internet, fiber optic, coaxial cable, infrared, radio
frequency (RF), or any combination thereof.       Other suitable network types and
configurations will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art.        The
computer system 700 may also include a main memory 708 (e.g., random access
memory, read-only memory, etc.), and may also include a secondary memory 710.
The secondary memory 710 may include the hard disk drive 712 and a removable
storage drive 714, such as a floppy disk drive, a magnetic tape drive, an optical disk
drive, a flash memory, etc.
The removable storage drive 714 may read from and/or write to the removable
storage unit 718 in a well-known manner. The removable storage unit 718 may
include a removable storage media that may be read by and written to by the
removable storage drive 714. For example, if the removable storage drive 714 is a
floppy disk drive, the removable storage unit 718 may be a floppy disk.          In one
embodiment, the removable storage unit 718 may be non-transitory computer
readable recording media.
In some embodiments, the secondary memory 710 may include alternative means
for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into the computer
system 700, for example, the removable storage unit 722 and an interface 720.
Examples of such means may include a program cartridge and cartridge interface
(e.g., as found in video game systems), a removable memory chip (e.g., EEPROM,
PROM, etc.) and associated socket, and other removable storage units 722 and
interfaces 720 as will be apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art.

                                          - 27
Data stored in the computer system 700 (e.g., in the main memory 708 and/or the
secondary memory 710) may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable
media, such as optical storage (e.g., a compact disc, digital versatile disc, Blu-ray
disc, etc.) or magnetic tape storage (e.g., a hard disk drive).   The data may be
configured in any type of suitable database configuration, such as a relational
database, a structured query language (SQL) database, a distributed database, an
object database, etc. Suitable configurations and storage types will be apparent to
persons having skill in the relevant art.
The computer system 700 may also include a communications interface 724. The
communications interface 724 may be configured to allow software and data to be
transferred between the computer system 700 and external devices. Exemplary
communications interfaces 724 may include a modem, a network interface (e.g., an
Ethernet card), a communications port, a PCMCIA slot and card, etc. Software and
data transferred via the communications interface 724 may be in the form of signals,
which may be electronic, electromagnetic, optical, or other signals as will be
apparent to persons having skill in the relevant art. The signals may travel via a
communications path 726, which may be configured to carry the signals and may be
implemented using wire, cable, fiber optics, a phone line, a cellular phone link, a
radio frequency link, etc.
Computer program medium and computer usable medium may refer to memories,
such as the main memory 708 and secondary memory 710, which may be memory
semiconductors (e.g. DRAMs, etc.). These computer program products may be
means for providing software to the computer system 700.        Computer programs
(e.g., computer control logic) may be stored in the main memory 708 and/or the
secondary memory 710. Computer programs may also be received via the
communications interface 724. Such computer programs, when executed, may
enable computer system 700 to implement the present methods as discussed
herein. In particular, the computer programs, when executed, may enable processor

                                         - 28
device 704 to implement the methods illustrated by FIGS. 3, 4, and 6, as discussed
herein. Accordingly, such computer programs may represent controllers of the
computer system 700. Where the present disclosure is implemented using software,
the software may be stored in a computer program product and loaded into the
computer system 700 using the removable storage drive 714, interface 720, and
hard disk drive 712, or communications interface 724.
Techniques consistent with the present disclosure provide, among other features,
systems and methods for mapping merchant boundaries. While various exemplary
embodiments of the disclosed system and method have been described above it
should be understood that they have been presented for purposes of example only,
not limitations. It is not exhaustive and does not limit the disclosure to the precise
form disclosed.     Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above
teachings or may be acquired from practicing of the disclosure, without departing
from the breadth or scope.
Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group
of integers or steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived
from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication
(or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

                                           - 29
Claims Defining the Invention
1.       A method for providing enhanced control of travel purchases, comprising:
         storing, in a rules database of a processing server, a plurality of rule data
entries, wherein each rule data entry includes employer purchasing rule data
including at least a rule identifier and at least one data requirement that at least
includes an employee identification number;
         receiving, by a receiving device of the processing server, a payment number
request from a travel management company, wherein the payment number request
includes at least (i) a specific rule identifier that identifies an employer purchasing
rule, (ii) a payment amount, and (iii) a plurality of data fields;
         in response to receiving the payment number request, identifying, in the rules
database of the processing server, a specific rule data entry where the rule identifier
included in the specific rule data entry corresponds to the specific rule identifier
included in the received payment number request;
         determining, by a processing device of the processing server, whether data
included in the plurality of data fields of the received payment number request
satisfies the at least one data requirement included in the identified specific rule data
entry;
         when it is determined that the data included in the plurality of data fields
satisfies the at least one data requirement included in the specific rule data entry,
identifying, by the processing device of the processing server, a controlled payment
number configured for use for a single payment transaction;
         transmitting, by a transmitting device of the processing server, the identified
controlled payment number to the travel management company;
         receiving, by the receiving device of the processing server, from a payment
network, transaction data for a payment transaction funded by the control payment
number;
         storing, in a records database of the processing server, a transaction record
including at least the identified controlled payment number, the plurality of data
fields, and the transaction data received from the payment network;

                                            - 30
        receiving, by the receiving device of the processing server, purchase data
corresponding to a purchase made using the identified controlled payment number,
wherein the purchase data includes at least the controlled payment number; and
       associating by the processing device of the processing server, in the records
database, the stored transaction record with the received purchase data.
2.     The method of claim 1, wherein the received purchase data is included in a
Passenger Name Record.
3.     The method of claim 1, wherein the identified controlled payment number is
associated    with   a plurality of transaction controls, the       transaction controls
corresponding to the data included in the plurality of data fields.
4.     The method of claim 1, wherein the rule identifier is at least one of: a payment
account number, a consumer identifier, an account identifier, an entity name, an
employer identification number, and a merchant identification number.
5.     The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of data fields includes at least
one of: purchaser name, purchaser address, purchaser phone number, merchant
name, merchant address, merchant phone number, start date, end date, purchase
order number, employee identifier, point of departure, destination, method of
transportation, itinerary identifier, and account identifier.
6.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        receiving, by the receiving device, an authorization request for a payment
transaction, wherein the authorization request includes at least the identified
controlled payment number and transaction data; and
       storing, in the transaction record, the transaction data included in the received
authorization request.
7.     The method of claim 1, further comprising:

                                            -31
        transmitting, by the transmitting device, the transaction record and the
associated purchase data.
8.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        transmitting, by the transmitting device, a request for additional data if the
data included in the plurality of data fields does not satisfy the at least one data
requirement included in the specific rule data entry; and
        receiving, by the receiving device, updated data fields that satisfy the at least
one data requirement included in the specific rule data entry.
9.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        identifying, by the processing device, an expiration date and security code
associated with the identified controlled payment number; and
        generating, by the processing device, an image of a payment card including
the identified expiration date, security code, and controlled payment number,
wherein
        transmitting the identified controlled payment number includes transmitting the
generated image of the payment card including the identified controlled payment
number.
10.     A system for providing enhanced control of travel purchases, the system
comprising:
        a records database;
        a rules database configured to store a plurality of rule data entries, wherein
each rule data entry includes employer purchasing rule data including at least a rule
identifier and at least one data requirement that at least includes an employee
identification number;
        a receiving device configured to receive a payment number request from a
travel management company, wherein the payment number request includes at least
(i) a specific rule identifier that identifies one of plurality of employer purchasing
rules, (ii) a payment amount, and (iii) a plurality of data fields;

                                            - 32
        a processing device configured to
                identify, in response to receiving the payment number request, a
        specific rule data entry in the rules database, where the rule identifier included
        in the specific rule data entry corresponds to the specific rule identifier
        included in the received payment number request,
                determine whether data included in the plurality of data fields of the
        received payment number request satisfies the at least one data requirement
        included in the identified specific rule data entry; and
                identify, when it is determined that the data included in the plurality of
        data fields satisfies the at least one data requirement included in the specific
        rule data entry, a controlled payment number configured for use for a single
        payment transaction; and
        a transmitting device configured to transmit the identified controlled payment
number to the travel management company, wherein
        the receiving device is further configured to receive transaction data, from a
payment network, for a payment transaction funded by the control payment number,
        the processing device is further configured to store, in the records database, a
transaction record including at least the identified controlled payment number, the
plurality of data fields, and the transaction data received from the payment network,
        the   receiving device      is further configured     to receive purchase data
corresponding to a purchase made using the identified controlled payment number,
wherein the purchase data includes at least the controlled payment number, and
        the processing device is further configured to associate, in the records
database, the stored transaction record with the received purchase data.
11.     The system of claim 10, wherein the received purchase data is included in a
Passenger Name Record.
12.     The system of claim 10, wherein the identified controlled payment number is
associated     with   a plurality of transaction controls, the       transaction controls
corresponding to the data included in the plurality of data fields.

                                            -33
13.     The system of claim 10, wherein the rule identifier is at least one of: a
payment account number, a consumer identifier, an account identifier, an entity
name, an employer identification number, and a merchant identification number.
14.     The system of claim 10, wherein the plurality of data fields includes at least
one of: purchaser name, purchaser address, purchaser phone number, merchant
name, merchant address, merchant phone number, start date, end date, purchase
order number, employee identifier, point of departure, destination, method of
transportation, itinerary identifier, and account identifier.
15.     The system of claim 10, wherein
        the receiving device is further configured to receive an authorization request
for a payment transaction, wherein the authorization request includes at least the
identified controlled payment number and transaction data, and
        the processing device is further configured to store, in the transaction record,
the transaction data included in the received authorization request.
16.     The system of claim 10, wherein the transmitting device is further configured
to transmit the transaction record and the associated purchase data.
17.     The system of claim 10, wherein
        the transmitting device is further configured to transmit a request for additional
data if the data included in the plurality of data fields does not satisfy the at least one
data requirement included in the specific rule data entry, and
        the receiving device is further configured to receive updated data fields that
satisfy the at least one data requirement included in the specific rule data entry.
18.     The system of claim 10, wherein
        the processing device is further configured to

                                            -34
               identify an expiration date and security code associated with the
identified controlled payment number, and
              generate an image of a payment card including the identified expiration
date, security code, and controlled payment number, and
        transmitting the identified controlled payment number includes transmitting the
generated image of the payment card including the identified controlled payment
number.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
