                                      ABSTRACT
An air pollution eliminator comprising an eliminator through which airflow travels
and treated by a mist, shallow return water treatment troughs with baffles, rainwater
tanks, electric pumps to capture liquid entrainment, wind monitoring device,
structural devices levering the eliminator, solar power panels and vertical wind
turbines providing power for the air pollution eliminator.

                          a Pflv4,ez -  APE
                      air     cewr
                  +         -s5(fl          jtsllow ~ra      c*
() Air  Ri/oi
                                                 -4    .. *0
       Ec-k led  Al~E
             c.c
                                              o     a2
                                    OF
                          0 vc~JELF C  F~

     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are two pages of description only

LYONS GLOBAL GROUP
Road Infrastructure and Asset Management
Consulting; Advisory; Strategy; Collaboration
                                                         Development, Production and
Subject: Air Pollution Eliminator - APE (Kong)
Sale.
       Description of Air Pollution Eliminator - APE (Kong)
    *  The Air Pollution Eliminator is designed to effectively and efficiently remove air
                                                                   to or designed into high rise
       pollution within built environments by being retro fitted
                                                                                    effects to
       buildings and structures, using the principles of hydrology and chimney
                                                                               air pollution.
       blast mist through the eliminator, removing the material aspects of
    " The components of the Air Pollution Eliminator are detailed below:
                                                                                     sides of the
            I. Eliminator - this is the section of the unit which position to the
                                                                                          pressure
                structure that the airflow travels through and is treated by a mist at
                that removes the solids within the airflow, and places the  liquid  entrainment
                to the eliminator for capture, treatment and reuse.
            2. Shallow return water treatment troughs with baffles that are positioned
                                                                                         back into
                 usually on the roof of the structure, which feeds the treated water
                the treatment cycle.
            3. Rainwater tanks and associated capture surfaces to optimise the rainwater
                 resource to service the air pollution eliminator
            4. Electric pumps to pump the captured liquid entrainment from the eliminator
                 to the shallow return water treatment troughs.
                                                                                                   a
             S. A wind monitor device that activates the unit when the wind speed reached
                 designated speed
                                                                                   from the
             6. The structural devices that levers the Air Pollution Eliminator
                                                                                         the
                 building or structure: these structures are designed to compliment
                 existing building or structure, and will be designed into new buildings to
                 ensure both architectural objects and optimal effective-and efficient air
                  pollution removal.
  LYONS GLOBAL GROUP                      27 SHE OAK LANE
                                          CASUARINA NSW 2487
                                          AUSTRALIA                                  +61407 236 555

          7. Solar power panels, vertical wind turbines will provide the power for the air
               pollution eliminator, the wind monitor device, pumps, the shallow return
               water troughs
    " Materials used in the Air Pollution Eliminator
           1. All materials used will conform to all building codes for the country of use.
           2. The eliminator is available in carbon, reinforced plastic, polypropylene,
               fibreglass or as specified by the client.
    * Performance of Air Pollution Eliminator treatment:
            I. The volume of the air pollution elimination treatment is influenced by the
               length of the treatment areas and the vertical wind speed.
           2. Speed adjacent the structure is quickest reducing as the distance from the
               structure increases
           3. The pressure of the mist is adjustable to travel through variable widths and
               wind speeds
                Example: If the vertical wind speed is 20km/h, the air eliminator is active one
                metre wide, and there is 200 metres of eliminator active on the building or
                structure, a volume of 4 million cubic metres of potentially polluted air will
                be treated per hour.
John Lyons
Director
Lyons Global Group
 M: +61 407 236 555
 E: john.lyons.irmgmail.com
  LYONS GLOBAL GROUP                      27 SHE OAK LANE
                                          CASUARINA NSW 2487
                                           AUSTRALIA                              +61407 236 555

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
