FABRICATION OF COMPOSITE LAMINATES USING TEMPORARILY
STITCHED PREFORMS
ABSTRACT
A method of fabricating a composite structure, the method comprising stitching dry fibre layers
(24a, 24b, 24c) together into a stitched stack (22) of dry fibre layers having varying fibre
orientations; infusing the stack (22) of dry fibre layers with a resin; thermally curing the stitched
stack (22) of dry fibre layers; and melting the stitching during thermal curing of the stitched
stack (22) of dry fibre layers.

                                                    1
FABRICATION OF COMPOSITE LAMINATES USING TEMPORARILY
STITCHED PREFORMS
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001] This is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2015200414, the
content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
FIELD
[0002] The present disclosure generally relates to preforms used in the fabrication of composite
laminate structures, and deals more particularly with a temporarily stitched preform.
BACKGROUND
[0003] High performance composite structures may be fabricated by laying up plies of prepreg
or by resin infusion of dry fibres. The fibres may be in unidirectional, woven or braided fabric
form. In some applications, in order to reduce layup time, adjacent plies of the fabric may be co
stitched together using stitch material that remains with the completed structure after the
structure is cured. Stitching the plies together allows the plies to the laid up on a tool in ply
groups, rather than one-by-one, thereby increasing efficiency of the layup process. Co-stitched
fabric plies formed from unidirectional reinforcement fibres are relatively formable, making
them well-suited for forming highly contoured structures, however structures fabricated using
stitched plies may have less than the desired level of strength and crack resistance.
[0004] Accordingly, there is a need for a method of fabricating composite structures using co
stitched plies of fabric which reduces or eliminates the presence of stitch material in the cured
structure. There is also a need for a preform used in the fabrication of such structures that can be
assembled using a co-stitched, multi-layer prepreg, or co-stitched fibre layers suitable for resin
infusion.
[0005] It is an object of the invention to at least partially address one of the above needs.

                                                   2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006] In a first aspect, the present invention provides a method of fabricating a composite
structure, the method comprising:
        stitching dry fibre layers together into a stitched stack of dry fibre layers having varying
fibre orientations;
        infusing the stack of dry fibre layers with a resin;
        thermally curing the stitched stack of dry fibre layers; and
        melting the stitching during thermal curing of the stitched stack of dry fibre layers.
[0007] Advantageously the method may further include debulking, consolidating and curing the
stitched stack under a vacuum.
[0008] Advantageously the stack may have a thickness, and stitching the dry fibre layers
together is performed by using stitches that pass substantially through the thickness of the stack.
[0009] Advantageously the method may further include applying a tackifier to each of the dry
fibre layers; and assembling the dry fibre layers into a stack, including using the tackifier to
adhere the dry fibre layers together and maintain the fibre orientations of the dry fibre layers
during the stitching.
[0010] Advantageously assembling the dry fibre layers into a stack may include laying down
dry fibre tows, and varying the fibre orientations of the dry fibre tows for each of the dry fibre
layers.
[0011] Advantageously the method may further include forming the stack of dry fibre layers
into a desired shape corresponding to the shape of the composite structure.
[0012] Advantageously forming the stack may be performed before stitching the dry fibre layers
together.
[0013] Advantageously forming the stack may be performed after stitching the dry fibre layers
together.

                                                   3
[0014] Advantageously forming the stack of dry fibre layers may include forming the stitched
stack of dry fibre layers onto a tool.
[0015] Advantageously forming the stack of dry fibre layers onto a tool may include placing the
stack in a mold, and infusing the stack of dry fibre layers includes introducing a polymer resin
into the mold under a vacuum.
[0016] In a second aspect, the present invention provides a method of making a fibre reinforced
preform, the method comprising:
        assembling a stack of fibre reinforced layers, each of the layers including unidirectional
reinforcing fibres; and
        stitching the fibre reinforced layers together after the stack has been assembled,
        wherein the stitching is performed using stitches that pass through the stack and melt
when heated to a predetermined temperature.
[0017] Advantageously the method further may further include applying a tackifier to each of
the fibre reinforced layers, and wherein assembling the stack of fibre reinforced layers includes
using the tackifier to maintain the layers in registration relative to each other.
[0018] Other disclosed examples provide a method of fabricating a composite laminate structure
using a co-stitched multi-layer preform. In one embodiment, the preform is formed by stitching
together plies of unidirectional prepreg using stitch material that melts during curing of the
prepreg. In another embodiment, the preform is formed by stitching together multiple fibre
layers using stitch material that melts during curing of resin used to infuse the fibre layers.
Melting of the stitch material during the cure process effectively dissolves the stitches and
avoids possible crimping between the stitches and the reinforcing fibres. Dissolution of the
stitches reduces or eliminates stress concentrations in the cured structure caused by fibre
crimping, thereby improving the mechanical performance of the composite laminate structure
while reducing the possibility of crack propagation through the laminate. The use of a co
stitched multi-ply preform may increase production efficiency by allowing simultaneous layup
and forming of multiple layers of fibre reinforcements.
[0019] According to one disclosed example, a method is provided of fabricating a composite
structure. Prepreg plies are stitched together into a stitched stack of prepreg plies having varying
fibre orientations, and the stitched stack of prepreg plies is thermally cured. The stitching melts

                                                   4
during thermal curing of the stitched stack of prepreg plies. The method may further comprise
assembling the prepreg plies into a stack, wherein each of the prepreg plies has resin tack, and
assembling the prepreg plies into the stack includes using the resin tack to adhere the plies
together and maintain the fibre orientations of the prepreg plies during the stitching. Stitching
the prepreg plies together is performed by using stitches that pass substantially through the
thickness of the stack. Assembling the prepreg plies into a stack includes laying down prepreg
tows, and varying the fibre orientations of the tows for each of the plies. The method may also
comprise debulking, consolidating and curing the stitched stack under a vacuum. Melting the
stitching is performed before the stitched stack of prepreg plies is fully cured. The method may
further comprise forming the stitched stack of prepreg plies into a desired shape corresponding
to the shape of the composite structure.
[0020] According to another disclosed example, a method is provided of making a composite
preform. A stack of prepreg plies is assembled, wherein each of the plies includes reinforcing
fibres held in a thermally curable resin matrix. The prepreg plies are stitched together after the
stack has been assembled. The stitching is performed using stitching material that melts during
thermal curing of the prepreg plies. Assembling the stack of prepreg plies includes maintaining
the plies in registration relative to each other by tacking the plies together. Tacking the plies
together is performed using tack of the resin matrix in each of the plies. Assembling the stack of
prepreg plies includes using the resin matrix in each of the prepreg plies to hold the reinforcing
fibres in the plies in spaced relationship to each other during the stitching. The stitching includes
placing stitches substantially completely through the thickness of the stack of prepreg plies. The
stack may be assembled by laying prepreg tows, and the stitching may be carried out by placing
stitches between the prepreg tows that pass substantially completely through the stack of prepreg
plies. During assembly of the stack, the plies are oriented such that they have differing fibre
orientations.
[0021] According to still another disclosed example, a composite preform is provided. The
preform comprises a stack of unidirectional prepreg plies having varying fibre orientations.
Stitches passing through all of the prepreg plies in the stack hold the plies together. The stitches
are formed of a stitching material capable of melting during thermal curing of the prepreg plies.
Each of the prepreg plies includes prepreg tows, and the stitches pass between the prepreg tows.
The stitches may be distributed generally uniformly across the stack of unidirectional prepreg
plies. Each of the prepreg plies includes a resin matrix, and the stitching material is compatible

                                                    5
with the resin matrix. The resin matrix may be a thermoset resin, and the stitching material may
be a thermoplastic resin. The thermoset resin has a cure temperature at which the thermoset
resin is fully cured, and the thermoplastic resin has a melt temperature that is below the cure
temperature of the thermoset resin.
[0022] According to still another disclosed example, a method is provided of fabricating a
composite structure. Dry fibre plies are stitched together into a stitched stack of dry fibre plies
having varying fibre orientations. The stack of dry fibre plies is infused with a polymer resin.
The resin infused stack is thermally cured. The stitching melts during thermal curing of the
stitched stack. The method may also include debulking, consolidating and curing the stitched
stack under a vacuum. Stitching the dry fibre plies together is performed using stitches that pass
substantially through the entire thickness of the stack. The method may also comprise applying a
tackifier to each of the dry fibre plies, and assembling the dry fibre plies into a stack, including
using the tackifier to adhere the dry fibre plies together and maintain the fibre orientations of the
dry fibre plies during the stitching. Assembling the dry fibre plies into a stack includes laying
down dry fibre tows, and varying the fibre orientations of the dry fibre tows for each of the dry
fibre plies. The method may further comprise forming the stitched stack of dry fibre plies into a
desired shape corresponding to the shape of the composite structure. The forming may be
performed by forming the stitched stack of dry fibre plies onto a tool such as a mold.
[0023] According to another disclosed example, a method is provided of making a dry fibre
preform. The method comprises assembling a stack of dry fibre plies, each of which includes
unidirectional reinforcing fibres. The dry fibre plies are stitched together after the stack has been
assembled. The stitching is performed using stitches that pass through the stack and melt when
they have been heated to a predetermined temperature. The method may also include applying a
tackifier to each of the dry fibre plies, and assembling the stack of dry fibre plies includes using
the tackifier to maintain the plies in registration relative to each other.
[0024] There is also disclosed herein a method of fabricating a composite structure, comprising:
         assembling prepreg plies into a stack,
         stitching, using a thermoplastic resin, the prepreg plies together into a stitched stack of
prepreg plies having varying fibre orientations, the prepreg plies comprising a matrix resin,
wherein the matrix resin is a thermoset resin;
         thermally curing the stitched stack of prepreg plies; and

                                                  6
        melting the stitching during thermal curing of the stitched stack of prepreg plies, wherein
melting of the stitching during thermal curing occurs after the viscosity of the matrix resin
begins to increase and before the stitched stack of prepreg plies is fully cured.
[0025] Advantageously each of the prepreg plies may have resin tack, and assembling the
prepreg plies into the stack may include using the resin tack to adhere the plies together and
maintain the fibre orientations of the prepreg plies during the stitching.
[0026] Advantageously the stack may have a thickness, and stitching the prepreg plies together
may be performed by using stitches that pass substantially through the thickness of the stack.
[0027] Advantageously assembling the prepreg plies may include laying down prepreg tows,
and varying the fibre orientations of the tows for each of the plies.
[0028] Advantageously the method may include debulking, consolidating and curing the
stitched stack under a vacuum.
[0029] Advantageously, the method wherein melting the stitching may be performed before the
stitched stack of prepreg plies is fully cured.
[0030] Advantageously the method may further include forming the stitched stack of prepreg
plies into a desired shape corresponding to the shape of the composite structure.
[0031] Advantageously the method wherein forming the stitched stack of prepreg plies may be
performed before stitching the prepreg plies together.
[0032] Advantageously the method wherein forming the stitched stack of prepreg plies may be
performed after stitching the prepreg plies together.
[0033] Also disclosed is a method of making a composite preform, including assembling a stack
of prepreg plies, each of the plies including reinforcing fibres held in a thermally curable resin
matrix; and, stitching the prepreg plies together after the stack has been assembled, wherein the
stitching is performed using stitching material that melts during thermal curing of the prepreg
plies.

                                                   7
[0034] Advantageously the method wherein assembling the stack of prepreg plies may include
maintaining the plies in registration relative to each other by tacking the plies together.
[0035] Advantageously the method wherein tacking the plies together may be performed using
tack of the resin matrix in each of the plies.
[0036] Advantageously the method wherein assembling the stack of prepreg plies may include
using the resin matrix in each of the prepreg plies to hold the reinforcing fibres in the plies in
spaced relationship to each other during the stitching.
[0037] Advantageously the method wherein the stack of prepreg plies may have a thickness, and
the stitching includes placing stitches substantially completely through the thickness of the stack
of prepreg plies.
[0038] Advantageously the method wherein assembling the stack of prepreg plies may include
laying prepreg tows, and the stitching includes placing stitches between the prepreg tows
substantially completely through the stack of prepreg plies.
[0039] Advantageously the method wherein assembling the stack of prepreg plies may include
orienting the plies such that they have differing fibre orientations.
[0040] There is also disclosed herein a composite preform, comprising:
         a stack of unidirectional prepreg plies having varying fibre orientations and including a
matrix resin, wherein the matrix resin is a thermoset resin; and
         stitches passing through all of the prepreg plies in the stack and capable of holding the
plies together, wherein the stitches are formed of a thermoplastic material capable of melting
during thermal curing of the prepreg plies at a temperature above that at which the viscosity of
the matrix resin increases and wherein:
         the thermoset resin has a cure temperature at which the thermoset resin is fully cured,
and
         the thermoplastic resin has a melt temperature that is below the cure temperature of the
thermoset resin.
[0041] Advantageously the composite preform of claim 17, wherein each of the prepreg plies
may include prepreg tows.

                                                   8
[0042] Advantageously the composite preform wherein the stitches may pass between the
prepreg tows.
[0043] Advantageously the composite preform wherein the stitches may be distributed generally
uniformly across the stack of unidirectional prepreg plies.
[0044] The features and functions can be achieved independently in various embodiments of the
present disclosure or may be combined in yet other embodiments in which further details can be
seen with reference to the following description and drawings.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0045] The novel features believed characteristic of the illustrative embodiments are set forth in
the appended claims. The illustrative embodiments, however, as well as a preferred mode of use,
further objectives and advantages thereof, will best be understood by reference to the following
detailed description of an illustrative embodiment of the present disclosure when read in
conjunction with the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[0046] Figure 1 is an illustration of a top perspective view of a stitched preform.
[0047] Figure 2 is an illustration of a bottom perspective view of the stitched preform shown in
Figure 1.
[0048] Figure 3 is an illustration of a perspective view of a curved frame section that may be
fabricated using a stitched preform.
[0049] Figure 4 is an illustration of an exploded, perspective view of the stitched preform of
Figure 1, showing the individual layers of the preform and their respective fibre orientations.
[0050] Figure 5 is an illustration of a plan view of the area designated as "FIG. 5" in Figure 1.
[0051] Figure 6 is an illustration of a sectional view taken along the line 6-6 in Figure 5.
[0052] Figure 7 is an illustration of a sectional view showing a portion of a stitch between two
tows at an early stage of curing.

                                                  9
[0053] Figure 8 is an illustration similar to Figure 7, but showing the stitch having melted into
the surrounding matrix resin during a later stage of the curing.
[0054] Figure 9 is illustration of a flow diagram of a method of fabricating a composite structure
using a stitched prepreg preform.
[0055] Figure 10 is an illustration of a flow diagram of a method of fabricating a stitched
prepreg preform.
[0056] Figure 11 is an illustration of a flow diagram of an alternate method of fabricating a
composite structure using a stitched, dry fibre preform.
[0057] Figure 12 is an illustration of a flow diagram of aircraft production and service
methodology.
[0058] Figure 13 is an illustration of a block diagram of an aircraft.
DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0059] Referring to Figures 1 and 2, a composite preform 20 comprises a stitched stack 22 of
prepreg plies 24a, 24b, 24c each of which has unidirectional reinforcement in the form of fibre
tows 28. The prepreg plies 24a, 24b, 24c in the stack 22, sometimes also referred to herein as
"layers", are tacked together by stitches 26 that extend through the thickness of the stack 22.
Only the top and bottom of the stitches 26 are shown, respectively, in FIGS. 1 and 2. The
preform 20 may be used to fabricate any of a variety of composite structures, particularly those
having simple or compound contours. For example, referring to Figure 3, the preform 20 may be
employed to fabricate a unitary composite frame section 30 by forming the stack 22 of prepreg
plies 24a, 24b, 24c using suitable tooling (not shown), either before or after the prepreg plies
24a, 24b, 24c are stitched together. In this example, the frame section 30 is curved along its
length and comprises a curved inner chord flange 34, a curved outer chord flange 36 and a web
32. The flanges 34, 36 transition into the web 32 along radius corners 38, 40 which have
compounded curvatures. The frame section 30 is merely illustrative of a wide range of
composite laminate structures that may be fabricated using the disclosed preform 20. The frame
section 30 shown in Figure 3 has a Z-shaped cross section, however other cross-sectional shapes
are possible.

                                                  10
[0060] Referring particularly to Figures 1, 2 and 4, although three plies 24a, 24b, 24c are shown
in the exemplary embodiment, the stack 22 may comprise as few as two or greater than three
plies 24, depending upon the application. In the embodiment illustrated in Figures 1, 2 and 4,
each of the plies 24a, 24b, 24c comprises a plurality of unidirectional prepreg tows 28 that may
be placed in multiple, side-by-side bandwidths (not shown) by automatic fibre placement
equipment (not shown) or by other techniques. However, as will be discussed later, the stitched
stack 22 may comprise a stitched stack of dry fibre layers 24a, 24b, 24c of unidirectional dry
fibres that may be in the form of tows, unidirectional tape, cut patterns of unidirectional
reinforcement or other forms.
[0061] The prepreg tows 28 each comprise a bundle of individual reinforcing fibres (not shown)
that is pre-impregnated with a suitable resin which will be discussed later in more detail. Each of
the plies 24a, 24b, 24c may have any desired fibre orientation, but in the illustrated example
shown in Figure 4, respectively have 00, 90' and 0' fibre orientations. In one embodiment, the
prepreg tows 28 may have a generally circular cross-sectional shape (see Figure 6), while in
another embodiment, the prepreg tows 28 may have a generally flat cross-sectional shape (not
shown), sometimes referred to as a "flat tow" or a "spread tow".
[0062] The resin used to impregnate the tows 28 may comprise a thermally curable resin that is
suitable for the application and has a desired cure temperature. For example and without
limitation, the reinforcing fibres may comprise carbon and the resin used as the matrix may
comprise a thermally curable thermoset resin such as epoxy. Other types of reinforcing fibres
are possible, such as without limitation, metal, ceramic and/or glass fibres. Other types of resins
may be employed as the matrix, depending upon the application, such as, without limitation
polyester resins, vinyl ester resins, phenolic resins, polyimide resins, PBI (polybenzimidazole)
resins, and BMI (bismaleimide) resins.
[0063] The presence of resin impregnated into the tows 28 causes the tows 28, and thus the plies
24a, 24b, 24c to have resin tack, and this resin tack causes the plies 24a, 24b, 24c to adhere to
each other when they are laid up on top of each other. The adhesion provided by the resin tack
holds the plies 24a, 24b, 24c in registration with each other and in their desired ply orientations
during subsequent processing discussed below in more detail. The matrix resin also holds the
tows 28 of the plies 24 in spaced relationship to each other through the thickness "t" of the stack
22. In some applications, it may be necessary or desirable to apply a tackifier to the plies 24a,

                                                   11
24b, 24c to increase the adhesion between the plies 24a, 24b, 24c. Similarly, where the tows 28
are dry (not impregnated with resin), a tackifier, sometimes referred to as a binder, may be used
to adhere the layers 24a. 24b, 24c together and maintain their respective fibre orientations until
the stitched stack 22 can be formed into a desired shape.
[0064] The stitches 26 pass between the tows 28 and hold the plies 24a, 24b, 24c in their desired
ply orientations. The number, density, size, spacing and type of the stitches 26 used will depend
upon the application. Similarly, the tightness of the stitches 26 may vary, depending upon the
number of plies 24 in the stack 22 and the complexity of the composite structure being
fabricated. For example, where the composite structure is highly contoured, it may be desirable
to employ relatively loose stitches 26 in order to allow the plies 24a, 24b, 24c to slip slightly in
plane relative to each other as they are being formed over tooling. Slight in-plane slippage
between the plies 24a, 24b, 24c may allow the stack 22 to better conform to contoured tool
surfaces and avoid ply wrinkling and/bunching.
[0065] Referring now particularly to Figures 5 and 6, any of various types of stitches 26 may be
employed to stitch the plies 24a, 24b, 24c together provided that the stitches 26 pass through
substantially the entire thickness "t" (Figure 1) of the stack 22, between any adjacent tows 28 in
each of the plies 24a, 24b, 24c. In the illustrated embodiment, the stitches 26 are effectively
looped around the tows 28, and extend diagonally across the stack 22. However, in other
embodiments, the stitches 26 may not be looped around all of the tows 28, and may extend in
any direction across the stack 22. The stitches 26 may be formed and spaced apart from each
other in any of a variety of manners, providing that they adequately hold the plies 24a, 24b, 24c
together as the stack 22 is being formed over tooling (not shown) employed to shape the stack
22 into the desired shape of the composite structure. In some embodiments, however, it may be
possible to stitch the plies 24a, 24b, 24c together after the stack 22 has been formed into a
desired shape.
[0066] The material from which the stitches 26 is formed (hereinafter "stitch material") may
comprise any of a variety of polymer resins that is compatible with the matrix resin of the tows
28, and which has a melt temperature that results in melting of the stitches 26 during thermal
curing of the matrix resin. For example, the stitch material may comprise a thermoplastic resin
such as, without limitation, PEI (polyetherimide) PPS (polyphenylene sulphide), PES
(polyethersulfone), PEEK (polyetheretherketone), PEKK (polyetheretherketone), and PEKK-FC

                                                  12
(polyetherketoneketone-fc grade), which has a relatively low melt temperature that is within the
range of temperatures required to cure the matrix resin. For example, where the matrix resin is
an epoxy that cures at approximately 180'C, the stitch material may comprise a thermoplastic
resin having a low melt temperature in the range of 150'C. In this example, the thermoplastic
resin melts and combines with the flowable thermoset resin before the thermoset resin begins to
substantially cure and harden. In one embodiment, a thermoplastic stitch material is selected
which remains intact to provide the necessary support of the plies 24a, 24b, 24c, 24d as the
matrix resin melts and initially becomes flowable. The thermoplastic stitch material may begin
to melt and dissolve into the matrix resin 44 only after the viscosity of the matrix resin 44 begins
to increase as the matrix resin 44 begins to harden during its initial stage of curing.
Consolidation of the composite laminate structure is accomplished under vacuum which is used
to debulk the plies 24a, 24b, 24c and hold the plies 24a, 24b, 24c together without movement
while the stitches 26 melt into the resin and the structure cures-consolidates.
[0067] Figure 7 illustrates a cross-sectional side view of one of the stitches 26 during an early
stage of a cure cycle in which the formed composite laminate structure is cured and consolidated
by subjecting it to heat and pressure applied by a vacuum bag and/or an autoclave. The
combination of applied heat and pressure causes the matrix resin 44 to begin to flow, and
consolidate the plies 24a, 24b, 24c. The resin flow comes from the matrix resin 44 that is
impregnated into the tows 28. At this point in the cure cycle, the stitches 26 have not yet been
heated to their melt temperature, and therefore remain intact. As the temperature is further
increased during the cure cycle however, the stitch material begins to melt and flow 42 into the
surrounding matrix resin 44 which is still flowable, until, as shown in Figure 8, the stitch
material is fully dissolved within regions 46 of the matrix resin 44. The applied pressure aids in
causing the stitch material and the matrix resin 44 to flow together and mix with each other.
Depending upon the particular polymer resin selected for use as stitches 26, the dissolved stitch
material may assist in toughening the matrix resin 44, and may increase mechanical properties,
such as impact resistance, of the cured composite structure.
[0068] Attention is now directed to Figure 9 which broadly illustrates the overall steps of a
method of fabricating a composite laminate structure using a stitched prepreg. Beginning at step
48, a stack 22 of unidirectional prepreg plies is assembled wherein plies may have varying fibre
orientations. Then at step 50, after the prepreg plies having been assembled into a stack 22, the
stack 22 may be formed into a desired shape using tooling or other forming techniques. In some

                                                  13
embodiments, however it may be possible to layup the preform 20 in a particular stack shape
and then stitch the plies of the preform 20 together. In other words, the stitching of step 50 may
be carried out after the forming of step 52. At step 54, the stitched and formed stack 22 is
thermally cured, as by placing the stack 22 into an oven or an autoclave. At 55, during thermal
curing of the stitched stack 22, the stitching material that melts, causing the stitches to dissolve
into the surrounding matrix resin 44 undergoing curing.
[0069] Figure 10 broadly illustrates the overall steps of a method of making a prepreg preform
20 using prepreg plies that are stitched together with stitching material that melts during
subsequent curing of the prepreg. At step 56, a stack 22 of prepreg plies is assembled. Each of
the plies includes reinforcing fibres held in a thermally curable matrix resin 44. At step 58, the
prepreg plies are stitched together after the stack has been assembled, using a stitching material
that melts and dissolves during thermal curing of the prepreg plies.
[0070] Referring again to Figures 1 and 2, as previously mentioned, in an alternate embodiment,
the preform 20 may be a dry fibre preform suitable for use in any of various types of resin
infusion processes in which the preform serves as a reinforcement that is infused with resin. In
this embodiment, the preform 20 comprises a stitched stack 22 of the layers 24a, 24b, 24c, each
of which is formed by a unidirectional dry fibre reinforcement such as fibre tows 28 (Figures 5
and 6) or unidirectional dry fibre tape.
[0071] The layers 24a, 24b, 24c have varying fibre orientations relative to each other. The fibre
tows 28 used in the dry fibre preform 20 may comprise one or more materials similar to the
materials discussed above that may be used to produce the fibre tows 28 of the prepreg
embodiment of the preform 20. The dry fibre layers 24a, 24b, 24c are temporarily stitched
together by stitches 26 (Figures 5 and 6) that pass completely through the thickness "t" (Figure
6). The stitches 26 hold the layers 24a, 24b, 24c together as a preform, but may be lose enough
to allow the layers 24a, 24b, 24c to slip slightly relative to each other when the preform 20 is
formed down onto contoured surfaces of a tool (not shown) used in a resin infusion process. As
previously mentioned, in some embodiments, the dry fibre layers 24a, 24b, 24c may be formed
into a desired shape before the dry fibre layers 24a, 24b, 24c are stitched together into a preform
20.

                                                   14
[0072] The stitches 26 assist in holding the layers 24a, 24b, 24c in their desired orientations and
in spaced apart relationship to each other as the preform 20 is debulked, consolidated and
infused with resin. By maintaining the dry fibre layers 24a, 24b, 24c in their desired orientations
and spatial relationships until the matrix resin begins to harden with the onset of curing, the
reinforcement of the cured composite structure may be more uniformly distributed and therefore
contribute to improving the mechanical performance of the composite structure.
[0073] As in the previous prepreg preform 20 example, the material from which the stitches 26
are formed may comprise any of a variety of polymer resins that is compatible with the matrix
resin used to resin infuse the preform 20 after it has been placed on a tool. The stitch material
has a melt temperature that results in melting of the stitches 26 during thermal curing of the
matrix resin following resin infusion of the dry fibre preform 20. For example, the stitch
material used to stitch the layers 24a, 24b, 24c together as a dry fibre preform 20 may comprise
a thermoplastic resin such as, without limitation, PEI (polyetherimide) PPS (polyphenylene
sulphide), PES (polyethersulfone), PEEK (polyetheretherketone), PEKK (polyetheretherketone),
and PEKK-FC (polyetherketoneketone-fc grade), which has a relatively low melt temperature
that is within the range of temperatures required to cure the matrix resin used in a resin infusion
process.
[0074] Figure 11 broadly illustrates the steps of a method of fabricating a composite structure
using resin infusion of a dry fibre preform 20. Beginning at step 60, a stack of unidirectional dry
fibre layers 24a, 24b, 24c is assembled, in which the layers have varying fibre orientations. At
step 62, optionally, a tackifier may be applied to the layers 24a, 24, 24c in order to assist in
maintaining their respective fibre orientations. At 64, the dry fibre layers 24a, 24b, 24c are
stitched together into a stitched stack 22, after the stack 22 has been assembled. The stitches 26
hold the layers 24a 24b, 24c of the stack 22 together. At 66, the stitched stack 22 of dry fibre
layers may be formed into a desired preform shape.
[0075] Forming the stack 22 may be performed by forming the stack 22 onto tooling, either
before or after the stack 22 has been stitched. Where the stack 22 is stitched before it is formed
to a desired shape, and the tooling has one or more contours, the stitching 26 may allow the dry
fibre layers 24a 24b, 24c to slip slightly relative to each other in order to better allow the layers
to conform to contoured surfaces of the tool. Depending upon the type of resin infusion process
being used, the dry fibre preform 20 may be transferred to a resin infusion tool at step 68. In

                                                   15
some embodiments, the tool on which the dry fibre layers 24a, 24b, 24c are formed into the
shape of the preform 20 may be the tool that is used during the resin infusion process. At step
70, the dry fibre preform 20 is infused with resin, and at 72, the resin is thermally cured. The
stitches 26 assist in holding the layers 24a, 24b, 24c in their desired orientations and in spaced
apart relationship to each other as the preform 20 is debulked, consolidated and infused with
resin. At step 74, the stitching 26 that is used to hold the layers of the preform 20 together, melts
and dissolve into the resin used to infuse the preform 20.
[0076] Embodiments of the disclosure may find use in a variety of potential applications,
particularly in the transportation industry, including for example, aerospace, marine, automotive
applications and other application where composite laminate structures, particularly those that
are contoured and are fabricated in relatively high volume. Thus, referring now to Figures 12
and 13, embodiments of the disclosure may be used in the context of an aircraft manufacturing
and service method 76 as shown in Figure 12 and an aircraft 78 as shown in Figure 13. Aircraft
applications of the disclosed embodiments may include, for example, without limitation,
composite laminate frame sections, spars, stringers and beams, to name only a few. During pre
production, exemplary method 76 may include specification and design 80 of the aircraft 78 and
material procurement 82. During production, component and subassembly manufacturing 84
and system integration 86 of the aircraft 78 takes place. Thereafter, the aircraft 78 may go
through certification and delivery 88 in order to be placed in service 90. While in service by a
customer, the aircraft 76 is scheduled for routine maintenance and service 92, which may also
include modification, reconfiguration, refurbishment, and so on.
[0077] Each of the processes of method 76 may be performed or carried out by a system
integrator, a third party, and/or an operator (e.g., a customer). For the purposes of this
description, a system integrator may include without limitation any number of aircraft
manufacturers and major-system subcontractors; a third party may include without limitation
any number of vendors, subcontractors, and suppliers; and an operator may be an airline, leasing
company, military entity, service organization, and so on.
[0078] As shown in Figure 12, the aircraft 78 produced by exemplary method 76 may include
an airframe 94 with a plurality of systems 96 and an interior 98. Examples of high-level systems
96 include one or more of a propulsion system 100, an electrical system 102, a hydraulic system
104 and an environmental system 106. Any number of other systems may be included. Although

                                                     16
an aerospace example is shown, the principles of the disclosure may be applied to other
industries, such as the marine and automotive industries.
[0079] Systems and methods embodied herein may be employed during any one or more of the
stages of the production and service method 76. For example, components or subassemblies
corresponding to production process 84 may be fabricated or manufactured in a manner similar
to components or subassemblies produced while the aircraft 76 is in service. Also, one or more
apparatus embodiments, method embodiments, or a combination thereof may be utilized during
the production stages 84 and 86, for example, by substantially expediting assembly of or
reducing the cost of an aircraft 76. Similarly, one or more of apparatus embodiments, method
embodiments, or a combination thereof may be utilized while the aircraft 76 is in service, for
example and without limitation, to maintenance and service 92.
[0080] The description of the different illustrative embodiments has been presented for purposes
of illustration and description, and is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the
embodiments in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those
of ordinary skill in the art. Further, different illustrative embodiments may provide different
advantages as compared to other illustrative embodiments. The embodiment or embodiments
selected are chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments, the
practical application, and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure
for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use
contemplated.

                                                    17
CLAIMS
1.     A method of fabricating a composite structure, the method comprising:
       stitching dry fibre layers together into a stitched stack of dry fibre layers having varying
fibre orientations;
       infusing the stack of dry fibre layers with a resin;
       thermally curing the stitched stack of dry fibre layers; and
       melting the stitching during thermal curing of the stitched stack of dry fibre layers.
2.     The method of claim 1, further comprising debulking, consolidating and curing the stitched
stack under a vacuum.
3.     The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the stack has a thickness, and stitching the dry fibre
layers together is performed by using stitches that pass substantially through the thickness of the
stack.
4.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
       applying a tackifier to each of the dry fibre layers; and
       assembling the dry fibre layers into a stack, including using the tackifier to adhere the dry
fibre layers together and maintain the fibre orientations of the dry fibre layers during the
stitching.
5.     The method of claim 4, wherein assembling the dry fibre layers into a stack includes laying
down dry fibre tows, and varying the fibre orientations of the dry fibre tows for each of the dry
fibre layers.
6.     The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising forming the stack of
dry fibre layers into a desired shape corresponding to the shape of the composite structure.
7.     The method of claim 6, wherein forming the stack is performed before stitching the dry
fibre layers together.
8.     The method of claim 6, wherein forming the stack is performed after stitching the dry fibre
layers together.

                                                   18
9.     The method of claim 6, wherein forming the stack of dry fibre layers includes forming the
stitched stack of dry fibre layers onto a tool.
10.    The method of claim 9, wherein forming the stack of dry fibre layers onto the tool includes
placing the stack in a mold, and infusing the stack of dry fibre layers includes introducing a
polymer resin into the mold under a vacuum.
11.    The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the resin is a polymer resin.
12.    A method of making a fibre reinforced preform, the method comprising:
       assembling a stack of fibre reinforced layers, each of the layers including unidirectional
reinforcing fibres; and
       stitching the fibre reinforced layers together after the stack has been assembled,
       wherein the stitching is performed using stitches that pass through the stack and melt when
heated to a predetermined temperature.
13.    The method of claim 12, wherein the stack has a thickness, and stitching the fibre
reinforced layers together is performed by using stitches that pass substantially through the
thickness of the stack.
14.    The method of claim 12 or 13, further comprising applying a tackifier to each of the fibre
reinforced layers, and wherein assembling the stack of fibre reinforced layers includes using the
tackifier to maintain the layers in registration relative to each other.
15.    The method of any one of claims 12 to 14, wherein assembling the fibre reinforced layers
into a stack includes laying down fibre tows, and varying the fibre orientations of the fibre tows
for each of the fibre reinforced layers.
16.    The method of any one of claims 12 to 15, further comprising forming the stack of fibre
reinforced layers into a desired shape corresponding to a shape of a composite structure.
17.    The method of claim 16, wherein forming the stack of fibre reinforced layers includes
forming the stitched stack of fibre reinforced layers onto a tool.

                                                 19
18.    The method of claim 17, wherein forming the stack of fibre reinforced layers onto the tool
includes placing the stack in a mold, and infusing the stack of fibre reinforced layers includes
introducing a resin into the mold under a vacuum.
19.    The method of claim 18, wherein the resin is a polymer resin.
20.    The method of any one of claims 12 to 19, wherein the fibre reinforced preform is a dry
fibre preform.
21.    The method of any one of claims 12 to 20, wherein the fibre reinforced layers are dry fibre
layers.
22.    The method of any one of claims 12 to 19, wherein the fibre reinforced preform is a
composite preform.
23.    The method of any one of claims 12 to 19 or 22, wherein the fibre reinforced layers are
resin impregnated layers.
                                      The Boeing Company
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                   SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
