                                       Abstract
There is disclosed a detector device for detection of unauthorised objects or
substances, comprising a support base designed to receive at least one foot covered
by its shoe, of an individual to be controlled, the device comprising means adapted
to detect stratification by vertical stacking, in the sole, by detection of successive
echoes following emission of waves towards the sole, means adapted to define a
signal representative of the estimated       height of the sole and that it further
comprises means for operating a standardisation of the signal coming from
detection means of vertical stratification, on the basis of the signal representative of
the estimated height of the sole.

                1/11
                 FIG. 1
                Prior
                      art
       20
         10
            14
                 FIG. 2
     166
                                      166   60
 140,150140,150
100-                                    1
      120                               120
                                11410
                          10 10

                                           1
                             SHOE ANALYZER 5TER VERTICAL
            The entire content of the complete specification of Australian patent
   application no. <removed-apn> as originally filed is incorporated       herein by
 5 reference.
           The present invention relates to the field of detectors designed for
   detection of unauthorised objects or substances in a protected access zone.
            Today it seems necessary to reliably control attempts at introducing
   or removing some products, for example but           not exclusively explosive
10 substances, to or outside of a sensitive zone.
            The pertinent problem covers a very wide range of situations which
   especially encompass and not limitedly attempts to introduce products to a
   protected zone, such as a shop, a school, a train station, a public or private
   institution,   or the  attempt  to  remove   products   to  outside  a  defined
15 perimeter, for example in the event of theft from         a company or on a
   protected site.
             It eventuates these days that individuals who try to fraudulently
   remove a product from a protected zone or who try to introduce such a
   product, often use shoes to conceal the product in question.
20          This phenomenon seems due essentially to the fact that this zone is
   not easy to control visually or by manual handling.
            The applicant has already proposed devices of the type illustrated in
   the attached figure 1, which comprise a frame 1 having:
   - a support base 10 formed by a rectangular tray in the form of a step
25 whereof the plane upper surface comprises a diagram or footprint 12 and a
   stop 14 intended to meet and position a single foot of an individual covered
   by a shoe,
   - two symmetrical lateral panels 20 which house detection means, and
   - an information module 30.
30           Examples of the device illustrated   in figure 1 are mentioned      in
   documents FR 2860631, EP 1574879, FR 2889338 and FR 2911212.
            The abovementioned detection means described in those documents
   can be formed from windings for detection of metals, sampling means, for

                                             2
   example in the form of suction nozzles, for the sampling of steam or traces
   of particles, for example narcotics or explosives, analysis means based on
   nuclear magnetic resonance comprising for example Helmholtz coils, or even
   analysis means of complex impedances or detectors of radioactive radiation.
 5          Despite the progress contributed by the devices described in the
   above documents, on some sensitive sites there is still a restriction on
   inviting people leaving the site or accessing the site to remove their shoes so
   as to try to improve inspection. But despite constraints and discomfort
   resulting from such a situation, visual examination of the removed shoe does
10 not always fully secure inspection. The personnel involved cannot in fact
   determine if an object or a substance is camouflaged in an internal cavity not
   directly accessible to the shoe, especially the sole of the latter.
            The present invention provides a detector device for detection of
   unauthorised objects or substances, comprising a support base designed to
15 receive at least one foot covered by its shoe, of an individual to be
   controlled, the device comprising means adapted to detect stratification by
   vertical stacking, in the sole, by detection of successive echoes following
   emission of waves towards the sole, means adapted to define a signal
   representative of the estimated height of the sole and that it further
20 comprises means for operating a standardisation of the signal coming from
   detection   means of vertical     stratification,  on the basis of the     signal
   representative of the estimated height of the sole.
            The preferred embodiments of the present invention provide novel
   means for improving the reliability of detection of objects, products or
25 substances likely to be camouflaged in a shoe.
            According to advantageous characteristics of preferred embodiments
   of the invention:
   - the frequency of microwaves emitted by senders is in the 5GHz-30GHz
   range, advantageously 12GHz-20GHz,
30 - the device comprises a plurality of microwave sender/receiver means
   distributed over the length of the support base,
   - the measuring means of the width of the element inserted between the
   microwave     sender/receiver    means      comprise  infrared   sender/receivers

                                           3
   adapted to measure the time of two-way propagation between an infrared
   sender and the associated infrared receiver,
   - the device comprises a plurality of infrared sender/receiver means,
   - the device also comprises measuring means of the electrical capacity
 5 formed between the lower surface of the sole and the foot, or essentially of
   the electrical capacity formed by the sole of a shoe placed on the support
   base, to determine the thickness of this sole,
   - the device also comprises       means,    preferably  based   on microwaves,
   adapted to detect stratification by vertical stacking in the sole by detection of
10 successive echoes following emission of waves towards the sole,
   - the device comprises adapter microwave coupling means, inserted              in
   between the microwave transducers and a plate foot support,
   - the adapter means comprise a pyramid engaged in each cone associated
   with a microwave transducer,        comprising material with the plate foot
15 support,
   - the device comprises standardisation means of the signal originating from
   the detection means of vertical stratification, on the basis of a signal
   representative of the estimated height of the sole,
   - the device comprises handles placed in the upper part of panels attached to
20 the support base,
   - said handles comprise electrodes,
   - an electric generator is provided, placed in series of said handles and
   electrodes placed on the support base,
   - the electric generator is adapted to generate voltage of the order of 1 volt,
25 - the microwave sender means and the associated microwave receiver
   means placed respectively on either side of the sole of the shoe are adapted
   to detection on receiver means of the signal coming from a sender means
   placed directly opposite and of the signal coming from sender means placed
   obliquely relative to the receiver means,
30 - the device comprises several series of detection means, each comprising
   several detection means distributed geographically similarly for all said series
   of detection means,

                                             4
   - the support base comprises a tray in the form of a step coated with a shoe
   positioning marker and two lateral panels,
   - the base is preferably adapted to receive a single foot of the individual
   being tested,
 5 - the device also comprises auxiliary analysis means selected in the range
   comprising metal-detection windings, sampling means of steam or traces of
   particles, analysis means of nuclear magnetic resonance type, analysis
   means of complex impedance and/or radio-active radiation detector means.
           The present invention also provides a method for analysis of signals
10 coming from the different measuring means of said detector device and
   generation of an alarm in case of detection of an anomaly.
           According to a first advantageous preferred characteristic of the
   method of the invention, the method comprises at least one standardisation
   step of the amplitude of resulting signals, for example the amplitude of
15 microwave     absorption   by    a horizontal  sole band or   the microwave
   propagation time in such a horizontal sole band, as a function of a second
   measurement, for example measurement of sole width, or even for example
   of the temporal distribution of echoes spreading vertically as a function of
   measurement of height of the sole.
20         According to another advantageous preferred characteristic of the
   method of the invention, the method comprises exploitation of at least two of
   the following measurements:        measurement of the microwave absorption
   amplitude by a horizontal band of the sole, measurement of the microwave
   propagation time in a horizontal band of the sole, measurement of the width
25 of a horizontal band sole, measurement of the height of the sole by means of
   capacitive means or by analysis of an image taken by an imaging system,
   detection of vertical stratification of a sole by detection of microwave
   reflections injected vertically into the sole.
            Other characteristics, aims and advantages of the present invention
30 will emerge from the following detailed description and with respect to the
   attached diagrams given by way of non-limiting examples and in which:
   - figure 1 previously described illustrates a detection device in accordance
   with the prior art,

                                             5
   - figure 2 illustrates the general structure of a device in accordance with the
   present invention,
   - figure 3 illustrates a view similar to figure 2 and illustrates the general
   structure of microwave sender/receiver means according to the present
 5 invention intended to be arranged on either side horizontally of a shoe sole,
   - figure 4 illustrates a variant embodiment in accordance with the present
   invention of microwave sender/receiver means illustrated in figure 3,
   - figure 5 illustrates a view similar to figure 2 and more precisely illustrates
   the structure of infrared sender means according to the present invention for
10 detection of the width of the element inserted in between the microwave
   sender/receiver means,
   - figure 6 schematically illustrates the structure of electrodes provided on a
   footprint placed on the upper surface of a base,
   - figure 7 illustrates a view similar to figure 2 and illustrates the operation of
15 the device in capacitive measuring,
   - figure 8 illustrates a schematic view of a particular embodiment of means
   based on microwaves, adapted to detect stratification by vertical stacking, in
   the sole, by detection of successive echoes following emission of waves
   towards the sole,
20 - figure   9   schematically  illustrates   the   impact    of  standardisation    in
   accordance with the present invention of the signal coming from                  the
   microwave sender means and microwave receiver means placed respectively
   on either side of the sole of the shoe, figure 9a schematically illustrating the
   profile of a shoe sole formed from            homogeneous      material, figure 9b
25 illustrating the transmission time curve measured by means of microwave
   senders/receivers, figure 9c illustrating the absorption curve measured by
   means of the same microwave sender/receiver means, figure 9d illustrating
   the    measurement      curve   of   width   obtained    by    means    of  infrared
   sender/receiver means and figures 9e and 9f illustrating transmission time
30 and absorption curves based on the curves of figures 9b and 9c, but after
   standardisation per size unit on the basis of the curve of figure 9d,
   - figure 10 illustrates views respectively similar to figure 9 for a different
   profile of a shoe sole,

                                            6
   - figure 11 illustrates views respectively similar to figure 9 for a shoe sole
   which houses an unauthorised body,
   - figure 12 schematically illustrates an electric control circuit of the device in
   accordance with the present invention,
 5 - figure 13 illustrates a partial view in perspective of the base of a system in
   accordance with the present invention,
   - figures 14, 15 and 16 illustrate respectively plan views, views in partial
   longitudinal section and in partial transversal section,         of a system    in
   accordance with the present invention,
10 - figures 17, 18 and 19 illustrate respectively plan views, views in vertical
   section and     in  perspective, of microwave      adapter coupling means       in
   accordance with the present invention,
   - figures 20, 21 and 22 illustrate standardisation of the signal obtained
   leaving a vertical detector, as a function of the height of the sole, in
15 accordance with the present invention, more precisely in figures 20, 21 and
   22 figures having an index a illustrate schematically and respectively three
   cases of a high sole, a low sole and one comprising a foreign body, figures
   having an index b illustrate a height measurement signal of the sole, figures
   having an index c illustrate the echoes obtained leaving a vertical detector
20 before standardisation and figures having an index d illustrate the same
   signal after standard isation, and
   - figure 23 schematically illustrates a variant embodiment in accordance with
   the present invention according to which the support base is designed to
   receive simultaneously the two feet of a test individual.
25          Figures 2 and following show the general structure of a device as per
   the documents described previously FR 2860631, EP 1574879, FR 2889338
   and FR 2911212. For this reason, the general structure of the device shown
   in figures 2 and following will not be described in detail hereinbelow.
            It is recalled however that figures 2 and following show a device
30 comprising a frame 100 comprising:
   - a support base 110 formed by a rectangular tray in the form of a step
   whereof the plane upper surface comprises a diagram 112 and a stop 114
   intended to receive and position a single foot covered by a shoe,

                                            7
   - two lateral panels symmetrical 120 which house detection means, and
   - an information module 130.
            The device shown in figures 2 and following can be congruous as to
   its geometry, its dimensions, the outline of the positioning marker 112, the
 5 stop    114, the nature of messages displayed on the module 130, the
   arrangements described in the abovementioned documents.
            The same applies for any accessories of the type of random sorting
   means of individuals subjected to analysis, frequencies used for detecting
   metals and/or any sensor for placing a shoe on the diagram 112 or again
10 installation of a foot against the two panels 120 to initiate processing.
            Without this arrangement being limiting, such detection means of the
   installation of a shoe in the device 100, more precisely on the marker 112,
   against the stop 114, can be formed by a plurality of photoelectric cells 102,
   104 arranged respectively opposite on the two panels 120 such that an
15 optical beam emitted by an emitting cell 102 in the direction of an opposite
   receiving cell 104 is interrupted during the placing of a foot.
            As is evident in figures 2 and following, the device in accordance with
   the invention also comprises additional detection means 140, 150 and 160
   on the support base 110.
20          More    precisely according   to the embodiment        of the  invention
   illustrated in figures 2 and following, microwave sender/receiver means 140
   are provided at the level of the junction interface between the upper surface
   of the support      base    110 and the lateral panels 120,        for measuring
   transmission     time and measuring      absorption,   associated with    infrared
25 sender/receiver means 150 for measuring the width of the part of the shoe
   inserted in between the microwave sender/receiver means 140.
            Capacitive measuring means 160 are also preferably provided. These
   comprise electrodes 162 placed at the level of the footprint 112 and
   electrodes 166 placed in the upper part of the panels 120. They will be
30 defined in more detail hereinbelow.
            The structure of the microwave sender/receiver means 140 will be
   described first.

                                            8
            As shown in figure 3, microwave sender means 142 are preferably
   provided of a side of the base 110 in the lower part of a panel 120 and
   associated microwave receiver means 144 on the side opposite the base,
   that is, in the lower part of the second lateral panel 120.
 5          The sender means 142 and the receiver means 144 respectively
   associated are aligned horizontally.
            The frequency of microwaves        emitted   by the  senders 142     is
   preferably in the range of 5GHz to 30GHz, advantageously in the range of
   12GHz to 20GHz.
10          Even more precisely, according to the invention several senders 142
   and several receivers 144 are preferably provided, respectively associated in
   pairs, distributed at the base of panels 120 over the depth of the device.
            According to the invention, a plurality of microwave senders 142 and
   microwave receivers 144 is preferably provided adapted to cover three zones
15 separate respectively corresponding to the heel, the arch and the front sole
   of a shoe.
            According to the particular embodiment shown         in the attached
   figures, six    senders   142 of a side     of the   base and   six  associated
   receivers 144 on the side opposite the base are provided. The senders are
20 referenced 142a to 142f and the receivers are referenced 144a to 144f in
   figure 12.
            The six senders 142 and six receivers 144 are distributed in the form
   of an aligned horizontal row 145, 146. If needed, as illustrated in figure 4 at
   least two superposed rows 145 and 146 can be provided, each comprising a
25 plurality of senders 142, respectively receivers 144, for example two rows
   145 of six senders 142 and two rows 146 of six receivers 144.
            The distribution of the initiation of microwave elements associated
   with respective focusing cones 149 forming respectively sender 142 of a side
   of the base and receiver 144 on the opposite side can be ensured by adapted
30 switches.
            The expert will understand that microwaves emitted by a sender 142
   of a side of the base passes through the sole of a shoe placed on the
   footprint 112 before reaching a receiver 144 placed opposite.

                                             9
            The dielectric characteristics of the sole inserted in between a sender
   142 and a receiver 144 influence the transmission time of microwaves and
   the absorption of the latter.
            Analysis of the delay between the emission by a sender 142 and
 5 receipt at the associated receiver 144, and the amplitude of microwaves
   received at a receiver 144 relative to the reference emitted by the associated
   sender 142, can show the dielectric characteristics of the inserted sole.
            Comparison with cartography of reference materials and analysis of
   the delay and amplitude of microwaves received on a receiver 144 can
10 characterise the nature of the product comprising the sole of the relevant
   shoe.
            In   particular, explosives    having   a   characteristic signature  in
   transmission time and absorption can be characterised.
            Control of microwave senders 142 and microwave receivers 144,
15 analysis of the delay in transmission at the level of each receiver 144 and the
   abovementioned comparison, can be done by a processor referenced 180 in
   figure 12. This figure 12 shows at 182 a memory associated with the
   processor 180 which contains the preset cartography of reference materials.
            As shown in figure 3, the analysis method can take into account the
20 microwaves received directly by a receiver cone 149 placed rigorously
   opposite a sender 142 (shown at < D n in figure 3), but also as an option the
   microwaves coming from an oblique sender cone 142 (shown at                0 n in
   figure 3).
            This arrangement in accordance with the invention intended to take
25 into account on a receiver 144 not only the signal of a sender 142 placed
   directly opposite, but also the signal coming from sender means 142 placed
   obliquely relative to the receiver means 144, applies not only for oblique
   receiver means in the horizontal direction, but also for oblique receiver
   means in the vertical direction.
30          Inclusion of the signal coming from an oblique sender means in the
   vertical direction, that is, coming from sender means located at a height
   different to the obliquely associated receiver means, or at a height greater
   than that of the receiver means or at a height lower than latter, produces

                                           10
   information on the height of the sole of the shoe being tested. In fact not
   only when the sole has a height less than that of the sender 142 and receiver
   144 couples aligned horizontally which are the highest, these high receivers
   144 receive a direct signal different to the direct horizontal signal received by
 5 lower receivers 144, but also the associated pairs of obliquely vertical sender
   142 and receiver 144 couples generate a signal proportional to the height of
   the sole being tested, since the volume of substance of the sole inserted in
   between such an oblique sender 142 and receiver 144 vertically depends
   directly on the height of the sole.
10          As indicated previously in terms of the invention, as illustrated in
   figures 5 and 12, measuring means of the width of the element S inserted in
   between a microwave sender element 142 and a microwave receiver element
   144 are also provided.
            These width-measuring      means are preferably       formed    based  on
15 infrared sender/receiver means.
            In terms of the invention, as illustrated in figure 5 a plurality of pairs
   151   of sender means 152 and receivers respectively associated 154 is
   provided, to each side of the base 110.
            In other terms a first pair of infrared transducers is provided for
20 example comprising sender means 152 and respectively associated receiver
   means 154 on a first side of the base 110, and opposite, a second pair of
   transducers    infrared  comprising   other    sender    means    152  and   other
   respectively associated receiver means 154 on the second side opposite the
   base 110.
25          The device also comprises analysis means of the two-way time of
   infrared between a sender 152 and the associated receiver 154. The infrared
   emitted by a sender 152 is reflected on the external surface of the sole S
   before being recovered by the adjacent associated receiver 154. The analysis
   means of the two-way time of the infrared between a sender 152 and the
30 associated receiver 154 are preferably formed by the processor 180.
            The associated infrared senders 152 and infrared receivers 154 are
   preferably placed on a card 156 transparent to microwaves, placed opposite
   the exit mouth of the abovementioned cones 149.

                                            11
           Preferably, the gap of infrared senders 152/receivers 154, that is, the
   distance separating two such pairs of senders 152 and receivers 154, is
   identical to that of microwave senders 142/receivers 144.
           In other terms, an infrared sender 152/receiver 154 couple associated
 5 respectively with each microwave sender 142 and each microwave receiver
   144 is preferably provided to each side of the base 110.
             Even more precisely the infrared senders 152/receivers 154 couples
   preferably have the same distribution as the pairs of microwave senders
   142/receivers 144. Typically, a pair of infrared senders 152/receivers 154 is
10 provided opposite each pair of microwave senders 142/receivers 144. This
   arrangement ensures that the zone targeted by a pair of infrared senders
   152/receivers 154 is the same as that for a pair of respectively associated
   microwave      senders    142/receivers 144  and consequently     allows simple,
   reliable and rigorous correlation between the information coming from a pair
15 of infrared senders 152/receivers 154 and that coming from               a pair of
   respectively associated microwave senders 142/receivers 144.
             Six pairs of senders 152 and receivers 154 are preferably provided on
   a first side of the sole and six pairs of senders 152 and receivers 154
   opposite on the second side opposite the sole.
20           The infrared senders are referenced 152a to 1521 and the infrared
   receivers are referenced 154a to 1541 in figure 12.
             Given the width of the sole S inserted in between a microwave
   sender     142  and    the  associated  microwave   receiver  144,   via   infrared
   measurement, the device in accordance with the invention can undertake
25 standardisation per size unit of the transmission delay and amplitude of the
   microwave signal received on a receiver 144.
             The abovementioned standardisation can be done by the processor
   180.
             In other terms, before standardisation a zone A of a sole having a
30 double width of a zone B, of identical material, in principle has a transmission
   delay and double attenuation of the zone B. After measuring of the widths of
   zones A and B and standardisation of delay and absorption, having material

                                              12
   identical,  the two zones A and             B will   all  the same     have identical
   characteristics in terms of transmission delay of microwaves and absorption.
            Also, zones A and C of a sole formed at least in part of different
   materials and therefore having different properties in terms of microwave
 5 transmission, for example in the case of a zone C housing an unauthorised
   object, will have different responses as to transmission delay and absorption.
            This is illustrated in figures 9 to 11.
            Figure 9a schematically illustrates the profile of a shoe sole S formed
   from homogeneous material.
10          Figure 9b illustrates the transmission time curve measured by means
   of microwave senders 142/receivers 144, while figure 9c illustrates the
   absorption curve measured            by means of the same microwave sender
   142/receiver 144 means when the abovementioned shoe sole S is inserted in
   between the sender means 142 and the receiver means 144. Since the sole S
15 is made of homogeneous material, logically the curves of figures 9b and 9c
   are overall homothetic with the thickness of material of the sole traversed by
   the microwaves.
            Figure 9d illustrates the measurement curve of width obtained by
   means of infrared sender/receiver means on the sole S.
20          Figures 9e and 9f illustrate curves of transmission                time and
   absorption    based      on  the    curves   of  figures    9b   and   9c,  but  after
   standardisation per size unit on the basis of the curve of figure 9d. As is
   evident from      figures 9e and 9f, since the material of the sole S is
   homogeneous the standardised curves of figures 9e and 9f are overall
25 constant.
            Standardisation      easily   determines    that    the  sole   is  made   of
   homogeneous material.
            Figure 10 illustrates views respectively similar to figure 9 for a
   different profile of shoe sole. The profile of transmission delay and absorption
30 curves shown in figures 10b and 10c differ consequently from figures 9b and
   9c and overall remain homothetic to the thickness of material of the sole
   traversed by the microwaves.

                                           13
            But in the case of a sole composed of homogeneous material, as is
   evident in figures 10e and 10f, the standardised transmission delay and
   absorption curves return to constant amplitude.
            Figure 11 illustrates views respectively similar to figure 9 for a shoe
 5 sole which houses an unauthorised body C having delay characteristics of
   microwave      transmission   and   microwave     absorption  different  to  that
   comprising the sole S.
            From comparative examination of figures 11b and 11e, respectively
   11c and 11f, it is clear that standardisation clearly reveals any anomaly due
10 to the presence of the unauthorised body C. Comparison of the amplitudes of
   resulting standardised curves with a library of pre-recorded characteristics of
   preferred specific products identifies these products.
            Information available on the receivers 144 also detects microwave
   echoes sent       back  horizontally to   interfaces of the sole     and detects
15 stratifications formed by juxtaposition in the horizontal direction of layers of
   materials having different properties with respect to the propagation of
   microwaves, resulting for example in the presence of pockets within the sole.
            As indicated previously, according to the invention measurement
   means 160 of the thickness of the sole of the shoe are preferably also
20 provided.
            According to a first variant in accordance with the invention, these
   measuring means 160 are of capacitive type.
            As illustrated in figure 6, according to the invention electrodes 162
   are preferably provided on the upper surface of the footprint 112, flush with
25 the upper surface of the footprint 112 or slightly projecting above this
   footprint 112.
            Even more precisely, different distinct zones of electrodes 162 are
   preferably provided coinciding as to their location on the depth of the device
   with the different microwave detection zones. At least six electrode zones
30 162 are preferably provided distributed over the depth of the base 110.
            This arrangement      ensures   that   the  zone located    opposite an
   electrode 162 is the same as that for a pair of respectively associated
   microwave senders 142/receivers 144 and consequently enables simple,

                                          14
   reliable and rigorous correlation between information coming from capacitive
   measurement of thickness and that coming from a pair of respectively
   associated microwave senders 142/receivers 144.
            Each electrode 162 can be formed by a plurality of points or an
 5 equivalent form, for example in the form of pins.
            But each electrode 162 preferably has an annular form coaxially
   enclosing the cone 174 of a microwave sender 172, the function of which will
   be explained hereinbelow, as illustrated in figure 6.
            The electrodes in the form    of a ring 162 are isolated from the
10 abovementioned cones of the microwave senders 172 so as not to disrupt
   the respective measurements of these different means.
            By way of non-limiting example the external dimensions of the
   electrodes 162 can typically be of the order of 30 mm x 30 mm, while the
   width of the cones 174 at the level of their greatest width is between 10 and
15 15 mm, the interval between the electrodes 162 and the cones being at least
   equal to 1 mm.
            The device also comprises an electric generator 164, typically a
   generator of alternating current, shown in figure 7, connected by means of
   an interrupter 165 in series of the abovementioned electrodes 162 and
20 handles 166 forming electrodes provided on the upper surfaces of the lateral
   panels 120 and intended to be held by an individual being tested.
            The electrodes 162 provided at the level of the footprint 112 and the
   handles 166 forming electrodes provided at the level of the upper surfaces of
   the lateral panels 120 can form the object of many variant embodiments.
25 They can be formed by adapted electrically conductive ranges, for example
   metallic   ranges   or  all equivalent  means.     According  to   a particular
   embodiment these electrodes are formed by material comprising electrically
   conductive particles, for example nanotubes, integrated to form electrodes.
   Such a realisation of electrodes 166 by integration of electrically conductive
30 particles in the mass of the lateral panels 120, and not in the form of a
   metallic element superposed on the upper edge of the panels 120, ensures
   the individuals being tested who are asked to place their hands on the panels

                                              15
   120 by avoiding giving them the sentiment of contacting ranges placed under
   electrical voltage.
            The electric generator 164 is adapted to emit alternating voltage
   typically of between 0.1V and 10V, advantageously of the order of 1 volt, at
 5 an impedance of 10k[, and at a frequency preferably between 1 and 10kHz.
            The invention is not however limited to this particular voltage value,
   or frequency.
            The capacity defined between the electrodes 162 and 166 depends
   essentially on the height or thickness of the sole of the shoe. The value of
10 the impedance of this capacity shown by the sole is also high relative to that
   of the human body inserted in between the same electrodes 162 and 166.
            The   interrupter    165  is  closed   when   the   aim   is to   perform
   measurements.
            The measurement of the capacity between both the electrodes 162
15 provided on the upper surface of the base 110 and therefore subjacent to the
   lower surface of a sole and also the electrodes 166 provided on the upper
   surfaces of the panels 120, on which the hands of the user being tested rest,
   can be taken by any appropriate means 167 known to the expert, linked to
   the processor 180. This measurement determines the capacity of the sole
20 and consequently its thickness.
            Typically this measurement can be done by measuring the voltage at
   the terminal of resistor 168 placed in series of electrodes 162 and 166, in a
   dividing bridge, by means of an analog/digital converter integrated into the
   means 167. Since the impedance of the human body is very low relative to
25 that due to the capacity of the sole, the voltage sampled at the terminals of
   the resistance 168 is directly representative of the height of the sole.
            Given the thickness of the sole, this refines the reliability of the
   characterisation     of    the    material    analysed   from    the    microwave
   sender/receiver means 140.
30          Of course, the present invention is not limited to the embodiments
   which have just been described, but extends to any variant in accordance
   with its essence.

                                            16
            Preferably as illustrated in figure 8 the device in accordance with the
   present    invention   also   comprises    means    170   based   on   microwave
   senders/receivers,    adapted    to detect microwave     echoes of microwaves
   emitted vertically under the footprint 112, in the direction of the foot of an
 5 individual.
            In figure 8 171 is referenced as a support layer of a laminate adapted
   to resist any type of heel or sole TS, 172 a microwave sender adapted to
   emit microwaves vertically upwards, 174 an associated guide cone, 162 an
   electrode previously described used for capacitive measuring, P the foot of
10 an individual and Ti the rod of the shoe.
            The    means   172    alternatively  forms   sender   and   receiver  or
   alternatively a couple of adjacent senders and receivers associated with each
   cone 174 can be provided. The receiver means integrated in this way detect
   microwave echoes on the different interfaces or stratifications resulting from
15 vertical stacking of successive layers having different propagation properties
   with respect to microwaves, between the lower surface of the sole or heel TS
   and the upper surface of the sole which corresponds to the lower surface of
   the foot P.
            The means 170 detect the presence of pockets or particular material
20 within the mass of the sole or heel TS.
            The frequency of microwaves         emitted   by the   senders 172    is
   preferably in the range of 5GHz to 30GHz, advantageously in the range of
   12GHz to 20GHz. It is advantageously separate from the frequency of the
   sender means 142.
25          Even more precisely, according to the invention several senders 172
   and receivers are preferably provided respectively associated           in pairs,
   distributed under the footprint 112 over the depth of the device.
            According to the invention, a plurality of microwave senders 172 and
   receivers is preferably provided associated and adapted to cover respectively
30 at least three separate zones corresponding to the heel, the arch and the
   front sole of a shoe.
            According to a preferred embodiment, six senders 172 are provided
   distributed over the length of the footprint 112.

                                            17
            The associated senders 172 and receivers can be aligned or be
   arranged according to any other modality, for example alternately, to
   optimally cover all ranges of size of existing shoe soles.
            Preferably distribution of the senders/receivers 172 over the depth of
 5 the device is also identical to that of the senders 142 and receivers 144, such
   that the zone of a sole covered by a sender/receiver 172 assembly on the
   depth of the device is the same as that covered by a sender 142/receiver
   144 assembly.
            This arrangement ensures that the zone targeted by a pair of
10 sender/receivers 172 working in vertical direction for measurement               in
   thickness of the sole is the same as that for a pair of respectively associated
   microwave senders 142/receivers 144 and consequently enables simple,
   reliable and rigorous correlation between information coming from a pair of
   sender/receivers 172 and that coming from a pair of respectively associated
15 microwave senders 142/receivers 144.
            The exploitation of signals coming from the senders/receivers 172
   can form the object of many embodiments.
            According to a first embodiment,        the signals coming from       the
   senders/receivers       172 are   compared    to   a  signal   representative    of
20 measurement        of the thickness    of the   sole, for  example    the   signal
   representative of the thickness of the sole obtained by means of the
   electrodes 162 and of the corresponding capacitive measurement. It can
   however be a signal representative of the thickness of the sole obtained by
   any other means.
25          The sender/receiver 172 assemblies detect echoes sent back by the
   interfaces of substance resulting from vertical stacking within the sole and
   detect the height of these interfaces by measuring the transmission and
   receipt time of these echoes.
            The main echo is that produced by the lower surface of the foot
30 which corresponds to the upper surface of the sole.
            Initial direct comparison of the time of receipt of this main echo with
   the sole thickness signal obtained by capacitive measurement produces a
   first simple test.

                                            18
            In fact for a sole of minimal thickness, the system expects the receipt
   of a main echo on the lower surface of the foot, after a short transmission
   and reflection time.
            Inversely for a sole of considerable thickness, the system expects the
 5 receipt of a main echo on the lower surface of the foot, after a longer
   transmission and reflection time.
            But if the system detects, while the capacitive measurement indicates
   a sole of considerable thickness, a main echo after a short transmission and
   reflection time, the presence of a pocket or a foreign body within the sole
10 can be suspected.
            Standardisation of receipt times of the echoes on the receivers 172
   as a function of the thickness of the sole makes detection of anomaly on a
   sole easy.
            The expert will in fact understand from examination of attached
15 figures 20, 21 and 22 that if it can be difficult before standardisation to
   exploit the receipt time of different echoes, since as this appears in figures
   20c, 21c and 22c, the real instants of receipt of echoes are influenced at the
   same time by the thickness of the sole and by the defects of evenness of the
   sole, after standardisation as a function of the height of the sole, and
20 therefore once the time of receipt of echoes freed of the influence of the
   height of the sole, the temporal distribution of the echoes is directly
   representative of the vertical constitution of the sole.
            Comparison of figures 20d, 21d and 22d shows in fact that the
   convergence of the first echoes le, in principle of low amplitude, resulting
25 from reflection on the lower surface of the sole, and expected main echoes
   ep   is easy.     From   there  parasite   echoes epa    resulting from vertical
   stratification of the sole, due for example to the presence of a pocket or a
   foreign body, can also be easily detected.
            In effect, for example figures 21c and 22c show that parasite echoes
30 epa can be combined with a main echo ep, before standardisation. But
   figures 21d and 22d show that after standardisation parasite echoes epa are
   distinguished clearly from a main echo ep.

                                             19
             As illustrated in figures 2 and following, the device in accordance with
   the invention can also be fitted with a device 190 for taking photos, for
   example a camera, linked to a lighting system 192 for refining monitoring of
   the positioning of the foot on the base.
 5           Such a camera can store a photograph of each shoe tested and in
   this way improve a database stored with characteristics of shoes, specific to
   improving the reliability of later measurements.
             It can also be used to aid measurement of the geometry of the sole,
   in particular of the width of the sole, and contribute to improving the
10 reliability of detection.
             Measurement of sole width obtained by pixel processing of the image
   sampled by the camera can be used by replacing measuring of the sole width
   performed by infrared the senders 152/receivers 154, or as a complement to
   the latter.
15           It has also been noted experimentally that some support interface
   plates making up the upper surface of the base 110 generate a significant
   echo on the vertical waves generated             by the senders 172,      likely to
   complicate analysis of signals obtained leaving the associated receivers.
             To simplify signal processing and avoid energy losses due to these
20 echoes and therefore improve measurement               precision, in terms of the
   present invention it is also proposed to add an adapter for coupling of waves
   emitted by the senders 172, in said plate support 171.
             Such an adapter is preferably formed from an assembly of blocks 310
   in the form of a pyramid inserted respectively in each cone 174 of a sender
25 172.
             The different pyramids 310 are preferably made of material on a
   common plate 171.
             The arrangement of pyramids 310 on the plate 171 must of course
   respect the arrangement and distribution of the cones 174. So according to
30 the illustration given in the attached figures 17 to 19 six aligned pyramids
   are provided arranged according to spacing identical to that of the senders
   172 and associated cones 174. This alignment arrangement is however not

                                          20
   imperative, the essential being that the distribution of pyramids respects that
   of the cones 174.
            The pyramids 310 and the plate 171 can be made by moulding, for
   example of polytetrafluoroethylene or polystyrene.
 5          As per figures 17 to 19 the pyramids 310 are more precisely formed
   on a sub-assembly of plate support 171 whereof the contour reproduces the
   geometry of a sole and serves as footprint 112 to impose precise positioning
   of   the  shoe. The    invention   is not  however     limited  to  this precise
   arrangement.
10          The   points  of  the   pyramids   310    are   directed  towards   the
   senders 172.    In this way the microwaves emitted by the senders 172
   penetrate almost without reflection in the pyramids 310 by progressive
   coupling and spread in the latter, pass through the plate support 171, then
   reach the superposed sole.
15          According to the invention, the device can also comprise auxiliary
   detection means such as metal-detection windings, sampling means of
   steam or traces of particles, for example narcotics or explosives, especially
   based on suction nozzle, means by nuclear magnetic resonance, especially
   based on     Helmholtz coils, analysis means of complex impedance and
20 detector means of radio-active radiation. These additional measurement and
   detection means are shown under reference 200 in figure 12.
            The combination of transversal or horizontal measurement obtained
   by means of the transducers 142, 144 and 152, 154 on the one hand and of
   the measurement in height or vertical obtained by means of the transducers
25 170 on the other hand, or by capacitive measurement or even by any
   equivalent means for example by analysis of the image taken by the camera
   190, produces information on the volume of the base of the relevant shoe.
            The combination of all the information obtained in terms of the
   invention also considers the large disparity of structures, compositions and
30 geometries of commercially available shoes.
            The expert understands in fact that all information obtained in terms
   of the invention (measurement of the microwave absorption amplitude by a
   horizontal band of the sole or of the propagation time of microwaves in such

                                          21
   a horizontal band sole by way of means 142/144, measurement of the width
   of the corresponding horizontal band of sole by way of means 152/154 or
   190, measurement of the height of the sole by way of capacitive means
   162/166 or means 172/174), can be brought together and compared, at
 5 least in pairs, or even in their entirety to improve the reliability and
   coherence of results obtained, both as relates to the basic generation of
   detection of an anomaly and to providing more exact information relative the
   location, importance, geometry and nature of an obvious anomaly.
            Execution of the present invention described previously in the context
10 of a device whereof the bases have previously been described in documents
   FR 2860631,      EP 1574879, FR 2889338 and FR 2911212, comprising a
   support base 10 formed by a step whereof the upper surface comprises a
   footprint 12 and a stop 14 intended to receive and position a single foot of an
   individual covered by a shoe.
15         But the invention is not limited to this particular embodiment. As
   shown in attached figure 23, the present invention can also apply to devices
   in which the support base is adapted to receive simultaneously the two feet P
   of an individual.
            In this case it is however preferable, for allow detection respectively
20 and individually on each of the two feet P of an individual being tested, to
   provide in projection on the upper surface of the base three blocks 320, 330
   and 340 between which the two feet P must be positioned such that the
   central block 330 is placed between the two feet P, while the two lateral
   blocks 320 and 340 are arranged respectively on the exterior of the feet. The
25 central block 330 houses detection means associated respectively with the
   blocks 320 and 340 to allow the abovementioned different measurements
   respectively on each of the two feet P. In this way the central block 330 in
   this case preferably houses sender means 142/receivers 144 for measuring
   the absorption amplitude of microwaves and time of propagation, as well as
30 infrared transducers 152/154 for measuring the width of each of the two
   soles S separately.
           Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
   context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as

                                         22
   "comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a
   stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of
   any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
           The reference    in this specification to any prior   publication (or
 5 information derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and
   should not be taken as an acknowledgment or admission or any form of
   suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it) or
   known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of
   endeavor to which this specification relates.
10

                                           23
                                       CLAI MS
            1.   A detector device for detection of unauthorised objects or
   substances, comprising a support base designed to receive at least one foot
 5 covered by its shoe, of an individual to be controlled, the device comprising
   means adapted to detect stratification by vertical stacking, in the sole, by
   detection of successive echoes following emission of waves towards the sole,
   means adapted to define a signal representative of the estimated height of
   the sole and that it further comprises means for operating a standardisation
10 of the signal coming from detection means of vertical stratification, on the
   basis of the signal representative of the estimated height of the sole.
            2.   The device as claimed in Claim 1, wherein said means adapted
   to detect stratification by vertical stacking, in the sole, by detection of
15 successive echoes following emission of waves towards the sole, are based
   on microwave.
            3.   The device as claimed in Claim 1 or Claim 2, comprising a
   plurality of means adapted to detect successive vertical echoes distributed
20 over the length of the device.
            4.   The device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 3, comprising
   measurement means of the electrical capacity formed by the sole of a shoe
   placed on the support base.
25
            5.   The device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 4, comprising
   handles placed on the upper part of panels solid with the support base.
            6.   The device as claimed in Claim 5, wherein the handles comprise
30 electrodes.

                                         24
            7.  The device as claimed in Claim 6, wherein electrodes formed on
   the handles are made from electrically conductive material embedded in the
   mass of the panels.
 5          8.  The device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 7, comprising
   an electric generator connected in series of handles provided on lateral
   panels and electrodes placed on the support base.
            9.  The device as claimed in Claim 8, wherein electrodes placed on
10 the support base are concentric to cones associated with          microwave
   transducers adapted to generate microwaves vertically in a sole.
            10. The device as claimed in Claim 8 or Claim 9, wherein the
   electric generator is adapted to generate voltage of between 0.1V and 1OV,
15 preferably of the order of 1 volt.
            11. The device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 10, comprising
   microwave    adapter    coupling   means,  inserted in  between   microwave
   transducers and a foot support plate.
20
            12. The device as claimed in Claim 11, wherein the adapter means
   comprise a pyramid engaged in each cone associated with a microwave
   transducer, integral with the foot support plate.
25          13. The device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 12, wherein
   each microwave sender and receiver associated with a focusing cone.
            14. The device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 13, further
   com prising:
30 - microwave sender/receiver means
   - measuring means of the width of an element inserted in between the
   microwave sender/receiver means

                                          25
   - analysis means of at least one parameter of the transmission time between
   the microwave sender/receiver means and/or the amplitude of the signal
   transmitted between the microwave sender/receiver means, and
   -standardisation means of the abovementioned analysis relative to a size unit
 5 of standard width obtained on the basis of width-measuring means.
            15.  The device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 14, comprising
   at least one microwave sender means placed to one side of the base and at
   least one microwave receiver means placed on the side opposite the base
10 such that the microwaves emitted by the microwave sender means pass
   through the sole of the shoe placed on the support base before reaching the
   associated microwave receiver means placed on the side opposite the base
   and the measurement means of the width of the element inserted in between
   the microwave sender/receiver means, comprise infrared senders/receivers
15 adapted to measure the time of two-way propagation between an infrared
   sender and the associated infrared receiver.
            16.  The device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 15, comprising
   several series of detection means each comprising several detection means
20 distributed geographically similarly for all said series of detection means.
            17.  The device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 16, comprising
   an imaging device of the shoe, in particular of the sole and analysis means of
   the signal coming from the imaging device for estimation of a sole width.
25
            18.  A method for analysis of signals coming from the different
   measuring means of a device as claimed in any one of Claims 1 to 17 and
   generation of an alarm in case of detection of an anomaly.
30          19.  The method as claimed in Claim 18, comprising at least one
   standardisation step of the signals representative of the stratification of the
   sole, as a function of a second measurement representative of height of the
   sole.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
