ABSTRACT
Methods of using the set-delayed cement slurries and compositions resulting from the
combination of the set-delayed cement slurries are also described. A method may comprise
providing a first set-delayed cement slurry comprising a pozzolanic cement and/or a Portland
cement, water, and a first cement set retarder; providing a second set-delayed cement slurry
comprising calcium-aluminate and a second cement set retarder; mixing the first slurry and the
second slurry to form a cement composition; and allowing the cement composition to set.

                    COMBINED SET-DELAYED CEMENT COMPOSITIONS
                                          BACKGROUND
            [0001] The present application is a divisional application from Australian patent
   application number 2014407520, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
 5 reference.
            [0001a] Set-delayed cement slurries and, more particularly, compositions resulting
   from a combination of the set-delayed cement slurries are provided. Additionally, methods of
   using the set-delayed cement slurries and compositions resulting from the combination of the
   set-delayed cement slurries are also described.
10          [0002] Cement compositions may be used in a variety of subterranean operations. For
   example, in subterranean well construction, a pipe string (e.g., casing, liners, expandable
   tubulars, etc.) may be run into a wellbore and cemented in place. The process of cementing the
   pipe string in place is commonly referred to as "primary cementing." In a typical primary
   cementing method, a cement composition may be pumped into an annulus between the walls
15 of the wellbore and the exterior surface of the pipe string disposed therein. The cement
   composition may set in the annular space, thereby forming an annular sheath of hardened,
   substantially impermeable cement (i.e. a cement sheath) that may support and position the pipe
   string in the wellbore and may bond the exterior surface of the pipe string to the subterranean
   formation. Among other things, the cement sheath surrounding the pipe string prevents the
20 migration of fluids in the annulus and protects the pipe string from corrosion. Cement
   compositions may also be used in remedial cementing methods to seal cracks or holes in pipe
   strings or cement sheaths, to seal highly permeable formation zones or fractures, or to place a
   cement plug and the like.
            [0003] A broad variety of cement compositions have been used in subterranean
25 cementing operations. In some instances, set-delayed cement compositions have been used.
   Set-delayed cement compositions are characterized by being capable of remaining in a
   pumpable fluid state for at least about one day (e.g., about 7 days, about 2 weeks, about 2
   years or more) at room temperature (e.g., about 80'F) in quiescent storage. When desired for
   use, the set-delayed cement compositions should be capable of activation and consequently
30 develop reasonable compressive strengths. For example, a set-delayed cement composition
   that is activated may set into a hardened mass. Among other things, set-delayed cement
   compositions may be suitable for use in wellbore applications such as applications where it is
   desirable to prepare the cement composition in advance. This may allow the cement
                                                   1

   composition to be stored prior to use. In addition, this may allow the cement composition to be
   prepared at a convenient location before transportation to the job site. Accordingly, capital
   expenditures may be reduced due to a reduction in the need for on-site bulk storage and
   mixing equipment. This may be particularly useful for offshore cementing operations where
 5 space onboard the vessels may be limited.
           [0004] While set-delayed cement compositions have been developed heretofore,
   challenges exist with their successful use in subterranean cementing operations. For example,
   some set-delayed compositions may have limited use at lower temperatures as they may not
   develop sufficient compressive strength when used in subterranean formations having lower
10 bottom hole static temperatures. In addition, it may be problematic to activate some set
   delayed cement compositions while maintaining acceptable thickening times and compressive
   strength development.
           [0004a] A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as prior
   art is not to be taken as an admission that that document or matter was known or that the
15 information it contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of
   any of the claims.
           [0004b] Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word
   "comprise" and variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not intended
   to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
20
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           [0004c] According to an aspect, the invention provides a cement composition
   comprising:     a pozzolanic cement and/or a Portland cement, a calcium-aluminate cement,
   water, a first cement set retarder, and a second cement set retarder.
25
                                                    2

WO 2016/053319                                                                      PCT/US2014/058426
                              BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
              [0005] These drawings illustrate certain aspects of some of the embodiments of the
      present method, and should not be used to limit or define the method.
              [0006] FIG. I illustrates a system for preparation and delivery of a combined set-delayed
  5  cement composition to a wellbore in accordance with certain embodiments.
              [0007] FIG. 2A illustrates surface equipment that may be used in placement of a combined
     set-delayed cement composition in a wellbore in accordance with certain embodiments.
              [0008] FIG. 2B illustrates placement of a combined set-delayed cement composition into
     a wellbore annulus in accordance with certain embodiments.
 10
                                                     3

    WO 2016/053319                                                                           PCT/US2014/058426
                              DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
                 [0009] Set-delayed cement slurries and, more particularly, compositions resulting from a
       combination of the set-delayed cement slurries are provided. Additionally, methods of using the
       set-delayed cement slurries and compositions resulting from the combination of the set-delayed
   5   cement slurries are also described.
                 [0010] As used herein, the combined set-delayed cement compositions may comprise at
       least two separate set-delayed cement slurries with one component slurry comprising Portland
       cement, a pozzolanic cement (e.g., pumice), or a combination thereof, and the other component
       slurry comprising a calcium aluminate cement. Each component slurry may also comprise water, a
 10    cement set retarder, and optionally, a dispersant. Advantageously, the set-delayed cement slurries
       may be capable of remaining in a pumpable fluid state for an extended period of time, i.e. they may
       be capable of remaining in a pumpable fluid state for at least about one day (e.g., about 7 days,
       about 2 weeks, about 2 years or more) at room temperature (e.g., about 80'F) in quiescent storage.
       Generally, the combined set-delayed cement compositions develop compressive strength after the
 15   component slurries are combined. Advantageously, the combined set-delayed cement compositions
      may develop reasonable compressive strengths at relatively low temperatures (e.g., temperatures of
      about 70'F or less to about 140'F). Thus, while the combined set-delayed cement compositions
      may be suitable for a number of subterranean cementing operations, they may be particularly
      suitable for use in subterranean formations having relatively low bottom hole static temperatures,
20    e.g., temperatures of about 70'F or less to about 140'F. Alternatively, the combined set-delayed
      cement compositions may be used in subterranean formations having bottom hole static
      temperatures up to 450'F or higher.
                [0011 ] As used herein, the term "slurry A" will be used to describe the set-delayed cement
      slurry comprising a Portland cement, a pozzolanic cement, or a combination thereof. Although the
25    letter "A" is used in this disclosure to designate the set-delayed cement slurry comprising a Portland
      cement, a pozzolanic cement, or a combination thereof; the letter "A" does not describe, either
      explicitly or implicitly, any information as to the order in which the two component set-delayed
      cement slurries are to be mixed. The two set-delayed cement slurries may be mixed in any order,
      and the letter "A" merely designates the first of the individual set-delayed cement slurries to be
30    described for the purposes of this disclosure.
               [0012] Slurry A may comprise a pozzolanic cement. Any pozzolanic cement is suitable
      for use. Without limitation, examples of pozzolanic cements may include fly ash, silica fume,
      metakaolin, a natural pozzolan (e.g., pumice), or combinations thereof. For some applications, the
      cementitious components present in slurry A may consist essentially of the pozzolanic cement. For
35    example, the cementitious components may primarily comprise the pozzolanic cement without any
      additional cementitious components (e.g., Portland cement) that hydraulically set in the presence
                                                          4

WO 2016/053319                                                                          PCT/US2014/058426
          ofwater. Alternatively, for some applications, the cementitious components present in slurry A may
         comprise a pozzolanic cement and Portland cement. Where present, the pozzolanic cement may be
          included in Slurry A in an amount in the range of fiom about 30% to about 70% by weight of Slurry
         A. For example, the pozzolanic cement may be present in an amount ranging between any of and/or
    5    including any of about 3 0%. about 35%. about 40%. about      45
                                                                          %, about 50%, about 55%, or about
         60% by weight of Slurry A. One of ordinary skill in the art. with the benefit of this disclosure,
         should recognize the appropriate amount of pozzolanic cement to include for a chosen application.
                  [0013] A variety of fly ashes may be suitable for use as a pozzolanic cement, including fly
         ash classified as Class C and Class F fly ash according to American Petroleum Institute, API
  10     Specification for Materials and Testing for Well Cements, API Specification 10, Fifth Ed., July    1,
         1990. Class C fly ash comprises both silica and lime, so it may set to form a hardened mass upon
        mixing with water. Class F fly ash generally does not contain a sufficient amount of lime to induce
        a cementitious reaction, therefore, an additional source of calcium ions is necessary for a set
        delayed cement composition comprising Class F fly ash. In some embodiments, lime may be mixed
  15    with Class F fly ash in an amount in the range of about 0.1% to about 100% by weight of the fly
        ash. In some instances, the lime may be hydrated lime. Suitable examples of fly ash include, but
        are not limited to, POZMIX*' A cement additive, commercially available from Halliburton Energy
        Services, Inc., Houston, Texas.
                 [0014] Any metakaolin may be suitable for use as a pozzolanic cement.            Generally,
 20     metakaolin is a white pozzolan that may be prepared by heating kaolin clay, for example, to
       temperatures in the range of about 6000 C to about 800' C.
                 [0015] Any natural pozzolan may be suitable for use as a pozzolanic cement. Natural
       pozzolanic cements are generally present on the Earth's surface and set and harden in the presence
       of hydrated lime and water. Without limitation, examples include pumice, diatomaceous earth,
 25    volcanic ash, opaline shale, tuff, and combinations thereof. The natural pozzolans may be ground
       or unground. Generally, the natural pozzolans may have any particle size distribution as desired for
       a particular application. The natural pozzolans may have a mean particle size in a range of from
       about I micron to about 200 microns. The mean particle size corresponds to d50 values as measured
       by particle size analyzers such as those manufactured by Malvern Instruments, Worcestershire,
30    United Kingdom. In specific examples, the natural pozzolans may have a mean particle size in a
      range of from about    I micron to about 200 microns, from about 5 microns to about 100 microns, or
      from about 10 micron to about 50 microns. In one particular example, the natural pozzolans may
      have a mean particle size of less than about 15 microns. An example of a suitable commercial
      natural pozzolan is a pumice available from Hess Pumice Products, Inc., Malad, Idaho, as DS-325
35    lightweight aggregate, which has a particle size of less than about 15 microns. It should be noted
      that particle sizes too small may have mixability problems while particle sizes too large may not be
                                                          5

    WO 2016/053319                                                                           PCT/US2014/058426
       effectively suspended in the compositions and may be less reactive due to their decreased surface
       area. One of ordinary skill in the art, with the benefit of this disclosure, should be able to select a
       particle size for the natural pozzolans suitable for use for a chosen application.
                 [0016] Slurry A may comprise hydrated lime. As used herein, the term "hydrated lime"
  5    will be understood to mean calcium hydroxide. In some embodiments, the hydrated lime may be
       provided as quicklime (calcium oxide) which hydrates when mixed with water to form the hydrated
       lime. The hydrated lime may be included, for example, to form a hydraulic composition with the
       pozzolanic cement. For example, the hydrated lime may be included in a pozzolan-to-hydrated-lime
       weight ratio of about 10:1 to about 1:1 or a ratio of about 3:1 to about 5:1. Where present, the
 10    hydrated lime may be included in Slurry A in an amount in the range of from about 10% to about
       100% by weight of the pozzolanic cement. For example, the hydrated lime may be present in an
       amount ranging between any of and/or including any of about 10%, about 20%, about 40%, about
       60%, about 80%, or about 100% by weight of the pozzolanic cement. One of ordinary skill in the
       art, with the benefit of this disclosure, should recognize the appropriate amount of hydrated lime to
 15    include for a chosen application.
                 [0017] Slurry A may comprise a Portland cement. Examples of such Portland cements,
       include, but are not limited to, Classes A, C, H, or G cements according to the American Petroleum
      Institute, API SpecificationforMaterialsand Testingfor Well Cements, API Specification 10, Fifth
      Ed., July 1, 1990. In addition, the Portland cement may include Portland cements classified as
20    ASTM Type       I, 11, Ill, IV, or V. For some applications, the cementitious components present in
      slurry A may consist essentially of the Portland cement. For example, the cementitious components
      may primarily comprise the Portland cement without any additional cementitious components (e.g.,
      a pozzolanic cement) that hydraulically set in the presence of water. Alternatively, for some
      applications, the cementitious components present in slurry A may comprise a Portland cement and
25    a pozzolanic cement. Where present, the Portland cement may be included in Slurry A in an amount
      in the range of from about 40% to about 75% by weight of Slurry A. For example, the pozzolanic
      cement may be present in an amount ranging between any of and/or including any of about 40%,
      about 45%, about 50%, about 55%, about 60%, about 65%, about 70%, or about 67% by weight of
      Slurry A. One of ordinary skill in the art, with the benefit of this disclosure, should recognize the
30    appropriate amount of Portland cement to include for a chosen application.
                [0018] Slurry A may further comprise a cement set retarder. A broad variety of cement set
      retarders may be suitable for use. For example, the cement set retarder may comprise phosphonic
      acids,    such   as    ethylenediamine     tetra(methylene    phosphonic    acid),  diethylenetriamine
      penta(methylene phosphonic acid), etc.; lignosulfonates, such as sodium lignosulfonate, calcium
35    lignosulfonate, etc.; salts such as stannous sulfate, lead acetate, monobasic calcium phosphate,
      organic acids, such as citric acid, tartaric acid, etc.; cellulose derivatives such as hydroxyl ethyl
                                                          6

WO 2016/053319                                                                             PCT/US2014/058426
      cellulose (HEC) and carboxymethyl hydroxyethyl cellulose (CMHEC); synthetic co- or ter
      polymers comprising sulfonate and carboxylic acid groups such as sulfonate-functionalized
      acrylamide-acrylic acid co-polymers: borate compounds such as alkali borates, sodium metaborate,
      sodium tetraborate, potassium pentaborate; derivatives thereof, or mixtures thereof. Examples of
  5   suitable cement set retarders include, among others, phosphonic acid derivatives. One example of
      a suitable cement set retarder is Micro Matrix* cement retarder, available from Halliburton Energy
      Services. Inc., Houston, Texas. Generally, the cement set retarder may be present in slurry A in an
      amount sufficient to delay the setting for a desired time. The cement set retarder may be present in
      slurry A in an amount in the range of from about 0.01% to about 10% by weight of the cement (i.e.
 10   the Portland cement and/or the pozzolanic cement). More particularly, the cement set retarder may
      be present in an amount ranging between any of and/or including any of about 0.0 1%, about 0.1%,
      about 1%, about 2%, about 4%, about 6%, about 8%, or about 10% by weight of the cement.
      Additionally, it is important to use cement set retarders that do not undesirably affect the other set
      delayed cement slurry when slurry A is combined with the other set-delayed cement slurry. One of
 15   ordinary skill in the art, with the benefit of this disclosure, should recognize the appropriate amount
     of the cement set retarder to include for a chosen application.
               [0019] As used herein, the term "slurry B" will be used to describe the set-delayed cement
     slurry comprising a calcium-aluminate. Although the letter "B" is used in this disclosure to
     designate the set-delayed cement slurry comprising a calcium-aluminate; the letter "B" does not
20   describe, either explicitly or implicitly, any information as to the order in which the two component
     set-delayed cement slurries are to be mixed. The two set-delayed cement slurries may be mixed in
     any order, and the letter "B" merely designates the order in which the individual set-delayed cement
     slurries are described for the purposes of this disclosure.
               [0020] Slurry B may comprise a calcium-aluminate cement. Any calcium-aluminate
25   cement is suitable for use. Calcium-aluminate cements may be described as cements that comprise
     calcium-aluminates in an amount greater than 50% by weight of the dry cement (i.e. the cement
     before water or any additives are added). Calcium-aluminates may be defined as any calcium
     aluminates including, but not limited to, monocalcium aluminate, monocalcium dialuminate,
     tricalcium aluminate, dodecacalcium hepta-aluminate, monocalcium hexa-aluminate, dicalcium
30   aluminate, pentacalcium trialuminate, tetracalcium trialuminate, and the like. Where present, the
     calcium-aluminate cement may be included in Slurry B in an amount in the range of from about
     40% to about 70% by weight of Slurry B_ For example, the calcium aluminate cement may be
     present in an amount ranging between any of and/or including any of about 40%, about 45%, about
     50%, about 55%, about 60%, about 65%, or about 70% by weight of Slurry B. One of ordinary skill
35   in the art, with the benefit of this disclosure, should recognize the appropriate amount of calcium
     aluminate cement to include for a chosen application.
                                                            7

    WO 2016/053319                                                                            PCT/US2014/058426
                 [0021] Slurry B may comprise a cement set retarder. The cement set retarder used for
       slurry B may comprise a different cement set retarder than used in slurry A due to the different
       chemistry of calcium-aluminate cements. For example, the cement set retarder for slurry B may
       comprise hydroxycarboxylic acids such as citric, tartaric, gluconic acids or their respective salts,
  5    boric acid or its respective salt, and combinations thereof. A specific example of a suitable cement
       set retarder is Fe-2"' Iron Sequestering Agent available from Halliburton Energy Services. Inc.,
       Houston, Texas. Generally, the cement set retarder may be present in slurry B in an amount
       sufficient to delay the setting for a desired time. The cement set retarder may be present in slurry B
       in an amount in the range of from about 0.01% to about 10% by weight of the cement (i.e. the
 10    calcium-aluminate cement). More particularly, the cement set retarder may be present in an amount
       ranging between any of and/or including any of about 0.01%, about 0.1%, about 1%, about 2%,
       about 4%, about 6 %, about 8%, or about 10% by weight of the cement. Additionally, it is important
      to use cement set retarders that do not undesirably affect slurry A when slurry B is combined with
      slurry A. One of ordinary skill in the art, with the benefit of this disclosure, should recognize the
15    appropriate amount of the cement set retarder to include for a chosen application.
                {0022] The slurry B may optionally comprise a filler material. The filler material used for
      the slurry B may comprise any suitable filler material provided it does not raise the alkalinity of
      slurry B as this may induce the setting of slurry B. For example, the filler material for slurry B may
      comprise silica, sand, fly ash, or silica fume. Generally, the filler material may be present in slurry
20    B in an amount sufficient to make the system economically competitive. The filler material may be
      present in slurry B in an amount in the range of from about 0.01% to about 100% by weight of the
      cement (i.e. the calcium-aluminate cement). More particularly, the filler material may be present in
      an amount ranging between any of and/or including any of about 0.01%, about 0.1%, about             1%,
      about 10%, about 25%, about 50%, about 75%, or about 100% by weight of the cement. One of
25    ordinary skill in the art, with the benefit of this disclosure, should recognize the appropriate amount
      of filler material to include for a chosen application.
                [0023] The set-delayed cement slurries may comprise water. The water may be from any
      source provided that it does not contain an excess of compounds that may undesirably affect other
      components in the set-delayed cement slurries, for example, for slurry B it may be important that
30    the water not raise the alkalinity of the slurry. The water may comprise fresh water or salt water.
      Salt water generally may include one or more dissolved salts therein and may be saturated or
      unsaturated as desired for a particular application. Seawater or brines may be suitable for use in
      some applications. Further, the water may be present in an amount sufficient to form a pumpable
      slurry. In certain embodiments, the water may be present in the set-delayed cement slurries in an
35    amount in the range of from about 33% to about 200% by weight of the cement (i.e., the weight of
     the pozzolanic cement and/or Portland cement for slurry A, and the weight of the calcium-aluminate
                                                            8

WO 2016/053319                                                                             PCT/US2014/058426
       cement for slurry B). In certain embodiments, the water may be present in the set-delayed cement
       slurries in an amount in the range of from about 35% to about 70% by weight of the cement. With
       the benefit of this disclosure one of ordinary skill in the art should recognize the appropriate amount
       of water for a chosen application.
   5            [0024] As previously mentioned, the set-delayed cement slurries may optionally comprise
       a dispersant.    Examples of suitable dispersants may include, without limitation, sulfonated
       formaldehyde-based dispersants (e.g., sulfonated acetone formaldehyde condensate), examples of
       which may include Daxad* 19 dispersant available from Geo Specialty Chemicals, Ambler,
       Pennsylvania. Additionally, polyoxyethylene phosphonates and polyox polycarboxylates may be
  10   used. Other suitable dispersants may be polycarboxylated ether dispersants such as Liquiment*
       5581 F and Liquiment* 514L dispersants available from BASF Corporation Houston, Texas; or
       Ethacryl"' G dispersant available from Coatex, Genay, France. An additional example of a suitable
       commercially available dispersant is CFR'"-3 dispersant, available from Halliburton Energy
       Services, Inc, Houston, Texas. The Liquiment* 514L dispersant may comprise 36% by weight of
 15   the polycarboxylated ether in water. While a variety of dispersants may be used, some dispersants
      may be preferred for use with certain cement set retarders. For example, if slurry A comprises a
      phosphonic acid derivative cement set retarder, a polycarboxylated ether dispersants may be
      preferable to other dispersants. Without being limited by theory, it is believed that poly carboxylated
      ether dispersants may synergistically interact with phosphonic acid derivative cement set retarders
 20   resulting in formation of a gel that suspends the pozzolanic cement and hydrated lime in the
      composition for an extended period of time. Additionally, it is important to use dispersants that do
      not undesirably affect either of the set-delayed cement component slurries when the two slurries
      are combined. Thus, it is always important to understand the effect of a dispersant on the set-delayed
      cement slurry it is being added to and also its effect on the chemistry of the combined set-delayed
25    cement composition. One of ordinary skill in the art, with the benefit of this disclosure, should
      recognize the appropriate type of dispersant to include for a chosen application.
               [0025] The dispersant may be included in the set-delayed cement slurries in an amount in
     the range of from about 0.01% to about 5% by weight of the cement (i.e., the weight of the
     pozzolanic cement and/or Portland cement for slurry A, and the weight of the calcium-aluminate
30   cement for slurry B). More particularly, the dispersant may be present in an amount ranging
     between any of and/or including any of about 0.0 1%, about 0.1%, about 0.5%, about 1%, about 2%,
     about 3%, about 4%, or about 5% by weight of the cement. One of ordinary skill in the art, with the
     benefit of this disclosure, will recognize the appropriate amount of dispersant to include for a chosen
     application.
35             [0026] The set-delayed cement slurries may optionally comprise a lithium salt which may
     function as cement set accelerator when slurry A and slurry B are combined to form the combined
                                                          9

    WO 2016/053319                                                                            PCT/US2014/058426
        set-delayed cement composition. Examples of suitable lithium salts include, without limitation,
        lithium sulfate and lithium carbonate. Without being limited by theory, it is believed that the lithium
        ions increase the number of nucleation sites for hydrate formation in the calcium-aluminate cement.
       Thus, when the calcium-aluminate cement of slurry B is activated by combination with slurry A,
   5   the presence of lithium salts in slurry A, slurry B, or both slurries may accelerate setting of the
       calcium-aluminate cement and consequently the cement of slurry A as well. Preferably, the lithium
       salt should be added only to retarded or dormant calcium-aluminate cements. Introduction of a
       lithium salt to a non-retarded or non-dormant calcium-aluminate cement may induce an increase in
       alkalinity of a certain magnitude which may cause premature setting of the calcium-aluminate
 10    cement, based on the calcium-aluminate cement used and the other components in in the slurry;
       however, lithium salts added to retarded or dormant calcium-aluminate cements may mitigate this
       risk. The lithium salt may be included in the set-delayed cement slurries in an amount in the range
       of from about 0.01% to about 10% by weight of the cement (i.e., the weight of the pozzolanic
       cement and/or Portland cement for slurry A, and the weight of the calcium-aluminate cement for
 15    slurry B). More particularly, the lithium salt may be present in an amount ranging between any of
       and/or including any of about 0.01%, about 0.1%, about 0.5%, about 1%, about 2%, about 3%,
       about 4%, or about 5% by weight of the cement. One of ordinary skill in the art, with the benefit of
      this disclosure, should recognize the appropriate amount of lithium salt to include for a chosen
       application.
20               [0027] Other additives suitable for use in subterranean cementing operations also may be
      added to the set-delayed cement slurries as deemed appropriate by one of ordinary skill in the art.
       Examples of such additives include, but are not limited to, strength-retrogression additives, set
      weighting agents, lightweight additives, gas-generating additives, mechanical property enhancing
      additives, lost-circulation materials, defoaming agents, foaming agents, thixotropic additives, and
25    combinations thereof. Specific examples of these, and other, additives include silica (e.g.,
      crystalline silica, amorphous silica, fumed silica, etc.), salts, fibers, hydratable clays, shale (e.g.,
      calcined shale, vitrified shale, etc.), microspheres, diatomaceous earth, natural pozzolan, resins,
      latex, combinations thereof, and the like. Other optional additives may also be included, including,
      but not limited to, cement kiln dust, lime kiln dust, fly ash, slag cement, shale, zeolite, metakaolin,
30    pumice, perlite, lime, silica, rice husk ash, small-particle size cement, combinations thereof, and
      the like. A person having ordinary skill in the art, with the benefit of this disclosure, will be able to
      determine the type and amount of additive useful for a particular application and desired result.
                [0028] Strength-retrogression additives may be included in set-delayed cement slurries to,
      for example, prevent the retrogression of strength after the combined set-delayed cement
35    composition has been allowed to develop compressive strength. These additives may allow the
      cement compositions to form as intended, preventing cracks and premature failure of the
     cementitious composition. Examples of suitable strength-retrogression additives may include, but
                                                         10

WO 2016/053319                                                                            PCT/US2014/058426
       are not limited to, amorphous silica, coarse grain crystalline silica, fine grain crystalline silica, or a
       combination thereof.
                 [0029] Weighting agents are typically materials that weigh more than water and may be
       used to increase the density ofthe set-delayed cement slurries. By way of example, weighting agents
  5    may have a specific gravity of about 2 or higher (e.g., about 2, about 4, etc.). Examples of weighting
       agents that may be used include, but are not limited to, hematite, hausmannite, and barite, and
       combinations thereof. Specific examples of suitable weighting agents include HI-DENSE*
       weighting agent, available from Halliburton Energy Services, Inc.
                 [0030] Lightweight additives may be included in the set-delayed cement slurries to, for
 10    example, decrease the density of the set-delayed cement slurries. Examples of suitable lightweight
      additives include, but are not limited to, bentonite, coal, diatomaceous earth, expanded perlite, fly
      ash, gilsonite, hollow microspheres, low-density elastic beads, nitrogen, pozzolan-bentonite,
      sodium silicate, combinations thereof, or other lightweight additives known in the art.
                [0031] Gas-generating additives may be included in the set-delayed cement slurries to
 15   release gas at a predetermined time, which may be beneficial to prevent gas migration from the
      formation through the combined set-delayed cement composition before it hardens. The generated
      gas may combine with or inhibit the permeation of the combined set-delayed cement composition
      by formation gas. Examples of suitable gas-generating additives include, but are not limited to,
      metal particles (e.g., aluminum powder) that react with an alkaline solution to generate a gas.
 20             [0032] Mechanical-property-enhancing additives may be included in embodiments of the
      set-delayed cement slurries to, for example, ensure adequate compressive strength and long-term
      structural integrity. These properties can be affected by the strains, stresses, temperature, pressure,
      and impact effects from a subterranean environment. Examples of mechanical property enhancing
      additives include, but are not limited to, carbon fibers, glass fibers, metal fibers, mineral fibers,
25    silica fibers, polymeric elastomers, and latexes.
                [0033] Lost-circulation materials may be included in embodiments of the set-delayed
     cement slurries to, for example, help prevent the loss of fluid circulation into the subterranean
     formation. Examples of lost-circulation materials include but are not limited to, cedar bark,
     shredded cane stalks, mineral fiber, mica flakes, cellophane, calcium carbonate, ground rubber,
30   polymeric materials, pieces of plastic, grounded marble, wood, nut hulls, plastic laminates
     (Formica* laminate), corncobs, and cotton hulls.
               [0034] Defoaming additives may be included in the set-delayed cement slurries to, for
     example, reduce tendency for the set-delayed cement slurries to foam during mixing and pumping
     of the set-delayed cement slurries. Examples of suitable defoaming additives include, but are not
35   limited to, polyol silicone compounds. Suitable defoaming additives are available from Halliburton
     Energy Services, Inc., under the product name D-AIRTM defoamers.
                                                        11

   WO 2016/053319                                                                           PCT/US2014/058426
                  [0035] Foaming additives (e.g., foaming surfactants) may be included in embodiments to,
        for example, facilitate foaming and/or stabilize the resultant foam formed therewith. Examples of
        suitable foaming additives include, but are not limited to: mixtures of an ammonium salt of an alkyl
       ether sulfate, a cocoamidopropyl betaine surfactant, a cocoamidopropyl dimethylamine oxide
   5   surfactant, sodium chloride, and water; mixtures of an ammonium salt of an alkyl ether sulfate
       surfactant, a cocoamidopropyl hydroxysultaine surfactant, a cocoamidopropyl dimethylamine
       oxide surfactant, sodium chloride, and water; hydrolyzed keratin; mixtures of an ethoxylated
       alcohol ether sulfate surfactant, an alkyl or alkene amidopropyl betaine surfactant, and an alkyl or
       alkene dimethylamine oxide surfactant; aqueous solutions of an alpha-olefinic sulfonate surfactant
 10    and a betaine surfactant; and combinations thereof. An example of a suitable foaming additive is
       ZONESEALANTTM 2000 agent, available from Halliburton Energy Services, Houston, TX.
                 [0036] Thixotropic additives may be included in embodiments of the set-delayed cement
       slurries to, for example, provide a set-delayed cement slurries that can be pumpable as a thin or low
       viscosity fluid, but when allowed to remain quiescent attains a relatively high viscosity. Among
 15    other things, thixotropic additives may be used to help control free water, create rapid gelation as
      the slurry sets, combat lost circulation, prevent "fallback" in annular column, and minimize gas
      migration. Examples of suitable thixotropic additives include, but are not limited to, gypsum, water
      soluble carboxyalkyl,      hydroxyalkyl, mixed carboxyalkyl hydroxyalkyl either of cellulose,
      polyvalent metal salts, zirconium oxychloride with hydroxyethyl cellulose, or a combination
20    thereof.
                [0037] Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that embodiments of the set
      delayed cement slurries generally should have a density suitable for a particular application. By
      way of example, the set-delayed cement slurries may have a density in the range of from about 4
      pounds per gallon ("lb/gal") to about 20 lb/gal. In certain embodiments, the set-delayed cement
25    slurries may have a density in the range of from about 8 lb/gal to about 17 lb/gal. Embodiments of
     the set-delayed cement slurries may be foamed or unfoamed or may comprise other means to reduce
     their densities, such as hollow microspheres, low-density elastic beads, or other density-reducing
     additives known in the art. In embodiments, the density may be reduced after storage, but prior to
     placement in a subterranean formation. In embodiments, weighting additives may be used to
30   increase the density of the set-delayed cement slurries. Examples of suitable weighting additives
     may include barite, hematite, hausmannite, calcium carbonate, siderite, ilmenite, or combinations
     thereof. In particular embodiments, the weighting additives may have a specific gravity of 3 or
     greater. It is to be understood that the density of the combined set-delayed cement composition is a
     result of the combination of the set-delayed cement slurries. Those of ordinary skill in the art, with
35   the benefit of this disclosure, will recognize the appropriate density for a particular application.
                                                         12

WO 2016/053319                                                                          PCT/US2014/058426
                  [0038] As previously mentioned, the set-delayed cement slurries may have a delayed set
       in that they may be capable of remaining in a pumpable fluid state for at least one day (e.g., about
        I day, about 2 weeks, about 2 years or more) at room temperature (e.g., about 800 F) in quiescent
       storage. For example, the set-delayed cement slurries may remain in a pumpable fluid state for a
   5   period of time from about I day to about 7 days or more. In some embodiments, the set-delayed
       cement slurries may remain in a pumpable fluid state for at least about I day, about 7 days, about
        10 days, about 20 days, about 30 days, about 40 days, about 50 days, about 60 days, or longer. A
       fluid is considered to be in a pumpable fluid state where the fluid has a consistency of less than 70
       Bearden units of consistency ("Be"), as measured on a pressurized consistometer in accordance
 10    with the procedure for determining cement thickening times set forth in API RP Practice 10B-2,
       Recommended Practicefor Testing Well Cements, First Edition, July 2005.
                 [0039] When desired for use, embodiments of the set-delayed cement slurries may be
       activated (e.g., by combination with each other) to set into a hardened mass. The term "activate",
       as used herein, refers to the activation of a set-delayed or heavily retarded cement slurry and may
 15   also refer to the acceleration of the setting of a set-delayed or heavily retarded cement slurry. By
      way of example, embodiments of the set-delayed cement slurries may be combined to form a
      combined set-delayed cement composition that is activated to form a hardened mass in a time period
      in the range of from about    I hour to about 12 days. For example, embodiments of the combined
      set-delayed cement compositions may set to form a hardened mass in a time period ranging between
20    any of and/or including any of about I hour, about 6 hours, about 12 hours, about I day, about 2
      days, about 4 days, about 6 days, about 8 days, about 10 days, or about 12 days.
                 [0040] The set-delayed cement slurries may set to have a desirable compressive strength
      after combination to form the combined set-delayed cement composition. Compressive strength is
      generally the capacity of a material or structure to withstand axially directed pushing forces. The
25    compressive strength may be measured at a specified time after the combination of the set-delayed
      cement slurries while the resultant combined set-delayed cement composition is maintained under
      specified temperature and pressure conditions. Compressive strength can be measured by either
      destructive or non-destructive methods. The destructive method physically tests the strength of
     treatment fluid samples at various points in time by crushing the samples in a compression-testing
30   machine. The compressive strength is calculated from the failure load divided by the cross-sectional
     area resisting the load and is reported in units of pound-force per square inch (psi). Non-destructive
     methods may employ a UCA" Ultrasonic Cement Analyzer, available from Fann Instrument
     Company, Houston, TX. Compressive strength values may be determined in accordance with API
     RP I OB-2, Recommended PracticeforTesting Well Cements, First Edition, July 2005.
35              [0041] By way of example, the combined set-delayed cement compositions may develop
     a 24-hour compressive strength in the range of from about 50 psi to about 5000 psi, alternatively,
                                                         13

    WO 2016/053319                                                                            PCT/US2014/058426
        from about 100 psi to about 4500 psi, or alternatively from about 500 psi to about 4000 psi. In
        particular, the combined set-delayed cement compositions may develop a compressive strength in
       24 hours of at least about 50 psi, at least about 100 psi, at least about 500 psi, or more. The
       compressive strength values may be determined using destructive or non-destructive methods at
   5   any temperature, however compressive strength development at temperatures ranging from 70'F to
        140'F may be of particular importance for potential use in subterranean formations having
       relatively low bottom hole static temperatures.
                 [0042] In some embodiments, the combined set-delayed cement compositions may have
       desirable thickening times. Thickening time typically refers to the time a fluid, such as a combined
 10    set-delayed cement composition, remains in a fluid state capable of being pumped. A number of
       different laboratory techniques may be used to measure thickening time. A pressurized
       consistometer, operated in accordance with the procedure set forth in the aforementioned API RP
       Practice IOB-2, may be used to measure whether a fluid is in a pumpable fluid state. The thickening
      time may be the time for the treatment fluid to reach 70 Be and may be reported as the time to reach
 15    70 Bc. The set-delayed cement compositions may have thickening times greater than about          I hour,
      alternatively, greater than about 2 hours, greater than about 15 hours, greater than about 30 hours,
      greater than about 100 hours, or alternatively greater than about 190 hours at 3,000 psi and
      temperatures in a range of from about 50'F to about 400'F, alternatively, in a range of from about
      70'F to about 140'F, and alternatively at a temperature of about l00F.
20              [0043] As discussed above, the set-delayed cement slurries comprise cement set retarders.
      However, no cement set activators are required to activate the set-delayed cement slurries once
      combined. Potential examples of cement set activators may include, but should not be limited to:
      zeolites, amines such as triethanolamine, diethanolamine; silicates such as sodium silicate; zinc
      formate; calcium acetate; Groups IA and IIA hydroxides such as sodium hydroxide, magnesium
25    hydroxide, and calcium hydroxide; monovalent salts such as sodium chloride; divalent salts such
      as calcium chloride; nanosilica (i.e., silica having a particle size of less than or equal to about 100
      nanometers); polyphosphates; and combinations thereof. This listing of cement set activators is
      described merely for comparative purposes to illustrate the types of cement set activators that are
      not required to activate the set-delayed cement slurries disclosed herein. The list is not all-inclusive,
30    and different cement systems may require different cement set activators not listed here, yet would
      also not be required to activate the set-delayed cement slurries disclosed herein. However, even
     though the a cement set activator as described herein may not be required to activate the combined
     set-delayed cement composition, cement set activators may still be added at the point of mixing to
     further activate and/or accelerate the setting of the combined-set-delayed cement composition.
35   Additionally, cement set activators may be added individually to Slurry A and/or Slurry B to further
     activate and/or accelerate the setting of the combined-set-delayed cement composition, provided
     that such cement set activators would not induce setting of Slurry A and/or Slurry B individually.
                                                         14

WO 2016/053319                                                                            PCT/US2014/058426
                [0044] As discussed above the combination of slurry A with slurry B activates both of the
      set-delayed cement slurries without the need for exogenous cement set activators. Without being
      limited by theory, it is believed this may be due to the alkaline nature of slurry A removing the
      hydration barrier of slurry B. Further, the disassociation of the calcium aluminate in the initial
   5  phase of the setting of the calcium-aluminate cement is believed to increase the local concentration
      of calcium and aluminate ions enough to initiate activation of the cement(s) in slurry A. Moreover,
      the large exotherm associated with the setting of the calcium-aluminate cement is believed to
      provide a large enough temperature increase that slurry A is able to set at temperatures below its
      normal threshold. Thus, the combination of slurry A and slurry B produces a blended set-delayed
 10   cement composition that is capable of setting at low temperatures without the use of cement set
      activators.
               [0045] Slurry A and slurry B may be mixed in any order and in any ratio. More particularly
      the ratio of slurry A to slurry B may be about 1:20, about 1:15, about 1:10, about 1:5, about 1:1,
      about 5:1, about 10:1, about 15:1, about 20:1. It should be noted that at lower temperatures, it may
 15   be advantageous to increase the amount of slurry B relative to slurry A. Once mixed, the combined
      set-delayed cement composition may be pumped downhole. Those of ordinary skill in the art, with
     the benefit of this disclosure, will recognize the appropriate ratio for the set-delayed cement slurries
     for a particular application.
               [0046] As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art, the combined set
20   delayed cement compositions may be used in a variety of subterranean operations, including
     primary and remedial cementing. For example, a first slurry may be provided that comprises water,
     a pozzolanic cement and/or Portland cement, a cement set retarder, hydrated lime (if a pozzolanic
     cement is used), and optionally a dispersant. A second slurry may be provided that comprises a
     calcium-aluminate cement, water, a cement set retarder, and optionally a dispersant and/or a filler
25   material. The two set-delayed cement slurries may be mixed together to form a combined set
     delayed cement composition prior to being pumped downhole and may then be introduced into a
     subterranean formation and allowed to set therein. As used herein, introducing the combined set
     delayed cement composition into a subterranean formation includes introduction into any portion
     of the subterranean formation, including, without limitation, into a wellbore drilled into the
30   subterranean formation, into a near wellbore region surrounding the wellbore, or into both.
              [0047] Additional applications may include storing the set-delayed cement slurries. For
     example, a first slurry may be provided that comprises water, a pozzolanic cement and/or Portland
     cement, a cement set retarder, hydrated lime (if a pozzolanic cement is used), and optionally a
     dispersant. A second slurry may be provided that comprises a calcium-aluminate cement, water, a
35   cement set retarder, and optionally a dispersant and/or a filler material. The set-delayed cement
     slurries may be stored separately, for example, in a vessel or other suitable container. The set
                                                        15

     WO 2016/053319                                                                          PCT/US2014/058426
         delayed cement slurries may be individually stored and then combined prior to or while pumping
         downhole. The set-delayed cement slurries may be permitted to remain in storage for a desired time
         period. For example, the set-delayed cement slurries may remain in storage for a time period of
        about I day, about 2 weeks, about 2 years, or longer. For example, the set-delayed cement slurries
   5    may remain in storage for a time period of about     I day. about 2 days, about 5 days, about 7 days,
        about 10 days, about 20 days, about 30 days, about 40 days, about 50 days, about 60 days, or up to
        about 2 years. When desired for use, the set-delayed cement slurries may be activated by
        combination with each other, for example, by mixing the set-delayed cement slurries (i.e. the first
        slurry and the second slurry) together, introducing the combined set-delayed cement composition
 10     into a subterranean formation, and allowing the set-delayed cement composition to set therein.
                   [0048] In primary cementing applications, for example, the combined set-delayed cement
        composition may be introduced into an annular space between a conduit located in a wellbore and
       the walls of a wellbore (and/or a larger conduit in the wellbore), wherein the wellbore penetrates
       the subterranean formation. The combined set-delayed cement composition may be allowed to set
 15     in the annular space to form an annular sheath of hardened cement. The combined set-delayed
       cement composition may form a barrier that prevents the migration of fluids in the wellbore. The
       combined set-delayed cement composition may also, for example, support the conduit in the
       wellbore.
                  [0049] In remedial cementing applications, a combined set-delayed cement composition
20     may be used, for example, in squeeze-cementing operations or in the placement of cement plugs.
       By way of example, the combined set-delayed composition may be placed in a wellbore to plug an
       opening (e.g., a void or crack) in the formation, in a gravel pack, in the conduit, in the cement
       sheath, and/or between the cement sheath and the conduit (e.g., a microannulus).
                  [0050] Additional applications for slurry A may be include displacement of a prior placed
25     fluid (i.e. the set-delayed cement slurry comprising a pozzolanic cement and/or a Portland cement
      may be used as a spacer fluid). Slurry A may be similar in composition to conventional spacer
      fluids. Because of this similarity, slurry A may be used as a spacer fluid for applications where the
      chemical makeup of slurry A will not have a negative impact on the makeup of the fluid to be
      pumped subsequently to slurry A. Slurry A may be used to displace a drilling mud, separate cement
30    from a drilling mud, displace another treatment fluid, separate the drilling mud from a treatment
      fluid, and/or separate cement from a treatment fluid. Advantageously, the use of slurry A as a spacer
      fluid may condition the subterranean formation with part of the same composition that ultimately
      may be used as the annular sealant. Therefore, the risk of incompatibilities between sealant and
      spacer fluid may be reduced.
35               [0051] In applications where slurry A may be used as a spacer fluid, the density of the
      slurry A may be adjusted by the addition of water and/or a viscosifier. The water and viscosifiers
                                                          16

WO 2016/053319                                                                          PCT/US2014/058426
       may be added in any amount to achieve the appropriate density to provide a suitable rheological
       hierarchy for a given application. An example of a suitable viscosifier is SA-1015'" suspending
       agent available from Halliburton Energy Services, Houston, TX. Additionally, weighting agents
       may be added to adjust the density as may be appropriate to maintain a suitable rheological
  5    hierarchy. One of ordinary skill in the art, with the benefit of this disclosure, will recognize the
       appropriate density and method of density adjustment necessary for a chosen application.
                 [00521 Additionally, for some spacer fluid applications, slurry A may be foamed with a
       foaming additive and/or a gas. The spacer fluid may be foamed, for example, to provide a spacer
       fluid with a reduced density. The gas used for foaming slurry A may be any suitable gas for foaming,
 10    including, but not limited to: air, nitrogen, or combinations thereof. Generally, the gas should be
      present in an amount sufficient to form the desired amount or quality of foam. Foaming additives
      may be included in embodiments to, for example, facilitate foaming and/or stabilize the resultant
      foam formed therewith. Examples of suitable foaming additives include, but are not limited to:
      mixtures of an ammonium salt of an alkyl ether sulfate, a cocoamidopropyl betaine surfactant, a
 15   cocoamidopropyl dimethylamine oxide surfactant, sodium chloride, and water; mixtures of an
      ammonium salt of an alkyl ether sulfate surfactant, a cocoamidopropyl hydroxysultaine surfactant,
      a cocoamidopropyl dimethylamine oxide surfactant, sodium chloride, and water; hydrolyzed
      keratin; mixtures of an ethoxylated alcohol ether sulfate surfactant, an alkyl or alkene amidopropyl
      betaine surfactant, and an alkyl or alkene dimethylamine oxide surfactant; aqueous solutions of an
20    alpha-olefinic sulfonate surfactant and a betaine surfactant; and combinations thereof. An example
                                                              TM
      of a suitable foaming additive is ZONESEALANT               2000 agent, available from Halliburton
      Energy Services, Houston, TX.
                [0053] It is to be understood, that any additive, component, or embodiment disclosed
      herein may additionally be used or combined with embodiments of slurry A that comprise a spacer
25    fluid. For example slurry A may be used as a spacer fluid and then pumped to the surface where it
     may be combined with slurry B to form the combined set-delayed cement composition.
     Alternatively slurry A may be used to displace another fluid and then slurry B may be pumped
     subsequently to slurry A to mix the two set-delayed cement slurries in the wellbore and thus form
     the combined set-delayed cement combination in the wellbore. One of ordinary skill in the art will
30   understand that use of slurry A as a spacer fluid will not preclude other uses of slurry A.
               [0054] A method for cementing may be provided. The method may be used in conjunction
     with one or more of the methods, compositions, and/or systems illustrated on FIGs. 1-2B. The
     method may include providing a first set-delayed cement slurry comprising a pozzolanic cement
     and/or a Portland cement, water, and a first cement set retarder; providing a second set-delayed
35   cement slurry comprising calcium-aluminate and a second cement set retarder; mixing the first
     slurry and the second slurry to form a cement composition; and allowing the cement composition
                                                        17

    WO 2016/053319                                                                           PCT/US2014/058426
       to set. The cement composition may be introduced into a wellbore penetrating a subterranean
       formation and allowed to set within. The first set-delayed cement slurry may comprise the
       pozzolanic cement, wherein the pozzolanic cement is selected from the group consisting of fly ash,
       silica fume, metakaolin, pumice, and any combination thereof The first set-delayed cement slurry
  5    may comprise the pozzolanic cement and lime. The cement composition may further comprise at
       least one dispersant selected from the group consisting of a sulfonated-formaldehyde-based
       dispersant, a polycarboxylated ether dispersant, and any combination thereof. At least one of the
       first cement set retarder or the second cement set retarder may be selected from the group consisting
       of a phosphonic acid, a phosphonic acid derivative, a lignosulfonate, a salt, an organic acid, a
 10   carboxymethylated hydroxyethylated cellulose, a synthetic co- or ter-polymer comprising sulfonate
      and carboxylic acid groups, a borate compound, and any combination thereof. At least one of the
      first set-delayed cement slurry or the second set-delayed cement slurry may be stored for a time
      period of about    I days or longer prior to the step of mixing. At least one of the first set-delayed
      cement slurry or the second set-delayed cement slurry may be stored for a time period of about 7
 15   days or longer prior to the step of mixing. At least one of the first set-delayed cement slurry or the
      second set-delayed cement slurry may comprise a lithium salt. The cement composition may be
     pumped through a feed pipe and into a wellbore annulus that is penetrating a subterranean
      formation. At least a portion of the first set-delayed cement slurry may be introduced into awellbore
     that penetrates a subterranean formation such that the first set-delayed cement slurry displaces at
20    least one fluid from the wellbore.
                 [0055] A cementing composition may be provided. The composition may be used in
     conjunction with one or more of the methods, compositions, and/or systems illustrated on FIGs. I
     2B. The composition may include a pozzolanic cement and/or a Portland cement, a calcium
     aluminate cement, water, a first cement set retarder, and a second cement set retarder. The
25   composition may comprise the pozzolanic cement and lime. The cement composition may comprise
     the pozzolanic cement; wherein the pozzolanic cement is selected from the group consisting of fly
     ash, silica fume, metakaolin, pumice, and any combination thereof. The cement composition may
     further comprise a dispersant. The dispersant may comprise at least one dispersant selected from
     the group consisting of a sulfonated-formaldehyde-based dispersant, a polycarboxylated ether
30   dispersant, and any combination thereof. At least one of the first cement set retarder or the second
     cement set retarder may be selected from the group consisting of a phosphonic acid, a phosphonic
     acid derivative, a lignosulfonate, a salt, an organic acid, a carboxymethylated hydroxyethylated
     cellulose, a synthetic co- or ter-polymer comprising sulfonate and carboxylic acid groups, a borate
     compound, and any combination thereof. The cement composition may further comprise a lithium
35   salt.
                [0056] A system for cementing may be provided. The system may be used in conjunction
     with one or more of the methods, compositions, and/or systems illustrated on FIGs. 1-2B. The
                                                          18

WO 2016/053319                                                                          PCT/US2014/058426
       system may include a first set-delayed cement slurry comprising a pozzolanic cement and/or a
       Portland cement, water, and a first cement set retarder; a second set-delayed cement slurry
       comprising calcium-aluminate and a second cement set retarder; a first vessel capable of containing
      the first slurry, wherein the first vessel also comprises a first pump capable of pumping the first
  5    slurry; a second vessel capable of containing the second slurry, wherein the second vessel also
      comprises a second pump capable of pumping the second slurry; a line connected to the first pump
      and the second pump, wherein the line is capable of mixing the first set-delayed cement slurry and
      the second set-delayed cement slurry; and a third pump connected to the line capable of delivering
      the first set-delayed cement slurry and the second set-delayed cement slurry into a wellbore. The
 10   cement composition may be introduced into a wellbore penetrating a subterranean formation and
      allowed to set within. The first set-delayed cement slurry may comprise the pozzolanic cement,
      wherein the pozzolanic cement is selected from the group consisting of fly ash, silica fume,
      metakaolin, pumice, and any combination thereof. The first set-delayed cement slurry may
      comprise the pozzolanic cement and lime. The cement composition may further comprise at least
 15   one dispersant selected from the group consisting of a sulfonated-formaldehyde-based dispersant,
      a polycarboxylated ether dispersant, and any combination thereof. At least one of the first cement
      set retarder or the second cement set retarder may be selected from the group consisting of a
      phosphonic acid, a phosphonic acid derivative, a lignosulfonate, a salt, an organic acid, a
      carboxymethylated hydroxyethylated cellulose, a synthetic co- or ter-polymer comprising sulfonate
20    and carboxylic acid groups, a borate compound, and any combination thereof. At least one of the
      first set-delayed cement slurry or the second set-delayed cement slurry may be stored for a time
     period of about    I days or longer prior to the step of mixing. At least one of the first set-delayed
     cement slurry or the second set-delayed cement slurry may be stored for a time period of about 7
     days or longer prior to the step of mixing. At least one of the first set-delayed cement slurry or the
25   second set-delayed cement slurry may comprise a lithium salt. The cement composition may be
     pumped through a feed pipe and into a wellbore annulus that is penetrating a subterranean
     formation. At least a portion of the first set-delayed cement slurry may be introduced into a wellbore
     that penetrates a subterranean formation such that the first set-delayed cement slurry displaces at
     least one fluid from the wellbore.
30              [0057] Referring now to FIG. 1, preparation of a combined set-delayed cement
     composition will now be described. FIG. I illustrates a system I for preparation of a set-delayed
     cement composition and delivery to a wellbore in accordance with certain embodiments. As shown,
     a set-delayed cement slurry (e.g., slurry A) may be mixed in mixing equipment 2, such as a jet
     mixer, re-circulating mixer, or a batch mixer, for example. Another set-delayed cement slurry (e.g.,
35   slurry B) may be mixed in mixing equipment 3, such as ajet mixer, re-circulating mixer, or a batch
    mixer, for example. Both set-delayed cement slurries may then be pumped via pumping equipment
    4 to line 5 where they are mixed in-line before being pumped to the wellbore by pumping equipment
                                                         19

     WO 2016/053319                                                                          PCT/US2014/058426
         6. In some embodiments, the mixing equipment (e.g., 2, 3, and 5) and the pumping equipment (e.g.,
        4 and 6) may be disposed on one or more cement trucks as will be apparent to those of ordinary
         skill in the art. In some applications, additional mixing equipment (e.g., a jet mixer, re-circulating
        mixer, and/or a batch mixer) may be used, for example, to continuously mix the set-delated cement
   5    slurries together as they are being pumped to the wellbore. Alternatively, Slurry A and/or Slurry B,
        may be prepared in separate vessels and then placed into mixing equipment 2 and/or mixing
        equipment 3 respectively, for pumping. Further alternatively, Slurry A or and/or Slurry B, may be
        prepared in separate vessels and then placed into a separate vessel besides mixing equipment 2
        and/or mixing equipment 3 to then be mixed together and pumped into wellbore by pumping
  10    equipment 6. There is no preferred method for preparing or mixing the set-delayed cement slurries
        individually or together, and one having ordinary skill in the art should be readily able to mix the
        set-delayed cement slurries into a sufficient blend to form the combined set-delayed cement
        composition using the equipment on hand.
                  [0058] An example technique for placing a combined set-delayed cement composition into
 15    a subterranean formation will now be described with reference to FIGS. 2A and 2B. FIG. 2A
       illustrates surface equipment 10 that may be used in placement of a set-delayed cement composition
       in accordance with certain embodiments. It should be noted that while FIG. 2A generally depicts a
       land-based operation, those skilled in the art will readily recognize that the principles described
       herein are equally applicable to subsea operations that employ floating or sea-based platforms and
 20    rigs, without departing from the scope of the disclosure. As illustrated by FIG. 2A, the surface
       equipment 10 may include a cementing unit 12, which may include one or more cement trucks. The
       cementing unit 12 may include mixing equipment 2, 3, and 5, and pumping equipment 4 and 6, as
       shown in FIG. I and represented by system I on cement unit 12, as will be apparent to those of
       ordinary skill in the art. The cementing unit 12 may pump a combined set-delayed cement
25     composition 14 through a feed pipe 16 and to a cementing head 18 which conveys the combined
      set-delayed cement composition 14 downhole.
                 [0059] Turning now to FIG. 2B, the combined set-delayed cement composition 14 may be
      placed into a subterranean formation 20 in accordance with example embodiments. As illustrated,
      a wellbore 22 may be drilled into the subterranean formation 20. While wellbore 22 is shown
30    extending generally vertically into the subterranean formation 20, the principles described herein
      are also applicable to wellbores that extend at an angle through the subterranean formation 20, such
      as horizontal and slanted wellbores. As illustrated, the wellbore 22 comprises walls 24. In the
      illustrated embodiment, a surface casing 26 has been inserted into the wellbore 22. The surface
      casing 26 may be cemented to the walls 24 of the wellbore 22 by cement sheath 28. In the illustrated
35    embodiment, one or more additional conduits (e.g., intermediate casing, production casing, liners,
      etc.), shown here as casing 30 may also be disposed in the wellbore 22. As illustrated, there is a
      wellbore annulus 32 formed between the casing 30 and the walls 24 of the wellbore 22 and/or the
                                                          20

WO 2016/053319                                                                          PCT/US2014/058426
         surface casing 26. One or more centralizers 34 may be attached to the casing 30, for example, to
         centralize the casing 30 in the wellbore 22 prior to and during the cementing operation.
                   [0060] With continued reference to FIG. 2B, the combined set-delayed cement
         composition 14 may be pumped down the interior of the casing 30. The combined set-delayed
    5    cement composition 14 may be allowed to flow down the interior of the casing 30 through the
        casing shoe 42 at the bottom of the casing 30 and up around the casing 30 into the wellbore annulus
        32. The combined set-delayed cement composition 14 may be allowed to set in the wellbore annulus
        32, for example, to form a cement sheath that supports and positions the casing 30 in the wellbore
        22. While not illustrated, other techniques may also be utilized for introduction of the combined
  10    set-delayed cement composition 14. By way of example, reverse circulation techniques may be used
        that include introducing the combined set-delayed cement composition 14 into the subterranean
        formation 20 by way of the wellbore annulus 32 instead of through the casing 30.
                  [0061] As it is introduced, the combined set-delayed cement composition 14 may displace
       other fluids 36, such as drilling fluids and/or spacer fluids that may be present in the interior of the
  15   casing 30 and/or the wellbore annulus 32. At least a portion of the displaced fluids 36 may exit the
       wellbore annulus 32 via a flow line 38 and be deposited, for example, in one or more retention pits
       40 (e.g., a mud pit), as shown on FIG. 2A. Referring again to FIG. 2B, a bottom plug 44 may be
       introduced into the wellbore 22 ahead of the combined set-delayed cement composition 14, for
       example, to separate the combined set-delayed cement composition 14 from the fluids 36 that may
 20    be inside the casing 30 prior to cementing. After the bottom plug 44 reaches the landing collar 46,
       a diaphragm or other suitable device should rupture to allow the combined set-delayed cement
       composition 14 through the bottom plug 44. In FIG. 2B, the bottom plug 44 is shown on the landing
       collar 46. In the illustrated embodiment, a top plug 48 may be introduced into the wellbore 22
       behind the combined set-delayed cement composition 14. The top plug 48 may separate the
 25    combined set-delayed cement composition 14 from a displacement fluid 50 and also push the
       combined set-delayed cement composition 14 through the bottom plug 44.
                 [0062] The exemplary set-delayed cement slurries and compositions disclosed herein may
      directly or indirectly affect one or more components or pieces of equipment associated with the
      preparation, delivery, recapture, recycling, reuse, and/or disposal of the disclosed set-delayed
30    cement compositions. For example, the disclosed set-delayed cement slurries and compositions may
      directly or indirectly affect one or more mixers, related mixing equipment, mud pits, storage
      facilities or units, composition separators, heat exchangers, sensors, gauges, pumps, compressors,
      and the like used generate, store, monitor, regulate, and/or recondition the exemplary set-delayed
      cement compositions. The disclosed set-delayed cement slurries and compositions may also directly
35    or indirectly affect any transport or delivery equipment used to convey the set-delayed cement
      slurries and compositions to a well site or downhole such as, for example, any transport vessels,
                                                        21

     WO 2016/053319                                                                                 PCT/US2014/058426
         conduits, pipelines, trucks, tubulars, and/or pipes used to compositionally move the set-delayed
         cement slurries and compositions from one location to another, any pumps, compressors, or motors
         (e.g., topside or downhole) used to drive the set-delayed cement slurries and compositions into
         motion, any valves or related joints used to regulate the pressure or flow rate of the set-delayed
   5     cement slurries and compositions, and any sensors (i.e., pressure and temperature), gauges, and/or
         combinations thereof, and the like. The disclosed set-delayed cement slurries and compositions may
         also directly or indirectly affect the various downhole equipment and tools that may come into
         contact with the set-delayed cement slurries and compositions such as, but not limited to, wellbore
        casing, wellbore liner, completion string, insert strings, drill string, coiled tubing, slickline,
 10     wireline, drill pipe, drill collars, mud motors, downhole motors and/or pumps, cement pumps,
        surface-mounted motors and/or pumps, centralizers, turbolizers, scratchers, floats (e.g., shoes,
        collars,    valves, etc.),   logging tools and related          telemetry   equipment, actuators        (e.g.,
        electromechanical devices, hydromechanical devices, etc.), sliding sleeves, production sleeves,
        plugs, screens, filters, flow control devices (e.g., inflow control devices, autonomous inflow control
 15     devices, outflow control devices, etc.), couplings (e.g., electro-hydraulic wet connect, dry connect,
        inductive coupler, etc.), control lines (e.g., electrical, fiber optic, hydraulic, etc.), surveillance lines,
       drill bits and reamers, sensors or distributed sensors, downhole heat exchangers, valves and
       corresponding actuation devices, tool seals, packers, cement plugs, bridge plugs, and other wellbore
       isolation devices, or components, and the like.
20                                                     EXAMPLES
                  [0063] To facilitate a better understanding of the present claims, the following examples
       of certain aspects of the disclosure are given. In no way should the following examples be read to
       limit, or define, the entire scope of the claims.
                                                        Example I
25                [0064] A combined set-delayed cement composition was prepared from a Slurry A and a
       Slurry B. Slurry A comprised 60% BWoP (by weight of pumice) water, 100% BWoP pumice, 20%
      BWoP hydrated lime, 0.60% BWoP cement retarder, 1.25% BWoP cement co-retarder, 2% BWoP
      dispersant, 0.5% BWoP weighting agent, and 0.035% viscosifier. Slurry B comprised a 40% to
      70% by weight of slurry B (BWoSB) calcium-aluminate cement, 33% to 200% BWoSB water, 1%
30    to 3% BWoSB cement retarder, 1% to 5% BWoSB dispersant, and 0% to 10% BWoSB filler
      material.
                 [0065] Slurry A was prepared in a Waring* blender by adding all of the components and
      blending at a speed of 6000 rpm for 40 seconds to fully homogenize the sample. Slurry B was
      obtained from Kerneos, Inc., Chesapeake, Virginia; as a retarded calcium-aluminate system
                                                           22

WO 2016/053319                                                                         PCT/US2014/058426
       comprising a retarded suspension of calcium-aluminate cement that was 40-70% solids. The
       calculated density of Slurry A was 13.6 pounds per gallon (ppg) and Slurry B was 13.5 ppg.
                [0066] After preparation, the rheological properties of the samples were determined using
       a Model 35A Fann Viscometer and a No. 2 spring with a Fann Yield Stress Adapter (FYSA), in
    5  accordance with the procedure set forth in API RP Practice IOB-2, Recommended Practicefor
       Testing Well Cements. The rheological profile of Slurry A is presented in Table 2 below. The
       rheological profile of slurry B is presented in Table 3 below.
                                                       Table 2
  10                                       Slurry A Rheological Profile
                                                              FYSA Readings
                         3           6         100       200       300        600       3D         6D
           Day   I      11          34         40         52        64        103         3         3
           Day 7         4           5          15        25        34        68          1         1
                                                      Table 3
                                           Slurry B Rheological Profile
                                                             FYSA Readings
                         3           6         100       200       300       600        3D         6D
           Day 1        20          23         49         63        75        114        7          4
          Day 48        19          22        47.5       60.5      72.5       114       5.5        5.5
               [0067] To form the settable combined slurry, Slurry A and Slurry B were mixed together
 15   in eight varying ratios by slowly pouring the smaller portion slurry into the other while blending at
      4000 rpm in a Waring* blender for one minute. The resulting AB compositions (i.e. the combined
      set-delayed cement compositions) were cured in 2" by 4" plastic cylinders that were placed in a
      water bath at 100'F for 24 hours to form set cylinders. Then the destructive compressive strength
      (C.S.) was measured using a mechanical press in accordance with API RP Practice 1OB-2,
 20   Recommended PracticeforTesting Well Cements. The mix-up ratios for all 8 compositions and the
      results of the compressive strength testing are set forth in Table 4 and 5 below. The reported
      compressive strengths are an average for two cylinders of each sample. Compressive strength
      measurements were taken at 24 hours.
25                                                    Table 4
                        Composition AB Mixup and Compressive Strength Analysis
                    Composition #            1             2             3              4
                   Slurry A g (%*)      350.0 (95)     350.0 (85)   350.0 (75)     350.0 (100)
                                                        23

    WO 2016/053319                                                                            PCT/US2014/058426
                     Slurry B g (%*)       18.5 (5)         61.8 (15)      116.7 (25)   0.0 (0)
                     CS24hr at 100'F       DNS**              155 psi        376 psi    DNS**
                          *%= Weight percent of slurry added.
                          **DNS = Did not set.
                                                          Table 5
   5                  Composition AB Mixup and Compressive Strength Analysis Cont.
                     Composition #            5                 6               7           8
                    Slurry A g (%*)        18.5 (5)         61.8 (15)      1 16.7(25)   0.0 (0)
                    Slurry B g (%*)      350.0 (95)        350.0 (85)     350.0 (75)  350.0 (100)
                     CS24h, at 100 F      <50 psi            507 psi         523 psi    DNS**
                         *%= Weight percent of slurry added.
                         **DNS   = Did not set.
                [0068] The results indicate that the addition of Slurry B to Slurry A (i.e. the addition of
      calcium-aluminate cement to the pozzolanic cement) in progressively greater amounts resulted in
 10   progressively greater compressive strengths. Additionally, as shown by AB compositions 4 and 8,
      either slurry in the absence of the other will not set, and the only through the addition of a sufficient
      amount of one slurry with the other, is setting induced.
                                                        Example 2
               [0069] Sample 3 from Example I above, was prepared again to record the compressive
15    strength at an even lower temperature. The composition was cured in a 2" by 4" plastic cylinder at
      room temperature (70'F) for 24 hours to form a set cylinder. Then the destructive compressive
      strength (C.S.) was measured using a mechanical press in accordance with API RP Practice IOB-2,
     Recommended PracticeforTesting Well Cements. The reported compressive strength is an average
     for two cylinders. Compressive strength measurements were taken at 24 hours. The results are
20   presented in Table 6 below.
                                                         Table 6
                         Composition AB Mixup and Compressive Strength Analysis
                                          Composition #                 3
                                          Slurry A g (%*)          350.0 (75)
                                          SlurryBg(%*)             116.7(25)
                                           CS 2 4 h, at 70'F         174 psi
                        *%    Weight percent of slurry added.
                                                           24

WO 2016/053319                                                                           PCT/US2014/058426
                [0070] In comparison to Slurry A alone (i.e. composition #4 from Table 4 above),
       composition #3 was able to set and developed a compressive strength of 174 psi even at the lower
      temperature of 70'F.
   5            [0071] It should be understood that the compositions and methods are described in terms
      of "comprising," "containing," or "including" various components or steps, the compositions and
      methods can also "consist essentially of' or "consist of' the various components and steps.
      Moreover, the indefinite articles "a" or "an," as used in the claims, are defined herein to mean one
      or more than one of the element that it introduces.
  10            [0072] For the sake of brevity, only certain ranges are explicitly disclosed herein.
      However, ranges from any lower limit may be combined with any upper limit to recite a range not
      explicitly recited, as well as, ranges from any lower limit may be combined with any other lower
      limit to recite a range not explicitly recited, in the same way, ranges from any upper limit may be
      combined with any other upper limit to recite a range not explicitly recited. Additionally, whenever
 15   a numerical range with a lower limit and an upper limit is disclosed, any number and any included
      range falling within the range are specifically disclosed. In particular, every range of values (of the
      form, "from about a to about b," or, equivalently, "from approximately a to b," or, equivalently,
      "from approximately a-b") disclosed herein is to be understood to set forth every number and range
      encompassed within the broader range of values even if not explicitly recited. Thus, every point or
 20   individual value may serve as its own lower or upper limit combined with any other point or
      individual value or any other lower or upper limit, to recite a range not explicitly recited.
               [0073] Therefore, the present embodiments are well adapted to attain the ends and
     advantages mentioned as well as those that are inherent therein.            The particular embodiments
     disclosed above are illustrative only, and may be modified and practiced in different but equivalent
 25  manners apparent to those skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings herein. Although
     individual embodiments are discussed, the disclosure covers all combinations of all of the
     embodiments. Furthermore, no limitations are intended to the details of construction or design
     herein shown, other than as described in the claims below. Also, the terms in the claims have their
     plain, ordinary meaning unless otherwise explicitly and clearly defined by the patentee.            It is
30   therefore evident that the particular illustrative embodiments disclosed above may be altered or
     modified and all such variations are considered within the scope and spirit of those embodiments.
     If there is any conflict in the usages of a word or term in this specification and one or more patent(s)
     or other documents that may be incorporated herein by reference, the definitions that are consistent
     with this specification should be adopted.
                                                         25

   The claims defining the invention are as follows:
            1.      A cement composition comprising:
                    a pozzolanic cement and/or a Portland cement,
                    a calcium-aluminate cement,
 5                  water,
                    a first cement set retarder, and
                    a second cement set retarder.
            2.      A cement composition according to claim 1, wherein the cement composition
10 comprises the pozzolanic cement and wherein the pozzolanic cement is selected from the
   group consisting of fly ash, silica fume, metakaolin, pumice, and any combination thereof.
            3.      A cement composition according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the cement
   composition further comprises a dispersant.
15
            4.      A cement composition according to claim 3, wherein the dispersant comprises
   at least one dispersant selected from the group consisting of a sulfonated-formaldehyde-based
   dispersant, a polycarboxylated ether dispersant, and any combination thereof.
20          5.      A cement composition according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein at least
   one of the first cement set retarder or the second cement set retarder is selected from the group
   consisting of a phosphonic acid, a phosphonic acid derivative, a lignosulfonate, a salt, an
   organic acid, a carboxymethylated hydroxyethylated cellulose, a synthetic co- or ter-polymer
   comprising sulfonate and carboxylic acid groups, a borate compound, and any combination
25 thereof.
            6.      A cement composition according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the
   cement composition further comprises a lithium salt.
                                                     26

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
