ABSTRACT
An analyte monitoring system is disclosed, comprising: an analyte sensor configured for fluid
contact with bodily fluid under a skin layer for a monitoring time period; an on body unit
operatively coupled to the analyte sensor, the on body unit receiving analyte related signals
from the analyte sensor and storing the analyte related signals in a memory until a data transfer
request is received, the on body unit transmitting a unique identifier associated with the analyte
sensor and analyte related data, in a single batch transmission, in response to the data transfer
request; and a receiver device including a processor, the receiver device providing the data
transfer request, and further receiving from the on body unit the analyte related data and the
unique identifier in response to the data transfer request; wherein the memory includes
sufficient capacity to store data acquired over the monitoring time period; wherein the on body
unit transmits the analyte related signals only in response to the data transfer request; and
wherein the on body unit is not configured to support real time continuous data communication
during the monitoring time period.

                                                -1
                                      HEALTH MONITOR
                   CROSS REFERENCES(S) TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        This application is a divisional of Australian patent application no. 2015275271, the
entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                             PRIORITY
        The present application claims priority to U.S. provisional application no. 60/945 ,581
filed June 21 , 2007, entitled "Health Monitor," the disclosure of which is incorporated by
reference for all purposes.
                                          BACKGROUND
        The detection of the level of analytes, such as glucose, lactate, oxygen, and the like, in
certain individuals is vitally important to their health. For example, the monitoring of glucose is
particularly important to individuals with diabetes. Diabetics may need to monitor glucose
levels to determine when insulin is needed to reduce glucose levels in their bodies or when
additional glucose is needed to raise the level of glucose in their bodies.
        Accordingly, of interest are devices, system and methods that allow a user to test for
one or more analytes.
SUMMARY
        According to a first aspect, the present invention provides an analyte monitoring
system, comprising: an analyte sensor configured for fluid contact with bodily fluid under a
skin layer for a monitoring time period; an on body unit operatively coupled to the analyte
sensor, the on body unit receiving analyte related signals from the analyte sensor and storing
the analyte related signals in a memory until a data transfer request is received, the on body unit
transmitting a unique identifier associated with the analyte sensor and analyte related data, in a
single batch transmission, in response to the data transfer request; and a receiver device
including a processor, the receiver device providing the data transfer request, and further
receiving from the on body unit the analyte related data and the unique identifier in response to
the data transfer request; wherein the memory includes sufficient capacity to store data
acquired over the monitoring time period; wherein the on body unit transmits the analyte
related signals only in response to the data transfer request; and wherein the on body unit is not
configured to support real time continuous data communication during the monitoring time
period.

                                              -IA
        Also disclosed herein are enhanced in vitro analyte meters and systems which are
enhanced with in vivo continuous analyte monitoring functionality. The descriptions herein
describe in vitro analyte glucose meters primarily as in vitro blood glucose ("BG") meters and
in vivo continuous analyte system primarily as in vivo continuous glucose ("CG") monitoring
devices and systems, for convenience only. Such descriptions are in no way intended to limit
the scope of the disclosure in any way.
        Accordingly, BG meters and systems having high levels of functionality are provided.
Each BG or CG system may accept and process data from its own respective system and/or
from another system, e.g., a BG system may accept and process CG system data, or vice versa.
Embodiments enable CG data to be provided to a user by way of a BG meter.
        Embodiments may be useful to users who may require conventional blood glucose BG
data most of the time, but who may have a periodic need for CG data. One way this problem
has been addressed in the past is to provide the user with both a

                                            -2
BG meter and a CG system. However, this has the disadvantage of cost because a CG
system may be more expensive than a BG meter, and increased training as the user
must learn how to use two meters - a BG meter for normal use and a CG meter for
those times when CG data is required.
        Embodiments herein may be appropriate for Type I and Type II diabetics,
other patients experiencing diabetic conditions, or patients in post surgery recovery
period.
        Also provided are devices, methods and kits.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
        FIG. 1 shows a block diagram of an embodiment of a data monitoring and
management system according to the present disclosure;
        FIG. 2 shows a block diagram of an embodiment of the transmitter unit of the
data monitoring and management system of FIG. 1;
        FIG. 3 shows a block diagram of an embodiment of the receiver/monitor unit
of the data monitoring and management system of FIG. 1;
        FIG. 4 shows a schematic diagram of an embodiment of an analyte sensor
according to the present disclosure;
        FIGS. 5A-5B show a perspective view and a cross sectional view, respectively
of another embodiment an analyte sensor;
        FIG. 6 shows an exemplary embodiment of a system that includes a CG Data
Logger (for example, including a data storage device or memory) and an enhanced
BG meter, in which the CG Data Logger is capable of transferring CG data obtained
by a CG analyte sensor positioned at least partially beneath a skin surface of a user to
the enhanced BG meter;
        FIG. 7 shows an exemplary embodiment of a Modular System that includes a
CG unit having a transmitter, data transfer module and enhanced BG meter, in which
the CG unit is capable of wirelessly transferring data obtained by a CG analyte sensor
positioned at least partially beneath a skin surface of a user to the enhanced BG meter
by way of the data transfer module;
        FIG. 8 shows an exemplary embodiment of an integrated system that includes
an enhanced BG meter and a CG unit having a transmitter, in which the CG unit is

                                             -3
capable of transferring CG data obtained by a CG analyte sensor positioned at least
partially beneath a skin surface of a user to the enhanced BG meter in real time;
         FIG. 9 shows an exemplary embodiment of a system which includes a BG
meter and a docking unit, herein shown configured as a belt holster;
         FIGS. 10A-10C show exemplary embodiments of glucose test strips that may
be used with the enhanced systems described herein; and
         FIGS. 11 A-1 1C show exemplary BG meters.
                               DETAILED DESCRIPTION
         Before the present disclosure is described, it is to be understood that this
disclosure is not limited to particular embodiments described, as such may, of course,
vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of
describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting, since the
scope of the present disclosure will be limited only by the appended claims.
         Where a range of values is provided, it is understood that each intervening
value, to the tenth of the unit of the lower limit unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise, between the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or
intervening value in that stated range, is encompassed within the disclosure. The
upper and lower limits of these smaller ranges may independently be included in the
smaller ranges is also encompassed within the disclosure, subject to any specifically
excluded limit in the stated range. Where the stated range includes one or both of the
limits, ranges excluding either or both of those included limits are also included in the
disclosure.
         It must be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims, the singular
forms a      "an", and "the" include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates
otherwise.
         As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure,
each of the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete
components and features which may be readily separated from or combined with the
features of any of the other several embodiments without departing from the scope or
spirit of the present disclosure.

                                                -4
        The figures shown herein are not necessarily drawn to scale, with some
components and features being exaggerated for clarity.
        Embodiments include devices which allow diabetic patients to measure the
blood (or other bodily fluid) glucose levels, e.g., hand-held electronic meters (blood
glucose meters), e.g., such as Freestyle® or Precision® blood glucose monitoring
systems available from Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc., of Alameda, California (and the
like) which receives blood samples via enzyme-based test strips. Typically, a user
inserts a test strip into a meter and lances a finger or alternate body site to obtain a
blood sample. The drawn sample is applied to the test strip and the meter reads the
strip and determines analyte concentration, which is then conveyed to the user. For
example, the blood glucose meter converts a current generated by the enzymatic
reaction in the test strip to a corresponding blood glucose value which is displayed or
otherwise provided to the patient to show the level of glucose at the time of testing.
         Such periodic discrete glucose testing helps diabetic patients to take any
necessary corrective actions to better manage diabetic conditions.
        Test strips may be adapted to measure the concentration of an analyte in any
volume of sample, including but not limited to small volumes of sample, e.g., about 1
microliter or less sample, for example about 0.5 microliters or less, for example about
0.3 microliters or less, for example about 0.1 microliters or less. In some
embodiments, the volume of sample may be as low as about 0.05 microliters or as low
as about 0.03 microliters. Strips may be configures so that an accurate analyte
measurement may be obtained using a volume of sample that wholly or partially fills
a sample chamber of a strip. In certain embodiments, a test may only start when
sufficient sample has been applied to a strip, e.g., as detected by a detector such as an
electrode. A system may be programmed to allow re-application of additional sample
if insufficient sample is firstly applied, e.g., the time to reapply sample may range
from about 10 seconds to about 2 minutes, e.g., from about 30 seconds to about 60
seconds.
         Strips may be side fill, front fill, top fill or corner fill, or any combination
thereof. Test strips may be calibration-free, e.g., minimal input (if any) is required of
a user to calibrate. In certain embodiments, no calibration test strips may be

                                              -5
employed. In such embodiments, the user need not take any action for calibration, i.e.,
calibration is invisible to a user.
         As noted above, strips are used with meters. In certain embodiments, meters
may be integrated meters, i.e., a device which has at least one strip and at least a
second element, such as a meter and/or a skin piercing element such as a lancet or the
like, in the device. In some embodiments, a strip may be integrated with both a meter
and a lancet, e.g., in a single housing. Having multiple elements together in one
device reduces the number of devices needed to obtain an analyte level and facilitates
the sampling process. For example, embodiments may include a housing that includes
one or more analyte test strips, a skin piercing element and a processor for
determining the concentration of an analyte in a sample applied to the strip. A
plurality of strips may be retained in a magazine in the housing interior and, upon
actuation by a user, a single strip may be dispensed from the magazine so that at least
a portion extends out of the housing for use.
         Test strips may be short test time test strips. For example, test times may range
from about 1 second to about 20 seconds, e.g., from about 3 seconds to about 10
seconds, e.g., from about 3 seconds to about 7 seconds, e.g., about 5 seconds or about
3 seconds.
         Exemplary meters and test strips and using the same are shown in FIGS. 1OA
1OC and liA-lIC.
         Embodiments include analyte monitoring devices and systems that include an
analyte sensor- at least a portion of which is positionable beneath the skin of the user
for the in vivo detection, of at least one analyte, such as glucose, lactate, and the like,
in a body fluid. Such in vivo sensors are generally referred to herein as in vivo
sensors/systems and/or continuous sensors/systems, where such are used
interchangeably unless indicated otherwise. Embodiments include wholly implantable
analyte sensors and analyte sensors in which only a portion of the sensor is positioned
under the skin and a portion of the sensor resides above the skin, e.g., for contact to a
transmitter, receiver, transceiver, processor, etc. The sensor may be, for example,
subcutaneously positionable in a patient for the continuous or periodic monitoring of a
level of an analyte in a patient's interstitial fluid. For the purposes of this description,
continuous monitoring and periodic monitoring will be used interchangeably, unless

                                              -6
noted otherwise. The sensor response may be correlated and/or converted to analyte
levels in blood or other fluids. In certain embodiments, an analyte sensor may be
positioned in contact with interstitial fluid to detect the level of glucose, which
detected glucose may be used to infer the glucose level in the patient's bloodstream.
Analyte sensors may be insertable into a vein, artery, or other portion of the body
containing fluid. Embodiments of the analyte sensors of the subject disclosure may be
configured for monitoring the level of the analyte over a time period which may range
from minutes, hours, days, weeks, or longer. Analyte sensors that do not require
contact with bodily fluid are also contemplated.
        Of interest are analyte sensors, such as glucose sensors, that are capable of in
vivo detection of an analyte for about one hour or more, e.g., about a few hours or
more, e.g., about a few days of more, e.g., about three or more days, e.g., about five
days or more, e.g., about seven days or more, e.g., about several weeks or at least one
month. Future analyte levels may be predicted based on information obtained, e.g.,
the current analyte level at time to, the rate of change of the analyte, etc. Predictive
alarms may notify the user of a predicted analyte levels that may be of concern in
advance of the user's analyte level reaching the future level. This provides the user an
opportunity to take corrective action.
        FIG. 1 shows a data monitoring and management system such as, for example,
an analyte (e.g., glucose) monitoring system 100 in accordance with certain
embodiments. Embodiments of the subject disclosure are further described primarily
with respect to glucose monitoring devices and systems, and methods of glucose
detection, for convenience only and such description is in no way intended to limit the
scope of the disclosure. It is to be understood that the analyte monitoring system may
be configured to monitor a variety of analytes at the same time or at different times.
        Analytes that may be monitored include, but are not limited to, acetyl choline,
amylase, bilirubin, cholesterol, chorionic gonadotropin, creatine kinase (e.g., CK
MB), creatine, creatinine, DNA, fructosamine, glucose, glutamine, growth hormones,
hormones, ketone bodies, lactate, peroxide, prostate-specific antigen, prothrombin,
RNA, thyroid stimulating hormone, and troponin. The concentration of drugs, such as,
for example, antibiotics (e.g., gentamicin, vancomycin, and the like), digitoxin,
digoxin, drugs of abuse, theophylline, and warfarin, may also be monitored. In those

                                           -7
embodiments that monitor more than one analyte, the analytes may be monitored at
the same or different times.
        The analyte monitoring system 100 includes a sensor 101, a data processing
unit 102 connectable to the sensor 101, and a primary receiver unit 104 which is
configured to communicate with the data processing unit 102 via a communication
link 103. In certain embodiments, the primary receiver unit 104 may be further
configured to transmit data to a data processing terminal 105 to evaluate or otherwise
process or format data received by the primary receiver unit 104. The data processing
terminal 105 may be configured to receive data directly from the data processing unit
102 via a communication link which may optionally be configured for bi-directional
communication. Further, the data processing unit 102 may include a transmitter or a
transceiver to transmit and/or receive data to and/or from the primary receiver unit
104 and/or the data processing terminal 105 and/or optionally the secondary receiver
unit 106.
        Also shown in FIG. 1 is an optional secondary receiver unit 106 which is
operatively coupled to the communication link and configured to receive data
transmitted from the data processing unit 102. The secondary receiver unit 106 may
be configured to communicate with the primary receiver unit 104, as well as the data
processing terminal 105. The secondary receiver unit 106 may be configured for bi
directional wireless communication with each of the primary receiver unit 104 and the
data processing terminal 105. As discussed in further detail below, in certain
embodiments the secondary receiver unit 106 may be a de-featured receiver as
compared to the primary receiver, i.e., the secondary receiver may include a limited or
minimal number of functions and features as compared with the primary receiver unit
104. As such, the secondary receiver unit 106 may include a smaller (in one or more,
including all, dimensions), compact housing or embodied in a device such as a wrist
watch, arm band, etc., for example. Alternatively, the secondary receiver unit 106
may be configured with the same or substantially similar functions and features as the
primary receiver unit 104. The secondary receiver unit 106 may include a docking
portion to be mated with a docking cradle unit for placement by, e.g., the bedside for
night time monitoring, and/or a bi-directional communication device. A docking
cradle may recharge a powers supply.

                                             -8
         Only one sensor 101, data processing unit or control unit 102 and data
processing terminal 105 are shown in the embodiment of the analyte monitoring
system 100 illustrated in FIG. 1. However, it will be appreciated by one of ordinary
skill in the art that the analyte monitoring system 100 may include more than one
sensor 101 and/or more than one data processing unit 102, and/or more than one data
processing terminal 105. Multiple sensors may be positioned in a patient for analyte
monitoring at the same or different times. In certain embodiments, analyte
information obtained by a first positioned sensor may be employed as a comparison to
analyte information obtained by a second sensor. This may be useful to confirm or
validate analyte information obtained from one or both of the sensors. Such
redundancy may be useful if analyte information is contemplated in critical therapy
related decisions. In certain embodiments, a first sensor may be used to calibrate a
second sensor.
         The analyte monitoring system 100 may be a continuous monitoring system,
or semi-continuous, or a discrete monitoring system. In a multi-component
environment, each component may be configured to be uniquely identified by one or
more of the other components in the system so that communication conflict may be
readily resolved between the various components within the analyte monitoring
system 100. For example, unique IDs, communication channels, and the like, may be
used.
         In certain embodiments, the sensor 101 is physically positioned in or on the
body of a user whose analyte level is being monitored. The sensor 101 may be
configured to at least periodically sample the analyte level of the user and convert the
sampled analyte level into a corresponding signal for transmission by the data
processing unit 102. The data processing unit 102 is coupleable to the sensor 101 so
that both devices are positioned in or on the user's body, with at least a portion of the
analyte sensor 101 positioned transcutaneously. The data processing unit may include
a fixation element such as adhesive or the like to secure it to the user's body. A mount
(not shown) attachable to the user and mateable with the unit 102 may be used. For
example, a mount may include an adhesive surface. The data processing unit 102
performs data processing functions, where such functions may include but are not
limited to, amplification, filtering and encoding of data signals, each of which

                                           -9
corresponds to a sampled analyte level of the user, for transmission to the primary
receiver unit 104 via the communication link 103. In one embodiment, the sensor 101
or the data processing unit 102 or a combined sensor/data processing unit may be
wholly implantable under the skin layer of the user.
        In certain embodiments, the primary receiver unit 104 may include an analog
interface section including an RF receiver and an antenna that is configured to
communicate with the data processing unit 102 via the communication link 103, and a
data processing section for processing the received data from the data processing unit
102 such as data decoding, error detection and correction, data clock generation, data
bit recovery, etc., or any combination thereof.
        In operation, the primary receiver unit 104 in certain embodiments is
configured to synchronize with the data processing unit 102 to uniquely identify the
data processing unit 102, based on, for example, an identification information of the
data processing unit 102, and thereafter, to periodically receive signals transmitted
from the data processing unit 102 associated with the monitored analyte levels
detected by the sensor 101.
        Referring again to FIG. 1, the data processing terminal 105 may include a
personal computer, a portable computer such as a laptop or a handheld device (e.g.,
personal digital assistants (PDAs), telephone such as a cellular phone (e.g., a
multimedia and Internet-enabled mobile phone such as an iPhone or similar phone),
mp3 player, pager, and the like), drug delivery device, each of which may be
configured for data communication with the receiver via a wired or a wireless
connection. Additionally, the data processing terminal 105 may further be connected
to a data network (not shown) for storing, retrieving, updating, and/or analyzing data
corresponding to the detected analyte level of the user.
        The data processing terminal 105 may include an infusion device such as an
insulin infusion pump or the like, which may be configured to administer insulin to
patients, and which may be configured to communicate with the primary receiver unit
104 for receiving, among others, the measured analyte level. Alternatively, the
primary receiver unit 104 may be configured to integrate an infusion device therein so
that the primary receiver unit 104 is configured to administer insulin (or other
appropriate drug) therapy to patients, for example, for administering and modifying

                                           -10
basal profiles, as well as for determining appropriate boluses for administration based
on, among others, the detected analyte levels received from the data processing unit
102. An infusion device may be an external device or an internal device (wholly
implantable in a user).
        In certain embodiments, the data processing terminal 105, which may include
an insulin pump, may be configured to receive the analyte signals from the data
processing unit 102, and thus, incorporate the functions of the primary receiver unit
104 including data processing for managing the patient's insulin therapy and analyte
monitoring. In certain embodiments, the communication link 103 as well as one or
more of the other communication interfaces shown in FIG. 1, may use one or more of:
an RF communication protocol, an infrared communication protocol, a Bluetooth
enabled communication protocol, an 802.11 x wireless communication protocol, or an
equivalent wireless communication protocol which would allow secure, wireless
communication of several units (for example, per HIPPA requirements), while
avoiding potential data collision and interference.
        FIG. 2 shows a block diagram of an embodiment of a data processing unit of
the data monitoring and detection system shown in FIG. 1. User input and/or
interface components may be included or a data processing unit may be free of user
input and/or interface components. In certain embodiments, one or more application
specific integrated circuits (ASIC) may be used to implement one or more functions
or routines associated with the operations of the data processing unit (and/or receiver
unit) using for example one or more state machines and buffers. The processor shown
in FIG. 2 may be equipped with sufficient memory to store the data of interest (such
as analyte data) for extended periods of time ranging from one to several samples to
the number of samples obtained for an entire wear period of several days to weeks. In
one aspect, the memory may be included as part of the processor 204. In another
embodiment, a separate memory unit such as a memory chip, random access memory
(RAM) or any other storage device for storing for subsequent retrieval data. For
example, as shown, the data processing unit may include a storage unit 215 operative
coupled to the processor 204, and configured to store the analyte data received, for
example, from the sensor 101 (FIG. 1). In one aspect, the storage unit 215 may be
configured to store a large volume of data received over a predetermined time period

                                           -11
from the sensor, and, the processor 204 may be configured to, for example, transmit
the stored analyte sensor data in a batch mode, for example, after collecting and
storing over a defined time period in a single or multiple data transmission. In
another aspect, the processor 204 may be configured such that the received analyte
sensor data is e transmitted in real time, when received from the analyte sensor.
         Also, the processor 204 may be configured to anticipate or wait for a receipt
confirmation signal from the recipient of the data transmission (for example, the
receiver unit 104 FIG. 1), where when the signal receipt confirmation signal is not
received, the processor 204 of the data processing unit 102 may be configured to
retrieve the stored analyte sensor data and retransmit it to the receiver unit 104, for
example.
         As can be seen in the embodiment of FIG. 2, the sensor unit 101 (FIG. 1)
includes four contacts, three of which are electrodes - work electrode (W) 210,
reference electrode (R) 212, and counter electrode (C) 213, each operatively coupled
to the analog interface 201 of the data processing unit 102. This embodiment also
shows optional guard contact (G) 211. Fewer or greater electrodes may be employed.
For example, the counter and reference electrode functions may be served by a single
counter/reference electrode, there may be more than one working electrode and/or
reference electrode and/or counter electrode, etc.
         FIG. 3 is a block diagram of an embodiment of a receiver/monitor unit such as
the primary receiver unit 104 of the data monitoring and management system shown
in FIG. 1. The primary receiver unit 104 includes one or more of: a blood glucose test
strip interface 301, an RF receiver 302, an input 303, a temperature detection section
304, and a clock 305, each of which is operatively coupled to a processing and storage
section 307. The primary receiver unit 104 also includes a power supply 306
operatively coupled to a power conversion and monitoring section 308. Further, the
power conversion and monitoring section 308 is also coupled to the receiver processor
307. Moreover, also shown are a receiver serial communication section 309, and an
output 310, each operatively coupled to the processing and storage unit 307. The
receiver may include user input and/or interface components or may be free of user
input and/or interface components.

                                             -12
         In certain embodiments, the test strip interface 301 includes a glucose level
testing portion to receive a blood (or other body fluid sample) glucose test or
information related thereto. For example, the interface may include a test strip port to
receive a glucose test strip. The device may determine the glucose level of the test
strip, and optionally display (or otherwise notice) the glucose level on the output 310
of the primary receiver unit 104. Any suitable test strip may be employed, e.g., test
strips that only require a very small amount (e.g., one microliter or less, e.g., 0.5
microliter or less, e.g., 0.1 microliter or less), of applied sample to the strip in order to
obtain accurate glucose information, e.g. FreeStyle@ blood glucose test strips from
Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc. Glucose information obtained by the in vitro glucose
testing device may be used for a variety of purposes, computations, etc. For
example, the information may be used to calibrate sensor 101, confirm results of the
sensor 101 to increase the confidence thereof (e.g., in instances in which information
obtained by sensor 101 is employed in therapy related decisions), etc.
         In further embodiments, the data processing unit 102 and/or the primary
receiver unit 104 and/or the secondary receiver unit 105, and/or the data processing
terminal/infusion section 105 may be configured to receive the blood glucose value
wirelessly over a communication link from, for example, a blood glucose meter. In
further embodiments, a user manipulating or using the analyte monitoring system 100
(FIG. 1) may manually input the blood glucose value using, for example, a user
interface (for example, a keyboard, keypad, voice commands, and the like)
incorporated in the one or more of the data processing unit 102, the primary receiver
unit 104, secondary receiver unit 105, or the data processing terminal/infusion section
105.
         Additional detailed description of embodiments of test strips, blood glucose
(BG) meters and continuous monitoring systems and data management systems that
may be employed are provided in but not limited to: US Patent No. 6,175,752; US
Patent No. 6,560,471; US Patent No. US Patent No. 5,262,035; US Patent No.
6,881,551; US Patent No. 6,121,009; US Patent No. 7,167,818; US Patent No.
6,270,455; US Patent No. 6,161,095; US Patent No. 5,918,603; US Patent No.
6,144,837; US Patent No. 5,601,435; US Patent No. 5,822,715; US Patent No.
5,899,855; US Patent No. 6,071,391; US Patent No. 6,120,676; US Patent No.

                                            -13
6,143,164; US Patent No. 6,299,757; US Patent No. 6,338,790; US Patent No.
6,377,894; US Patent No. 6,600,997; US Patent No. 6,773,671; US Patent No.
6,514,460; US Patent No. 6,592,745; US Patent No. 5,628,890; US Patent No.
5,820,551; US Patent No. 6,736,957; US Patent No. 4,545,382; US Patent No.
4,711,245; US Patent No. 5,509,410; US Patent No. 6,540,891; US Patent No.
6,730,200; US Patent No. 6,764,581; US Patent No. 6,299,757; US Patent No.
6,461,496; US Patent No. 6,503,381; US Patent No. 6,591,125; US Patent No.
6,616,819; US Patent No. 6,618,934; US Patent No. 6,676,816; US Patent No.
6,749,740; US Patent No. 6,893,545; US Patent No. 6,942,518; US Patent No.
6,514,718; US Patent application no. 10/745,878 filed December 26, 2003 entitled
"Continuous Glucose Monitoring System and Methods of Use", and elsewhere, the
disclosures of each which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
         FIG. 4 schematically shows an embodiment of an analyte sensor in accordance
with the present disclosure. This sensor embodiment includes electrodes 401, 402 and
403 on a base 404. Electrodes (and/or other features) may be applied or otherwise
processed using any suitable technology, e.g., chemical vapor deposition (CVD),
physical vapor deposition, sputtering, reactive sputtering, printing, coating, ablating
(e.g., laser ablation), painting, dip coating, etching, and the like. Materials include but
are not limited to aluminum, carbon (such as graphite), cobalt, copper, gallium, gold,
indium, iridium, iron, lead, magnesium, mercury (as an amalgam), nickel, niobium,
osmium, palladium, platinum, rhenium, rhodium, selenium, silicon (e.g., doped
polycrystalline silicon), silver, tantalum, tin, titanium, tungsten, uranium, vanadium,
zinc, zirconium, mixtures thereof, and alloys, oxides, or metallic compounds of these
elements.
         The sensor may be wholly implantable in a user or may be configured so that
only a portion is positioned within (internal) a user and another portion outside
(external) a user. For example, the sensor 400 may include a portion positionable
above a surface of the skin 410, and a portion positioned below the skin. In such
embodiments, the external portion may include contacts (connected to respective
electrodes of the second portion by traces) to connect to another device also external
to the user such as a transmitter unit. While the embodiment of FIG. 4 shows three
electrodes side-by-side on the same surface of base 404, other configurations are

                                             -14
contemplated, e.g., fewer or greater electrodes, some or all electrodes on different
surfaces of the base or present on another base, some or all electrodes stacked
together, electrodes of differing materials and dimensions, etc.
         FIG. 5A shows a perspective view of an embodiment of an electrochemical
analyte sensor 500 having a first portion (which in this embodiment may be
characterized as a major portion) positionable above a surface of the skin 510, and a
second portion (which in this embodiment may be characterized as a minor portion)
that includes an insertion tip 530 positionable below the skin, e.g., penetrating through
the skin and into, e.g., the subcutaneous space 520, in contact with the user's biofluid
such as interstitial fluid. Contact portions of a working electrode 501, a reference
electrode 502, and a counter electrode 503 are positioned on the portion of the sensor
500 situated above the skin surface 510. Working electrode 501, a reference electrode
502, and a counter electrode 503 are shown at the second section and particularly at
the insertion tip 530. Traces may be provided from the electrode at the tip to the
contact, as shown in FIG. 5A. It is to be understood that greater or fewer electrodes
may be provided on a sensor. For example, a sensor may include more than one
working electrode and/or the counter and reference electrodes may be a single
counter/reference electrode, etc.
         FIG. 5B shows a cross sectional view of a portion of the sensor 500 of FIG.
5A. The electrodes 510, 502 and 503, of the sensor 500 as well as the substrate and
the dielectric layers are provided in a layered configuration or construction. For
example, as shown in FIG. 5B, in one aspect, the sensor 500 (such as the sensor unit
101 FIG. 1), includes a substrate layer 504, and a first conducting layer 501 such as
carbon, gold, etc., disposed on at least a portion of the substrate layer 504, and which
may provide the working electrode. Also shown disposed on at least a portion of the
first conducting layer 501 is a sensing layer 508.
         A first insulation layer such as a first dielectric layer 505 is disposed or
layered on at least a portion of the first conducting layer 501, and further, a second
conducting layer 509 may be disposed or stacked on top of at least a portion of the
first insulation layer (or dielectric layer) 505. As shown in FIG. 5B, the second
conducting layer 509 may provide the reference electrode 502, and in one aspect, may
include a layer of silver/silver chloride (Ag/AgCl), gold, etc.

                                             -15
         A second insulation layer 506 such as a dielectric layer in one embodiment
may be disposed or layered on at least a portion of the second conducting layer 509.
Further, a third conducting layer 503 may provide the counter electrode 503. It may
be disposed on at least a portion of the second insulation layer 506. Finally, a third
insulation layer may be disposed or layered on at least a portion of the third
conducting layer 503. In this manner, the sensor 500 may be layered such that at least
a portion of each of the conducting layers is separated by a respective insulation layer
(for example, a dielectric layer). The embodiment of FIGS. 5A and 5B show the
layers having different lengths. Some or all of the layers may have the same or
different lengths and/or widths.
         In certain embodiments, some or all of the electrodes 501, 502, 503 may be
provided on the same side of the substrate 504 in the layered construction as described
above, or alternatively, may be provided in a co-planar manner such that two or more
electrodes may be positioned on the same plane (e.g., side-by side (e.g., parallel) or
angled relative to each other) on the substrate 504. For example, co-planar electrodes
may include a suitable spacing there between and/or include dielectric material or
insulation material disposed between the conducting layers/electrodes. Furthermore,
in certain embodiments one or more of the electrodes 501, 502, 503 may be disposed
on opposing sides of the substrate 504. In such embodiments, contact pads may be
one the same or different sides of the substrate. For example, an electrode may be on a
first side and its respective contact may be on a second side, e.g., a trace connecting
the electrode and the contact may traverse through the substrate.
         As noted above, analyte sensors may include an analyte-responsive enzyme to
provide a sensing component or sensing layer. Some analytes, such as oxygen, can be
directly electrooxidized or electroreduced on a sensor, and more specifically at least
on a working electrode of a sensor. Other analytes, such as glucose and lactate,
require the presence of at least one electron transfer agent and/or at least one catalyst
to facilitate the electrooxidation or electroreduction of the analyte. Catalysts may also
be used for those analyte, such as oxygen, that can be directly electrooxidized or
electroreduced on the working electrode. For these analytes, each working electrode
includes a sensing layer (see for example sensing layer 408 of FIG. 5B) proximate to
or on a surface of a working electrode. In many embodiments, a sensing layer is

                                            -16
formed near or on only a small portion of at least a working electrode.
        The sensing layer includes one or more components designed to facilitate the
electrochemical oxidation or reduction of the analyte. The sensing layer may include,
for example, a catalyst to catalyze a reaction of the analyte and produce a response at
the working electrode, an electron transfer agent to transfer electrons between the
analyte and the working electrode (or other component), or both.
        A variety of different sensing layer configurations may be used. In certain
embodiments, the sensing layer is deposited on the conductive material of a working
electrode. The sensing layer may extend beyond the conductive material of the
working electrode. In some cases, the sensing layer may also extend over other
electrodes, e.g., over the counter electrode and/or reference electrode (or
counter/reference is provided).
        A sensing layer that is in direct contact with the working electrode may
contain an electron transfer agent to transfer electrons directly or indirectly between
the analyte and the working electrode, and/or a catalyst to facilitate a reaction of the
analyte. For example, a glucose, lactate, or oxygen electrode may be formed having a
sensing layer which contains a catalyst, such as glucose oxidase, lactate oxidase, or
laccase, respectively, and an electron transfer agent that facilitates the
electrooxidation of the glucose, lactate, or oxygen, respectively.
        In other embodiments the sensing layer is not deposited directly on the
working electrode. Instead, the sensing layer 64 may be spaced apart from the
working electrode, and separated from the working electrode, e.g., by a separation
layer. A separation layer may include one or more membranes or films or a physical
distance. In addition to separating the working electrode from the sensing layer the
separation layer may also act as a mass transport limiting layer and/or an interferent
eliminating layer and/or a biocompatible layer.
        In certain embodiments which include more than one working electrode, one
or more of the working electrodes may not have a corresponding sensing layer, or
may have a sensing layer which does not contain one or more components (e.g., an
electron transfer agent and/or catalyst) needed to electrolyze the analyte. Thus, the
signal at this working electrode may correspond to background signal which may be
removed from the analyte signal obtained from one or more other working electrodes

                                            -17
that are associated with fully-functional sensing layers by, for example, subtracting
the signal.
         In certain embodiments, the sensing layer includes one or more electron
transfer agents. Electron transfer agents that may be employed are electroreducible
and electrooxidizable ions or molecules having redox potentials that are a few
hundred millivolts above or below the redox potential of the standard calomel
electrode (SCE). The electron transfer agent may be organic, organometallic, or
inorganic. Examples of organic redox species are quinones and species that in their
oxidized state have quinoid structures, such as Nile blue and indophenol. Examples of
organometallic redox species are metallocenes such as ferrocene. Examples of
inorganic redox species are hexacyanoferrate (III), ruthenium hexamine etc.
         In certain embodiments, electron transfer agents have structures or charges
which prevent or substantially reduce the diffusional loss of the electron transfer agent
during the period of time that the sample is being analyzed. For example, electron
transfer agents include but are not limited to a redox species, e.g., bound to a polymer
which can in turn be disposed on or near the working electrode. The bond between the
redox species and the polymer may be covalent, coordinative, or ionic. Although any
organic, organometallic or inorganic redox species may be bound to a polymer and
used as an electron transfer agent, in certain embodiments the redox species is a
transition metal compound or complex, e.g., osmium, ruthenium, iron, and cobalt
compounds or complexes. It will be recognized that many redox species described for
use with a polymeric component may also be used, without a polymeric component.
         One type of polymeric electron transfer agent contains a redox species
covalently bound in a polymeric composition. An example of this type of mediator is
poly(vinylferrocene). Another type of electron transfer agent contains an ionically
bound redox species. This type of mediator may include a charged polymer coupled to
an oppositely charged redox species. Examples of this type of mediator include a
negatively charged polymer coupled to a positively charged redox species such as an
osmium or ruthenium polypyridyl cation. Another example of an ionically-bound
mediator is a positively charged polymer such as quaternized poly(4-vinyl pyridine)
or poly(1-vinyl imidazole) coupled to a negatively charged redox species such as
ferricyanide or ferrocyanide. In other embodiments, electron transfer agents include a

                                           -18
redox species coordinatively bound to a polymer. For example, the mediator may be
formed by coordination of an osmium or cobalt 2,2'-bipyridyl complex to poly(1-vinyl
imidazole) or poly(4-vinyl pyridine).
        Suitable electron transfer agents are osmium transition metal complexes with
one or more ligands, each ligand having a nitrogen-containing heterocycle such as
2,2'-bipyridine, 1,10-phenanthroline, 1-methyl, 2-pyridyl biimidazole, or derivatives
thereof. The electron transfer agents may also have one or more ligands covalently
bound in a polymer, each ligand having at least one nitrogen-containing heterocycle,
such as pyridine, imidazole, or derivatives thereof. One example of an electron
transfer agent includes (a) a polymer or copolymer having pyridine or imidazole
functional groups and (b) osmium cations complexed with two ligands, each ligand
containing 2,2'-bipyridine, 1,10-phenanthroline, or derivatives thereof, the two ligands
not necessarily being the same. Some derivatives of 2,2'-bipyridine for complexation
with the osmium cation include but are not limited to 4,4'-dimethyl-2,2'-bipyridine
and mono-, di-, and polyalkoxy-2,2'-bipyridines, such as 4,4'-dimethoxy-2,2'
bipyridine. Derivatives of 1,10-phenanthroline for complexation with the osmium
cation include but are not limited to 4,7-dimethyl-1,10-phenanthroline and mono, di-,
and polyalkoxy- 1,1 0-phenanthrolines, such as 4,7-dimethoxy- 1,1 0-phenanthroline.
Polymers for complexation with the osmium cation include but are not limited to
polymers and copolymers of poly(1 -vinyl imidazole) (referred to as "PVI") and
poly(4-vinyl pyridine) (referred to as "PVP"). Suitable copolymer substituents of
poly(1-vinyl imidazole) include acrylonitrile, acrylamide, and substituted or
quaternized N-vinyl imidazole, e.g., electron transfer agents with osmium complexed
to a polymer or copolymer of poly(1-vinyl imidazole).
        Embodiments may employ electron transfer agents having a redox potential
ranging from about -200 mV to about +200 mV versus the standard calomel electrode
(SCE). The sensing layer may also include a catalyst which is capable of catalyzing a
reaction of the analyte. The catalyst may also, in some embodiments, act as an
electron transfer agent. One example of a suitable catalyst is an enzyme which
catalyzes a reaction of the analyte. For example, a catalyst, such as a glucose oxidase,
glucose dehydrogenase (e.g., pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ), dependent glucose
dehydrogenase, flavine adenine dinucleotide (FAD) dependent glucose

                                           -19
dehydrogenase, or nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) dependent glucose
dehydrogenase), may be used when the analyte of interest is glucose. A lactate
oxidase or lactate dehydrogenase may be used when the analyte of interest is lactate.
Laccase may be used when the analyte of interest is oxygen or when oxygen is
generated or consumed in response to a reaction of the analyte.
        The sensing layer may also include a catalyst which is capable of catalyzing a
reaction of the analyte. The catalyst may also, in some embodiments, act as an
electron transfer agent. One example of a suitable catalyst is an enzyme which
catalyzes a reaction of the analyte. For example, a catalyst, such as a glucose oxidase,
glucose dehydrogenase (e.g., pyrroloquinoline quinone (PQQ), dependent glucose
dehydrogenase or oligosaccharide dehydrogenase, flavine adenine dinucleotide (FAD)
dependent glucose dehydrogenase, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)
dependent glucose dehydrogenase), may be used when the analyte of interest is
glucose. A lactate oxidase or lactate dehydrogenase may be used when the analyte of
interest is lactate. Laccase may be used when the analyte of interest is oxygen or when
oxygen is generated or consumed in response to a reaction of the analyte.
        In certain embodiments, a catalyst may be attached to a polymer, cross linking
the catalyst with another electron transfer agent (which, as described above, may be
polymeric. A second catalyst may also be used in certain embodiments. This second
catalyst may be used to catalyze a reaction of a product compound resulting from the
catalyzed reaction of the analyte. The second catalyst may operate with an electron
transfer agent to electrolyze the product compound to generate a signal at the working
electrode. Alternatively, a second catalyst may be provided in an interferent
eliminating layer to catalyze reactions that remove interferents.
        Certain embodiments include a Wired Enzyme TM sensing layer (Abbott
Diabetes Care, Inc.) that works at a gentle oxidizing potential, e.g., a potential of
about +40 mV. This sensing layer uses an osmium (Os) -based mediator designed for
low potential operation and is stably anchored in a polymeric layer. Accordingly, in
certain embodiments the sensing element is redox active component that includes (1)
Osmium-based mediator molecules attached by stable (bidente) ligands anchored to a
polymeric backbone, and (2) glucose oxidase enzyme molecules. These two
constituents are crosslinked together.

                                            -20
        A mass transport limiting layer (not shown), e.g., an analyte flux modulating
layer, may be included with the sensor to act as a diffusion-limiting barrier to reduce
the rate of mass transport of the analyte, for example, glucose or lactate, into the
region around the working electrodes. The mass transport limiting layers are useful in
limiting the flux of an analyte to a working electrode in an electrochemical sensor so
that the sensor is linearly responsive over a large range of analyte concentrations and
is easily calibrated. Mass transport limiting layers may include polymers and may be
biocompatible. A mass transport limiting layer may provide many functions, e.g.,
biocompatibility and/or interferent-eliminating, etc.
        In certain embodiments, a mass transport limiting layer is a membrane
composed of crosslinked polymers containing heterocyclic nitrogen groups, such as
polymers of polyvinylpyridine and polyvinylimidazole. Embodiments also include
membranes that are made of a polyurethane, or polyether urethane, or chemically
related material, or membranes that are made of silicone, and the like.
        A membrane may be formed by crosslinking in situ a polymer, modified with
a zwitterionic moiety, a non-pyridine copolymer component, and optionally another
moiety that is either hydrophilic or hydrophobic, and/or has other desirable properties,
in an alcohol-buffer solution. The modified polymer may be made from a precursor
polymer containing heterocyclic nitrogen groups. For example, a precursor polymer
may be polyvinylpyridine or polyvinylimidazole. Optionally, hydrophilic or
hydrophobic modifiers may be used to "fine-tune" the permeability of the resulting
membrane to an analyte of interest. Optional hydrophilic modifiers, such as
poly(ethylene glycol), hydroxyl or polyhydroxyl modifiers, may be used to enhance
the biocompatibility of the polymer or the resulting membrane.
        A membrane may be formed in situ by applying an alcohol-buffer solution of
a crosslinker and a modified polymer over an enzyme-containing sensing layer and
allowing the solution to cure for about one to two days or other appropriate time
period. The crosslinker-polymer solution may be applied to the sensing layer by
placing a droplet or droplets of the solution on the sensor, by dipping the sensor into
the solution, or the like. Generally, the thickness of the membrane is controlled by the
concentration of the solution, by the number of droplets of the solution applied, by the
number of times the sensor is dipped in the solution, or by any combination of these

                                            -21
factors. A membrane applied in this manner may have any combination of the
following functions: (1) mass transport limitation, i.e. reduction of the flux of analyte
that can reach the sensing layer, (2) biocompatibility enhancement, or (3) interferent
reduction.
         The description herein is directed primarily to electrochemical sensors for
convenience only and is in no way intended to limit the scope of the disclosure. Other
sensors and sensor systems are contemplated. Such include, but are not limited to,
optical sensors, colorimetric sensors, potentiometric sensors, coulometric sensors and
sensors that detect hydrogen peroxide to infer glucose levels, for example. For
example, a hydrogen peroxide-detecting sensor may be constructed in which a sensing
layer includes enzyme such as glucose oxides, glucose dehydrogensae, or the like, and
is positioned proximate to the working electrode. The sending layer may be covered
by a membrane that is selectively permeable to glucose. Once the glucose passes
through the membrane, it is oxidized by the enzyme and reduced glucose oxidase can
then be oxidized by reacting with molecular oxygen to produce hydrogen peroxide.
         Certain embodiments include a hydrogen peroxide-detecting sensor
constructed from a sensing layer prepared by crosslinking two components together,
for example: (1) a redox compound such as a redox polymer containing pendent Os
polypyridyl complexes with oxidation potentials of about +200 mV vs. SCE, and (2)
periodate oxidized horseradish peroxidase (HRP). Such a sensor functions in a
reductive mode; the working electrode is controlled at a potential negative to that of
the Os complex, resulting in mediated reduction of hydrogen peroxide through the
HRP catalyst.
         In another example, a potentiometric sensor can be constructed as follows. A
glucose-sensing layer is constructed by crosslinking together (1) a redox polymer
containing pendent Os polypyridyl complexes with oxidation potentials from about
200 mV to +200 mV vs. SCE, and (2) glucose oxidase. This sensor can then be used
in a potentiometric mode, by exposing the sensor to a glucose containing solution,
under conditions of zero current flow, and allowing the ratio of reduced/oxidized Os
to reach an equilibrium value. The reduced/oxidized Os ratio varies in a reproducible
way with the glucose concentration, and will cause the electrode's potential to vary in
a similar way.

                                             -22
         A sensor may also include an active agent such as an anticlotting and/or
antiglycolytic agent(s) disposed on at least a portion a sensor that is positioned in a
user. An anticlotting agent may reduce or eliminate the clotting of blood or other body
fluid around the sensor, particularly after insertion of the sensor. Examples of useful
anticlotting agents include heparin and tissue plasminogen activator (TPA), as well as
other known anticlotting agents. Embodiments may include an antiglycolytic agent or
precursor thereof. Examples of antiglycolytic agents are glyceraldehyde, fluoride ion,
and mannose.
         Sensors may be configured to require no system calibration or no user
calibration. For example, a sensor may be factory calibrated and need not require
further calibrating. In certain embodiments, calibration may be required, but may be
done without user intervention, i.e., may be automatic. In those embodiments in
which calibration by the user is required, the calibration may be according to a
predetermined schedule or may be dynamic, i.e., the time for which may be
determined by the system on a real-time basis according to various factors, such as
but not limited to glucose concentration and/or temperature and/or rate of change of
glucose, etc.
         Calibration may be accomplished using an in vitro test strip (or other
reference), e.g., a small sample test strip such as a test strip that requires less than
about 1 microliter of sample (for example FreeStyle@ blood glucose monitoring test
strips from Abbott Diabetes Care). For example, test strips that require less than
about 1 nanoliter of sample may be used. In certain embodiments, a sensor may be
calibrated using only one sample of body fluid per calibration event. For example, a
user need only lance a body part one time to obtain sample for a calibration event
(e.g., for a test strip), or may lance more than one time within a short period of time if
an insufficient volume of sample is firstly obtained. Embodiments include obtaining
and using multiple samples of body fluid for a given calibration event, where glucose
values of each sample are substantially similar. Data obtained from a given calibration
event may be used independently to calibrate or combined with data obtained from
previous calibration events, e.g., averaged including weighted averaged, etc., to
calibrate. In certain embodiments, a system need only be calibrated once by a user,
where recalibration of the system is not required.

                                            -23
        Analyte systems may include an optional alarm system that, e.g., based on
information from a processor, warns the patient of a potentially detrimental condition
of the analyte. For example, if glucose is the analyte, an alarm system may warn a
user of conditions such as hypoglycemia and/or hyperglycemia and/or impending
hypoglycemia, and/or impending hyperglycemia. An alarm system may be triggered
when analyte levels approach, reach or exceed a threshold value. An alarm system
may also, or alternatively, be activated when the rate of change, or acceleration of the
rate of change, in analyte level increase or decrease approaches, reaches or exceeds a
threshold rate or acceleration. A system may also include system alarms that notify a
user of system information such as battery condition, calibration, sensor dislodgment,
sensor malfunction, etc. Alarms may be, for example, auditory and/or visual. Other
sensory-stimulating alarm systems may be used including alarm systems which heat,
cool, vibrate, or produce a mild electrical shock when activated.
        The subject disclosure also includes sensors used in sensor-based drug
delivery systems. The system may provide a drug to counteract the high or low level
of the analyte in response to the signals from one or more sensors. Alternatively, the
system may monitor the drug concentration to ensure that the drug remains within a
desired therapeutic range. The drug delivery system may include one or more (e.g.,
two or more) sensors, a processing unit such as a transmitter, a receiver/display unit,
and a drug administration system. In some cases, some or all components may be
integrated in a single unit. A sensor-based drug delivery system may use data from the
one or more sensors to provide necessary input for a control algorithm/mechanism to
adjust the administration of drugs, e.g., automatically or semi-automatically. As an
example, a glucose sensor may be used to control and adjust the administration of
insulin from an external or implanted insulin pump.
        As discussed above, embodiments of the present disclosure relate to methods
and devices for detecting at least one analyte such as glucose in body fluid.
Embodiments relate to the continuous and/or automatic in vivo monitoring of the
level of one or more analytes using a continuous analyte monitoring system that
includes an analyte sensor at least a portion of which is to be positioned beneath a
skin surface of a user for a period of time and/or the discrete monitoring of one or
more analytes using an in vitro blood glucose ("BG") meter in conjunction with an

                                           -24
analyte test strip. Embodiments include combined or combinable devices, systems and
methods and/or transferring data between an in vivo continuous system and a BG
meter system, and include integrated systems.
        Embodiments include "Data Logger" systems which include a continuous
glucose monitoring system (at least an analyte sensor and control unit (e.g., an on
body unit)). The continuous glucose monitoring ("CG") system may have limited
real-time connectivity with a BG meter. For example, real time connectivity may be
limited to communicating calibration data (e.g., a BG value) to the CG system or it
may have the ability to receive data from the CG system on demand (as compared to a
CG system continuously broadcasting such data). In one embodiment, the data
processing unit (102) may be an on-body unit that is configured to operate in several
transmission modes. In a fist mode, analyte related data may be transmitted when a
new data value (e.g., sensor data) is available (for example, when received from the
analyte sensor). This mode of operation may result in "lost data" because the data
processing unit 102 does not get confirmation that the data was successfully received
by the receiver unit 104, and in some embodiments, this data may not be resent.
        In a second transmission mode, data may be transmitted when the new data is
available and the data processing unit 102 may receive an acknowledgement that such
data has been successfully received, or if the transmission was unsuccessful the data
would be stored ("buffered") for another attempt. This mode reduces the likelihood
of "lost data". In a third mode ("data logging mode"), the data processing unit 102
may be configured to retain or store all data (i.e.; not attempt to transmit it when it
becomes available) until the receiver unit (104) requests the data, or based upon a
scheduled data transmission.
        CG data obtained by the CG Data Logger may be processed by the Data
Logger system or by the BG meter and/or by a data management system ("DMS")
which may includes a computer such as a PC and an optional server. For example, the
CoPilotTM data management system from Abbott Diabetes Care, Inc., or the like, may
be employed. In certain embodiments neither the CG system nor the BG meter are
capable of (or have such capability, but the capability is selectively turned off)
supporting continuous real time CG data communication, thereby substantially
reducing power requirements. Such embodiments are CG Data Loggers in which CG

                                              -25
data resides (i.e., is logged) in a CG control unit (e.g., on-body unit) until it is
retrieved by a BG meter. In other words, a CG Data Logger buffers the CG data and
stores it in memory until the CG data is downloaded or transferred to the BG meter,
e.g., a user initiates data transfer or transfer may occur at set times. The CG
component logs continuous glucose data, but only gives up this data to the on-request
to a BG meter. Retrieval may be by any suitable methodology, including but not
limited to wireless communication protocols such as for example RF, optical means
(such as an IR link), Bluetooth, or a direct connection (such as a USB, or the like),
etc. A given BG meter and CG data Logger may be synchronized, e.g., by one or
more unique identifiers, thereby ensuring preventing inadvertent data exchange
between devices.
         FIG. 6 shows an exemplary embodiment of a system that includes a CG Data
Logger and an enhanced BG meter. As shown, the enhanced BG meter may
communicate with the CG Data Logger by a wired connection and/or by IR or RF.
Referring to the Figure, in one aspect, the CG data logger may be configured to
collect and store monitored analyte data over a predetermined time period (for
example, from a transcutaneous, subcutaneous or implanted analyte sensor), and
transmit the collected and stored analyte data to the BG meter either continuously in
real time, or periodically (for example, when the CG data logger is in signal
communication with the BG meter (either cabled or wireless), or in a single data
transfer mode, for example, at the end of the predetermined time period.
         "Modular" embodiments are also provided. Modular systems may be used in
conjunction with the Data Logger system in certain embodiments. For example, a
separable CG data transfer module may be configured for wireless communication
with the CG data logger and further configured to removably mate with a BG meter to
transfer CG information to the BG meter (see for example FIG. 7). Modular
embodiments include all the necessary hardware (and software) to support either (or
both) continuous (real time) or "batched" (data logged) CG data collection in a snap
on or otherwise mateable module that provides CG data to a BG meter. Alarm
functionality may be included in the BG meter, as well as features to support CG data
processing and communication to a user, e.g., hardware and software to process CG
data and/or calibrate CG data, enhanced user interface to communicate CG

                                           -26
information to a user (in addition to BG information), e.g., may include CG
calibration information, CG trend information, rate of change indicators to indicate
the rate of change of glucose, and the like.
        Modules may be re-usable by a plurality of users. User privacy features may
be included, e.g., a module may not permanently store patient data (user data may be
automatically deleted or expunged after a certain time period), data may be encrypted,
password protected, or otherwise provided with one or more security features that will
limit access to only the intended users. In one aspect, the CG data logger may be
configured to collect and store the monitored analyte data received from an analyte
sensor, and upon establishing data communication with the BG meter via the data
transfer module, communicate the received analyte data in one or more batch transfer,
or continuously in real time as the analyte sensor data is received from the sensor.
        FIG. 7 shows an exemplary embodiment of a modular system that includes a
CG control unit/transmitter, a mateable module and an enhanced BG meter. In this
embodiment, the CG data logger/transmitter is shown communicating with the
module via RF where the module is mateably coupled to the BG meter. However,
other suitable data communication approaches may be used including IR, Bluetooth,
Zigbee communication, and the like.
        FIG. 8 shows an integrated or continuous system that includes an enhanced
BG meter and a CG data logger/transmitter, where the CG data logger is capable of
transferring CG data to the enhanced BG meter directly and in real time, in this
embodiment shown via a wireless protocol. For example, as shown, the enhanced BG
meter may include an RF communication module or chipset that allows for wireless
communication with the CG data logger. Accordingly, as the continuous analyte
sensor data is received by the CG data logger, the data is substantially
contemporaneously transferred or communicated in real time to the enhanced BG
meter over the RF communication link.
        FIG. 9 shows an exemplary embodiment of a system which includes a BG
meter and a docking unit, herein shown configured as a belt holster. The BG meter
couples to the holster via contacts of the holster, which correspond to contacts of the
BG meter. The BG meter displays information to the user when electronically coupled
to the holster, i.e., when docked or when in wireless signal communication with the

                                            -27
belt holster (for example, when removed from the holster). The holster may include
some or all functionality of a primary receiver unit as described below for CG
monitoring. For example, the holster may contain some or all of a FreeStyle
Navigator@ system, e.g., the receiver functionality as described above. In one aspect,
the belt holster may integrate the CG data logger such that the collected and stored
analyte data may be transferred to the BG meter when docked in the holster (or when
wirelessly synchronized with the belt holster).
         The CG system may be calibrated using the BG meter, e.g., when the BG
meter is docked. Such as system may be useful in a variety of instances, e.g., for
gestational diabetes, assessing/diagnosing diabetes, and the like.
         In certain embodiments, the CG system (whether it be modular or includes a
data logger) may be configured with reduced set of functionalities. For example, it
may not include alarms (audible and/or vibratory and/or visual) and/or glucose rate of
change indicators and/or a visual or user interface display such as a dot matrix display
and/or additional processing power and/or miniaturized, or it may not include a test
strip port. For example, FIG. 10 illustrates features which may be included in an
exemplary full-featured CG system, and exemplary integrated real time system and an
exemplary Data Logger system.
         In certain embodiments, synchronization between a BG and CG systems is
provided to calibrate the CG sensor using a BG strip measurement as a reference data
point.
         In certain applications, the enhanced BG meters may be used by those who
require more intensive (i.e., continuous) glucose monitoring, by temporarily or
periodically allowing a user's BG meter to capture CG data without the user having to
obtain another meter. Likewise, the added value to a health care provider ("HCP") is
gained by patients periodically obtaining more detailed blood glucose information
(e.g., prior to regular check up), thus allowing the HCP to make more informed and
suited therapy adjustments for the patient.
         Various embodiments have extensive applicability. For example, indwelling or
external sensors other than CG sensors may be included. Data from indwelling or
external sensors other than a CG sensor may be captured by the systems described
herein (such as temperature data, ketone data, and the like). Furthermore, functions

                                           -28
such as weigh management, enhanced data management or insulin pump control may
also be added to a BG meter via the modular approach to further enhance the meter.
In certain embodiments, a Data Logger includes providing molded electrical contacts
that allow for electrical connections thru the on-body case without compromising the
watertight seal of the case.
         Embodiments herein may provide increased value of a BG meter to the patient
by adding CG functionality to a base BG meter, a low learning curve such that the
user does not need to become familiar with two different user interfaces (one for the
BG unit and another for the CG system), reduction in cost of the overall system, and
substantial immunity to environments where continuous wireless communication may
be prohibited such as during flight on an airplane, within hospital or other settings that
have sensitive instrumentation that may interfere with RF or other wireless signals.
         Accordingly, an analyte monitoring system in one embodiment includes an
analyte sensor for transcutaneous positioning under a skin layer of a subject, a data
processing device operatively coupled to the analyte sensor, the device comprising: a
control unit, a memory operatively coupled to the control unit and configured to store
a plurality of data associated with the monitored analyte level received from the
sensor, and a communication unit operatively coupled to the control unit; and a blood
glucose meter configured for signal communication with the data processing device,
where when the control unit of the data processing device detects a communication
link with the blood glucose meter, the control unit is further configured to retrieve the
stored plurality of data from the memory and to transmit the retrieved data to the
blood glucose meter.
         The blood glucose meter includes a strip port for receiving a blood glucose
test strip.
         The communication unit may be configured to communicate with the blood
glucose meter using one or more of a wired connection, a USB cable connection, a
serial cable connection, an RF communication protocol, an infrared communication
protocol, a Bluetooth communication protocol, or an 802.1 1x communication
protocol.
         In one embodiment, data processing device does not include a user output
component, where the user output component includes a display.

                                           -29
        The control unit may detect the communication link with the blood glucose
meter based on detection of a wired connection to the meter.
        The retrieved stored plurality of data may correspond to glucose data of the
subject collected over a predetermined time period.
        The glucose data may be uncalibrated or calibrated.
        The analyte sensor may be a glucose sensor.
        In one aspect, the blood glucose meter may include an output unit configured
to output one or more of the received retrieved data.
        The output unit may include a display unit operatively coupled to a housing of
the blood glucose meter.
        The output of one or more received data may include a graphical output, a
numerical output, or a text output.
        The blood glucose meter may be configured to calibrate the received data.
        The blood glucose meter may include a storage unit configured to store the
calibrated data.
        The blood glucose meter may include a storage unit configured to store the
received data.
        In another aspect, the system may include a holster device for receiving the
blood glucose meter, and the data processing unit may be integrated in the holster
device.
        The control unit may be configured to detect the communication link with the
blood glucose meter when the meter is coupled to the holster.
        The holster device may include a belt clip.
        A method in another embodiment may include transcutaneously positioning an
analyte sensor under a skin layer of a subject, coupling a data processing device to the
analyte sensor, storing in a memory of the data processing device a plurality of data
associated with the monitored analyte level received from the sensor, operatively
coupling a communication unit to the control unit, detecting a communication link
with the blood glucose meter, retrieving the stored plurality of data from the memory,
and commanding the communication unit to transmit the retrieved data to the blood
glucose meter.

                                            -30
        The communication link may be established based on one or more of a wired
connection, a USB cable connection, a serial cable connection, an RF communication
protocol, an infrared communication protocol, a Bluetooth communication protocol,
or an 802.11 x communication protocol.
        The method may include displaying on the blood glucose meter the received
analyte data.
        The retrieved data may correspond to glucose data of the subject collected
over a predetermined time period.
        The method may include calibrating the received data.
        In another aspect, the method may include storing the received data in a
memory of the blood glucose meter.
        In still a further aspect, the method may include encrypting the retrieved data
prior to transmitting to the blood glucose meter.
        Various other modifications and alterations in the structure and method of
operation of the present disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art without
departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. Although the present
disclosure has been described in connection with specific embodiments, it should be
understood that the present disclosure as claimed should not be unduly limited to such
specific embodiments. It is intended that the following claims define the scope of the
present disclosure and that structures and methods within the scope of these claims
and their equivalents be covered thereby.

                                               -31
THE CLAIM DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
 1.     An analyte monitoring system, comprising:
        an analyte sensor configured for fluid contact with bodily fluid under a skin layer for a
monitoring time period;
        an on body unit operatively coupled to the analyte sensor, the on body unit receiving
analyte related signals from the analyte sensor and storing the analyte related signals in a
memory until a data transfer request is received, the on body unit transmitting a unique
identifier associated with the analyte sensor and analyte related data, in a single batch
transmission, in response to the data transfer request; and
        a receiver device including a processor, the receiver device providing the data transfer
request, and further receiving from the on body unit the analyte related data and the unique
identifier in response to the data transfer request;
        wherein the memory includes sufficient capacity to store data acquired over the
monitoring time period;
        wherein the on body unit transmits the analyte related signals only in response to the
data transfer request; and
        wherein the on body unit is not configured to support real time continuous data
communication during the monitoring time period.
2.      The system of claim 1 wherein the on body unit stores the analyte related signals in the
memory without a data transmission attempt until the data transfer request is received from the
receiver device.
3.      The system of claim I wherein the on body unit receives the data transfer request when
the on body unit is in signal communication with the receiver device.
4.      The system of claim 1 wherein the receiver device includes a memory for storing the
analyte related signals received from the on body unit in response to the data transfer request.
5.      The system of claim 1 wherein the analyte sensor is a glucose sensor.
6.      The system of claim 1 wherein the on body unit receives the data transfer request based
on radio frequency (RF) communication protocol.

                                                - 32
7.      The system of claim I wherein the receiver device includes an output unit to output the
received analyte related signals under the control of the processor.
8.      The system of claim 7 wherein the output unit outputs an audible indicator, a visual
indicator, a vibratory indicator, or one or more combinations thereof.
9.      The system of claim 1 wherein the on body unit does not continuously broadcast the
analyte related signals.
10.     The system of claim 1 wherein the on body unit transmits a current analyte data and one
or more prior analyte data in response to the data transfer request.
11.     The system of claim 1 wherein the unique identifier uniquely identifies the on body
unit.
 12.    The system of claim 1 wherein the analyte sensor is factory calibrated.
 13.    The system of claim I wherein the analyte sensor requires no user calibration.
 14.    The system of claim I wherein the processor of the receiver device performs data
analysis of the analyte related signals received from the on body unit.
 15.    The system of claim 14 wherein the receiver device displays a trend based on the
received analyte related signals.
 16.    The system of claim 1 wherein the receiver device is a separable data transfer module.
 17.    The system of claim 16 wherein the separable data transfer module is reusable with a
second on body unit or receiver device.
18.     The system of claim 16 wherein the separable data transfer module removably mates
with a second receiver device, and wherein the separable data transfer module is configured to
transfer data related to the analyte related signals to the second receiver device, wherein the
removable mating includes at least a physical coupling, a snap on configuration, or a coupling
via a cable.
19.     The system of claim 18 wherein the second receiver device displays the data related to
the analyte related signals at a user interface operatively coupled to the second receiver device.

                                            - 33
20.     The system of claim I wherein the analyte sensor comprises a plurality of electrodes
including a working electrode, wherein the working electrode comprises an analyte-responsive
enzyme and a mediator, wherein at least one of the analyte-responsive enzyme and the
mediator is chemically bonded to a polymer disposed on the working electrode, and wherein at
least one of the analyte-responsive enzyme and the mediator is crosslinked with the polymer.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
