   ABSTRACT
        A security device 10 for a roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure includes
        one or more elongate members 12 which have an underside for placement on a
 5      substantially level surface. The one or more elongate members define an upper
        side 14 of the security device. The upper side 14 has a contour with at least one
        longitudinally extending raised portion 28 and a longitudinally extending lower
        portion 22 adjacent to a longitudinally extending step 20 to the lower portion 22.
        The contour of the upper side 14 is such to allow vehicular passage thereover.
10

0
                                   Security Device for Roller Closure
                                      Field of the invention
            The present invention relates to a security device for a roller door, roller shutter
   or similar closure. In addition, the present invention relates to a method of securing a
 5 roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure. While the invention has been described
   primarily in relation to roller doors, the invention may also have application to other
   closure systems which are able to seat in a channel in the closed position. Generally,
   the closed position corresponds to the lowermost or extended position of the roller door
   or closure.     However, the invention may also have application to doors or closures
10 which extend sideways and doors or closures which extend upwardly towards a closed
   position.
                                  Background of the invention
            Roller doors are generally in the form of a corrugated or undulating sheet metal
   panel which is wound around an axle at the upper end. The side edges of the panel are
15 received in facing upright guide channels. The sides of the panel are guided along the
   upright guide channels as the panel unrolls from an open configuration to a closed
   configuration. The panel is provided with a crossbar which extends the full width of the
   panel at the lower end of the panel with the ends of the crossbar received in the guide
   channels. In the closed configuration of the roller door, the crossbar is disposed at the
?0 lowermost end of the guide channels and generally rests against the floor underneath
   the roller door.
            With sufficient man or machine power, this crossbar is able to be bent. When the
   crossbar is bent to a sufficient degree, the ends of the crossbar are released from the
   guide channels.       The door panel can then be bent and side edges of the panel
25 withdrawn from the guide channels. The roller door is thus breached and entry/exit
   through the doorway is then possible. Typically, three men are able to bend the
   crossbar to breach the door. Otherwise, the door can be rammed by a vehicle.
            This poses a serious security threat for commercial premises. In correctional
   facilities, prisoners may escape.
                                                     1

            It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a security device
    and/or method for securing a roller door, roller shutter or similar closure which will at
     least ameliorate the above mentioned disadvantage. Another object of the present
     invention is to at least provide the public with the useful choice over known security
  5  measures.
            Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
    suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any
    jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood,
     regarded as relevant, and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person
 10  in the art.
                                     Summary of the invention
            In accordance with a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
    security device for a roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure, the security device
     including one or more elongate members having an underside for placement on a
 15 substantially level surface, the one or more elongate members defining an upper side of
    the security device having a contour with at least one longitudinally extending raised
     portion and a longitudinally extending lower portion adjacent to a longitudinally
    extending step to the lower portion, wherein the contour of the upper side allows
    vehicular passage thereover.
 ?0         In the installed configuration of the security device, the step is preferably placed
    such that the roller door is above the lower portion when the roller door is in the
     lowered/closed position and adjacent to the step. Suitably, the raised portion is placed
    on the side most vulnerable. Where is it desired to protect against theft, this may be the
    outside of the roller door. In situations where exit is to be prevented, then the raised
25   portion should be placed on the inside. Security devices having a single raised portion
     may suit tilt doors which complete closure from an angled position.
            In another arrangement, two such security devices may be placed on opposite
    sides of the door with respective lower portions adjacent or in abutment to each other.
            However, in a preferred form of the invention, the elongate member includes two
30   raised portions on either side of the lower portion, most preferably as a single unit. In a
                                                      2

   preferred form of the invention, this creates an elongate, longitudinally extending gap or
   recess between the two raised portions, the gap or recess being sufficient to receive the
   roller door, roller shutter or similar closure. The gap or recess may be in the form of a
   channel having spaced side walls and a bottom wall. Preferably, this is a U-shaped
 5 channel with upright side walls. The bottom wall may be supported on the substantially
   level surface. The depth of the recess/channel is preferably commensurate with the
   height of the security device when placed on the substantially level surface.
           Preferably, the contour of the upper side includes two inclined portions having
   opposing inclinations angled upwardly towards each other. The raised portions may be
10 adjacent to the respective inclined portions or form part thereof. Thus, in a preferred
   form of the invention, the raised portions define plateaus of the contour on the upper
   side. Preferably, the contour of the upper side is symmetrical about a longitudinal axis.
           The contour of the upper side may be such that in profile it defines a hump which
   may be arcuate, rounded, or flat-sided such as three sides of a hexagon. Overall, the
15 contour of the upper side may conform to the shape of a ridge or hump typical for a
   speed hump or similar speed impediment used on roads, except that the contour of the
   upper side includes the lower portion. The lower portion may extend centrally relative to
   the width of the upper side. The contour of the upper side or the angles of inclination for
   the inclined portions may conform to Australian or international standard for speed
?0 humps. While the contour of the upper side has been described in the form of a speed
   hump, other configurations are possible.
           In a preferred form of the invention, the contour of the upper side may be defined
   as an integrally formed surface, preferably of constant cross-section throughout its
   length, for example being formed from a unitary piece of metal such as sheet metal. The
25 sheet metal may be folded to obtain the defined contour of the upper side, preferably
   from a single piece of sheet metal. Where the elongate member is constructed of sheet
   metal, then the underside will generally conform to the contour of the upper side. This
   may be sufficient to support the elongate member. However, additional gusset portions
   such as folded metal gussets may be provided on the underside to provide support.
30 Thus, the underside of the metal sheet and/or the gusset portions may form the base
                                                     3

   which rests on the substantially level surface. Additionally, the underside may provide a
   conduit for services to extend from one side of the door to the other.
           Preferably, the step is an upright step.     In a most preferred form, there is a
   substantially 900 angle between the raised portion and the step (i.e. the riser of the
 5 step). Likewise, there is preferably a substantially 900 angle between the riser of the
   step and the lower portion. However, other angles may be possible, especially to
   accommodate other types of door closures such as fold-up doors which may complete
   the final extension to the closed position at an angle from the vertical.
           The elongate member may be provided as modules, for example in 1m lengths.
10 A plurality of modules may be provided to bridge the distance between opposite sides of
   the door or similar opening.     The modules may be all identical, although one of the
   modules may be cut to customise the modules to the width of the door opening.
   Alternatively, the modules may be of different types, with dedicated end pieces. For
   example, the dedicated end pieces may be adapted to co-operate with the channels or
15 the door/shutter/closure, for example, to provide locking of the door/shutter/closure to
   the security device.
           While the invention has been described for application at the base of a roller
   door, it could also have application to sideways extending doors or doors closing
   upwardly.
?0         In accordance with the second aspect of the present invention, not claimed
   herein, there is provided a security device for a roller door, roller shutter, or similar
   closure, the security device having an upper contour in the form of an elongate hump
   with a longitudinal recess for receipt of the roller door, roller shutter or similar closure,
   the longitudinal recess extending along a raised portion of the elongate hump.
25         Preferably, the longitudinal recess extends along the region of maximum height
   of the hump. Preferably, the side walls of the recess are substantially upright. Suitably,
   the width of the recess is sufficient to receive the roller door, roller shutter or similar
   closure, with the tolerance being less than an adult's finger thickness.
          Additionally, any of the features described above in connection with the first
30 aspect of the invention may have application to the second aspect of the invention.
                                                    4

           In accordance with a third aspect of the present invention, not claimed herein,
   there is provided a method of securing a roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure, the
   method including:
           providing one or more security devices, each device having an upper contour in
 5 the form of an elongate hump with a longitudinal recess provided along a raised portion
   of the elongate hump; and
           installing the one or more security devices such that the longitudinal recess is
   aligned with the roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure.
           Suitably, the installation will be such that the roller closure is received within the
10 longitudinal recess in the closed position.
           Preferably, where a plurality of security devices are required to span the
   doorway, they are arranged end-to-end.             Preferably, the security devices extend
   substantially the full length of the roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure. The width
   of the longitudinal recess is preferably to snuggly receive the roller door, roller shutter,
15 or similar closure in the closed position.
           Any of the features described above in connection with the security devices of
   the first and second aspects of the invention may have application to this aspect of the
   invention.
           In accordance with another aspect of the present invention, there is provided, a
20 method of securing a roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure, the method including:
           providing one or more security devices, each security device including an
   elongate member having an underside and an upper side having a contour; and
           installing the one or more security devices with the underside placed on a
   substantially level surface at or adjacent the roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure,
25         wherein the contour of the upper side includes a longitudinally-extending raised
   portion, being raised relative to the substantially level surface, wherein the raised
   portion is disposed adjacent to the roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure in the
   closed position such that the width therebetween is less than an adult's finger thickness.
                                                      5

           The contour may be a ramped contour. A second elongate member may be
   installed on the other side of the roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure.
   Alternatively, a unitary device may be provided with raised portions on both sides of the
   roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure such that the width therebetween, in both
 5 cases, is less than an adult's finger thickness.
           In accordance with a fifth aspect of the present invention, not claimed herein,
   there is provided a roller door, roller shutter or similar closure and security device
   combination including a closure panel or panels and the security device of the first
   aspect, wherein the security device is mounted with the longitudinally extending lower
10 portion aligned with the closure panel in the closed position thereof.
           In accordance with a sixth aspect of the present invention, not claimed herein,
   there is provided a roller door, roller shutter or similar closure and security device
   combination including a closure panel or panels and the security device of the second
   aspect, wherein the security device is mounted with the longitudinal recess aligned with
15 the closure panel in the closed position thereof.
           Any of the features described above in connection with the first, second and third
   aspects of the invention may have application to this aspect of the invention.
           It will be understood that the invention disclosed and defined in this specification
   extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features
?0 mentioned or evident from the text or drawings. All of these different combinations
   constitute various alternative aspects of the invention.
           Further aspects of the present invention and further embodiments of the aspects
   described in the preceding paragraphs will become apparent from the following
   description, given by way of example and with reference to the accompanying drawings.
25                              Brief description of the drawings
           In order that the invention may be more fully understood, one embodiment will
   now be described, by way of example, with reference to the figures in which:
           Figure 1 is a perspective view from above of the security device according to a
   preferred embodiment of the present invention;
                                                    6

           Figure 2 is a perspective view from below of the folded metal sheet used to form
   the security device shown in Figure 1;
           Figure 3 is a perspective view from below showing the security device of Figure 1
   with reinforcing gussets;
 5         Figure 4 is an underneath view of the security device of Figure 1;
           Figure 5 is an illustration of at least two of the security devices of Figure 1
   installed within the opening of a roller door, with the roller door shown in an open
   configuration;
           Figure 6 is an illustration showing at least three of the security devices of Figure
10 1 installed within the opening of a roller door, with the roller door shown in the closed
   configuration;
           Figures 7A-7P are illustrations showing the sequence of folding operations
   required to convert the flat sheet illustrated in Figure 7A to the finished formation
   illustrated in Figure 7P;
15         Figure 8 is a top perspective view of a second preferred embodiment of the
   security device of Figure 1; and
           Figure 9 is an underside perspective view of the security device shown in Figure
   8.
                            Detailed description of the embodiments
20         Figure 1 shows a security device 10 comprising an elongate member 12 formed
   as a module. It will be appreciated that a number of such modules 10 can be installed
   end-to-end across the opening of a roller door as shown in Figures 5 and 6.
           The elongate member 12 has an upper side 14 as shown in Figure 1. The upper
   side contour 16 is defined entirely by a single sheet of folded sheet metal. The folding
25 operations are shown in connection with Figures 7A-7P. The profile of the upper side
   (when viewed from the end) generally conforms to the shape of a speed hump, except
   that a central elongate channel 18 is aligned with the lengthwise direction of the
   elongate member 12.
                                                     7

           The channel 18 has a U-shaped cross-section defined by upright sidewalls 20
   and a flat bottom wall 22 defining the lower portion 22 of the contour 16. The spacing
   between the upright sidewalls 20 is such that the channel 18 will receive the crossbar
   24 of the roller door 26 (see Figure 5). The fit between the corresponding sides of the
 5 crossbar 24 and the upright sides 20 of the channel 18 should be snug, preventing the
   passage of fingers between the upright sides 20 and the crossbar 24, from either side of
   the crossbar 24. The fit should leave a gap less than an adult finger width e.g. 1-2cm
   and preferably less than 1cm. Additionally, the spacing of the sidewalls 20 should be
   such that minimal or no flexing of the crossbar 24 is permitted.
10         The central channel 18 is flanked on either side by raised portions 28 which are
   raised relative to the substantially level surface e.g. floor 30 as shown in Figure 5. On
   each side of the channel, the raised portion 28, the side wall 20 and the lower portion 22
   defines an upright step. The lower portion 22 which defines the base of the channel 18
   is lower relative to the raised portions 28.
15         On each side of the elongate member 12, the contour 16 includes two inclined
   portions 32. The inclined portions 32 have angles of inclination opposite to each other
   and are inclined so that they extend upwardly towards the respective raised portions 28.
   The angles of inclination meet with the Australian standards.
          Additionally, each longitudinal edge of the elongate member 12 is provided with a
?0 lip 34 which extends from the outermost edge of the inclined portion 32 to the outer
   longitudinal edge of the elongate member 12. The lip 34 may have a slight angle of
   inclination which is in the same direction as the adjacent inclined portion 32 but at a
   lower angle, as shown in Figure 7P. The underside of the lips 34 lie against the floor 30,
   along with the gusset portions 36.
25         Figure 2 shows the underside of the single metal sheet without gusset portions
   36. Figure 3 is a similar view to Figure 2, except showing the gusset portions 36 in
   place. As shown in Figures 3 and 4, each gusset portion 34 is made of a single piece of
   folded metal sheet including spaced sidewalls 38 and a base wall 40. The sidewalls 38
   each have a corresponding cut-out to accommodate the walls 20, 22 defining the
30 channel 18 and additionally the upper edges of the side walls 38 conform to the
   periphery of the underside of the metal sheet. The base portion 40 is rectangular.
                                                    8

           The gusset portions 36 are arranged in uniformly spaced configuration on the
   underside of the metal sheet. Thus the underside of the lips 34 and the base portions
   40 define an underside of the elongate member for placement on the substantially level
   surface (floor) 30. The gusset portions 36 pass underneath the lower portion 22 of the
 5 channel 18 and thus the roller door's closed position is two thicknesses of metal above
   the floor 30. In an alternative arrangement, the gussets 36 may lie only on either side of
   the channel 18 so that underside of the lower portion 22 rests on the floor 30.
           Figure 5 illustrates the roller door 26 in an open configuration. As shown, the
   crossbar 24 extends between the guide channels 42 (only one of which is shown) for
10 sliding movement up and down in the guide channels 42. A plurality of the security
   devices 10 are placed across the opening of the door between the two channels 42 and
   secured into the floor 30 with suitable fasteners. Thus, the security devices are provided
   with holes in the lips 34 and the lower portion 22 to receive the fasteners as shown. The
   holes positioned in the lower channel may be countersunk so as to minimise any
15 potential interference with the bottom of the door.
           The channel 18 of the security device 10 is aligned with the openings of the
   guide channels 42 underneath the crossbar 24 thus lying in the door plane. When the
   crossbar 24 is in the closed position shown in Figure 6 it will be bordered on both sides
   by the sidewalls 20. The fit is such that it is not possible to insert adult fingers between
?0 one sidewall 20 and the crossbar 24 so that it is not possible to grab the crossbar 24,
   nor possible to lift the crossbar 24.       Additionally, bending of the crossbar 24 is
   substantially prevented.
           Figures 7A-7P illustrate the formation of the single metal sheet to define the
   required contour 16 of the upper side 14. As can be seen, the metal sheet is of the type
25 having a surface texture to improve grip and avoid slipping. The metal sheet is folded in
   a press-brake with one fold being made at a time. The first fold is the creation of a
   central longitudinal bend defining an angle of more than 1800 on the upper side 14.
   Subsequently, as can be seen from a comparison of the last two figures, this fold is
   eventually straightened to define the flat lower portion 22.
30         Figures 8 and 9 show a second preferred embodiment of the present invention.
   The security device 10' has many of the same features as the security device 10.
                                                     9

  However, the overall width of the security device 10' is greater than the security device
  10 so that the inclination of the inclined portion 32' is lower than the inclination of the
  inclined portion 32. This makes the security device 10' easier to traverse with trolleys
  and the like.
5        The foregoing only describes one embodiment of the present invention and
  modifications may be made thereto without departing from the scope of the invention.
                                                  10

                                         CLAIMS
   1. A security device for a roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure, the security
      device including one or more elongate members having an underside for
      placement on a substantially level surface, the one or more elongate members
 5    defining an upper side of the security device, the upper side having a contour
      with at least one longitudinally extending raised portion and a longitudinally
      extending lower portion adjacent to a longitudinally extending step to the lower
      portion, wherein the contour of the upper side allows vehicular passage
      thereover.
10 2. The security device as claimed in claim 1, the upper contour being in the form of
      an elongate hump with a longitudinal recess defined by the step and the lower
      portion, the longitudinal recess for receipt of the roller door, roller shutter or
      similar closure, the longitudinal recess arranged along the elongate hump.
   3. The security device as claimed in claim 2 wherein the depth of the recess is
15    commensurate with the height of the security device with respect to the
      substantially level surface and there are two such raised portions on either side
      of the longitudinal recess which define plateaus of the contour.
   4. The security device as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
      contour of the upper side defines at least one inclined portion and a lip which
?0    extends from the inclined portion to the outer longitudinal edge of the elongate
      member, the lip having a lower angle of inclination that the inclined portion.
   5. A method of securing a roller door, roller shutter, or similar closure, the method
      including:
             providing one or more security devices, each security device including one
25    or more elongate members having an underside, the security device having an
      upper side having a contour; and
             installing the one or more security devices with the underside placed on a
      substantially level surface at or adjacent the roller door, roller shutter, or similar
      closure,
30           wherein the contour of the upper side includes a longitudinally extending
      raised portion, being raised relative to the substantially level surface, wherein the
      raised portion is disposed adjacent to the roller door, roller shutter, or similar
                                                 11

closure in the closed position thereof such that the width therebetween is less
than an adult's finger thickness.
                                       12

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
